<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649673</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fuel filter and fixing apparatus thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D3530	B01D3530	F02M3722	F02M3722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D35	B01D35	F02M37	F02M37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The fixing apparatus for fixing a fuel filter (1) in 
the present invention comprises a ring portion (5a) for fixing 

fuel filter body (1) securely by utilizing contraction force 
of resin.

 
The fixing apparatus is made of resin softened by heat. The 

resin fixing apparatus has ring portion (5a) for accommodating 
and fixing a fuel filter. The inside shape of the ring portion 

(5a) is formed similar and somewhat smaller than the outer 
cylindrical shape of the fuel filter body (1). When the ring 

portion (5a) is heated and the resin become flexible, the fuel 
filter is allowed to be press fitted into the ring portion 

(5a). 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a fuel filter and
fixing apparatus for fixing the fuel filter to an automotive
body.An fuel injection apparatus used generally for
automobiles is shown in Fig. 1. Fuel in fuel tank 90 is pumped
by electrically powered fuel pump 80 and is supplied to an
engine (not shown) through fuel passage 50 in which fuel
filter 100 is installed. Fuel adjusted to a predetermined
pressure value by pressure regulator 70 is atomized via
injectors 60a, 60b, 60c, 60d towards an intake manifold. Fuel
filter 100 is fixed to a body, etc of an automobiles. With
reference to a fixing apparatus (bracket), metal bracket and
resin bracket are practically utilized.According to Japanese Unexamined Utility Model
Publication No. 2-139358, a metallic fuel filter case is
fastened to a metallic bracket by a screw and the bracket is
mounted to a body via double vibration declining mechanisms
made of rubber. Vibration of fuel filter is caused by
operation of a fuel pump and/or injectors. The vibration 
damping mechanism is effective to prevent noise caused by
transmission of the vibration of fuel filter. However, since
metallic bracket requires the vibration declining mechanism,
it costs high. Further, metallic bracket is heavy and easy to
corrode. US-A-4 667 920 describes an elastic support arrangement composed
of two different devices, a suspension device and a connecting
device. The suspension device has an u-shaped form with two
integrally formed suspension members or arms which are connected
to the connecting device with their lateral ends. The connecting
device comprises one or two connecting elements or loops which
grips (press-fits) a cylindrically formed fuel pump. Fuel filter is fixed by a resin bracket. For example,
a fuel filter is cramped by utilizing elasticity of a resin
arm. Two resin arms forming C shape cramp fuel filter. Facing
two end portions of the arms are fastened by a bolt. The fuel
filter is fastened between arms. The resin bracket is light
weight and low cost. It is ,however, hard to fix securely.
Fuel filter has fuel pipes. When fuel filter is deviated to a
rotational direction, fuel pipes are deformed and loosed.An object of the present invention is to provide a fixing
apparatus for fixing fuel filter securely with simple
construction and a method for manufacturing the same.The fixing apparatus for fixing a fuel filter in the
present invention comprises a ring portion for fixing fuel
filter body securely by utilizing contraction force of resin.
The fixing apparatus is made of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fixing apparatus (5) for fixing a fuel filter body (1)
comprising:


fastening means having a ring portion (5a) made of heat-softening
resin for fixing said filter body (1), wherein said

ring portion (5a) having an inside shape formed similar and
smaller than the outer shape of said filter body (1) in order

to press-fit with said filter body (1), said ring portion (5a)
having a positioning portion (5n) to fit with a positioning

portion (4) of the filter body (1); and
fixing portions (5b, 5c) integrally formed with said
fastening means for supporting said fastening means and fixing

said fastening means and said filter body (1) directly to an
automobile.
A fixing apparatus for fixing a fuel filter body (1)
according to claim 1, wherein said ring portion (5a) comprises

a concave portion (5n) and convex portion (5n) to fit to a 
convex portion (4) and concave portion (4) of said filter body

(1), respectively.
A fixing apparatus for fixing a fuel filter body (1)
according to claim 2, wherein said concave portion (5n) of said

ring portion (5a) is a hole.
A fixing apparatus for fixing a fuel filter body (1)
according to claim 1 to 3, further comprising at least one rib

(5f, 5g) extending to a direction perpendicular to said
longitudinal direction of said filter body (1) between said

ring portion (5a) and said fixing portions (5b, 5c).
A fixing apparatus for fixing a fuel filter body (1)
according to claim 4, further comprising at least one rib (5h,

5i, 5j, 5k, 5l, 5m) extending in a right angle to said at least
one rip (5f, 5g) which extends to a direction perpendicular to

said longitudinal direction of said filter body (1) between
said ring portion (5a) and said fixing portions (5b, 5c).
A fuel filter arrangement for filtering fuel supplied to an
internal combustion engine comprising:


a fixing apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5.
A method for manufacturing a fuel filter arrangement for
filtering fuel supplied to an internal combustion engine

comprising the following steps:

manufacturing a fuel filter having a cylindrical outer
shape and having an outlet and inlet at both ends thereof;
manufacturing a fixing apparatus having a ring portion
(5a) made of resin for accommodating and fixing said filter and

having fixing portions (5b, 5c) integrally formed with said
ring portion (5a) for supporting said ring portion (5a);
accommodating said filter inside of said ring portion
(5a); and
fastening sad filter by contracting said ring portion
(5a).
A method for manufacturing a fuel filter arrangement
according to claim 7, wherein said ring portion (5a) is made of

resin softened by heat and has an inside of said ring portion
(5a) formed similar and somewhat smaller than the outer shape

of said filter, said accommodating step includes accommodating
said filter when said resin is softened by heating said ring

portion (5a), said fastening step includes lowering a
temperature of said ring portion (5a).
A method for manufacturing a fuel filter arrangement
according to claim 7, wherein said fuel filter manufacturing

step includes forming one of said concave and convex portions
(4) on a part of said cylindrical outer shape of said filter,

said fixing apparatus manufacturing step includes forming one
of said concave and convex portions (5n) on a part of said ring

portion (5a), said accommodating step includes fitting one of
said concave and convex portions (4) of said filter to one of

said convex and concave portions (5n) of said ring portion
(5a), respectively.
A method for manufacturing a fuel filter arrangement according to claim
7, wherein said fixing apparatus manufacturing step includes

forming said ring portion (5a) and said fixing portions (5b,
5c) integrally with the same resin.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
