<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648072</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PLANTER WITH NARROW ROW SPACING CAPABILITY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01C700	A01C704	A01C720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01C	A01C	A01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01C7	A01C7	A01C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A planting implement is disclosed which is operable for performing both row crop and drill planting operations. The implement includes a front planting structure (10) which is detachably coupled to a rear planting structure (12). The front planting structure (10) includes a front gang of planter units (16A) and the rear planting structure includes first and second gangs (16B, 16C) of planting units wherein the planting units of each gang include a furrow opener (24) and a seed metering unit (30). The planter units provide accurate seed depth control as well as singulation and precise positioning of seeds along each row. In addition, the planting implement is formed as a compact structure in a longitudinal direction to ensure that a consistent spacing between rows of seeds is provided during use of the implement.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINGRY LARRY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINGRY, LARRY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PLANTER WITH NARROW ROW SPACING CAPABILITY Background of the Invention 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to an agricultural planting implement and, more particularly, to a planting implement which is operable to plant row crops such as corn and which is further operable to operate as a grain drill to plant narrow spaced crops such as soybean, wheat and oats. 2. Description of the Prior ArtTwo types of seeding machinery commonly used by modern farmers are row crop planters and grain drills, both of which are adapted to place seeds in rows. The row crop planter is typically used for planting crops in rows with spacings of 30 to 40 inches such that the crops may be easily cultivated to control weeds. The spacing provided by row crop planters also facilitates the harvesting of such crops as corn and sorghum which are most effectively harvested by machine when in widely spaced rows.A commonly used row crop planter includes a plurality of planter units which are attached to a tool bar wherein the planter units each include a furrow opener, a seed metering and placement system, a seed depth control and a seed covering and packing device.The operation of the row crop planter is characterized by providing accurate depth control of the seeds placed within the furrows and by providing accurate individual seed placement, or singulation, whereby the crop yield is maximized by precisely positioning the seeds in spaced relationship to each other in the rows. The furrow depth is typically controlled by a double disk furrow opener having a gauge wheel located on either side thereof wherein the gauge wheels follow the contour of the soil to ensure that a substantially uniform furrow depth is formed. In addition, each planter unit is typically mounted for vertical movement relative to the tool bar to 

facilitate operation of the furrow opener and gauge wheels in producing a uniform furrow depth.As noted above, a drill provides a narrower row spacing for crops such as soybean, wheat and oats wherein the rows are typically spaced approximately 7 to 10 inches apart. In order to obtain the narrow spacing between rows, the construction of a drill typically comprises a plurality of closely spaced furrow openers and depth control means, such as a pair of narrow gauge wheels or a single wide gauge wheel, adjacent to the openers. The narrow spacing between the rows dictates a narrow total width for the gauge wheel (or wheels) associated with each furrow opener, as compared to the total gauge wheel width for each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
AMENDE LAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 22 July 1994 (22.07.94); original claims 1, 4, 9, 10 and 13 amended; new claims 21 - 23 added; remaining claims unchanged
(6 pages)]
1. An agricultural planting implement comprising: an interplant frame including an elongated bar extending in a lateral direction; a first gang of planter units mounted to said interplant frame bar and extending in said lateral direction; a second gang of planter units mounted to said interplant frame bar spaced rearwardly from said first gang of planter units, said second gang of planter units being offset from said first gang of planter units in said lateral direction, each said planter unit comprising a furrow opener and a seed metering unit and at least two of said planter units being positionable relative to each other to provide a drill spacing between said at least two of said planter units; and wherein said irst gang of planter units extend rearwardly to locations between said second gang of planter units whereby said first and second gangs of planter units overlap each other in a front to rear direction.
2. The planting implement as in claim 1, wherein each said planter unit further includes a pair of gauge wheels comprising a gauge wheel located on either side of said furrow opener.
3. The planting implement as in claim 2, wherein each said pair of gauge wheels is mounted for independent vertical movement relative to said frame and is biased downwardly with a predetermined pressure whereby each said pair of gauge wheels is adapted to follow the contours of a supporting ground surface.
4. An agricultural planting implement comprising: an elongated interplant frame including an elongated bar extending in a lateral direction; 


 a first gang of planter units mounted to said interplant frame bar and extending in said lateral direction; a second gang of planter units mounted to said interplant frame bar spaced rearwardly from said first gang of planter units, said second gang of planter units being offset from said first gang of planter units a predetermined distance in said lateral direction, and wherein said first gang of planter units is supported by a pivoting linkage attached to first support arm means extending downwardly and forwardly from and rigidly attached to said interplant frame bar and said second gang of planter units is supported by a pivoting linkage attached to second support arm means extending downwardly and rearwardly from and rigidly attached to said interplant frame bar.
5. The planting implement as in claim 4, including an elongated base frame extending in said lateral direction and a front gang of planter units mounted to said base frame, said base frame being detachably attached to said interplant frame.
6. The planting implement as in claim 5, wherein said front gang of planter units is located between said base frame and said interplant frame whereby said front gang of planter units is located in close proximity to said first gang of planter units.
7. The planting implement as in claim 1, wherein said second gang of planter units is offset from said first gang of planter units a predetermined distance in said lateral direction.
8. The planting implement as in claim 7, wherein said predetermined distance is approximately ten inches.
9. An agricultural planting implement comprising: 


 an elongated interplant frame including -an elongated bar extending in a lateral direction; a first gang of planter units mounted to said interplant frame bar and extending in said lateral direction; a second gang of planter units mounted to said interplant frame bar spaced rearwardly from said first gang of planter units, said second gang of planter units being offset from said first gang of planter units a predetermined distance in said lateral direction, and including a front gang of planter units coupled to said interplant frame wherein said front gang of planter units is offset from said first gang of planter units a distance equal to said predetermined distance in said lateral direction.
10. An agricultural planting implement comprising: a front planting structure including a front gang of planter units supported on a base frame; a rear planting structure including rear planter units supported on an interplant frame, said interplant frame being detachably attached behind said base frame; and wherein said planter units of said front planting structure are spaced from each other a sufficient distance to perform a row crop planting operation and said planter units of said rear planting structure are positioned to plant seed in at least two rows in between adjacent rows formed by said front planting structure such that said planting implement is adapted to be used for a row crop planting operation and for a drill planting operation.
11. The planting implement as in claim 10, wherein each of said planter units comprises a seed metering unit for providing singulation of seeds. 


12. The planting implement as in claim 11, wherein each planter unit further comprises a furrow opener and a gauge wheel located on either side of said furrow opener to accurately control the depth of a furrow formed by said furrow opener.
13. The planting implement as in claim 10, wherein said rear planting structure comprises a first gang of planter units and a second gang of planter units located behind and offset from said first gang of planter units a predetermined distance in a lateral direction.
14. The planting implement as in claim 13, wherein said predetermined distance is equal to one-third the spacing between adjacent planter units of said front gang of planter units.
15. The planting implement as in claim 10, wherein said front planting structure includes a laterally extending base frame for supporting said front gang of planter units and said rear planting structure includes a laterally extending interplant frame for supporting said rear planter units, said front planter structure further including a coupling arm extending upwardly and rearwardly for detachably coupling to said interplant frame.
16. The planting implement as in claim 15, including a seed bin supported on said coupling arm for supplying seed to said planter units.
17. The planting implement as in claim 15, wherein said rear planting structure includes a first gang of planter units supported by first support arm means extending downwardly and forwardly from said interplant frame and a second gang of planter units supported by second support arm means extending downwardly and rearwardly from said interplant frame. 


18. . The planting implement as in claim 17, wherein said front gang of planter units extend rearwardly of said base frame, said first gang of planter units extend rearwardly of said first support arm means and said second gang of planter units extend rearwardly of said second support arm means.
19. An agricultural planting implement for performing row crop and drill planting operations, said planting implement comprising: a front planting structure including an elongated base frame extending in a lateral direction and a front gang of planter units extending rearwardly from said base frame; a rear planting structure including an elongated interplant frame extending in said lateral direction, first support arm means extending downwardly and forwardly from said interplant frame, second support arm means extending downwardly and rearwardly from said interplant frame, a first gang of planter units supported on said first support arm means and a second gang of planter units supported on said second support arm means; each said planter unit including a seed metering unit for providing singulation of seeds, a furrow opener and a gauge wheel located on either side of said furrow opener, each said planter unit being mounted for independent vertical movement in response to varying contours of ground to be planted; a pair of coupling arms mounted to said base frame and extending upwardly and rearwardly for detachably coupling to said interplant frame; said second gang of planter units being offset from said first gang of planter units a predetermined distance in said lateral direction and said front gang of planter units being offset from said first gang and said second gang of planter units said predetermined distance in said lateral direction; and wherein said planting implement is configured to plant seed at a row crop spacing when said front 


planting structure is detached from said rear planting structure and said planting implement is configured to plant seed at a drill crop spacing when said front planter structure is attached to said rear planter structure.
20. The planting implement as in claim 19, wherein adjacent planter units in each of said gangs of planter units have a center-to-center spacing equal to three times said predetermined distance.
21. The planting implement as in claim 1, wherein each of said planter units of said first and second gangs of planter units includes a linkage structure located at the front of a respective planter unit providing for independent vertical movement of each of the respective planter units.
22. The planting implement as in claim 1, wherein said first gang of planter units extend rearwardly from a location in front of said elongated bar to a location behind said elongated bar.
23. The planting implement as in claim 10, wherein each of said planter units of said front and rear gangs of planter units includes a linkage structure located at the front of a respective planter unit providing for independent vertical movement of each of the respective planter units. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
