<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646832</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process tolerant reverse delta-beta directional coupler.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F1225	G02F129	G02F1313	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A three or more section reverse Δβ directional coupler (10) 
designed to operate at a number of coupling lengths (L/ℓ) 

selected from a region of a corresponding switching diagram 
where the cross and bar state switching curves are approximately 

parallel to each other and to the vertical axis, the 
vertical axis defining numbers of coupling lengths, or from 

a region of corresponding process sensitivity plots for the 
cross and bar states where the cross and bar state voltage 

curves are both approximately of zero slope. A number of 
these directional couplers form an optical switching array 

and a number of arrays form a system or network for switching 
optical signals each of which are capable of operation with 

uniform cross and bar state voltages at low crosstalk levels. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURPHY EDMOND J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURPHY, EDMOND J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to optical 
waveguide switches, and more particularly to reverse Δβ 
directional couplers. There have been several recent demonstrations of optical 
switching systems in which integrated arrays of large numbers 
(i.e., tens to hundreds) of lithium niobate directional 
couplers were used for telecommunication applications. For 
example, in one case, a single package was fabricated 
containing a total of 48 monolithically integrated 2 x 2 
optical waveguide switches connected to form an 8 x 8 
rearrangeably non-blocking dilated Benes network. G.D. 
Bergland, "A Photonic Time Division Switching Experiment," 
Photonics in Switching Topical Meeting, paper PWB3, Palm 
Springs, CA, March, 1993; E.J. Murphy, et al, "Low Crosstalk 
8 x 8 Lithium Niobate Switch Array with Uniform Voltages," 
Optical Fiber Communication Conference, San Jose, CA, 
February, 1992; and J.E. Watson, et al., "A Low-Voltage 8 x 
8 Ti:LiNb0₃ Switch with a Dilated-Benes Architecture," J. 
Lightwave Tech., vol. 8, p. 794, (1990). In another case, twenty-three packages containing a total 
of 448 2 x 2 optical waveguide switches were interconnected 
to form a 16 x 16 strictly non-blocking Extended Generalized 
Shuffle Network. S.S. Bergstein et al., "A Fully Implemented 
Strictly Non-blocking 16 x 16 Photonic Switching System, 
Optical Fiber Communication Conference, postdeadline paper, 
San Jose, CA, February, 1993 ("the Bergstein article"); A.F. 
Ambrose, et al., "Design and Performance of a Complete Optical 
Switching System," Photonics in Switching Topical Meeting, 
postdeadline paper, Palm Springs, CA, March, 1993 ("the 
Ambrose article"); and E.J. Murphy and T.O. Murphy, "Characteristics  
 
of Twenty-Three Ti:LiNb03 Switch Arrays for a Guided 
Wave Photonic Switching System," European Conference on 
Integrated Optics, Neuchatel, Switzerland, April, 1993 ("the 
Murphy article"). In each case, the directional couplers were fabricated 
using a two-section reverse Δβ design. The two-section design 
uses two sections or pairs of control electrodes covering the 
waveguides. With this design, each optical switch requires 
a negative DC bias voltage, Vbias, to obtain the cross state 
and a positive switch voltage, Vswitch, which toggles on and 
off to obtain the straight-through or bar state. The 
switches are packaged in a dual-in-line configuration with 
a bias and switch pin for each coupler. In operation, Vbias 
is applied to one electrode of each pair while the other 
electrode of each pair is held
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical waveguide switch comprising: 
   first and second optical waveguides formed in or 

on a substrate of electro-optic material, said first and 
second optical waveguides being closely disposed to each other 

in a coupling region having a number of coupling lengths 
selected from a corresponding switching diagram having cross 

and bar state switching curves, said switching diagram having 
a first axis corresponding to numbers of coupling lengths and 

a second axis proportional to cross and bar state voltages, 
said number of coupling lengths selected from a region of the 

switching diagram where the cross and bar state switching 
curves are approximately in parallel with each other and with 

the first axis of the switching diagram corresponding to the 
number of coupling lengths, and 

   at least three pairs of reverse Δβ electrodes in 
the coupling region for switching said first and second 

optical waveguides to a cross state in response to a cross 
state voltage and a bar state in response to a bar state 

voltage. 
The optical switch of claim 1, wherein the substrate 
is formed from lithium niobate. 
The optical switch of claim 2, wherein the 
waveguides are formed in the substrate by titanium diffusion. 
The optical switch of claim 1, wherein the 
waveguides are in parallel in the coupling region. 
The optical switch of claim 1, wherein the electrodes 
are formed on an upper surface of the substrate using 

suitable thin film deposition techniques and photolithography. 
The optical switch of claim 1, wherein the electrodes 
are formed on a dielectric film on the substrate using 

suitable thin film deposition techniques and photolithography. 
The optical switch of claim 6, wherein the dielectric 
film is SiO₂. 
The optical switch of claim 1, wherein the electrodes 
are of equal length, are equally spaced, and are 

aligned to the waveguides in the coupling region. 
The optical switch of claim 1, wherein the optical 
switch is a three-section reverse Δβ directional coupler. 
The optical switch of claim 9, wherein the number 
of coupling lengths is approximately 3. 
The optical switch of claim 10, wherein there are 
three pairs of reverse Δβ electrodes, a first, second, and 

third pair, each pair comprising first and second electrodes, 

the second electrode of each pair integrally formed as a 
center electrode, said center electrode moving from a position 

covering said second waveguide and in operable alignment with 
said first electrode of said first pair to a second position 

covering said first waveguide and in operable alignment with 
said first electrode of said second pair and to a position 

covering said second waveguide and in operable alignment with 
said first electrode of said third pair. 
The optical switch of claim 1, wherein the optical 
switch is a one-input/one-output coupled waveguide interferometer. 
The optical switch of claim 1, wherein the optical 
switch is a polarization independent directional coupler. 
An optical switching array capable of operation with 
uniform cross and bar state voltages at low crosstalk levels 

comprising a plurality of directional couplers, wherein each 
of said directional couplers incldues: 

   first and second optical waveguides formed in or 
on a substrate of electro-optic material, said first and 

second optical waveguides being closely disposed to each other 
in a coupling region having a number of coupling lengths 

selected from a corresponding switching diagram having cross 
and bar state switching curves, said switching diagram having 

a first axis corresponding to numbers of coupling lengths and 
a second axis proportional to cross and bar state voltages, 

said number of coupling lengths selected from a region of the 
switching diagram where the cross and bar state switching 

curves are approximately in parallel with each other and with 
the first axis of the switching diagram corresponding to the 

number of coupling lengths, and 
   at least three pairs of reverse Δβ electrodes in 

the coupling region for switching said first and second 
optical waveguides to a cross state in response to a cross 

state voltage and a bar state in response to a bar state 
voltage. 
A method of fabricating an optical switching array 
of directional couplers capable of operation with uniform 

cross and bar state voltages at low crosstalk levels comprising 
the steps of: 

   fabricating first and second waveguides for each 
of the directional couplers in the array on a substrate of 

electro-optic material using suitable thin film deposition 
techniques and photolithography, said first and second 

waveguides being closely disposed to each other in a coupling 
region having a number of coupling lengths selected from a 

switching diagram having cross and bar state switching curves, 
said switching diagram having a first axis corresponding to 

 
numbers of coupling lengths and a second axis proportional 

to cross and bar state voltages, said number of coupling 
lengths selected from a region of the switching diagram where 

the cross and bar state switching curves are approximately 
in parallel with each other and with the first axis of the 

switching diagram corresponding to the numbers of coupling 
lengths, and 

   fabricating three or more sections of reverse 
Δβ electrodes on the substrate using suitable thin film 

deposition techniques and photolithography, said electrodes 
positioned in the coupling region of each of the couplers in 

the array for switching said first and second waveguides to 
a cross state in response to a cross state voltage and a bar 

state in response to a bar state voltage. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
