<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626083</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN ISDN AUDIOVISUAL TELESERVICES INTERFACE SUBSYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F300	G06F300	G06F1300	G06F1300	H04N500	H04N500	H04N714	H04N714	H04N7173	H04N7173	H04Q1104	H04Q1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F13	G06F13	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04Q11	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The technical field of the invention generally concerns systems for audiovisual teleservices using digital telecommunication services such as Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") communications. In the preferred embodiment, an interface subsystem (100) includes an ISDN interface circuit (130) for concurrently exchanging audiovisual information with an ISDN access. The interface subsystem (100) also includes a host computer interface circuit (144) for exchanging video, audio, high-speed, and low-speed data with a host digital computer. A computer program executed by a digital signal processing circuit (122) implements CCITT's H.221 and H.242 Recommendations for audiovisual teleservices, and provides a computer program at the application layer (44) of the OSI model that is executed by the host digital computer with an interface by which it can exchange video, audio, high-speed, and low-speed data with another compatible terminal using digital telecommunications.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOZ MARK C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOZ, MARK C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOZ MARK C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIX JACK W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOZ, MARK C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIX, JACK W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AN ISDN AUDIOVISUAL TELESERVICES INTERFACE SUBSYSTEMTechnical FieldThe present invention relates generally to the technical 5 field of digital telecommunication and, more particularly, to communicating audiovisual information using digital telecommuni¬ cations services such as Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") communication.10 Background ArtTo deal rationally with the complexity of present communi¬ cation systems and with the need to make different systems mutually compatible, the International Standards Organization ("ISO") developed a model for specifying such systems. Using15 this model, called the Open Systems Interconnect ("OSI") model, a communication system can be broken down into a hierarchial structure that permits standards to be defined at each level in the structure. The OSI model provides a hierarchy of seven different layers that can occur in a communication system. Each20 layer in the OSI model specifies a different function performed by the communication system.The lowest layer in the OSI model, called the physical layer, specifies the physical structure of interfaces in a particular communication system or network. Thus, a standard for the25 physical layer of a communication system specifies such things as the number of wires, their electrical characteristics, the characteristics of signals transmitted over the wires, connectors used for joining two sets of wires into a single longer set of wires, etc.30 The next higher layer in the OSI model, called the data link layer, specifies how data is transmitted error free through the communication system. Thus, a standard for the second layer in r* the OSI model specifies how to detect errors in transmissions passing over the physical layer, and how to correct any errors35 that may occur during transmission.The next higher layer in the OSI model, called the network layer, specifies the manner in which connections are formed between various places in the communication system for trans- 

mitting data between them. The standard for the third layer in the OSI model, therefore, specifies the signals transmitted over the data link layer that cause the communication system to transfer data between two places on the network. A recommendation by an International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee ("CCITT") for the ISDN communication channel specifies the three lowest levels in the OSI model. Under the CCITT recommendation, a basic ISDN access consists of two full-duplex 64 kilobits per second ("kbps") digital data channels,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The Claims
What is claimed is:
1. An interface subsystem adapted for exchanging digital audiovisual information using digital telecommunications, said interface subsystem also exchanging video and audio data with a host digital computer, said interface subsystem comprising: a first digital telecommunications interface circuit for exchanging digital audiovisual information with a first digital telecommunications access; a host computer interface circuit for exchanging video and audio data with the host digital computer; a random access memory for storing digital audiovisual information and video and audio data received from said interface circuits; a programmable digital signal processing circuit coupled to said interface circuits and to said random access memory for controlling the operation of said interface circuits, for exchanging digital audiovisual information with said digital telecommunications interface circuit, for exchanging video and audio data with the host computer interface circuit, and for processing digital audiovisual information, and video and audio data.
2. The interface subsystem of claim 1 further comprising -a second digital telecommunications interface circuit for exchanging digital audiovisual information with a second digital telecommunications access.
3. The interface subsystem of claim 2 wherein said first digital telecommunications interface circuit exchanges digital audiovisual information with an Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") basic rate access.
4. The interface subsystem of claim 3 wherein said second digital telecommunications interface circuit exchanges digital audiovisual information with a plurality of ISDN basic rate accesses. 


 5. The interface subsyεtem of claim 3 wherein said second digital telecommunications interface circuit exchanges digital audiovisual information with an ISDN primary rate access,
6. The interface subsyεtem of claim 5 wherein εaid programmable digital εignal proceεsing circuit synchronizes digital audiovisual information received by the interface subsyεtem from several digital telecommunication accesεeε.
7. The interface εubεystem of claim 5 wherein said programmable digital signal processing circuit multiplexes digitized video and audio data exchanged over the several telecommunications accesseε.
8. The interface εubεystem of claim 1 wherein a read only memory ("ROM") included in the random access memory storeε a computer program executed by said programmable digital εignal procesεing circuit.
9. The interface εubsystem of claim 1 wherein said programmable digital signal processing circuit receives each succesεive word of digital audiovisual information following the receipt of such information by said digital telecommunications interface circuit.
10. The interface subsystem of claim 1 wherein εaid programmable digital εignal proceεsing circuit transmits each successive word of digital audiovisual information to said digital telecommunications interface circuit.
11. The interface subsystem of claim 1 wherein said programmable digital signal procesεing circuit controlε the operation of said digital telecommunications interface circuit in response to initiation of digital telecommunications service.
12. The interface subsystem of claim 1 wherein said programmable digital signal procesεing circuit controlε the 


operation of said digital telecommunications interface circuit to initiate digital telecommunication service.
13. The interface subsystem of claim 1 wherein said random access memory contains a plurality of receiving circular buffers for receiving a plurality of frames of audiovisual information from said digital telecommunications interface circuit.
14. The interface subsystem of claim 1 wherein said random access memory contains a plurality of sort buffers, each addressable location in said sort buffers holding one octet of audiovisual information received from a digital telecommunica¬ tions access, the octets while present in said sort buffers being scanned to locate a frame alignment signal ("FAS") embedded therein.
15. The interface subsystem of claim 14 wherein after the FAS has been located in said sort buffers, said sort buffers receive successive frames of audiovisual information from the digital telecommunications access, the audiovisual information so received being registered in said sort buffers with the FAS located in the eighth bit of the first octet through the eighth bit of the eighth octet in said sort buffers.
16. The interface subsystem of claim 14 wherein after the FAS has been located in said sort buffers, video data, audio data, high-speed data, and low-speed data are extracted from the audiovisual information in said sort buffers and stored into individual receiving data buffers.
17. The interface subsystem of claim 16 wherein said individual receiving data buffers are located in said random access memory of said interface subsystem.
18. The interface subsystem of claim 1 wherein a set of host computer interface receiving buffers may store video data, audio data, high-speed data, and low-speed data after such data has been-extracted out of the received audiovisual information, such 


data being removable from said εet of host computer interface receiving buffers by the host digital computer.
19. The interface subsystem of claim 18 wherein said set of hoεt computer interface receiving buffers are located in a εhared random acceεε memory located in said host computer interface circuit that may be accessed directly both by said digital signal processing circuit and by the host digital computer.
20. The interface subsystem of claim 18 wherein said digital telecommunications interface circuit receives a single stream of audiovisual information from a plurality of digital telecommunication connections, and video data, audio data, high¬ speed data, and low-speed data are stored into said set of host computer interface receiving buffers after being extracted from such audiovisual information.
21. The interface subsystem of claim 18 wherein said hoεt computer interface receiving bufferε are circular bufferε.
22. The interface εubεyεtem of claim 18 adapted for receiving a meεεage from the host digital computer for selecting among video data, audio data, high-speed data, and low-speed data for storage into the set of hoεt computer interface receiving bufferε.
23. The interface εubεyεtem of claim 18 adapted for transmitting a message to the host digital computer specifying that the set of host computer interface receiving bufferε are full of data.
24. The interface εubεyεtem of claim 1 adapted for receiving video data, audio data, high-speed data, and low-speed data stored into a set of host computer interface transmitting buffers by the host digital computer for transmiεεion from εaid digital telecommunications interface circuit as audiovisual information. 


 25. The interface subsyεtem of claim 24 adapted for receiving a message from the host digital computer for selecting among video data, audio data, high-speed data, and low-speed data in said set of host computer interface transmitting buffers for transmission from said digital telecommunications interface circuit as audiovisual information.
26. The interface subsystem of claim 24 adapted for transmitting a message to the host digital computer specifying that the set of host computer interface transmitting buffers lack data.
27. The interface subsystem of claim 24 adapted for receiving a message from the host digital computer specifying that audiovisual information is to be transmitted in accordance with a new bit-rate allocation signal ("BAS") as soon as the host computer interface transmitting buffers lack data.
28. The interface subsystem of claim 1 adapted for storing into individual sets of host computer interface receiving buffers video data, audio data, high-speed data, and low-speed data extracted from audiovisual information received by said digital telecommunications interface circuit from individual digital telecommunications connections.
29. The interface subsystem of claim 27 adapted for receiving video data, audio data, high-speed data, and low-speed data stored by the host digital computer into individual sets of host computer interface transmitting buffers for transmission by said digital telecommunications interface circuit as separate audiovisual information carried by individual digital telecommu¬ nications connections.
30. The interface subsystem of claim 1 adapted for transmitting a message to the host digital computer specifying that received audiovisual information included a new BAS. 


 31. The interface subsyεtem of claim 1 adapted for tranεmitting a meεεage to the host digital computer specifying that audioviεual information is now being tranεmitted in accordance with a new BAS.
32. The interface subsystem of claim 1 adapted for receiving a message from the host digital computer specifying that audiovisual information is to be transmitted in accordance with a new BAS. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
