<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621982</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LEAD FRAME AND SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE USING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2148	H01L2160	H01L2316	H01L2324	H01L2334	H01L23433	H01L2348	H01L23495	H01L2350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a lead frame adapted to be used for a semiconductor device, a plurality of inner leads (18) are made of a thin conductive material for easily forming a fine pattern of the inner leads. A plurality of outer leads (20) are integrally formed with the respective inner leads. The outer leads are coated with metal layers to increase the thickness thereof, so that a desired strength of the outer leads is obtained. A semiconductor chip (24) is electrically connected to the inner leads. The semiconductor chip and a part of the lead frame including the inner leads are hermetically sealed with a resin (26) and, thus, a semiconductor device is obtained.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHINKO ELECTRIC IND CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHINKO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES CO. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI MAMORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURAISHI FUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YUMOTO KAZUHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI, MAMORU, SHINKO ELECTRIC IND. CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KURAISHI, FUMIO, SHINKO ELECTRIC IND. CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YUMOTO, KAZUHITO, SHINKO ELECTRIC IND. CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 DESCRIPTION
 Lead Frame and Semiconductor Device Using Same
 TECHNICAL FIELD
 The present invention relates to a lead frame and a semiconductor device using the same lead frame. This invention also relates to a process for making such a lead frame.


 BACKGROUND ART
 In the field of lead frames adapted to be used for a semiconductor device, since semiconductor chips have become highly integrated, multi-pin lead frames having a large number of leads and a fine lead pattern structure have been developed and produced. In this connection, in order to make a fine lead pattern structure on a lead frame, a relatively thin material has been used as a lead frame base and an etching process has been widely adopted to form such fine micro-patterns, since the etching process is more suitable than the other processes, such as a punching process, to easily form such fine patterns.


 In a conventional method for manufacturing a lead frame, however, there has been a limitation on forming a very fine lead pattern. Thus, a TAB (tape automated bonding) tape lead frame has been developed and used, on which a finer pattern could be formed than on a conventional metal lead frame.


 A TAB tape can be made by forming a thin conductive film on an electrically insulative base film and etching the conductive film to form a desired conductive pattern.


Using such a TAB tape, since the conductive patterns are supported on a thin flexible base film, the thickness of such conductive patterns can be reduced to about several tens of   zm.    Thus, it becomes possible to make very fine patterns of leads which could not be attained on a conventional metal lead frame.


 On the other hand, a semiconductor device is conventionally made as follows. After the inner leads of  the lead frame are electrically connected to the semiconductor chip by a wire-bonding process, the lead frame is hermetically sealed with resin to obtain a product. In a case where a TAB tape is used, the lead frame is also hermetically sealed with resin to obtain a semiconductor device product.


 However, as mentioned above, since a TAB tape includes a plurality of leads which are made of conductive thin film, there has been a problem that a strength of leads are not sufficient and it is difficult to handle the same, such as when the product is mounted on a printed circuit board.


 The above-mentioned problems concerning a TAB-tape also appear when a so-called single-layer-type TAB tape is used to make a lead frame, in which the leads are formed of a very thin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS



 1. A lead frame adapted to be used for a semiconductor device comprising:
 a plurality of inner leads made of a thin conductive material for easily forming a fine pattern of said inner leads; and

 a plurality of outer leads integrally formed with said respective inner leads, said outer leads being coated with metal layers to increase a thickness thereof, so that a desired strength of said outer leads is obtained.



 2. A lead frame as set forth in claim 1, wherein said outer leads are plated with a metal which is the same material as said inner and outer leads.



 3. A lead frame as set forth in claim 2, wherein all the surfaces of said inner leads and said outer leads are plated with gold, silver, palladium, tin or the like, as a protective metal layer.



 4. A lead frame adapted to be used for a semiconductor device comprising:
 an insulating base film;

 a conductive pattern formed on said insulating base film, said conductive pattern including a plurality of inner leads and a plurality of outer leads integrally formed with said respective inner leads; and
 said inner leads being relatively thin, but said outer leads being coated with metal layers to increase the thickness thereof, so that a de
sired strength of said outer leads is obtained.



 5. A lead frame as set forth in claim 4, wherein said outer leads are plated with a metal which is the same material as said inner and outer leads.



 6. A lead frame as set forth In claim 5, wherein all the surfaces of said inner leads and said outer leads are plated with gold, silver, palladium, tin or the like, as a protective metal layer.



 7. A lead frame as set forth in claim 4, wherein  said insulating base film has a device hole at a central position thereof and window holes located apart from said central device hole, each said inner lead extends inward into said central device hole and each said outer lead extends outward from said inner lead over said window hole.



 8. A lead frame as set forth in claim 4, wherein a die-pad is formed as a part of said conductive pattern formed on said insulating base film at a central position thereof, and said insulating base film has window holes located apart from said die-pad, each said inner lead extends toward said die-pad and each said outer lead extends outward from said inner lead over said window hole.



 9. A lead frame as set forth in claim 4, wherein said outer leads are continuously connected to each other by means of a tie bar which is a part of said conductive pattern formed on said insulating base film.



 10. A process for making a lead frame adapted to be used for a semiconductor device which comprises the steps of:
 forming a conductive layer on a insulating base film;

 etching said conductive layer to form a conductive pattern including a plurality of inner leads and a plurality of outer leads integrally formed with said respective inner leads; and
 coating said outer leads with metal layers to increase the thickness of said outer leads, so that a desired strength of said outer leads is obtained.




 11. A process as set forth in claim 10, wherein said coating step comprises a step of plating said outer leads with a metal which is the same material as said inner and outer leads to increase the thickness of said outer leads.



 12. A process as set forth in claim 11, wherein said coating step comprises a step of plating all the  surfaces at said inner leads and said outer leads with gold, silver, palladium, tin or the like, as a protective metal layer.



 13. A process for making a lead frame adapted to be used for a semiconductor device which comprises the steps of:
 forming a conductive layer on an insulating base film having a device hole at a central position thereof and window holes located apart from said central device hole;

 etching said conductive layer to form a conductive pattern including a plurality of inner leads and a plurality of outer leads integrally formed with said respective inner leads, so that each said inner lead extends inward into said central device hole and each said outer lead extends outward from said inner lead over said window hole; and
 coating said outer leads with metal layers to increase the thickness thereof, so that a desired strength of said outer leads is obtained.




 14. A process for making a lead frame adapted to be used for a semiconductor device which comprises the steps of:
 forming a conductive layer on an insulating base film having window holes located apart from a central position of said base film;

 etching said conductive layer to form a conductive pattern including a die-pad located at a central position of said insulating base film, a plurality of inner leads and a plurality of outer leads integrally formed with said respective inner leads, so that each said inner lead extends toward said die-pad and each said outer lead extends outward from said inner lead over said window hole; and
 coating said outer leads with metal layers to increase the thickness thereof, so that a desired strength of said outer leads is obtained.  




 15. A semiconductor device comprising:
 (a) a lead frame adapted to be used for a semiconductor device comprising:

 a plurality of inner leads made of a thin conductive material for easily forming a fine pattern of said inner leads; and
 a plurality of outer leads integrally formed with said respective inner leads, said outer leads being coated with metal layers to increase the thickness thereof, so that a desired strength of said outer leads is obtained;

 (b) a semiconductor chip electrically connected to said inner leads; and
 (c) a resin for hermetically sealing said semiconductor chip and a part of said lead frame including said inner leads.




 16. A semiconductor device comprising:
 (a) a lead frame comprising:

 an insulating base film having a device hole at a central position thereof and window holes located apart from said device hole;
 a conductive pattern formed on said insulating base film, said conductive pattern including a plurality of inner leads and a plurality of outer leads integrally formed with said respective inner leads, so that each said inner lead extends inward into said central device hole and each said outer lead extends outward from said inner lead over said window hole; and

 said inner leads being relatively thin, but said outer leads being coated with metal layers to increase the thickness thereof, so that a desired strength of said outer leads is obtained;
 (b) a semiconductor chip mounted on and electrically connected to said inner leads within said central opening;


 and
 (c) a resin for hermetically sealing said semiconductor chip and a part of said lead frame  including said inner leads.




 17. A semiconductor device comprising:
 (a) a lead frame comprising:

 an insulating base film having window holes located apart from a central position of said base film;
 a conductive pattern formed on said insulating base film, said conductive pattern including a lplurality of inner leads and a plurality of outer leads integrally formed with said respective inner leads, so that each said inner lead extends toward said die-pad and each said outer lead extends outward from said inner lead over said window hole; and

 said inner leads being relatively thin, but said outer leads being coated with metal layers to increase the thickness thereof, so that a desired strength of said outer leads is obtained;
 (b) a semiconductor chip mounted on said diepad;

 (c) bonding wires for electrically connecting said semiconductor chip to said inner leads;

 and
 (d) a resin for hermetically sealing said semiconductor chip and a part of said lead frame including said inner leads. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
