<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624322</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ventilating shoes
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B700	A43B708	A43B706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B7	A43B7	A43B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Ventilation of shoes is efficiently performed by converting an 
ambulatory movement of the pumping moment of a ventilator in order to eliminate 

stuffiness and odor in the shoes. The ventilator is comprised of an air groove (12) 
having a plurality of ventilating holes on the shoe sole, a pump (8) provided inside 

the heel which returns to the original shape by releasing the stepping in the 
ambulatory movement, a first unidirectional valve (13-1) connected between the 

air groove and the pump which opens/closes the valve by the pressure of the pump, 
and second unidirectional valve (13-2) for ventilating the air. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUKUOKA CHEMICAL INDUSTRY CO L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUKUOKA CHEMICAL INDUSTRY CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUKUOKA SADAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUKUOKA, SADAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to ventilating 
shoes having a ventilator for ventilating inside of a 
shoe during ambulatory movement. Conventionally, various shoes are produced to 
improve wearing comfort by ventilating the inside of 
the shoes via ventilating holes to release damp air or 
odor in the shoes to the outside. However, since the structure of such shoes is 
such that the inside and outside of each shoe are 
simply connected, ventilation could not be performed 
efficiently. To solve the above problem, ventilation 
means for forcefully ventilating air is proposed. 
However, to provide such ventilation means in a limited 
space such as a shoe sole, a compact pump with a small 
valve connected to the pump is needed. In addition, the 
shoes need to withstand various walking conditions such 
as dusty roads, wet streets or muddy surfaces. 
Accordingly, mass production of such shoes is 
difficult. US patent 4,860,463 describes a ventilating shoe 
having a ventilator wherein pumping action is achieved 
using a block of material, in the shoe heel, having a 
number of holes which are compressed on application of 
heel pressure and re-expand on release of heel 
pressure. Two pairs of one-way valves control suction 
of air from the toe region of the shoe (on release of 
heel pressure) and expulsion of air to the outside (on 
application of heel pressure). US patent 5,068,981 describes a heel chamber body 
for a ventilating shoe in which a pouch-shaped chamber 
is defined by a housing having three openings in its 
sides. An inlet valve is provided in one of the three 
openings and respective outlet valves are provided in  
 
the other two openings. Each valve consists of a pair 
of perforated plates with a displaceable bar moving to-and-fro 
between them. Heel pressure compresses the 
pouch-shaped chamber forcing air out of the two outlet 
valves. On release of heel pressure a spring inside the 
heel chamber encourages the chamber to adopt its 
original shape thereby sucking air in through the inlet 
valve. In light of the above problems, it is an object 
of the present invention to provide ventilating shoes 
capable of performing ventilation inside the shoes, and 
releasing stuffy air and odor by utilizing a ventilator 
in the shoe using a unidirectional (one-way) valve 
sole, and converting the ambulatory movement into a 
pumping movement. It is another object of the present invention to 
provide ventilating shoes capable of saving materials 
for the shoe sole by utilizing the cavity which was 
originall
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A ventilating shoe including a ventilator which 
is operated by ambulatory movement, and which comprises 

a valve arrangement which includes only first and 
second unidirectional valves (13-1, 13-2), the 

ventilating shoe comprising: 

an air groove (12) formed between an insole (3) 
and a sole (2) of the shoe, said insole (3) having a 

plurality of ventilating holes (5) formed therein and 
said insole having a strength so as to function as a 

component of the shoe while having said plurality of 
ventilating holes (5) therein and said sole (2) having 

a strength so as to function as a component of the 
shoe; 
a pump (8) which is incorporated into a 
cylindrical bellows shape using a resin material and is 

provided inside a heel portion of the shoe so the 
cylindrical bellows is pressurized and compressed by 

heel pressure, and the cylindrical bellows expands to 
an original shape thereof upon releasing of the heel 

pressure; 
said first unidirectional valve (13-1) which 
comprises a hollow body formed from elastic material, 

said hollow body of said first unidirectional valve 
being substantially in a bullet shape having a tapering 

head which has at least a single slit (13a) therein, 
and said first unidirectional valve being coupled 

between said air groove (12) and said pump (8), which 
slit (13a) is closed by a compression of the 

cylindrical bellows of the pump, and opened by an 
expansion of the cylindrical bellows of the pump; and 
said second unidirectional valve (13-2) which 
comprises a hollow body formed from elastic material, 

said hollow body of said second unidirectional valve 
being substantially in a bullet shape having a tapering 

head which has at least a single slit (13a) therein,  

 
and said second unidirectional valve being branched off 

from a meeting portion (9) between said pump (8) and 
said first unidirectional valve (13-1) so as to 

communicate to the atmosphere outside of said shoe, for 
performing ventilation by being opened by the 

compression of the cylindrical bellows of the pump and 
closed by the expansion of the pump. 
The ventilating shoe according to claim 1, 
wherein:
 
   said groove (12) is provided from a toe tip of 

the shoe to an arch portion of the shoe; and
 
   said first unidirectional valve (13-1) and said 

second unidirectional valve (13-2) are embedded under 
the arch portion of the shoe in the sole so as to 

connect to the pump via an air transmission pipe (11). 
The ventilating shoe according to claim 1 or 2, 
wherein a convex projection (2b) from a large 

contacting surface of the heel corresponds to a bottom 
of the pump and is pressurized by the heel pressure in 

an ambulatory movement. 
The ventilating shoe according to claim 3, 
comprising a ring-shaped concavity (2c) provided around 

said convex projection (2b). 
The ventilating shoe according to any previous 
claim, wherein said resin material of said cylindrical 

bellows is polyethylene. 
The ventilating shoe according to any of claims 1 
to 4, wherein said resin material of said cylindrical 

bellows is styrene butadiene rubber.  
 
The ventilating shoe according to any previous 
claim, wherein said pump further includes a compression 

spring (8b) coupled to said cylindrical bellows to 
enhance expansion of said cylindrical bellows to the 

original shape thereof upon releasing of the heel 
pressure. 
The ventilating shoe according to any previous 
claim, comprising a concavity formed in the vicinity of 

a space under the arch portion of the shoe to reduce an 
amount of material for forming the sole. 
The ventilating shoe according to any previous 
claim, wherein said sole is formed of a polyurethane 

rubber resin. 
The ventilating shoe according to any one of 
claims 1 to 8, wherein said sole comprises natural 

rubber. 
The ventilating shoe according to any of claims 1 
to 8, wherein said sole is formed of a sponge rubber 

having a predetermined strength. 
The ventilating shoe according to any of claims 1 
to 8, wherein said sole is formed of a thermal 

plasticity rubber. 
The ventilating shoe according to any of claims 1 
to 8, wherein said sole comprises synthetic rubber. 
The ventilating shoe according to any previous 
claim, comprising a plurality of air grooves, each of 

said air grooves communicating with a plurality of 
ventilating holes (5) in said insole (3), and each of  

 
said air grooves communicating with said pump (8) via 

said first unidirectional valve (13-1). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
