<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620763</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SEPARATION OF WET PARTICLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B03C102	B03C130	B03D114	B03D114	B04C300	B04C306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B03C	B03C	B03D	B03D	B04C	B04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B03C1	B03C1	B03D1	B03D1	B04C3	B04C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HYDRO PROCESSING 
&
 MINING LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HYDRO PROCESSING 
&
 MINING LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUCZMAL TOMASZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER JAKOB H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUCZMAL, TOMASZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER, JAKOB, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SEPARATION OF WET PARTICLESFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a process and apparatus for separating particles in a slurry where the particles possess different physical, magnetic and/or chemical properties. More particularly, the process and apparatus is very effective in separating liquid hydrocarbons from water which may contain solids, such as in oil separated from tar sands and in newsprint pulp separated from ink, and separation of one or more solids from liquids, separation of mineral ores which may be of ferri-, ferro- and/or para-magnetic properties. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Flotation systems are important unit operations in process engineering technology that were developed to separate particulate constituents from slurries. Flotation is a process whereby air is bubbled through a suspension of finely dispersed particles, and the hydrophobic particles are separated from the remaining slurry by attachment to the air bubbles. The air bubble/particle aggregate, formed by adhesion of the bubble to the hydrophobic particles, is generally less dense than the slurry, thus causing the aggregate to rise to the surface of the flotation vessel. Separation of the hydrophobic particles is therefore accomplished by separating the upper layer of the slurry which is in the form of a froth or foam, from the remaining liquid.The fundamental step in froth flotation involves air bubble/particle contact for a sufficient time to allow the particle to rupture the air-liquid film and thus establish attachment. The total time required for this process is the sum of contact time and induction time, where contact time is dependent on bubble/particle motion and on the hydrodynamics of the system, whereas induction time is controlled by the surface chemistry properties of the bubble and particle. 

 However, flotation separation has certain limitations that render it inefficient in many applications. Particularly, in the past it has been thought that flotation is not very effective for the recovery of fine particles (less than 10 microns in diameter) . This can be a serious limitation, especially in the separation of fine minerals. An explanation for this low recovery is that the particle's inertia is so small that particle penetration of the air-liquid film is inhibited, thus resulting in low rates of attachment to the bubbles. Furthermore, flotation has never been relied on as a process to effect separation of hydrocarbons in a slurry.A further limitation of conventional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A process for separating particles in a slurry based on different physical, magnetic and/or chemical properties of said particles, said slurry including a mixture of solid particles and/or liquid particles which are immiscible in said slurry, said process comprising: i) introducing a stream of said slurry into a cylindrical chamber having a cylindrical inner wall, said chamber being vertically oriented and closed at its lower end and open at its upper end, said stream being introduced near said closed lower end at an .incline end and tangentially of said chamber to develop a spiral flow of said stream along said chamber inner wall toward said open end, ii) introducing said stream in sufficient volume and pressure to develop a vortex in said slurry which extends downwardly from said chamber upper end, iii) introducing air into said stream during at least a portion of its upward travel chamber, said air being introduced to said stream through means located at said chamber inner wall and for developing said air bubbles which move into said stream, iv) said chamber being of a height sufficient to provide a residence time in said chamber which permits a separation of particles on their physical, electrical and/or chemical properties with at least lighter hydrophobic particles combining with air bubbles and moving inwardly towards said vortex and at least heavier particles under influence of centrifugal forces of said spiral flow, moving outwardly towards said chamber inner wall, said stream developing into a whirlpool at said chamber upper end, v) directing said whirlpool stream outwardly at said open end into a catch basin surrounding said open end, said whirlpool stream swirling outwardly as said stream flows into said catch basin having a liquid level 



 proximate said open end to permit said air bubbles to float toward a peripheral edge of said catch basin, vi) separating said floating air bubbles with lighter hydrophobic particles from said heavier particles by collecting outwardly floating air bubbles from an upper zone of said catch basin, while said heavier particles sink downwardly of said catch basin and removing said heavier particles from a lower zone of said catch basin to effect said separation.
2. A process of claim 1, further comprising directing • said stream whirlpool over a smoothly curved upper edge of said chamber upper end as said whirlpool stream swirls outwardly in changing from a vertical direction of flow to an outward direction of flow.
3. A process of claim 2, wherein said smoothly curved upper edge is parabolic in cross-section whereby direction of flow is gradually converted from vertical to an outward direction.
4. A process of claim 1, wherein air is introduced along a major portion of its upward travel in said chamber.
5. A process of claim 4, wherein said air is introduced through a fine mesh to develop minute air bubbles in said stream.
6. A process of claim 1, wherein said stream is introduced at sufficient volume and pressure to develop said vortex from said chamber upper end down to where said stream is introduced.
7. A process of claim 6, wherein said stream is introduced as a thin stream which is rectangular in cross-section. 


 8. A process of claim 7 wherein said stream is introduced through a rectangular shaped channel, said channel being positioned tangentially to and at an incline to said chamber inner wall.
9. A process of claim 8 wherein flow straightening vanes are provided in said channel.
10. A process of claim 9 wherein said stream is introduced at a volume and a pressure to provide a laminar flow in said channel.
11. A process of claim 2 wherein said catch basin has an outlet in said lower region, said sinking heavier particles being removed through said outlet, controlling flow through said outlet to maintain said liquid level proximate said upper edge to ensure thereby smooth transition of stream flow from a vertical direction to an outward direction, said smooth transition permitting said bubbles located nearest said vortex to retain their relative position with respect to said heavier particles and float on said liquid in said catch basin.
12. A process of claim 11 wherein said floating bubbles are collected by permitting a froth developed by said floating bubbles to swirl-outwardly over a circumferential weir provided around said catch basin periphery collecting overflowing froth in a froth collector provided around said weir.
13. A process of claim 11 wherein said stream is inclined at an angle which causes said stream to contact its adjacent lower portion of said spiral flow to provide thereby coverage of said chamber inner surface.
14. A process of claim 1 for separating a slurry comprising bitumen and tar sands. 


 15. A process of claim 1 for separating a slurry comprising mineral ore particles.
16. A process of claim 1 for separating a slurry comprising liquid hydrocarbons in water.
17. A process of claim 1 wherein a magnetic field is provided along said chamber to attract magnetizable particles toward said column inner wall.
18. Apparatus for separating particles in a slurry based on different physical, magnetic and/or chemical properties of said particles, said slurry including a mixture of solid particles and/or liquid particles which are immiscible in said slurry, said apparatus comprising when in its vertical orientation: i) a cylindrical tube defining an interior cylindrical chamber with a cylindrical inner wall, and a closed lower end, ii) said inner wall having along at least a minor portion thereof and extending therearound, means for introducing gas bubbles into said inner chamber as a liquid slurry passes over said gas introducing means, iii) means for introducing a stream of slurry tangentially of and inclined relative to said inner wall, said stream introducing means being positioned in a lower zone of said chamber to direct a slurry stream in a spiral manner at said incline, iv) a catch basin surrounding an open upper end of said chamber to receive slurry overflowing said open upper end, v) said upper end having a smoothly curved edge portion to facilitate a smooth transition in flow of said slurry from a vertical direction to an outward direction as slurry overflows into said catch basin. 


 vi) means for collecting froth generated in said slurry by bubbles introduced by said gas introducing means, said froth collecting means surrounding said catch basin, a weir being provided around said catch basin to define an overflow for froth floating outwardly of said catch basin, whereby froth overflowing said weir is collected in said froth collecting means, vii) said catch basin having an outlet in its lower portion to permit removal of sinking particles and liquid, viii) said froth collecting means having an outlet to permit removal of froth from said collecting means, ix) said catch basin outlet having means for controlling flow of liquid to maintain in said catch basin an acceptable height of liquid to permit froth to overflow said weir.
19. Apparatus of claim 18, wherein said stream introducing means comprises a rectangular in cross- section conduit extending through said chamber inner wall and tangentially of said inner wall, said conduit being inclined relative to a horizontal plane extending at 90° relative to a longitudinal axis of said chamber.
20. Apparatus of claim 19 wherein said incline ranges from 10° to 25° from said horizontal plane.
21. Apparatus of claim 19 wherein said means for introducing gas bubbles comprises a fine mesh around said inner wall and along
'
 a portion of said inner wall.
22. Apparatus of claim 21 wherein said fine mesh extends along a major portion of said inner wall.
23. Apparatus of claim 21 wherein said cylindrical chamber is surrounded by a plenum to enclose said fine 


mesh, means for pressurizing gas in said plenum to develop gas bubbles at said inner wall.
24. Apparatus of claim 18 wherein said smoothly curved edge portion is parabolic in cross-section.
25. Apparatus of claim 24 wherein said froth collecting means is an annular trough for receiving overflowing froth, said trough sloping towards said froth outlet to provide collection of froth.
26. Apparatus of claim 18 wherein said catch basin is sloped towards said catch basin outlet, means for sensing liquid level in said catch basin, said sensing means having input to said flow controller to varying flow proportional to height in said catch basin to maintain thereby a desired height of liquid in said catch basin during flow of slurry along said chamber.
27. Apparatus of claim 18 wherein means for producing a magnetic field along said chamber is provided outside said inner wall, said magnetic means attracting magnetizable particles toward said inner wall. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
