<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634072</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COLOR CORRECTION WITH A FOUR-DIMENSIONAL LOOK-UP TABLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T100	G06T100	G06T500	G06T500	H04N146	H04N146	H04N160	H04N160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T1	G06T1	G06T5	G06T5	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of operating a computer system (50) to generate a look-up table (42) to translate a first set of digital information defining a color image corrected for a first printing system (56) into a second set of digital information for a second printing system (66), for the purpose of generating an image on the second printing system which approximates the color characteristics of an image generated on the first printing system. The look-up table is empirically derived by first matching color measurement data (72) from special test target patterns (58, 68) from each printing system and then applying interpolation techniques to estimate appropriate translations for arbitrary inputs.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYLANDER RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VER MURLEN MARK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYLANDER, RICHARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VER MURLEN, MARK, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Color Correction with a Four-Dimensional Look-up TableField of The InventionThe present invention relates to the graphics art field and more particularly to a method for converting a first set of color image data which has already been corrected for use with a first specific printer into a second set of data that will produce the same color characteristics when printed by a second printer which is different from the first specific printer.Background of the InventionColor printing systems seek to reproduce the broad range of colors present in natural scenes or synthetic (i.e., computer-generated) images using typically only three or four colorants (pigments, dyes, etc.) which are inherently less than ideal in their absorption characteristics. The necessity of working with non-ideal colorants not only limits the range of colors that may be reproduced, but requires careful compensation or recolor correction" to be applied so that the printed colors are the best possible match to those of the original artwork. Intentional distortions or modifications of the image characteristics may be made to accommodate the gamut of a specific printer, or for the purpose of "subjective improvements" in the final appearance of the print. This color correction is usually done as part of the process of converting the red-green-blue signals (hereinafter RGB) that measure the color of the original to yellow-magenta-cyan-black signals (hereinafter YMCK) that control the amounts of colorants used in a print. The complexity and approximations involved in the color correction process coupled with the fact that the reproduction will in general always differ from the original due to color gamut limitations makes it extremely desirable to preview or "proof the color print by some means before committing to the time and expense of generating printing plates for a press run. 

 Current proofing methods involve either (1) the traditional time-consuming, labor-intensive process of generating films which would normally be used to expose printing plates and using those films to also expose special photosensitive materials which are then overlayed and registered by hand, (2) the use of expensive specialized automated proofing devices, or (3) the use of relatively inexpensive color thermal printers that usually provide only a rough approximation of the colors that will appear in the final printed image. It would be desirable to be able to produce a color proof on an inexpensive printer that would provide an accurate preview of the output
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A method for operating a computer (52) to generate a look-up table (42) of stored data to translate a first set of digital information defining a color image corrected for a first printing system (56) into a second set of digital information for a second printing system (66), for the purpose of generating an image on the second printing system which approximates the color characteristics of an image created on the first printing system, including the steps of: a. generating data (12) for a first test pattern of color patches to sample the output of a first printing system; b. generating data (22) for a second test pattern of color patches to sample the output of a second printing system; c. printing (14, 24) the first and second test patterns of color patches (58, 68) as a function of the first and second test pattern data; d. measuring (16, 26) the color values of the color patches of the first and second color patterns to generate a first and second four-dimensional array of measurement data
(72); e. expanding (18, 28) the first and second arrays of measurement data to create first and second coarse, four- dimensional databases (20, 30); f . searching (32) for a point in the second coarse database for which the color difference between that point and a corresponding point in the first coarse database is minimized (34); and g. repeating step f for each point in the first database to generate a look-up table. 


 2. The method recited in claim 1, wherein step f is accomplished by constraining the search in the second database to a neighborhood around the point with the same color indices as the point in the first database.
3. The method recited of claim 1, wherein the second printing system has a fine color space, and further including the step, after step f, of performing a linear interpolation (36) within the second coarse database to estimate a point in the second printing system's fine color space for which the color difference between that point and a corresponding point in the first coarse database is minimized. 4. The method recited in claim 1, further including the step of applying a computer implemented four-dimensional low-pass filter (40) to the set of points generated in step g.
5. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the samplings of steps a and b are nonuniform and wherein the nonuniform samplings include taking six samples of each color to form a 6x6x6x6 matrix, and wherein the first and second coarse, four-dimensional databases are 17x17x17x17 matrixes.
6. The method recited in claim 1 wherein step e is accomplished by separately performing a nonlinear interpolation on both arrays of measurement data. 1. The look-up table generated by the method recited in claim 1.
8. A method of operating a computer (52) to use the look-up table (42) generated by the method recited in claim 1 to translate a first set of digital information defining a color image corrected for a first printing system (56) into a second set of digital information for a second printing system (66), for the purpose of generating an image on the second printing system which approximates the color characteristics of an image generated on the first printing system.
9. The method of operating a computer to use the look-up table recited in claim 8, including the steps of: 


 1. picking a predetermined solution from the table which is closest to the actual YMCK value of a datapoint in the first set of digital information;
2. applying linear interpolation between the coarse color data points of the table to arrive at the best YMCK solution in fine color space; and
3. repeating steps 1 and 2 for each point in the first set of digital information.
10. A computer system (50) for generating a look-up table (42) to translate a first set of digital information defining a color image corrected for a first printing system (56) into a second set of digital information for a second printing system (66), for the purpose of generating an image on the second printing system which approximates the color characteristics of an image generated on the first printing system, including: data generating means for taking a partial sampling of the color spaces of the first and second printing systems; signal generating means, responsive to the data generating means, for signaling the first and second printing systems to print a first and second test pattern of color patches (14, 24) corresponding to the partial samplings from the first and second printing systems; printing means (56, 66), responsive to the signal generating means, for printing the first and second test pattern of color patches; sensors (70) for measuring the color characteristics of the color patches; means (52) for generating data (72) representative of the color characteristics of the color patches; interpolating means (18, 28) for expanding the data representative of the color characteristics of the color patches of the partial samplings of the color spaces of the 


 first and second printing systems to create first and second four-dimensional coarse databases, corresponding to the first and second printing systems; and searching means (32) for finding a datapoint in the coarse 5 database of the second printing system for which the difference in color characteristics from a corresponding point in the coarse database of the first printing system is minimized, and repeating the search for every point in the space of the first printing system to generate a look-up 10 table. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
