<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641263</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TWO-DIMENSIONAL ULTRASONIC TRANSDUCER ARRAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B800	A61B800	B06B106	B06B106	H01L4122	H01L4122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	B06B	B06B	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	A61B8	B06B1	B06B1	H01L41	H01L41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved two-dimensional ultrasonic transducer array (56) is provided by forming a plurality of elongated transducer strips each including a central body of piezoelectric material having mounted thereon a conducting inner matching layer and outer matching layer, a conducting inner backing layer and a nonconducting lossy outer backing layer, depositing a conducting film on the outer surface and one side surface of the outer matching layer and into electrical contact with the conducting backing layer of each strip and depositing a plurality of conducting films in space relation to one another on the back surface and one side surface of the lossy backing layer and into electrical contact with the conducting backing layer to provide an electric circuit to the front and back faces of the piezoelectric layer. The strips are then assembled in spaced parallel relation with insulating strips (54) bonded therebetween, and grooves (50) are cut transversely of the transducer strip through the matching layers, the piezoelectric layer, the inner backing layer and into but not through the lossy backing layer to thereby provide an array of individual transducers (52) arranged in spaced parallel rows with conducting films extending from the face and back surfaces of each transducer to provide an independent electrical circuit to each transducer in the array.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH LOWELL SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMAS LEWIS JONES III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, LOWELL, SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMAS, LEWIS, JONES, III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TWO-DIMENSIONAL ULTRASONICTRANSDUCER ARRAYBackground of hf. InventionFi ld of the InventionThis invention relates to ultrasonic transducers, and more particularly to an improved two- dimensional ultrasonic transducer and its method of construction.Desc-ripr-ton of the Prior Art-Ultrasonic transducers of the type currently widely used in the medical field for imaging commonly employ a one-dimensional transducer array, i.e., an array of ultrasonic transducer elements wherein the outgoing sound pulses can be steered and dynamically focused in one direction only.Transducers employing two-dimensional arrays are also known but are not believed to be commercially available despite the increased advantages and the flexibility of use provided by a two-dimensional array.One problem in developing a commercially feasible two-dimensional ultrasonic transducer array has been the difficulty in providing electrical connections to the individual transducer elements, particularly the connections at the front of the transducer, i.e., the transducer face from which the sound is emitted. Additionally, the relatively high number of individual transducer elements involved in a practical two-dimensional array requires a 

correspondingly large number of electronic elements for individually driving the respective transducer elements for steering and focusing the beam. Developments in the electronic controls have been made, however, which make it feasible to control a two-dimensional phased array having sufficient transducer elements to provide effective imaging.The typical ultrasonic transducer used for imaging in the medical field employs a body of piezoelectric material such as PZT sandwiched between one or more backing layers and one or more matching layers. Electric current is provided to the piezoelectric material through conductive ribbons such as thin metal films or polymer films having a coating of conductive metal deposited thereon with the ribbons being attached to the front and back face of the piezoelectric layer before the matching and backing layers are attached. Preferably the piezoelectric body is electroded on its front and back surfaces to assure good electrical connections with the conductive ribbons. The conductive ribbons are routed out the side of the finished transducer for connection to a suitable power supply. One-dimensional arrays of this type may be constructed by initially building a large transducer block having sheets of the conductive film attached to the front and back faces, respectively, of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. In a process for producing a two- dimensional ultrasonic transducer array including a plurality of transducer elements arranged in each of a plurality of rows extending in spaced, side-by-side relation with the transducer elements in each row being spaced from one another, the improvement comprising:
forming a plurality of like elongated transducer strips each including a layer of piezoelectric material having a front face and a back surface, a first matching layer formed from an electrically conductive material mounted on and in electrical contact with the front face of the layer of piezoelectric material and a second matching layer of nonconductive material mounted on said first matching layer, a first backing layer of electrically conductive material mounted on and in electrical contact with the back surface of said piezoelectric material and a second backing layer of nonconducting lossy material mounted on said first backing layer,
depositing a continuous electrically conducting film on the front surface and one side surface of said second matching layer and into electrical contact with said first matching layer of each said elongated transducer strip to provide electrical contact with the front face of said layer of piezoelectric material through said electrically conductive matching layer,
forming a plurality of electrically conducting film strips each extending transversely 


across the back surface and one side surface of said second backing layer and into electrical contact with one side edge surface, said first backing layer of each said elongated transducer strip to provide electrical contact with the back surface of said layer of piezoelectric material, said electrically conductive film strips being equally spaced along the length of each said elongated transducer strip,
forming a plurality of equally spaced grooves in the front face of each said elongated transducer strip, said grooves extending in a plane perpendicular to said layers and transversely of said elongated transducer strips and extending through said continuous electrically conducting film, said matching layers, said piezoelectric layer, and said first backing layer, and into but not through said lossy backing layer, said grooves extending between adjacent electrically conductive film strips to thereby produce a plurality of like ultrasonic transducer elements spaced along the length of said each elongated transducer strip, and
mounting said plurality of elongated transducer strips in spaced, parallel, electrically insulated relation to one another to thereby provide a two-dimensional ultrasonic transducer array with each transducer element in the array having means for providing electrical connection from the front and back surfaces of the array to the piezoelectric layer independently of each other transducer element in the array.
2. The process defined in Claim 1 wherein said electrically conducting films are metallic films 


formed on said matching layer surfaces and said backing layer surfaces.
3. The process defined in Claim 2 wherein said metallic films are formed by vapor deposition.
4. The process defined in Claim 2 wherein said metallic films are formed by ion sputtering.
5. The process defined in Claim 2 wherein said metallic films are formed by electrolysis plating.
6. The process defined in Claim 2 wherein said metallic films are formed by electroless plating.
7. The process defined in Claim 1 wherein said plurality of elongated transducer strips are formed by initially forming transducer block, and sawing the block in parallel, equally spaced planes perpendicular to said layers to form a plurality of equal sized strips.
8. The process defined in Claim 1 wherein said first matching layer is a layer of metal.
9. The process defined in Claim 1 wherein said matching layer and said first backing layer are metal layers.
10. The process defined in Claim 9 wherein said plurality of elongated transducer strips are formed by initially forming a transducer block, and sawing the block in parallel, equally spaced planes perpendicular to said layers to form a plurality of equal sized strips. 


 11. The process defined in Claim 10 wherein said electrically conducting films are metallic films deposited on said matching layer surfaces and said backing layer surfaces.
12. A two-dimensional ultrasonic transducer array formed by the process defined in claim 1.
13. A two-dimensional ultrasonic transducer array formed by the process defined in claim 7.
14. A two-dimensional ultrasonic transducer array formed by the process defined in claim 11.
15. A two-dimensional ultrasonic transducer array comprising:
a plurality of transducer elements supported in rows each including a plurality of said transducer elements, said transducer elements each including a central layer of piezoelectric material, a first matching layer of electrically conducting material mounted on and in electrical contact with the front face of the piezoelectric layer, a second matching layer mounted on the front face of the first matching layer, a first backing layer of electrically conducting material mounted on and in electrical contact with the back surface of the piezoelectric layer, and a second backing layer mounted on the back surface of said first backing layer. 


 said second backing layer of all transducer elements in each said row being formed from a single mass of nonconducting loss material,
a film of electrically conducting material deposited on the face surface and one side surface of said second matching layer and in electrical contact with the first matching layer of each transducer element to provide an electrical circuit to the front face of the piezoelectric layer,
a film of electrically conducting material deposited on the back surface and one side surface of said lossy material and in electric contact with said first backing layer of each transducer element to provide a separate electrical circuit to the back surface of the piezoelectric layer of each transducer element, and
nonconducting spacer means disposed between and attached to the nonconducting lossy material of each adjacent row of transducer elements to support said rows in spaced fixed relation to one another.
16. The transducer array defined in Claim
15 wherein said first matching layer and said first backing layer are metal.
17. The transducer array defined in Claim
16 wherein said electrically conducting films are metallic films deposited on said matching layer surfaces and said backing layer surfaces.
18. The transducer array defined in Claim 15 further comprising a continuous film of electrically conducting material extending over and in 


electric contact with the films of electrically conducting material on the face surface of each said transducer element, said continuous film providing a fluid barrier between the transducers in the array. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
