<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639463</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of dot printing and corresponding ink jet print head
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M500	B41J221	B41J205	B41J205	B41M500	B41J221	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41M	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M5	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41M5	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of colour printing with an ink jet printing head 
adapted to print one strip for each colour and comprising nozzles 

disposed in distinct groups (22) for each colour, with a different number 
of nozzles from group to group. Each group is separated from the 

subsequent group by intervals (DCM, DMG) of different magnitude. The 
method consists of printing strips of a subsequent colour (C) only after 

having printed at least two strips of a first colour and superimposing 
each subsequent colour on the first of the two strips printed previously. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OLIVETTI CANON IND SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OLIVETTI-CANON INDUSTRIALE S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEMENTE ALCIDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCARDOVI ALESSANDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEMENTE, ALCIDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCARDOVI, ALESSANDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of dot printing and to 
the corresponding ink jet printing head, and more particularly, to a 
method for improving the perceptible printing quality of graphic images 
and alphanumeric texts obtained with both black-and-white and colour 
printing. The dot printing method according the present invention may be 
applied indiscriminately to any type of ink jet head, and preferably it is 
applied to a thermal colour ink jet printing head. From European Patent No. 300 595 there is a known printing 
method of the above indicated type, in which the printing head contains 
several nozzles, fed in groups with ink of various colours, for example, 
Cyan, Yellow, and Magenta. The head is transported in two opposing directions in front of a 
printing medium, on which the ink drops are deposited in successive 
passes. During a first pass a strip of a first colour is deposited, Cyan, 
for example, on which is deposited a second strip of a second colour, 
Yellow for example, in a second pass, but staggered in defect i.e. with a 
width less than that of the previous strip, while a next strip of the first 
colour is deposited alongside the first, with equal width. In successive passes, strips of the first and the second colour 
are alternately deposited, of which the strip of the second colour is 
always staggered in defect of the same quantity with respect to that of 
the first colour.  
 If printing is done in this way, making use of two successive 
back and forth runs of the head, the ink of the first pass is not yet 
sufficiently dry when the ink of the second colour is superimposed on it, 
so that the latter mixes with the underlying ink in an irregular fashion, 
creating perceptible spots of colour, to the detriment of the print quality. Preferred embodiments of the present invention seek to print, 
with colour inks, images of high quality, having none of the 
inconveniences mentioned above. One embodiment of the present invention prints graphic images 
and alphanumeric texts by depositing an ink of a second colour on top 
of an ink of a first colour after a sufficient time to allow the 
first-deposited ink to dry and not mix with the ink deposited afterwards. Another embodiment of the present invention covers with a 
successive pass a white zone that may be situated between two adjacent 
strips, having been left untouched by ink due to possible errors in the 
feed of the printing medium, for example, a sheet of paper. The invention is defined in the appended claims to which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of printing with an ink jet printing 
head comprising groups of nozzles, each group of 

nozzles being adapted to print strips with an ink of 
a colour on different zones of a printing medium 

(PM), characterised in that a strip of each 
subsequent colour (M, G) is printed on a first strip 

of a previous first colour (C) only after the 

printing of at least a second adjacent strip (28) of 
the first colour (C) in order to allow for sufficient 

drying of the ink of the strips of the first colour, 
so that shades of colour are formed in a 

substantially regular manner over the entire surface 
covered by the said colours. 
A method according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the strip of the subsequent colour (M, G) is 

superimposed upon the strip of the said first colour 
printed first. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
characterised in that the first strips (34, 52) of 

the subsequent colours (M, G) have a greater width 
(Ym, Yg) than the width (Yc) of the first strip (C) 

of the corresponding first colours and overflow on to 
the second strip of the first colours by a 

predetermined quantity (H).  
 
A method according to claim 3, characterised in 
that the predetermined quantity (H) is at least equal 

to the distance (p) measured between two consecutive 
nozzles in the feed direction. 
A method according to claim 3 or claim 4, 
characterised in that the width of the strips of the 

previous first colour is equal to the distance 
between the first and the last nozzle of the group 

fed with ink of the previous first colour. 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the said first and subsequent 

colours are Cyan, Magenta and Yellow. 
A method of colour printing with an ink jet 
printing head comprising separate groups of nozzles 

(22), in which each group of nozzles prints a strip 
of a different colour (Q M. G) on a printing medium 

(PM) advanced intermittently by an interlinear 
spacing (1) of predetermined magnitude, characterised 

by the following phases: 

a) printing a first strip (24) of a first 
colour (C); 
b) printing a second strip (28) of the first 
colour adjacent to the first strip (24); 
c) printing a third strip (32) of the first 
colour adjacent to the second strip and a first strip 

(34) of a second colour (M) totally superimposed upon 
the first strip of the first colour and overflowing  

 
on to the second strip (28) of the first colour by a 

first quantity (H); 
d) printing a fourth strip (38) of the first 
colour (C) adjacent to the third strip (32) and a 

second strip (40) of the second colour (M) adjacent 
to the first strip (34) of the second colour, 

superimposed upon the second strip of the said first 
colour and overflowing on to the third strip (32) of 

the first colour by the first quantity (H); 
e) printing a subsequent strip (46) of the 
first colour adjacent to the previous strip (38) of 

the same colour, a subsequent strip (40) of the said 
second colour adjacent to the previous strip (34) of 

the said second colour and superimposed upon the 
underlying strip of the said first colour and 

overflowing on to the adjacent strip of the first 
colour by the said first quantity (H), and a strip 

(52) of a third colour (C) totally superimposed upon 
the first strip covered in the second colour and 

overflowing on to the adjacent strip (40) of the 
second colour by a second quantity (K); 
f) continuing with printing by repeating phase 
e). 
A method according to claim 7, characterised in 
that the first and second quantifies (H, K) are 

equal, independently of one another, to an integral 
multiple of the distance (P) between two consecutive 

nozzles, measured in the feed direction.  
 
A method according to claim 7 or claim 8, 
characterised in that the width (Yc) of the strips of 

the first colour (C) is equal to the distance between 
the first and the last nozzle of the group of nozzles 

fed with ink of the first colour. 
A method according to claim 9, characterised in 
that the width of the first strips of the second and 

the third colour exceeds the width of the strips of 
the first colour respectively by the first and second 

quantities. 
A method according to claim 9 or claim 10, 
characterised in that the width Y'm, V'g of the 

subsequent strips of the second and third colours is 
equal to the width (Yc) of the strips of the first 

colour. 
A method according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the groups of nozzles 

comprise a different number of nozzles from one 
another. 
A method according to claim 12, characterised in 
that the nozzles of each group are aligned in the 

feed direction and are arranged at intervals of a 
constant magnitude (p) in the feed direction. 
A method according to claim 13, characterised in 
that the group of nozzles fed with the first colour  

 
comprises as many nozzles as are included in the 

magnitude of the interlinear spacing (1), the nozzles 
being arranged at intervals of the said constant 

magnitude (p) in the direction of alignment. 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the said printing head 

comprises three groups of nozzles and that the 
distance between the first and the second group is 

different from the distance between the second and 
the third group of nozzles. 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the distance between the first 

and the last nozzle of the group of nozzles fed with 
ink of the said first colour is equal to the 

magnitude of the said interlinear spacing (1). 
A method according to claim 14, characterised in 
that the distance between the first and the last 

nozzle of the second and the third group of nozzles 
is equal to the corresponding distance between the 

first group increased respectively by the first 
quantity (H) and the sum of the first and second 

quantities (H + K). 
A method according to claim 13, characterised in 
that the distance between the first and the second 

group of nozzles is equal to the magnitude of the 
interlinear spacing (1) reduced by the first quantity  

 
(H), and the distance between the second and the 

third group of nozzles is equal to the magnitude of 
the interlinear spacing reduced by the sum of the 

said first and second quantities (H + W. 
An ink jet dot printing head for printing data 
on a printing medium (PM) in which the ink is 

expelled from a plurality of nozzles (22) spaced in a 
direction by a pitch (p) of constant magnitude, 

characterised in that the said nozzles are disposed 
in groups arranged in columns (124, 126) aligned 

along a common axis substantially parallel to said 
direction, the groups being arranged at intervals 

(DCM, DMG) of different magnitude from one another. 
A head according to claim 19, characterised in 
that the intervals comprise different multiples of 

the said pitch (p) of constant magnitude. 
A head according to claim 19 or claim 20, 
characterised in that each of the groups (22) 

comprises a different number of nozzles from one 
another. 
A head according to claim 19 or claim 20, 
characterised in that the head comprises three groups 

of nozzles, each group being fed with an ink of a 
different colour (C, M, G).  

 
An ink jet printing apparatus comprising an ink jet 
prin
t head for printing data on a printing medium (PM) 
advanced intermittently in a feed direction by an 

interlinear spacing (1) of predetermined magnitude, said 
print head having a plurality of nozzles (22) for 

expelling the ink spaced in the feed direction by a pitch 
(p) of constant magnitude, characterised in that said 

nozzles are disposed in groups arranged in columns (124, 
126) in the feed direction, the groups being arranged at 

intervals (DCM, DMG) of different magnitude from one 
another. 
An Ink jet printing apparatus according to claim 23, 
characterised in that the intervals comprise different 

multiples of the said pitch (p) of constant magnitude. 
An ink jet printing apparatus according to claim 23 
or 24, characterized in that each of the groups (22) 

comprises a different number of nozzles from one another. 
An ink jet printing apparatus according to claim 23 
or 24, characterised 'in that the head comprises three 

groups of nozzles, each group being fed with an ink of a 
different colour (C, M, G). 
An ink jet printing apparatus according to claim 26, 
characterised in that a first group or nozzles fed with an 

ink of a first colour (C) comprises as many nozzles as are 
included in the said interlinear spacing (1). 
An ink jet printing apparatus according to claim 26 
or claim 27, characterised in that a second group of  

 
nozzles fed with ink of a second colour (M) and adjacent 

to the first group comprises a number of nozzles equal to 
the number of nozzles of said first group increased by at 

least one nozzle. 
An ink jet printing apparatus according to claim 27, 
characterised in that a third group of nozzles fed with 

ink of a third colour (Y) and adjacent to the second group 
comprises a number of nozzles equal to the number of 

nozzles of said second group increased by at least one 
nozzle. 
An ink jet printing apparatus according to any of 
claims 26 to 29, characterised in that the distance (DCM) 

between the first and the second group of nozzles is at 
maximum equal to the magnitude of said interlinear 

spacing, and the distance between the second and the third 
group of nozzles (DMG) is equal to said distance (DCM) 

between the said first and second groups reduced by at 
least one pitch (p). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
