<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632892</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FAST RESPONSE TEST PANEL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L300	B01L300	G01N3122	G01N33543	G01N3122	G01N33543	G01N3352	G01N3352	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	B01L	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L3	B01L3	G01N31	G01N33	G01N31	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITMUS CONCEPTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITMUS CONCEPTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCCAFURNI MARIAN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE LEAH P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE PAUL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCCAFURNI, MARIAN, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE, LEAH, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE, PAUL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Analytical tests for clinical or veterinary purposes, as well as for food
testing, health and safety, and other non-diagnostic purposes in commercial,
residential and recreational environments, vary considerably in the chemistries and
complexities involved. Some of these tests involve a series of reagents or other
materials and multiple steps, and many require controls to assure the user that the
test has been properly performed and the result obtained is accurate and reliable.In tests involving wet chemistry techniques, various aspects of the tests
contribute to making the tests expensive, time-consuming and vulnerable to error. In
tests where several reagents are needed, certain reagents cannot be mixed in advance
due to a tendency to slowly react even before the addition of the critical species which
the test relies on to drive the reaction. Some reagents begin to decompose as soon as
they are placed in solution. Other reagents are unstable upon exposure to air or to
air-borne moisture. For these and similar reasons, many reagents must be kept in
separate containers prior to use, others require refrigeration or must be prepared
fresh for each use, and those unstable in air must be kept in air-tight containers. The
storage, maintenance and handling of the chemicals must therefore be done carefully
to preserve the integrity of the test.The procedures required for wet chemistry techniques using multiple
reagents are likewise often cumbersome and time-consuming. Aside from the
awkwardness of manipulating several chemicals using appropriate vessels and transfer
devices and performing a series of steps in sequence, other factors add to the time
required. For example, the concentration of an analyte in a test sample is often low,
particularly when the sample requires dilution before use. This is the case for
instance in samples which are extracted from a clinical swab or other sampling device.
Low concentrations require long incubation times, often as much as several hours, to
achieve sufficient reaction for a detectable result. Precipitated analytes can be
concentrated by centrifugation, but this requires centrifugation equipment and 
decanting. Long incubation times are often needed for visual indicators since a visual
indicator is typically dissolved in a common reaction mixture with other reagents, and
thus diluted, the indicator requires a long incubation before a visible change occurs.
This limits the sensitivity of the test as well.For certain tests, the cumbersome procedures of wet chemistry
techniqu
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A test device for testing a sample for the presence of an analyte, said
test device comprising:


a receptacle defined at least in part by first and second opposing walls having
interior-facing surfaces with a gap (47) therebetween, said first wall (14) being of a

light-transmitting material;
a visual indicator contained in a first solid layer (34) on the interior-facing
surface of said first wall (14), said visual indicator being one which is susceptible to

a visible change upon the occurrence of a chemical reacion;
a reagent contained in a second solid layer (38) on the interior-facing surface
of said second wall (13
), said reagent being one which induces said chemical reaction
in said visual indicator; and
an opening (18) in said receptacle for introduction of said sample.
A test device in accordance with claim 1 in which said opening (18) is
in said first wall (14).
A test device in accordance with claim 1 or 2 further comprising a
positive control species contained in a solid layer (37) on a portion of the interior-facing

surface of one of said first and second walls (14, 13), said positive control
species selected such that, when contacted by said sample, said positive control

species causes said reagent to induce said chemical reaction in said visual indicator
independently of the presence or absence of said analyte in said sample.
A test device in accordance with claim I or 2 further comprising a
negative control species contained in a solid layer (36) on a portion of the interior-facing

surface of one of said first and second walls (14, 13), said negative control
species selected such that, when contacted by said sample, said negative control

species prevents said chemical reaction from occurring, regardless of the presence or
absence of said analyte in said sample.
A test device in accordance with claim 1 or 2 further comprising:

(a) a positive control species contained in a solid layer (37) on a first 
portion of the interior-facing surface of one of said first and second walls (14, 13),

said positive control species selected such that, when contacted by said sample, said
positive control species causes said reagent to induce said chemical reaction in said

visual indicator independently of the presence or absence of said analyte in said
sample; and
(b) a negative control species contained in a solid layer (36) on a second
portion of the interior-facing surface of one of said first and second walls (14, 13),

said negative control species selected such that, when contacted by said sample, said
negative control species prevents said chemical reaction from occurring, regardless

of the presence or absence of said analyte in said sample.
A test device in accordance with claim 1 or 2 in which said reagent
induces said chemical reaction when in the presence of said analyte.
A test device in accordance with claim 6 further comprising a third
solid layer adjacent to said gap (47), on the opposite side of said gap (47) from, and

facing a limited portion of, said second solid layer (38), said third solid layer
containing a positive control species which contacts said reagent when said gap (47)

is filled with said sample and, when so contacting said reagent, causes said reagent to
induce said chemical reaction in said visual indicator, independently of the presence

or absence of said analyte in said sample.
A test device in accordance with claim 6 further comprising a third
solid layer adjacent to said gap (47), on the opposite side of said gap (47) from, and

facing a limited portion of, said second solid layer (38), said third solid layer
containing a negative control species which, when said gap (47) is filled with said

sample, prevents said chemical reaction from occurring, regardless of the presence or
absence of said analyte in said sample.
A test device in accordance with claim 6 in which said first solid layer
(34) is non-water-soluble.
A test device in accordance with claim 6 further comprising vent
means (19, 20) for venting said receptacle to facilitate the introduction of said sample

into said receptacle through said opening (18). 
A test device in accordance with claim 6 in which the interior-facing
surface of at least one of said first and second walls (14, 13) is coated with a solid,

surface-active-agent-containing layer adjacent to said gap (47).
A test device in accordance with claim 6 in which the interior-facing
surfaces of both said first and second walls (14, 13) are coated with solid, surface-active-agent-containing

layers adjacent to said gap (47).
A test device in accordance with claim 6 further comprising an air-impermeable
sheet (46) removably adhered to the exterior of said receptacle, sealing

said opening (18).
A test device in accordance with any one of claims 6 and 9 to 13 in
which:


said first and second opposing walls (14, 13) enclose a chamber comprised of
three regions arranged laterally relative to said first and second opposing walls (14,

13) said three regions defined as a test region (41), a positive control region (43) and
a negative control region (42), respectively;
the test device additionally comprising:

a third solid layer on the interior-facing surface of said first wall (14),
contained within said positive control region (43), said third solid layer adjacent to

said gap (47) and on the opposite side of said gap (47) from said second solid layer
(38), said third solid layer containing a positive control species which contacts said

reagent when said gap (47) is filled with said sample and, when so contacting said
reagent, causes said reagent to induce said chemical reaction in.said visual indicator,

independently of the presence or absence of said analyte in said sample; and
a fourth solid layer on the interior-facing surface of said first opposing wall
(14), contained within said negative control region (42), said fourth solid layer

adjacent to said gap (47), on the opposite side of said gap (47) from said second solid
layer (38), said fourth solid layer containing a negative control species which, when

said gap (47) is filled with said sample, prevents said chemical reaction in said visual
indicator from occurring, regardless of the presence or absence of said analyte in said

sample; and 
a sample port (18) in said receptacle for introduction of said sample.
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said sample port
(18) opens into said test region (41).
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said positive
control region (43) and said negative control region (42) are each contiguous with

said test region (41).
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said test region
(41) separates said positive control region (43) and said negative control region (42).
A test device in accordance with claim 17 in which said sample port
(18) opens into said test region (41).
A test device in accordance with claim 18 which further comprises a
first vent port (20) in said positive control region (43) and a second vent port (19) in

said negative control region (42).
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said gap (47) is of
width ranging from about 0.0076 cm to about 0.127 cm (about 3 mil to about 50 mil).
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said gap (47) is of
width ranging from about 0.0127 cm to about 0.0381 cm (about 5 mil to about 15 mil).
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said first, second,
third and fourth solid layers are each of a thickness of less than about 100 microns.
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said receptacle has
an internal volume of from about 2 µl to about 1,000 µl.
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said sample port
(18) comprises an opening with at least one straight edge.
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said test region
(41), said positive control region (43) and said negative control regions (42) each

occupy less than about 5 cm
2
 of said first wall (14).
A test device in accordance with claim 14 in which said test region
(41) said positive control region (43) and said negative control regions (42) each

occupy less than about 1 cm
2
 of said first wall (14).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
