<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643603</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAFETY BALL HAVING A CLOTH COVER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B3712	A63B3712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B37	A63B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTON SPORTS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTON SPORTS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINNEE BRUCE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINNEE BRUCE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SAFETY BALL HAVING A CLOTH COVERTechnical FieldThe present invention relates, in general, to game balls such as baseballs, softballs and the like, and more particularly, relates to safety game balls having a relatively low impact pressure.Background ArtAbout ten years ago, a new category of game balls came into existence, namely, the safety game ball and particularly the safety baseball and the safety softball. These game balls are formed with polyurethane foam cores that are covered with a cloth cover having stitched seams. The primary feature of these balls is that they have a play value, performance, which approximates in many respects the performance of standard or regulation balls, but they produce an impact pressure when they hit players which is far less than the much harder regulation balls. United States Patent Nos. 4,462,589 and 4,772,019 describe in detail these safety baseballs.Safety baseballs are now being used by twenty-two of the twenty-six major league baseball teams as training tools. Similarly, many colleges, high schools and 

Little League teams use safety baseballs for training purposes. Safety baseballs also have been approved for use in T-Ball leagues as a game ball by Little League Baseball, Pony League Baseball, Dixie Youth Baseball and National Youth Sports Coaches Association. The present market for safety, and other resilient core, baseballs and softballs is estimated to be between 3 to 4 million units per year.One of the drawbacks of the cloth-covered, safety game ball has been that the seams are not herringbone, flat- stitched seams. Cloth-covered safety game balls have been constructed with seams that are formed by cover edges which are pulled together and extend outwardly in a side-by-side relationship from the ball and are joined by loop-type stitching. Such raised, loop- stitched seams, however, have the aesthetic and psychological disadvantage of not having the same appearance as a regulation baseball or Softball. Thus, for the •■traditionalist" the non-regulation appearance of the ball outweighs the safety benefits. This has caused the safety balls to be used primarily in practice or non-competitive situations at higher levels of play, although the balls are used competitively in T-ball leagues, as indicated above.Regulation baseballs and softballs have relatively flat seams in which the stitching is laid out in a herringbone pattern. The seam can be felt to be slightly raised relative to the remainder of the ball, but as compared to a safety baseball with its
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1. A game ball with a cover having stitched seams comprising: a substantially spherical core formed of an elastically deformable material; a flexible cover means mounted around and enclosing said core, said cover means having opposed cover edges juxtaposed together along a circumferentially extending butt seam; edge binding means including cloth-edge reinforcing means and a plurality of binding stitches closely proximate to each of said edges and securing said reinforcing means to said cover means proximate each of said edges; and a plurality of seam stitches in said cover means with each of said seam stitches extending over the plurality of binding stitches from a position inwardly of said binding stitches and edge reinforcing means on one of said edges to a position inwardly of said binding stitches and said edge reinforcing means on the other of said edges to secure said edges together in a relatively flat stitched butt seam.
2. The safety game ball as defined in claim 18 wherein, said cloth strip is folded on itself to provide two layers of said cloth strip on both said inside and said outside of said cover means; and said binding stitches pass through all layers of said fabric strip and said cover means.
3. The safety game ball as defined in claim 18 wherein, said core is formed from a foamed plastic material; 


 said cover means is provided by two cover members formed from a knit fabric material; and said seam stitches are provided by stitches in a herringbone pattern.
4. The safety game ball as defined in claim 3 wherein, said ball has a circumference substantially equal to the circumference of a regulation baseball; and εaid seam stitches are provided by side-by-side pairs of stitches in a herringbone pattern.
5. The safety game ball as defined in claim 4 wherein, said ball has a weight substantially equal to the weight of a regulation baseball; and said core is sufficiently defor able to produce an impact pressure of said game ball substantially less than the impact pressure of a regulation baseball.
6. The safety game ball as defined in claim 5 wherein, said ball has an impact pressure less than about 250 pounds per square inch on impact at about 30 miles per hour.
7. The safety game ball as defined in claim 3 wherein, said ball has a circumference of about 11 inches and a weight substantially equal to the weight of a regulation 11 inch circumference softball.
8. The safety game ball as defined in claim 3 wherein, εaid ball has a circumference of about 12 inches and a weight subεtantially equal to the weight of a regulation 12 inch circumference softball. 


9. The εafety game ball as defined in claim 3 wherein, said ball has a circumference of about 16 inches and a weight substantially equal to the weight of a regulation 16 inch circumference softball.
10. The safety game ball as defined in claim 1 wherein, said cloth-edge reinforcing means is provided by folding said cover means at said cover edges back onto said cover means; and said binding stitches secure said cover edges in a folded back condition.
11. A safety baseball comprising: a substantially spherical core formed of an elastically deformable plastic material; a flexible cloth cover mounted over and enclosing said core, said cover being provided by two peanut- shaped knit fabric cover members each having cover edges positioned in juxtaposed relation to be joined together in a continuous butt seam; said core and cover having a combined diameter and weight not significantly larger than the diameter and weight of a regulation baseball, and said core and cover being εufficiently elaεtically deformable to have an impact pressure subεtantially leεε than the impact pressure of a regulation baseball; a cloth-reinforcing strip secured to each of said fabric members along said cover edges by a plurality of binding stitches extending substantially parallel and closely proximate to said cover edges; and a plurality of seam stitches arranged in a herringbone pattern across said butt seam with each of said seam stitches extending over the plurality of binding stitches through each of said fabric members from a position inwardly of said binding stitches on 


one of said fabric members to a position inwardly of said binding stitches on the other of said fabric members to secure said cover edges together in a stitched butt seam.
12. The safety baseball as defined in claim 11 wherein, said cloth-reinforcing strip is provided by a separate strip of cloth positioned on both sideε of each fabric member to sandwich said fabric member therebetween; and said binding stitches pass through all layers of said cloth-reinforcing εtrip and said fabric member to secure said cloth-reinforcing strip to said fabric member.
13. The safety baseball as defined in claim 12 wherein, said core iε a foamed polyurethane material; εaid fabric members are formed from knit nylon fabric; said cloth-reinforcing strip is a knit nylon εtrip; and εaid εeam εtitches are provided by side-by-side pairε of εtitcheε in a herringbone pattern.
14. The safety baseball as defined in claim 13 wherein, εaid binding εtitcheε are provided by at leaεt 6 stitches per inch along said seam.
15. The safety baseball as defined in claim 14 wherein, said binding stitches are positioned at about one- half of the distance of said seam stitcheε from εaid cover edgeε. 


16. A safety εoftball compriεing: a εubεtantially εpherical core formed of an elastically deformable plastic material; a flexible cloth cover mounted over and enclosing said core, said cover being provided by two peanut- shaped knit fabric members each having cover edges poεitioned in juxtaposed relation to be joined together in a continuous butt seam; said core and cover having a combined diameter and weight not significantly larger than the diameter and weight of a regulation softball, and said core and cover being sufficiently elastically deformable to have an impact presεure εubstantially leεε than the impact preεεure of a regulation εoftball; a cloth-reinforcing εtrip εecured to εaid fabric memberε along εaid cover edges on each of said fabric members by a plurality of binding stitches extending substantially parallel and closely proximate to said cover edges; and a plurality of seam stitches arranged in a herringbone pattern across said butt seam with each of said seam stitcheε extending over the plurality of binding εtitches through each of said fabric memberε from a poεition inwardly of said binding stitches on one of said fabric members to a position inwardly of said binding stitcheε on the other of εaid fabric memberε to εecure said cover edges together in a stitched butt seam.
17. A method of providing a relatively smooth stitched butt seam on a safety ball having a core formed of a material capable of subεtantial elaεtic deformation on impact and a cloth cover mounted over εaid core, εaid method comprising the steps of: securing cloth-reinforcing means to cover edges of said cloth cover by binding stitcheε cloεely proximate said cover edges; 


 positioning opposed cover edges together in a butt seam; and stitching over the plurality of binding stitches and acrosε εaid butt εeam from a poεition inwardly of said binding stitches on one side of said εeam to a poεition inwardly of εaid binding εtitches on another side of said seam.
18. A safety game ball with a cloth cover having stitched seams comprising: a substantially spherical core formed of an elastically deformable material; a flexible cloth-cover means mounted around and enclosing said core, said cover means having opposed cover edges juxtaposed together along a circumferentially extending butt seam; edge binding means including a cloth εtrip extending from an inεide of said cover means around the cover edge to an outside of εaid cover meanε, and a plurality of binding εtitches closely proximate to each of said edges and pasεing through εaid fabric εtrip on both εideε of said cover meanε and through εaid cover meanε to εecure εaid cloth strip to said cover means proximate each of said edges; and a plurality of seam stitches in said cover means with each of said εeam εtitches extending over the plurality of binding stitches from a position inwardly of εaid binding εtitcheε and εaid cloth strip on one of said edges to a position inwardly of said binding stitcheε and εaid cloth strip on the other of said edges to secure said edgeε together in a relatively flat stitched butt seam. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
