<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639813</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Printing device and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J300	B41J301	B41J2100	B41J2100	G06F312	G06F312	G06F1721	G06F1721	G06F1725	G06F1725	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J3	B41J3	B41J21	B41J21	G06F3	G06F3	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A print device capable of printing a border, 
having a complicated shape, around characters input at a 

keyboard or other input device. Border data representing 
many varieties of border lines are stored in a border 

storage memory. Document data corresponding to the input 
characters are positioned with respect to the border data 

in a print buffer. Different types of border lines may be 
selected and combined to form a desired border around the 

input characters. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRONO KAZUHISA C O BROTHER KO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRONO, KAZUHISA, C/O BROTHER KOGYO K.K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a print device for tape 
writers, word processors, and similar devices. Conventionally, some print devices for tape 
writers, word processors, etc. have a bordering function. 
An input character array is encompassed with a border, the 
border including a simple line such as a straight line or 
a wavy line. Further, the border may include four rounded 
corners. However, no device is capable of printing a border 
having a complicated shape, such as a combination of a 
straight line, an oblique line, a curved line, etc. Thus, 
a device having the ability to print a more complicated 
border shape is desirable, to increase print variation. In view of these limitations of the prior art, an 
object of the invention is to provide a print device in 
which a border having a complicated shape can be printed 
to achieve abundant print variation. Border data representing 
various border lines is stored, and document data 
is combined with the stored border data to create such 
print variation. In order to attain the above and other objects, 
according to embodiments of the invention, a print device 
includes input means for inputting letters, symbols and 
various instructions, input data storing means for storing 
document data input by the input means, display means for 
displaying a document represented by the document data 
stored in the input data storing means, various kinds of 
messages for various kinds of choices, etc., and printing 
means for printing the document represented by the document 
data stored in the input data storing means. The 
print device includes border storage means for storing 
border data representing a border line divided into at 
least two blocks, designating means for designating a  
 
block of the border line represented by the border data 
for locating characters within the block, border data 
transforming means for transforming the border data in 
accordance with the document data, locating means for 
locating the document data within the border line represented 
by the border data transformed by said border data 
transforming means, and print control means for printing 
both the document represented by the document data located 
by the locating means and the border line represented by 
the border data. According to embodiments of the invention, border 
data representing a border line divided into at least two 
blocks is stored in the border data storage means, and a 
block of the border line represented by the border data is 
designated by the designating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A print device, comprising: 
   input means for inputting characters and 

instructions; 
   input data storing means for storing document 

data corresponding to the characters input by said input 
means; 

   border storage means for storing border data 
representing at least two blocks of border line; 

   designating means for designating a block of 
border line represented by the border data for association 

with the document data; 
   border data transforming means for transforming 

the border data in accordance with the document data; 
   locating means for locating the document data 

with respect to the border data transformed by said border 
data transforming means; and 

   printing means for printing the document 
represented by the document data within the designated 

block of border line represented by the border data. 
A print device as claimed in claim 1, wherein 
said printing means comprises a thermal head having a 

plurality of heating elements, said printing means printing 
plural dot arrays corresponding to the document data 

on a print tape of transparent film. 
A print device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, 
wherein said input means is a keyboard and wherein display 

means for displaying a document represented by the document 
data stored in said input data storing means is provided, 

said display means preferably being an L.C.D. 
A print device as claimed in one of claims 1 
to 3, further comprising: 

   a print buffer coupled to the printing means; 
   a reference position memory for storing 

reference position coordinates corresponding to a location 
of dot pattern data in the print buffer;

 
   a size memory for storing character dot 

numbers representing character size; and 
   an inter-character memory for storing dot 

numbers representing spacing between characters. 
A print device as claimed in one of claims 1 to 4, wherein 
the input data storing means stores format codes corresponding 

to different blocks of border line. 
A printer as claimed in one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said 
locating means adjusts the document data in a Y-direction 

to correspond to the height of a block of border line 
designated by the designating means. 
A printer, comprising: 
   a border memory for storing a plurality of 

blocks of border line; 
   a format selector for selecting a plurality 

of blocks of border line in said border memory; 
   an input unit for inputting a character into 

a text memory; 
   a buffer for storing data to be printed; 

   a locating controller for locating a block of 
border line selected by said format selector and a character 

input by said input unit in the buffer; and 
   a printing controller for printing the 

selected block of border line and the input character in 
the buffer. 
A printer as claimed in claim 7, wherein said 
text memory stores a format code designated by said format 

selector representing a block of border line with a 
character input by the input unit. 
A printer as claimed in claim 7 or 8, further 
comprising a transforming controller for expanding a 

selected block of border line in accordance with the 
number of characters input by the input unit, by transforming 

border line data corresponding to said selected 
block of border line. 
A printer as claimed in one of claims 7 to 9, wherein said 
locating controller comprises a reference position coordinate 

memory, a pattern size memory for storing a size of a 
 

block of border line, a character size memory for storing 
a size of a character and an inter-character memory for 

storing a distance between characters, wherein said 
locating controller increments a reference position 

coordinate by a border size when said format selector 
selects one of said plurality of blocks of border line, 

and said locating controller increments a reference 
position coordinate by a character size and an inter-character 

distance in response to a format code and a 
character input by the input unit. 
A printer as claimed in one of claims 7 to 10, wherein said 
locating controller adjusts a character in a Y-direction 

to correspond to the height of a selected block of border 
line. 
A printer as claimed in one of claims 7 to 11, wherein 
said printing controller further comprises a thermal head 

having a plurality of heating elements, said printing 
controller printing plural dot arrays on a print tape of 

transparent film. 
A printing method for a printer having an 
input unit for inputting characters and instructions and a 

border memory for storing a plurality of blocks of border 
line, the method comprising the steps of: 

   selecting a plurality of blocks of border 
line in said border memory; 

   inputting characters into a text memory by 
said input unit; 

   instructing where a selected block of border 
line should be located with respect to a character input 

into the text memory; 
   disposing a selected block of border line and 

an input character in a buffer; and 
   printing a selected border line and an input 

character in the buffer. 
A printing method as claimed in claim 13, 
further comprising the step of storing format codes 

representing selected blocks of border line into the text 
memory, wherein the characters input by the input unit and 

 
the format codes representing blocks of border line are 

stored in the text memory in the order of input of the 
characters and format codes. 
A printing method as claimed in claim 13 or 14, 
wherein said disposing step comprises the step of adding a 

border size to a reference coordinate when a block of 
border line is selected, and further comprises the step of 

adding a character size and an inter-character distance to 
the reference coordinate when said input unit inputs a 

character, to dispose the selected block of border line 
accurately with respect to the character. 
A printing method as claimed in one of claims 13 to 15, 
wherein said disposing step comprises the step of adjusting 

a character in a Y-direction to correspond to the 
height of the selected block of border line. 
A printing method as claimed in one of claims 13 to 16, 
further comprising the step of expanding a selected block 

of border line, in accordance with the number of characters 
input by the input unit, by transforming the border 

line data corresponding to said selected block of border 
line. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
