<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632933</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A MINIATURIZED HIGH-DENSITY COAXIAL CONNECTOR SYSTEM WITH STAGGERED GROUPER MODULES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1200	H01R13658	H01R1204	H01R2402	H01R13514	H01R13514	H01R13658	H01R2400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R12	H01R13	H01R12	H01R24	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R24	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GORE 
&
 ASS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
W.L. GORE 
&
 ASSOCIATES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSELL GEORGE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOLTZ JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSELL, GEORGE, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOLTZ, JOHN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a miniaturized staggered 
high- density coaxial interconnect system for use in the 
termination of coaxial signal cables to electrical signal 
transmission systems, such as printed circuit boards (PCBs). The 
system is easy to assemble and provides easy attachment to and 
detachment from the transmission system. This invention also 
provides for an increased density of signal cables with improved 
spacing due to the unique design of component parts and their 
arrangement within the system. High speed computers and large scale integrated circuits and 
processes require the design of connectors with increased density, 
precision quality, and improved electrical performance. In addition to the increased density of electrical leads, 
design parameters have imposed severe space limitations over the 
connector area to accommodate the ever increasing number of 
signals. These restraints lead to additional needs for matching or 
improving impedance control and attenuation and for minimizing 
noise and cross-talk in the region of the interconnection and 
transmission system (PCB). Quality of signal and minimal 
propagation delay must also be maintained. There is a need for an improved arrangement of coaxial 
assemblies that minimizes spacing between electrical leads, 
provides for increased density and yet maintains the desired 
electrical characteristics and quality of transmission.  
 U.S. Patent No. 3,219,963 to O'Keefe relates to a 
conventional low density adaptor having a Y-type construction with 
apertures in blocks so as to align coaxial cable contacts. There 
are no staggered arrays nor a plurality of modules having staggered 
receptacle grooves to receive the ground contacts and signal pins. 
Moreover, the O'Keefe adaptor is designed to connect to another 
cable and not to a signal transmission system such as a printed 
circuit board as required by the claimed invention. U.S. Patent No. 3,128,138 to Noschese relates to a front 
release coaxial connector. It describes a 
cable to cable connector having an internal bead and an 
interlocking spring. Such a construction employs a substantial 
amount of space thus causing the connector to be quite bulky. To 
the contrary, the present claimed invention eliminates the need for 
a bead and spring thus providing for a substantially higher density 
connector while still allowing relative ease in assembly of the 
individual connectors. U.S. Patent No. 4,705,336 to Bonhomme provides a female-female 
adaptor which allows for the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A high-density coaxial interconnect system comprising the 
components: 


(a) a plurality of coaxial cable connectors (10), each connector 
further comprising: 


(i) a coaxial cable (1) having a signal carrying center 
conductor (2) surrounded by a dielectric material (4), 

further surrounded by an outer conductor (6) and a 
polymeric jacket (8); 
(ii) a signal contact (3) attached to the center conductor (2) 
of the coaxial cable (1); 
(iii) a thermoplastic insulator (5) surrounding the signal 
contact; and 
(iv) a ground shell (7) surrounding the thermoplastic 
insulator, said shell having a retention groove (9) 

surrounding its exterior face; 
(b) at least one grouper module (20) with interlocking means, said 
grouper module having rows with a plurality of receptacle 

grooves (24), wherein each groove is provided with a retention 
ridge on its interior surface and wherein the receptacle 

grooves are positioned within the grouper module in a 
staggered array so that the grooves are at a diagonal to 

each other with respect to the rows and wherein each 
retention ridge interacts with the retention groove of 

the ground shell so as to lock a coaxial cable connector 
within the receptacle groove of the grouper module; 
(c) a grouper frame (25) having four sides and interlocking means 
which houses the grouper module and secures the grouper 

module in place by engagement of the interlocking means 
of the grouper module and the grouper frame; 
(d) a header frame (40) comprising four side walls and a top face, 
said top face of the header frame having a plurality of 

receptacle holes (41) that match the staggered array of 
receptacle grooves (24) of the grouper module housed within 

the grouper frame and a plurality of alignment cones (47) on 
the underside of the top face between receptacle holes;  

 
(e) a plurality of ground contacts (45), wherein each ground 
contact is stabilized by the alignment cones (47) of the 

header frame, said ground contacts mate with the ground 
shells of the coaxial cable connector; 
(f) a header plate (50) having a plurality of receptacle holes (52) in 
a staggered array matching the array of the receptacle 

holes (41) of the header frame and also having a plurality of 
ground pin holes (99) uniformly interspersed among the 

receptacle holes, said header plate being positioned adjacent 
the plurality of ground contacts opposite and parallel to 

the top face of the header frame; 
(g) a plurality of signal pins (55), each surrounded by an 
insulator, positioned within the receptacle holes (41) so as 

to mate with the signal contact (3); and 
(h) holding means for aligning and securing components of the 
assembly together. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 
further comprising a plurality of grouper modules 

that contain receptacle grooves in which coaxial cable 
connectors are located, said plurality of grouper modules being 

housed within said grouper frame. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claims 1 
wherein said signal contact is a three-beam 

cyindrical body and tail. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 or 2 
wherein said grouper module interlocking means are 

plastic tab projections (100) and wherein said grouper frame 
interlocking means are indentations (110) in which the plastic tab 

projections fit. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of any of Claims 1, 2 and 4 
wherein said grouper module and grouper frame 

interlocking means are selected from the group consisting of 
glues and adhesives. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of any of Claims 1, 2, 4 and 5 
wherein said grouper module is made of a 

thermoplastic selected from the group consisting of liquid 
crystal polymers, polyetherimides, polybutylene terephthalate, 

polyethylene terephthalate, and nylons.  
 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of any of Claims 1, 2 and 4-6, 
wherein said interlocking means of grouper module 

and grouper frame are keys (22, 22a)
,
 in which the keys are on exterior 
walls of the module and interior walls of the grouper frame 

which cooperate to hold the grouper module within the grouper 
frame, and wherein said grouper module has shaped ends at a 

lower region of the module to aid in assemblying modules into 
the frame. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1, 
wherein said header plate is made of metal selected 

from the group consisting of aluminum, zinc alloy, brass and 
copper alloy and wherein ground contact connection within the 

header plate and ground pin connection with the header plate 
are reinforced by solder. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 
wherein said signal and ground pins are mounted on a 

surface of an electrical signal transmission system. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 or 9 
wherein said signal and ground pins are extended and 

fit within holes of an electrical signal transmission system. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1, 9 or 10 
wherein two hundred signal and ground pins occupy no 

more than one square inch (6.4516 cm²) of the header frame. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 wherein 
said holding means are selected from the group consisting of 

thumb screws, jack screws, jack nuts, clips and clamps. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 wherein said 
header plate consists of thermoplastic material selected from 

the group consisting of liquid crystal polymers, 
polyetherimides, polybutylene terephthalate, polyethylene 

terephthalate and nylons. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 wherein 
the plurality of ground contacts are step-down ground 

contacts (61), each having a diameter in the upper region of the 
contact greater than the diameter in the lower region, and 

beams (63) that project inward, wherein each ground contact is 
positioned in a receptacle hole (41) of the header frame and 

wherein the system further includes a plurality of ground pins  
 

alternating with the signal pins wherein the ground pins are 
positioned within the ground pin holes of the header plate. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 wherein 
the plurality of ground contacts are reverse four-beam ground 

contacts (71), each having beams (73) that protrude outward and a tail 
that serves as a gr
ound pin wherein each ground contact is 
positioned between two receptacle holes of the header frame 

and the ground pins are positioned within the ground pin holes 
of header plate. 
A high-density coaxial interconnect system of Claim 1 wherein 
each ground contact has at least one offset leg that serves as 

a ground pin and each ground contact is positioned within a 
receptacle hole. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
