<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620953</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROSTATIC WAFER CLAMP
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2167	H01L21265	B23Q315	H02N1300	H01L2102	H02N1300	H01L21683	B23Q315	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	B23Q	H02N	H01L	H02N	H01L	B23Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	B23Q3	H02N13	H01L21	H02N13	H01L21	B23Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for electrostatic clamping of a semiconductor wafer (12). In a first embodiment, the apparatus includes an electrically conductive platen (110), a resilient, thermally-conductive dielectric layer (14) affixed to the platen (12) and one or more conductive wires (20, 22, 24) positioned on the clamping surface (18). In a second embodiment, a three-phase wafer clamping apparatus includes a platen (90) divided into three electrically isolated sections (92, 94, 96). One phase of a three-phase clamping voltage is connected to each of the platen sections (92, 94, 96). In a third embodiment, a six phase wafer clamping apparatus includes a platen (200) having six symmetrically located electrodes (210, 212, 214, 216, 218, 220). Voltages with six different phases are applied to the electrodes (210, 212, 214, 216, 218, 220) with the voltages applied to electrodes on opposite sides of the platen being one-half cycle out of phase. The applied voltages are preferably bipolar square waves.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VARIAN ASSOCIATES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VARIAN ASSOCIATES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRUTIGER A WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRUTIGER, A., WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus for
processing semiconductor wafers and, more
particularly, to apparatus for electrostatic
clamping of semiconductor wafers in a vacuum
processing chamber. The apparatus of the invention
is particularly useful in ion implantation systems,
but is not limited to such use.In the fabrication of integrated circuits, a
number of well-established processes involve the
application of ion beams to semiconductor wafers in
vacuum. These processes include, for example, ion
implantation, ion beam milling and reactive ion
etching. In each instance, a beam of ions is
generated in a source and is directed with varying 
degrees of acceleration toward a target wafer. Ion
implantation has become a standard technique for
introducing conductivity-altering impurities into
semiconductor wafers. A desired impurity material
is ionized in an ion source, the ions are
accelerated to form an ion beam of prescribed energy
and the ion beam is directed at the surface of the
wafer. The energetic ions in the beam penetrate
into the bulk of the semiconductor material and are
embedded in the crystalline lattice of the
semiconductor material to form a region of desired
conductivity.The target mounting site is a critical part of
an ion implantation system. The target mounting
site is required to firmly clamp a semiconductor
wafer in a fixed position for ion implantation and,
in most cases, to provide cooling of the wafer. In
addition, means must be provided for exchanging
wafers after completion of ion implantation.
Cooling of wafers is particularly important in
commercial semiconductor processing wherein a major
objective is to achieve a high throughput in terms
of wafers processed per unit time. One way to
achieve high throughput is to use a high current ion
beam so that the implantation process is completed
in a shorter time. However, large amounts of heat
are likely to be generated by the high current ion
beam. The heat can result in uncontrolled diffusion
of impurities beyond prescribed limits in the wafer
and in degradation of patterned pnotoresist layers. It is usually necessary to provide wafer cooling in
order to limit the maximum wafer temperature to
about 100°C.A number of techniques for clamping a
semiconductor wafer at the target mounting site are
known in the art. According to one well-known
technique, the wafer is clamped against a platen by
a peripheral clamping ring which engages the outer
periphery of the front surface of the wafer. The
front surface of the wafer is exposed for ion
implan
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for electrostatic clamping of a workpiece,
comprising:


a platen (200) having an electrically insulating
clamping surface (242) for receiving a workpiece and 2n

conductive electrodes (210-220), where n is an integer
equal to or greater than three, underlying and electrically

isolated from said clamping surface; and
clamping control means (202) for applying AC voltages
to said electrodes when clamping of the workpiece is

desired, the workpiece being electrostatically clamped in a
fixed position on said clamping surface when said AC

voltages are applied to said electrodes, said clamping
control means comprising means (260-264) for generating 2n

bipolar square wave voltages having equally shifted
relative phases, said square wave voltages defining n sets

of square wave voltages, each of said sets including
positive and negative, bipolar square wave voltages that

are one half cycle out of phase, each of said bipolar
square wave voltages having a predetermined switching speed

selected to limit transients which could potentially damage
a workpiece, and means (280-295) for coupling said sets of

square wave voltages to said electrodes so as to provide
symmetrical clamping of the workpiece to said clamping

surface.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein n=3.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein
each of said square wave voltages has a fundamental

frequency in a range of 1 Hz to 300 Hz.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein each of said
square wave voltages has a fundamental frequency in a range

of 20 Hz to 50 Hz. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein each of said
square wave voltages has a fundamental frequency of 30 Hz.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5
wherein said switching speed is 3 milliseconds.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6
wherein said clamping surface comprises dielectric material

(230-240) selected from the group consisting of alumina,
sapphire and aluminum nitride.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said
dielectric material comprises alumina.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said
electrodes comprise a molybdenum layer and a thin titanium

layer between said molybdenum layer and said dielectric
material.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9
wherein said clamping surface comprises thermally

conductive dielectric material.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10
wherein said platen further includes an insulating

substrate (206) for supporting each of said electrodes and
said clamping surface.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein said platen
further includes a support plate (204) for said insulating

substrate.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said support
plate includes a passage (208, 420) for circulation of a

cooling fluid. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13
wherein said electrodes are symmetrically disposed with

respect to the centre of said clamping surface, the square
wave voltages of each of said sets being coupled to

electrodes on opposite sides of said clamping surface.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14
wherein said electrodes comprise metal layers underlying

said dielectric material.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said

electrodes comprise metal layers formed on said dielectric
material.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein said
electrodes comprise metal layers evaporated on said

dielectric material.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17
wherein said electrodes have equal areas.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18
wherein said clamping surface is flat.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 19
wherein said platen further includes a peripheral grounding

ring (302) for contacting said workpiece.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 20
wherein said dielectric material does not exhibit bulk

polarization at the frequency and voltage of said square
wave voltages.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21
wherein said bipolar square wave voltages have a peak

amplitude in a range of 900 volts to 1200 volts. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 22
wherein said dielectric material comprises dielectric

insulators, one for each of said electrodes.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, 16 and 23 wherein
said dielectric insulators are bonded to said insulating

substrate by tetrafluoroethylene fasteners.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 24
further including means (404) for introducing a gas into a

region between said workpiece and said clamping surface for
conducting thermal energy between said workpiece and said

clamping surface.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 25 further including
means (410-416) for sealing the region between said

workpiece and said clamping surface near an outer periphery
thereof to prevent escape of said gas from said region.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 26
further including means (404) for cooling said platen.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein the clamping surface is circular.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 28 wherein said
electrodes comprise sector-shaped electrodes having equal

areas.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
