<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640982</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Non-volatile semiconductor memory device and data programming method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C1602	G11C1606	G11C1602	H01L29792	H01L27115	G11C1612	H01L218247	G11C1700	H01L29788	G11C1700	H01L27115	G11C1604	H01L2170	G11C1604	H01L2966	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	H01L	H01L	G11C	H01L	G11C	H01L	G11C	H01L	G11C	H01L	G11C	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C16	G11C16	G11C16	H01L29	H01L27	G11C16	H01L21	G11C17	H01L29	G11C17	H01L27	G11C16	H01L21	G11C16	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a non-volatile semiconductor memory, a large 
current can be flowed through the memory cell during 

reading. The number of the column lines can be reduced. 
The electron injection to the floating gates of the 

respective memory cells is averaged to reduce the 
dispersion of the threshold voltages thereof. The 

electron emission from the floating gates of the 
respective memory cells is also averaged to reduce the 

dispersion of the threshold voltages thereof. An 
increase in chip size due to latch circuits can be 

prevented. 
In a given memory cell block, or bundle a negative threshold 
voltage is allocated to the cells corresponding to which ever logic 

state ("1" or "0") occurs most in that block. 
A single column line is used in common for two adjacent 

memory blocks. 
To inject electrons to the floating gates 
of the memory cells, voltage is increased gradually and 

stopped when electrons have been injected up to a 
predetermined injection rate. Electrons are once emitted 

from the floating gates, and thereafter the electrons are 
injected again to store one of a binary data. Further, 

the data latch circuits can be formed at any positions 
remote from the memory cell array. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a non-volatile semiconductor memory
device.WO90/12400 discloses a non-volatile semiconductor memory
device, in particular multi-state EEPROM read and write
circuits and techniques. The non-volatile semiconductor
memory device has a memory cell array, a row selection means
and a programming means as in features a), b), c) of claim 1.
Furthermore, a data reading means for reading data stored in
the memory cells for determining the threshold voltage of the
respective memory cells is provided. When a programming
voltage with a predetermined voltage value is applied to a
row line by the row selection means electrons are injected
into the floating gate of at least one selected memory cell.
The injection state of the electrons can be checked by
reading out data from the memory cell and by determining the
threshold voltage of the memory cell by means of the data
reading means. In particular, during a parallel programming
of EEPROM cells, those cells whose states have already been
verified correctly are disabled from further programming.
However, only one level of the programming voltage is used
here.A memory cell of an NAND type EEPROM is shown in
Fig.28. Fig.28 is a schematic sectional view of the
memory cell MC. The gate insulation film GO which is
formed between floating gate FG and channel region CA is
sufficiently thin to allow an electron tunnel effect to
occur between the floating gate FG and the channel region
CA. Electrons are emitted from the floating gate FG to
the channel region CA by supplying a high voltage to the
substrate Sb, and 0V to the control gate CG, so that one
of a binary data is stored in the memory cell. On the
other hand, when the other of a binary data is stored in
the memory cell, electrons are injected from the channel
region CA to the floating gate FG. In order to inject
electrons to the floating gate FG, a high voltage is
supplied to the control gate CG, and 0V is supplied to
the channel region CA, source S and drain D. A part of a
memory cell array of the NAND type EEPROM is shown in
Fig. 29(a). The memory cells MC are serially connected
between the select transistor ST and the transistor 10.
Further, Fig. 29(b) shows voltage waveform diagrams at
the respective nodes shown in Fig. 29(a). When data are
programmed to the memory cells MC, first electrons are
emitted from the floating gates FG of all the memory
cells MC to the substrate by setting all the row lines
WL1 to WLn connected to the control gates CG to 0 V and
the substrate to a high voltage. After
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A non-volatile semiconductor memory device comprising:

a)
 a memory cell array (MCA, 113, 114) including
memory cells (e.g. M1-M8, MC) arranged in a matrix

form having row lines (W1-W8, WL1-WLn) and column
lines (e.g. D1, D2), each of the memory cells (M1-M8,

MC) including a transistor having a floating
gate (FG) and a control gate (CG), storing data in

accordance with a storage state of charges of the
floating gate (FG) and having a threshold voltage

varying depending on the amount of charges of the
floating gate (FG), the memory cells (M1-M8, MC) in

the same row being commonly connected to one of the
row lines (W1-W8, WL1-WLn) and the memory cells

(e.g. M1-M8, MC) in the same column being commonly
connected to one of the column lines (e.g. D1, D2);
b)
 row selection means (RD) connected to the row lines
(W1-W8, WL1-WLn), for selecting one of the row

lines;
c)
 programming means for programming the memory cells
(e.g. M1-M8, MC) by injecting electrons to a

floating gate (FG) by using an electron tunneling
effect to program desired data to a selected memory

cell (e.g. M1-M8, MC);
d)
 programming voltage generating means (PG) connected
to the row selection means (RD) being adapted for

generating a programming voltage with at least two 
different voltage levels (Vp'), and for applying

the generated programming voltage to the row
selection means (RD);
e)
 wherein said row selection means (RD) applies the
respectively generated programming voltage having

one of the voltage levels to a selected row line to
inject electrons to the floating gate (FG) of at

least one selected memory cell;
f)
 data reading means for reading data stored in
memory cells for determining the threshold voltage

thereof;
g)
 wherein said programming voltage generating means
(PG), said row selection means (RD) and said data

reading means cooperate in a programming cycle such
that


a programming voltage of a first voltage value
is applied to a row line by said row selection

means (RD) such that electrons are injected
into the floating gate (FG) of at least one

selected memory cell connected to this row
line;
the injection state of the electrons in said
at least one memory cell is checked by reading

out data from the memory cell and by
determining the threshold voltage of said

memory cell, by means of said data reading
means; and
if said threshold voltage is lower than a
predetermined value, a programming voltage of

a second voltage value higher than the first
voltage value is applied to said row line by 

said row selection means (RD) such that
electrons are again injected into the floating

gate (FG) of said at least one selected memory
cell having said low threshold voltage.
A device according to claim 1
characterized by

column selection means for selecting column lines and
setting a selected column voltage to said selected

column lines, wherein when said column line is set to a
first column voltage value (0V) electrons can be

injected into a selected memory cell and when said
column line is set to a second column voltage value (V3)

electrons are prevented from being injected into a
selected memory cell.
A device according to claim 2
characterized in that

if several memory cells are to be programmed
simultaneously, said column selection means sets several

column lines to said first column voltage value (OV) and
electrons are simultaneously injected to the floating

gates of the memory cells by said row line being set to
said programming voltage of said first voltage level,

said data reading means determines all threshold
voltages of all memory cells programmed with said

programming voltage of the first voltage value, and when
thereafter said programming voltage having said second

voltage value is applied to said row line, said column
selection means sets the column lines of memory cells

whose threshold values are lower than said predetermined
threshold voltage to said first column voltage value and

sets the column lines of memory cells whose threshold
values reach said predetermined threshold voltage to

said second column voltage value (V3). 
A device according to claim 3
characterized in that

when said column selection means sets several column
lines to said first column voltage value (OV), electrons

are simultaneously injected to the floating gates of the
memory cells with said programming voltage of said first

voltage level for a predetermined period, whereafter
said data reading means determines all threshold

voltages of all memory cells connected to the selected
row, and said column selection means sets the column

lines of memory cells whose threshold values have
reached said predetermined threshold voltage to said

second column voltage value (V3) and sets the column
lines of memory cells whose threshold values have not

reached said predetermined threshold voltage to said
first column voltage value (0V).
A device according to claim 1
characterized in that

if after said programming cycle in feature f) said data
reading means determines that the threshold voltage of

the selected memory cell is still smaller than said
predetermined threshold voltage said programming cycle

is successively repeated wherein in each cycle the
programming voltage is increased.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
