<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624212</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PAPER HAVING A MELT-STABLE LACTIDE POLYMER COATING AND PROCESS FOR MANUFACTURE THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L3104	D21H1928	C08G6308	C09D16704	A61L1526	D01F662	A61L3106	C08J518	D21H1900	A61L1516	C08L6704	D04H142	C08L6700	D01F662	C08G6300	C08G6390	C08J518	D04H142	D21H1962	C09D16704	D21H1910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	D21H	C08G	C09D	A61L	D01F	A61L	C08J	D21H	A61L	C08L	D04H	C08L	D01F	C08G	C08G	C08J	D04H	D21H	C09D	D21H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L31	D21H19	C08G63	C09D167	A61L15	D01F6	A61L31	C08J5	D21H19	A61L15	C08L67	D04H1	C08L67	D01F6	C08G63	C08G63	C08J5	D04H1	D21H19	C09D167	D21H19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A lactide polymer coating resulting in a strong, repulpable, high gloss, paper coating. The lactide polymer comprises a plurality of poly(lactide) polymer chains, residual lactide in concentration of less than about 5% and water in concentration of less than about 2000 parts-per-million. A process for coating paper with the lactide polymer composition is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARGILL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARGILL, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUBER PATRICK RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWEN MATTHEW LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOLSTAD JEFFREY JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYAN CHRISTOPHER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUBER, PATRICK RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWEN, MATTHEW LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOLSTAD, JEFFREY JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYAN, CHRISTOPHER M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a paper
product having a melt-stable, biodegradable lactide
polymer composition coated thereon and a process for
manufacturing paper products coated with such melt-stable,
biodegradable lactide polymers.The need for coated paper is well established.
Paper is coated with either polymeric or wax coatings
for various reasons. These reasons include increasing
the strength of the paper stock, imparting water
resistance, enhancing gloss, improving barrier
properties and the like.In light of depleting sources of cellulosic fiber
over the last decade, repulping of paper and the reuse
of the cellulosic fiber recovered in the repulping
process has accelerated. A typical repulping process
involves mechanical agitation of the paper. Often the
repulping environment involves water, heat or other
harsh conditions such as an acidic or alkaline solution.A problem that occurs with repulping coated paper is
the disposal or recycling of the coating which is
liberated during the repulp process. Currently,
coatings such as polyethylene are popular for their
superior coating properties. However, in repulping
processes, papers coated with polyethylene are not
easily repulped since polyethylene is typically not
broken down by the conditions of the repulping process. Disposal is a major problem associated with
both repulpable and non-repulpable coating. For
coatings which are recovered during the repulp process,
there is no value in the recovered material and
therefore these coatings represent waste generally
disposed of in a landfill. For the coatings which pass
through the filters and screens of the process, these
materials end up in the waste water and may pose a
problem for the waste water treatment plants.The use of lactic acid and lactide to
manufacture a biodegradable polymer is well-known in the
medical industry. As disclosed by Nieuwenhuis et al.
(U.S.-A- 5,053,485), such polymers have been used for
making biodegradable sutures, clamps, bone plates and
biologically active controlled release devices.
Processes developed for the manufacture of polymers to
be utilized in the medical industry have incorporated
techniques which respond to the need for high purity and
biocompatability in the final product. These processes
were designed to produce small volumes of high dollar-value
products, with less emphasis on manufacturing cost
and yield.In order to meet projected needs for
biodegradable packaging materials, others have
endeavored to optimize lactide polymer processing
systems. Gruber et
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A paper product having a coating thereon; comprising:

(a) said coating being formed from a lactide polymer
composition comprising poly(lactide) polymer chains having a

number average molecular weight of at least 10,000; said
poly(lactide) polymer chains comprising the polymerization

product of a lactide mixture including a lactide component
comprising 3-50% by weight, meso-lactide; and, a remainder of

the lactide component in the lactide mixture consisting
essentially of: L-lactide; D-lactide; and mixtures thereof;

wherein the polymer composition is a devolatilized, melt-stable
polymer composition including:


(i) residual lactide in a concentration of less
than about 2% by weight; and
(ii) water, if present at all, present in a
concentration of less than about 2,000 ppm.
A paper product according to claim 1, wherein:

(a) said coating is formed from poly(lactide) polymer
chains having a number average molecular weight of from about

10,000 to about 200,000; and,
(b) said melt-stable lactide polymer composition
includes no more than 2,000 parts per million water.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said plurality
of poly(lactide) polymer chains have a number average

molecular weight from 20,000 to 172,000, preferably from
about 40,000 to about 150,000.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said polymer
chains are reaction products of polymerizing a lactide

mixture comprising about 7 to about 50% by weight meso-lactide
and the remaining lactide is substantially L-lactide.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said polymer
composition includes an antioxidant selected from the group

consisting essentially of: trialkyl phosphites, mixed
alkyl/aryl phosphites, alkylated aryl phosphites, sterically 

hindered aryl phosphites, aliphatic spirocyclic phosphites,
sterically hindered phenyl spirocyclics, sterically hindered

bisphosphonites, hydroxyphenyl propionates, hydroxy benzyls,
alkylidene bisphenols, alkyl phenols, aromatic amines,

thioethers, hindered amines, hydroquinones and mixtures
thereof.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said polymer
composition includes a water scavenger selected from the

group consisting essentially of: carbodiimides, anhydrides,
acyl chlorides, isocyanates, alkoxy silanes and mixtures

thereof.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said polymer

composition includes a desiccant selected from the group
consisting essentially of: clay, alumina, silica gel,

zeolites, calcium chloride, calcium carbonates, sodium
sulfate, bicarbonates and mixtures thereof.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said coating has
a minimum gloss value of about 60.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said coating is
heat sealable.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said polymer
composition further comprises a plasticizer, preferably

selected from the group consisting essentially of: alkyl
phosphate esters, dialkylether diesters, tricarboxylic

esters, epoxidized oils and esters, polymeric polyesters,
polyglycol diesters, alkyl alkylether diesters, aliphatic

diesters, alkylether monoesters, citrate esters, dicarboxylic
esters, esters of glycerine and mixtures thereof.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said polymer
composition further comprises a filler, preferably selected

from the group consisting essentially of: cellulose, wheat,
starch, modified starch, chitin, chitosan, keratin,

cellulosic material derived from agricultural products,
gluten, nut shell flour, wood flour, corn cob flour, guar

gum, talc, silica, mica, keolin, titanium dioxide,
wollastonite and mixtures thereof. 
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said coating
results in an unmodified surface having a surface energy of

about 35 dynes/cm or greater.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said polymeric
composition further comprises a slip agent.
The paper product of claim 13, wherein said slip agent
includes fluoropolymer powders, graphite, fatty acid esters,

hydrocarbon waxes and mixtures thereof.
The paper product of claim 2, wherein said polymer
composition further comprises an antistatic agent.
A process for coating paper, said process comprising
the steps of:


(a) providing a devolatilized, melt-stable lactide
polymer composition comprising:


(i) poly(lactide) polymer chains, said polymer
chains being reaction products of polymerizing a lactide

mixture comprising about 3 to about 50% by weight meso-lactide,
with the remaining lactide being selected from the

group consisting essentially of L-lactide, D-lactide, and
mixtures thereof, said polymer chains having a number average

molecular weight of about 10,000 to about 200,000;
(ii) residual lactide in a concentration of
less than about 2% by weight; and
(iii) water, if present at all, present in a
concentration of less than about 2,000 ppm;
(b) coating said polymer composition onto a paper
substrate.
The process of claim 16, wherein said step of coating
includes melt extruding said polymer composition at

sufficient temperature to form a liquid coating onto said
substrate; and allowing said liquid to solidify.
The process of claim 16, wherein said polymer chains
are reaction products of polymerizing a lactide mixture

comprising at least about 3% by weight meso-lactide and the
remaining lactide is substantially L-lactide. 
The process of claim 16, wherein said step of coating
includes applying said polymer composition to said substrate

at a temperature ranging from about 140°C to about 240°C.
The process of claim 16, wherein the melt-stable
lactide polymer composition includes no more than about 2,000

parts per million water.
The process of claim 16, wherein the poly(lactide)
polymer chains comprise the polymerization product of the

lactide mixture and an active hydrogen-bearing compound,
preferably selected from the group consisting essentially of

amines, glycols, diols and triols.
The process of claim 16, wherein the poly(lactide)
polymer chains comprise the polymerization product of the

lactide mixture and an epoxidized oil.
The process of claim 16, wherein the melt-stable
lactide polymer composition is formed from at least: meso-lactide;

lactide reactant; epoxidized oil; and, filler.
The process of claim 16, wherein the melt-stable
lactide polymer composition is formed from at least: meso-lactide;

lactide reactant; epoxidized oil; and, an effective
amount of stabilizing agent.
The paper product according to claim 1, wherein the
poly(lactide) polymer chains comprise the polymerization

product of the mixture of the lactide and an active hydrogen-bearing
compound.
The paper product according to claim 25, wherein the
active hydrogen-bearing compound is selected from the group

consisting essentially of amines, glycols, diols and triols.
The paper product according to claim 1, wherein the
poly(lactide) polymer chains comprise the polymerization

product of the lactide mixture and an epoxidized oil.
The paper product according to claim 1, wherein the
melt-stable lactide polymer composition is formed from at

least: meso-lactide; lactide reactant; epoxidized oil; and,
filler.
The paper product according to claim 1, wherein the
melt-stable lactide polymer composition is formed from at 

least: meso-lactide; lactide reactant; epoxidized oil; and an
effective amount of stabilizing agent.
The paper product according to claim 1, wherein the
melt-stable lactide polymer composition includes no more than

about 300 ppm water.
The paper product according to claim 1, wherein the
melt-stable lactide polymer composition includes an effective

amount of plasticizing agent.
The process of claim 16, wherein the melt-stable
lactide polymer composition includes no more than about 300

ppm water.
The process of claim 16, wherein the melt-stable
lactide polymer composition includes an effective amount of

plasticizing agent.
A paper product of claim 1, wherein said melt-stable
polymer composition includes a stabilizing agent comprising a

phosphite antioxidant.
A paper product of claim 1, wherein said melt-stable
polymer composition includes a catalyst deactivator.
A paper product of claim 1, comprising residual
catalyst present in a molar ratio of initial monomer-to-catalyst

of greater than about 20,000:1.
A paper product of claim 36, wherein at least a
portion of the residual catalyst is deactivated catalyst.
A paper product of claim 1, wherein a devolatilized
sample of the melt-stable lactide polymer composition

provides less than 5% by weight generation of lactide from a
devolatilized sample in the first hour at 180°C and

atmospheric pressure.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
