<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610252</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RADIANT ENERGY COLLECTING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24J238	F24J210	F24J218	F24J238	F24J206	F24J252	F24J212	F24J200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24J	F24J	F24J	F24J	F24J	F24J	F24J	F24J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24J2	F24J2	F24J2	F24J2	F24J2	F24J2	F24J2	F24J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A solar energy collecting apparatus (10) including a platform (13) supported for rotational movement about a vertical axis, a drive for pivoting the platform about the vertical axis to track movement of the sun, solar energy collectors supported on the platform, and concentrators (27) for directing the solar energy to the solar energy collectors. The concentrators (27) are a plurality of parallel elongated reflectors supported on the platform (13), where each reflector is parabolic to concentrate solar energy on a horizontal focal line, and the energy collectors are supported at the focal lines of the reflectors. The platform (13) may be supported for floating movement on a fluid in a fluid reservoir (12) or other body of fluid. Liquid may be pumped over the platform (13) to selectively submerge the concentrators (27) for protection against inclement weather conditions.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to radiant energy 
collecting apparatus and in particular aspects to solar energy 
collecting apparatus, means for facilitating alignment of such 
apparatus with the sun, means for protecting said apparatus in 
inclement weather conditions and means of stabilizing said 
apparatus. To utilize solar energy for heating or for electricity 
generation it is generally necessary to concentrate the solar 
radiation to obtain higher temperatures in the energy storage 
and transport medium. There are various methods used to concentrate the solar 
radiation. One method utilizes a circular mirror of parabolic 
section with the centre line of the dish pointing at the sun. 
The parabolic mirror must be suitably mounted to permit 
constant movement to follow the arc of the sun through the sky. Additionally, the alignment of the arc of the sun 
through the sky will change from day to day as the declination 
of the sun changes from summer solstice to the winter solstice. 
Complex mechanisms are required to fulfill these requirements. In the above method, the solar energy is concentrated 
into a small single focus point where a suitable heat absorber 
is mounted and it is difficult to transport this energy to a 
utilization point. In another system, long parallel mirrored troughs 
having a parabolic cross-section are aligned with the sun. In 
this system, the concentration occurs at a focus line parallel 
with the alignments of the collecting troughs. The mirrored 
troughs are either formed by one piece parabolic mirrors or a 
series of mirrors. In either case it is important from the 
point of view of focussing and efficiency to support the 
mirrors or series of mirrors so that they do not move out of 
alignment with the collectors which are arranged at the focus 
line of the parabolic trough. Large and accurately formed 
structures are generally required for this purpose.  
 The collecting troughs may be aligned in a North/South 
direction and the troughs are so mounted as to permit them to 
follow the movement of the sun through the course of the day. 
Complex mechanisms are also required to fulfill this requirement. The solar energy is then generally collected in a pipe 
containing a suitable heat absorbing liquid, the pipe being 
mounted at the focus line of the parabolic reflecting troughs. In the trough collecting system, the troughs can also 
be mounted in an East-West alignment and it is then necessary to 
align the troughs to the arc line of the sun once each day to 
allow for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radiant energy collecting apparatus (10), comprising: 

a fluid reservoir (11); 
a platform (13) floating on fluid in said fluid reservoir 
(11); 
means for moving said platform (13) on said fluid (11); 
radiant energy collector means (29) supported on said 

platform (13), said collector means (29) carrying an energy 
transfer-medium; 
reflector means (28) on said platform positioned to reflect 
radiant energy towards, and concentrate solar energy on, said 

radiant energy collector means (29); and 
 
   characterised by means for selectively submerging said 

reflector means (28) beneath fluid to protect said reflector 
means (28) against inclement weather conditions;
 
   said collector means (29) remaining above said fluid in 

which said reflector means (28) are submerged so that energy is 
not lost from said collector means (29). 
The apparatus of Claim 1, characterised in that said 
platform (13) is sufficiently buoyant to normally support said 

reflector means (28) above the fluid level of the body of fluid 
(11). 
The apparatus of Claim 1 or Claim 2 characterised in 
that said submerging means comprises: 


means (22,44) for pumping fluid onto said platform; and 
means for maintaining said fluid on said platform (13) and 
over said concentrating means (27). 
The apparatus of Claim 3, characterised in that said 
maintaining means comprises means (22) for establishing a low 

pressure beneath said platform (13) to secure said platform (13) 
beneath said level of fluid.  

 
The apparatus of Claim 3, characterised in that said 
pumping and maintaining means comprise fluid feed impellers 

(44,65) supported beneath said platform (13), said fluid feed 
impellers (16) communicating with ports (42,70) through said 

platform (13). 
The apparatus of Claim 5, characterised in that 
opposing fluid impellers (66) are associated with each fluid feed 

impeller (65), said opposing impellers (66) being operable with 
said feed impellers (65) to force fluid in an opposing direction 

to said feed impellers (65); and 
deflectors (71) between said feed impellers (65) and said 

opposing impellers. 
The apparatus of Claim 6, characterised in that said 
feed impellers (65) have an opposite pitch from said opposing 

impellers (66), and associated feed impellers (65) and opposing 
impellers (66) are secured to and axially spaced on common 

vertically oriented drive shafts (67). 
The apparatus of Claim 5, characterised in that said 
moving means comprises a duct (72) associated with at least one 

impeller (66) and connecting two duct openings, said duct (72) 
directing fluid through the opening adjacent the at least one 

impeller (66) in a vertical direction and directing fluid through 
the other opening at least partially in a horizontal direction. 
The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 8, 
characterised in that the platform (13) includes a rim (37) 

therearound for normally separating fluid of said body of fluid 
(11) from the reflector means (27) on the platform (13). 
The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 9, 
characterised in that flotation adjustment devices (60) are 

secured to said platform (13) for maintaining said platform (13)  
 

in a substantially horizontal attitude when said reflector means 
(28) are submerged beneath said fluid. 
The apparatus of Claim 10, characterised in that the 
buoyancy of the flotation devices (60) per unit height increases 

from bottom to top of said flotation devices (60). 
The apparatus of Claim 10 or Claim 11, characterised 
in that said floatation devices (60) are elongate and secured to 

said platform (13) along their length, said devices (60) being 
tapered outwardly from a narrow bottom side adjacent said 

platform (13) to a wider top side. 
The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 12 wherein said 
reflector means (29) comprises parabolic reflectors having a 

focal line and wherein said collector means (29) are supported 
substantially at the focal line of respective reflectors (28). 
The apparatus of Claim 13, characterised in that said 
reflector means (29) comprise a plurality of side-by-sid e 

elongated reflector elements (28) defining a substantiall y 
parabolic reflecting trough. 
The apparatus of Claim 14 characterised in that said 
collector means (29) are supported by a framework (28) 

substantially at the focus line of the defined parabolic 
reflecting trough, said framework (30) further including 

reflectors (31) to direct radiant energy toward the collectors 
(29). 
The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 15 
characterised in that said collector means (29) compris e 

elongated pipes adapted to carry an energy transfer medium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
