<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610063</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Regioselective enzymatic deacylation of sucrose esters in anhydrous organic media
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12P1900	C12P1912	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12P	C12P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12P19	C12P19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for the preparation of partially acylated derivatives 
of sucrose by the enzyme catalyzed deacylation of sucrose esters, 

wherein said process comprises treating a sucrose ester selected 
from the group consisting of sucrose octaacylate, sucrose heptaacylate, 

and sucrose hexaacylate in an anhydrous organic medium, 
with an enzyme or combination of enzymes capable of catalyzing the 

deacylation of said sucrose ester to produce a partially deacylated 
sucrose derivative having free hydroxyl group(s) in pre-selected 

position(s), and recovering the resulting partially deacylated 
sucrose derivative. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCNEIL PPC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCNEIL-PPC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER DAVID C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TERRADAS FERNAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER, DAVID C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TERRADAS, FERNAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the use of enzymes to regioselectively
deacylate sucrose esters in anhydrous organic solvents.The artificial sweetener 4,1',6'-trichloro-4,1',6'-trideoxy-galactosucrose
("sucralose") is derived from sucrose by replacing
the hydroxyls in the 4, 1', and 6' positions with chlorine. (In the
process of making the sweetener, the stereo configuration at the 4
position is reversed - hence the compound is a galactosucrose.)
The direction of the chlorine atoms to only the desired positions
is a major synthesis problem because the hydroxyls that are replaced
are of differing reactivity; two are primary and one is secondary.
The synthesis is further complicated by the fact that the primary
hydroxyl in the 6 position is unsubstituted in the final product.This invention provides an improved route to sucrose esters
wherein the ester groups are bonded to predetermined positions on
the sucrose molecule. In one aspect, the invention provides an
improved route to 2,3,4,3',4'penta-O-acetylsucrose ("4-PAS") or
2,3,6,3',4'-penta-O-acetylsucrose ("6-PAS") or both, which can be
employed to produce sucralose. 4-PAS is readily rearranged to 6-PAS,
which can be chlorinated and then deacylated to produce
sucralose.The invention provides a process for the preparation of
partially acylated derivatives of sucrose by the enzyme catalyzed 
deacylation of sucrose esters, wherein said process comprises
treating a sucrose ester selected from the group consisting of
sucrose octaacylate, sucrose heptaacylate, and sucrose hexaacylate
in an anhydrous organic medium (as defined herein), with an enzyme
or combination of enzymes capable of catalyzing the deacylation of
said sucrose ester to produce a partially deacylated sucrose
derivative having free hydroxyl group(s) in pre-selected position(s),
and recovering the resulting partially deacylated sucrose
derivative.Bornemann et al., in U.S. Patent No. 5,141,860 (and in
GB 2 224 504 A), disclose a process whereby sucrose octaesters are
enzymatically deacylated in aqueous media to produce various
partially deacylated sucrose esters.The preparation of hepta-, hexa-, and/or penta-O-acetylsucroses
by enzymatic hydrolysis in aqueous media (which may be biphasic) of
octa-O-acetylsucrose is disclosed by Chang et al. in J. Carbohydrate
Chemistry,10(2), 251-261 (1991) and in Carbohydrate Research,222,
121-129 (1991); Kloosterman et al., J. Carbohydrate Chemistry, 8(5),
693-704 (1989); Mentech et al., EP 0 357 476 (March 7, 1990 -
equivalent to FR 2 634 497); and Ong et al.,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the preparation of partially acylated
derivatives of sucrose by the enzyme catalyzed deacylation of

sucrose esters having at least 6 ester groups, wherein said process
comprises treating a sucrose ester selected from the group consisting

of sucrose octaacylate, sucrose heptaacylate and sucrose
hexaacylate in an anhydrous reaction medium comprising an organic

solvent capable of dissolving the sucrose ester, with a hydrolytic
enzyme or combination of hydrolytic enzymes capable of catalyzing

the deacylation of said sucrose ester to produce a partially deacylated
sucrose derivative having at least one more free hydroxyl

group than the starting sucrose ester in a pre-selected position or
positions, and recovering the resulting partially deacylated sucrose

derivative.
The process of Claim 1 wherein the sucrose ester is a
sucrose alkanoate, a sucrose α-haloalkanoate, or a sucrose trihaloalkanoate

wherein the alkanoate moiety has up to eight carbon atoms.
The process of Claim 2 wherein the sucrose ester is

selected from the group consisting of sucrose acetates, sucrose -
propionates, sucrose 
n-
 or 
sec
-butyrates, sucrose chloroacetates,
sucrose fluoroacetates, sucrose trichloroacetates and sucrose

trifluoroacetates.
The process of Claim 3 wherein the sucrose ester is
sucrose octaacetate, sucrose heptaacetate, sucrose hexaacetate,

sucrose octapropionate, sucrose heptapropionate or sucrose hexapropionate.
The process of Claim 1 wherein the enzyme is a lipase,
protease, esterase or amylase.
The process of Claim 5 wherein the enzyme is selected from
the group consisting of lipase AY 30, SP-435 lipase, protease N, 

lipase type II, alcalase, proleather, lipase AP 12, protease type
XXIII, protease M, lipase type VII, protease type XIII, biozyme S,

protease 2A, lipase CE, PC lipase, and MM lipase.
The process of Claim 1 wherein the organic solvent is a
hydrocarbon, an ether, a ketone, an ester, an alcohol, or a

halogenated hydrocarbon.
The process of Claim 7 wherein the organic solvent is a
member selected from the group consisting of toluene, diisopropyl

ether, carbon tetrachloride, ethylene glycol dimethyl and diethyl
ether, di-n-butyl ether, acetonitrile, acetone, THF, cyclohexanone,

2-methyl THF, 2,2,5,5-tetramethyl THF, t-butyl methyl and ethyl ether,
2,5-dimethyl THF,

cyclohexanol, 
n
-butyl acetate, t-butyl acetate, 3-heptanone, methyl
isobutyl ketone, di-n-propyl ether, butyl ethyl ether, t-amyl methyl

ether, chloroform, benzene, anisole, phenetole, hexane, heptane,
octane and cyclohexane.
The process of Claim 8 wherein the organic solvent is
diisopropyl ether, ethylene glycol diethyl ether, t-butyl methyl

ether, 3-heptanone, di-n-propyl ether, butyl ethyl ether, t-amyl methyl
ether, chloroform, 2,2,5,5-tetramethyl THF, toluene, carbon

tetrachloride, n-butyl acetate, benzene, anisole.
The process of Claim 1 wherein the reaction medium also
contains an organic nucleophile wherein the nucleophile is a member

selected from the group consisting of alcohols, amines, aminoalcohols,
thiols, and oximes.
The process of Claim 10 wherein the nucleophile is a
member selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol,

propanol, butanol, benzyl alcohol, cyclohexylmethanol, phenethyl
alcohol, and diisopropylamine.
The process of Claim 11 wherein the nucleophile is
methanol, n-butanol, diisopropylamine, or phenethyl alcohol. 
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the concurrent or
sequential treatment of sucrose octaacetate by a combination of

enzymes selected from the group consisting of SP-435 lipase,
protease N, alcalase, proleather, lipase AP 12, said combination

being selected to deacetylate the ester groups on the 4-, 1'- and
6'- positions or on the 6-, 1'- and 6'- positions of the sucrose

octaacetate, and recovering the 6,2,3,3',4'-penta-
O
-acetylsucrose
or 4,2,3,3',4'-penta-
O
-acetylsucrose or both thus produced.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 1'-acetate with alcalase to deacetylate the ester group

at the 1'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 1'-acetate with proleather to deacetylate the ester group

at the 1'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 1'-acetate with protease N to deacetylate the ester group

at the 1'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 4'-acetate with protease N to deacetylate the ester group

at the 4'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 6'-acetate with protease N to deacetylate the ester group

at the 6'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 1'-acetate with lipase AY 30 to deacetylate the ester

group at the 1'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 4'-acetate with lipase AY 30 to deacetylate the ester

group at the 4'- position. 
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 6'-acetate with SP-435 lipase to deacetylate the ester

group at the 6'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 4-acetate with lipase AP 12 to deacetylate the ester group

at the 4- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 6-acetate with lipase AP 12 to deacetylate the ester group

at the 6- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the steps of:

(a) the treatment of sucrose octaacetate with alcalase or
proleather to produce a mixture of 2,3,4,6,1',3',4'-hepta-
O
-acetyl
sucrose and 2,3,4,6,3',4',6'-hepta-
O
-acetyl sucrose; and
(b) the treatment of the product of step (a) with alcalase or
proleather to produce 2,3,4,6,3',4'-hexa-
O
-acetyl sucrose.
The process of Claim 24 wherein the product of step (b)
is further treated with alcalase or proleather to produce

2,3,6,3',4'-penta-
O
-acetyl sucrose and 2,3,4,3',4'-penta-
O
-acetyl
sucrose.
The process of Claim 24 wherein the product of step (b)
is further treated with lipase AP 12 to produce 2,3,6,3',4'-penta-
O
-acetyl
sucrose and 2,3,4,3',4'-penta-
O
-acetyl sucrose.
The process of Claim 24 wherein the organic solvent is an
ether.
The process of Claim 25 wherein the organic solvent is an
ether.
The process of Claim 26 wherein the organic solvent is an
ether. 
The process of Claim 27 wherein the reaction medium is a
mixture of an ether and an alcohol.
The process of Claim 28 wherein the reaction medium is a
mixture of an ether and an alcohol.
The process of Claim 29 wherein the reaction medium is a
mixture of an ether and an alcohol.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 6'-acetate with alcalase to deacetylate the ester group

at the 6'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 6'-acetate with proleather to deacetylate the ester group

at the 6'- position.
The process of Claim 1 which comprises the treatment of
a sucrose 4'-acetate with lipase type II to deacetylate the ester

group at the 4'- position.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
