<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643313</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spyhole viewer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B700	E06B730	G02B2500	G02B2504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B7	E06B7	G02B25	G02B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spyhole viewer for a door or wall (6) comprises an 
objective system (2) for producing a real, inverted image 

and mounted in a tubular member (4) fixedly installable 
in the door or wall (6), an erector (14) for inverting 

the inverted image and located behind at least one of the 
elements of the objective system (2) in the path of the 

optical axis (15) thereof, at least one reflector (16) 
for angularly deflecting the light beams from the 

objective system (2), an image surface (20) upon which 
the real image will appear, the surface (20) being 

located between the erector (14) and the reflector (16). 
The image surface (20) can be selectively swung out from 

the path of light rays coming from the objective system 
(2). A housing (10) is fixedly attachable to the tubular 

member (4) and accommodates the erector (14), the image 
surface (20), the reflector (16) and a viewing lens (28) 

for magnifying the real image as inverted by the erector. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN PINCHAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN, PINCHAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN PINCHAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN, PINCHAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a spyhole viewer 
mountable in doors, walls, etc. Such viewers are known, in particular from U.S. Patents 
4,726,670 and 4,892,399. These viewers are superior to 
earlier spyhole devices inasmuch as both have optics that 
produce real, projectable images which can be observed from 
some distance, as distinct from the earlier devices that 
produced virtual images which required the user's eye to be 
close to the eyepiece. Yet both the the above prior-art viewers suffer from 
disadvantages that reduce their usefulness. Both devices, 
and in particular the device described in U.S. Patent 
4,892,399, require large holes to be provided in the door, 
in the case of the latter, mainly due to the use of a double 
Dove prism 9, 9' as erector element, even a stepped, 
two-diameter hole very difficult to produce and certainly 
unsuitable for do-it-yourself installation, with 
retrofitting, starting out from an existing, relatively 
small bore being a very tricky business even for an expert. Apart from the above difficulties, such a large opening 
also constitutes a definite danger as, by knocking out the 
viewer, access may be gained for tampering with the door 
lock from the inside of the door. The viewer according to U.S. Patent 4,726,670 has 
several more disadvantages. Its optical system is clearly 
not a wide-angle system, very important for this sort of 
application, and in both disclosures the efficiency of their  
 
ground-glass screen is severely compromised by its being 
exposed to ambient light, which greatly reduces contrast. A further drawback is common to both disclosures: the 
orientation of the optical axis is fixed. For closer 
viewing, this forces taller users to stoop, while users of 
smaller stature may have to stand on their toes and even 
when viewing the screen from a larger distance, truly 
satisfactory results are obtained only when the diffusing 
screen is viewed in a direction more or less perpendicular 
thereto. It is one of the objects of the present invention to 
provide a wide-angle spyhole viewer that fits a relatively 
small hole which in many cases already exists. It is a 
further object of the invention to provide a viewer that 
uses erector elements permitting the use of a relatively 
small entrance pupil and protects its image screen from 
incident light thereby improving image contrast, and that 
permits the optical axis of the viewing side of the device 
to be tilted to best accommodate the individual user. According to the invention, this is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spyhole viewer for a door or wall, comprising: 
   an objective system for producing a real, inverted 

image and mounted in a tubular member fixedly installable in 
said door or wall; 

   erector means for inverting said inverted image and 
located behind at least one of the elements of said 

objective system in the path of the optical axis thereof; 
   at least one reflector means for angularly deflecting 

the light beams from said objective system; 
   an image surface upon which said real image will 

appear, said surface being located between said erector 
means and said reflector means; 

   means for selectively swinging out said image surface 
from the path of light rays coming from said objective, and 

   a housing fixedly attachable to said tubular member and 
accommodating said erector means, said image surface, said 

reflector means and viewing means for magnifying said real 
image as inverted by said erector means. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
viewing means is adapted to swivel in a substantially 

vertical plane about an imaginary horizontal axis. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
viewing means is a lens. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 2, wherein said 
viewing means is adapted to swivel about said horizontal 

axis at a radius of swivel at least approximately equal to 
the length of the light path from the image-side focal plane 

of said objective to the first principal plane of said 
objective system. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 4, wherein said 
le
ngth of said light path is shorter than the first focal 
length of said viewing lens. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
objective system is a multi-element, wide-angle system. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 6, wherein at 
least one element of said objective system is an aspherical 

element. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
at least one reflector means is a plane mirror arranged to 

deflect said optical axis by approximately 90° and is 
mounted in said housing in proximity to said viewing means. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
erector means is a prism-type erector mounted in said 

housing. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 9, wherein said 
prism-type erector is a roofed penta prism. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
erector means is a mirror-type erector mounted in said 

housing. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
erector means is a mirror arrangement providing the optical 

effect of a roofed penta prism. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
housing is a split housing comprising two portions, a first 

portion accommodating at least said erector means and a 
second portion accommodating at least said reflector means, 

said first portion being stationary and said second portion 
being adapted to rotate about that part of the optical axis 

of said objective system that connects said erector means 
and said reflector means. 
A spyhole viewer for a door or wall, comprising: 
   an objective system for producing a real, inverted 

image and mounted in a tubular member fixedly installable in 
said door or wall; 

   erector means for inverting said inverted image and 
located behind at least one of the elements of said 

objective system; 
   at least one reflector means for angularly deflecting 

the light beams from said objective system;
 

   a housing fixedly attachable to said tubular member and 
accommodating at least said erector means and said reflector 

means, and 
   viewing means for observing said real image as inverted 

by said erector means, said viewing means being at least 
approximately located at the image-side focal plane of said 

objective system. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 14, wherein 
said viewing means is an at least translucent planar window 

with a diffusing surface constituting the image surface 
upon which said real image will appear. 
The spyhole viewer as claimed in claim 14, wherein at 
least one element of said objective system is mounted within 

said housing between said erector means and said reflector 
means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
