<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653133</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPREAD SPECTRUM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM PARTICULARLY SUITED FOR RF NETWORK COMMUNICATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B169	H04B169	H04B1707	H04B1707	H04L2718	H04L2718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The transceiver (10) receives data for transmission via a microprocessor (14) by means of an interface (15) under the control of application software (16). The data are transformed into chip sequences by the data encoder (12) and the waveform generator (13). The data then pass through a bandpass filter (18), a baseband amplifier (20), a mixer (22) connected to a local oscillator (24), an RF amplifier (26), and antenna (28). Similarly, the received signal goes through an RF bandpass filter (30), an RF amplifier (32), a mixer (34) connected to a local oscillator (38), a bandpass filter (36), a limiter (40), and a correlator (40). The decoded data packets from the receiver are fed back to the microprocessor (15).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTELLON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTELLON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDER MEY JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDER MEY TIMOTHY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDER MEY, JAMES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDER MEY, TIMOTHY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SPREAD SPECTRUM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM PARTICULARLY SUITED FOR RF NETWORK COMMUNICATION Background of the Invention This application relates to spread-spectrum communication systems and in particular to spread- spectrum communication systems for use on noisy network media, such as RF channels or AC power lines.Spread-spectrum communication is a method whereby information is communicated using a bandwidth that greatly exceeds that required by information theory. These methods provide signals over a wide bandwidth, and with proper signal processing the communication is immune to large amounts of noise within that bandwidth. In chirp spread-spectrum methods, a signal burst known as a chirp is transmitted. Each chirp has energy spread across a frequency range. The frequency spread may be achieved by frequency sweeping or by such techniques as direct sequence coding. Chirps may be sent asynchronously, or at synchronous intervals, including as concatenated chirps. Data modulation of the chirp stream can be accomplished by means such as phase reversal modulation of the chirps or reversal of the frequency sequence of the chirp. A transversal filter in the receiver is matched to the chirp(s) expected, enabling individual chirps to be detected even on noisy network media such as power lines.In a communication network, several transmitters and receivers may communicate with each other over a network medium. In certain networks, contention resolution and/or collision detection strategies are implemented to resolve situations in which two or more transmitters simultaneously require use of the network medium. 

 In U.S. Patent No. 5,090,024, entitled Spread- Spectrum Communications System for Networks, and copending application, U.S. Serial No. 07/863,213, entitled Timing for Spread-Spectrum Communication Across Noisy Media, systems are proposed for applying spread- spectrum communication to carrier-sense, multiple-access networks. Various embodiments are disclosed, including ones in which frequency-swept chirps are transmitted using ASK modulation for contention resolution and PRK modulation for data transmission.Spread spectrum communication has been used for wireless, RF communication in local area networks. But these prior art RF systems have used pseudorandom direct sequence (typically maximal linear sequence) techniques, in which continuous synchronization of transmitter and receiver is required and maintained. These systems have generally required careful phase tracking mechanisms, and have been intolerant of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A method of transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising the steps of: receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two possible values; generating at least two different direct sequences each containing a plurality of chips, said chips being selected to approximate a swept frequency waveform in which successive square waves are formed by said chips, in which the durations of the square waves extend over a plurality of said chips, and in which the frequency of said square waves varies across at least a portion of said sequence; encoding said digital signals by using different ones of said direct sequences to represent different values of said digital signals; using said direct sequences to generate a direct sequence spread spectrum signal; and transmitting said spread spectrum signal across said channel.
2. Apparatus for transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising: means for receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two possible values; means for generating at least two different direct sequences each containing a plurality of chips, said chips being selected to approximate a swept frequency waveform in which successive square waves are formed by said chips, in which the duration of each square wave extends over a plurality of said chips, and in which the frequency of said square waves varies progressively across at least a portion of said sequence; 


 means for encoding said digital signals by using different ones of said direct sequences to represent different values of said digital signals; means for using said direct sequences to generate a direct sequence spread spectrum signal; and means for transmitting said spread spectrum signal across said channel.
3. The subject matter of claim 1 or 2 wherein said direct sequences are used to modulate a carrier signal to generate said direct sequence spread spectrum signal.
4. The subject matter of claim 1 or 2 wherein said direct sequences are transmitted directly without modulation of a carrier signal.
5. The subject matter of claim 1 or 2 wherein said direct sequences differ in the direction of sweep of said approximate swept waveform.
6. The subject matter of claim 5 wherein said digital signal is a sequence of two-level bits, and wherein there are two different direct sequences, one with a forward sweep and another with a reverse sweep, and wherein said forward sweep represents one said level of said bits, and said reverse sweep represents the other said level.
7. The subject matter of claim 1 or 2 wherein said direct sequence has a spectrum, and wherein the energy in said spectrum is primarily in a passband. 


 8. The subject matter of claim 3 wherein said modulated carrier signal has a spectrum, and wherein the energy in said spectrum is primarily in one or more passbands.
9. The subject matter of claim 8 wherein said modulated carrier signal transmitted on said channel has two passbands approximately equidistant above and below said carrier signal, with either passband containing sufficient information from which to decode said signal.
10. The subject matter of claim 3 wherein the carrier signal is biphase modulated with said direct sequences.
11. The subject matter of claim 3 wherein said modulated carrier signal is in the RF frequency range.
12. A method of transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising the steps of: receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two possible values; generating at least two different direct sequences each containing a plurality of chips; encoding said digital signals by using different ones of said direct sequences to represent different values of said digital signals; modulating a carrier signal with said direct sequences thereby generating a direct sequence spread spectrum signal, said signal having a spectrum; and transmitting said spread spectrum signal across said channel, 


 wherein said direct sequences have a non- pseudorandom pattern of chips selected so that the energy in said spectrum is primarily in a passband.
13. Apparatus for transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising: means for receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two possible values; means for generating at least two different direct sequences each containing a plurality of chips; means for encoding said digital signals by using different ones of said direct sequences to represent different values of said digital signals; means for modulating a carrier signal with said direct sequences thereby generating a direct sequence spread spectrum signal, said signal having a spectrum; and means for transmitting said spread spectrum signal across said channel, wherein said direct sequences have a non- pseudorandom pattern of chips selected so that the energy in said spectrum is primarily in a passband.
14. The subject matter of claim 12 or 13 wherein the direct sequences each contain a plurality of chips, said chips being selected to approximate a swept frequency waveform in which successive square waves are formed by said chips, in which the duration of each square wave extends over a plurality of said chips, and in which the frequency of said square waves varies progressively across at least a portion of said sequence.
15. A method of transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising the steps of: 


 receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two different values; generating first and second spread spectrum signals, said first spread spectrum signal having the form of a frequency-swept spread spectrum signal in which frequency is swept in a first direction over at least a portion of said signal, and said second spread spectrum signal having the form of a frequency-swept spread spectrum signal in which frequency is swept in a second direction opposite the first direction over at least a portion of said signal; encoding said digital signals by representing one said value of said digital signal using said first spread spectrum signal, and representing another said value of said digital signal using said second spread spectrum signal; and transmitting said spread spectrum signals across said channel.
16. Apparatus for transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising: means for receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two different values; means for generating first and second spread spectrum signals, said first spread spectrum signal having the form of a frequency-swept spread spectrum signal in which frequency is swept in a first direction over at least a portion of said signal, and said second spread spectrum signal having the form of a frequency- swept spread spectrum signal in which frequency is swept in a second direction opposite the first direction over at least a portion of said signal; 


 means for encoding said digital signals by representing one said value of said digital signal using said first spread spectrum signal, and representing another said value of said digital signal using said second spread spectrum signal; and means for transmitting said spread spectrum signals across said channel.
17. The subject matter of claim 15 or 16 wherein said first and second spread spectrum signals are used to modulate a carrier signal.
18. The subject matter of claim 15 or 16 wherein said first and second spread spectrum signals are transmitted directly without modulating a carrier signal.
19. The subject matter of claim 15 or 16 wherein said frequency swept spread spectrum signals are frequency swept chirps.
20. The subject matter of claim 17 wherein said first and second spread spectrum signals are generated by generating first and second direct sequences each containing a plurality of chips, said chips being selected to approximate a swept frequency waveform in which successive square waves are formed by said chips, in which the duration of each square wave extends over a plurality of said chips, and in which the frequency of said square waves varies progressively across at least a portion of said sequence; said digital signals are encoded by using said first and second direct sequences to represent different values of said digital signals; and said carrier signal is modulated with said first and second direct sequences to generate a direct sequence 


spread spectrum signal in which information is represented by the direction of frequency sweep in the spread spectrum signal.
21. The subject matter of claim 20 wherein modulation of said carrier signal with said direct sequence comprises biphase modulation of said carrier signal.
22. The subject matter of claim 17 wherein the spectral energy of said spread spectrum signals is primarily in a passband.
23. The subject matter of claim 22 wherein said carrier signal is further modulated with a phase reversal sequence selected to increase the spreading of energy across said passband.
24. The subject matter of claim 15 or 16, further comprising a receiver with matched filters for detecting said forward and reverse swept signals, and with independent tracking for accommodating differences in the times at which said matched filters indicate receipt of the signals.
25. A method of receiving and decoding data that has been encoded and transmitted using forward and reverse swept frequency spread spectrum signals, so that the received signal consists of a succession of spread spectrum signals in which information is encoded as the difference in direction of sweep, so that different digital values are represented by different patterns of forward and reverse swept frequency signals, said method comprising the steps of: 


 receiving said stream of frequency swept spread spectrum signals; passing said signals through a correlator having forward and reverse outputs, the forward output representing the correlation of a received signal to the forward swept spread spectrum signal, and the reverse output representing the correlation of a received signal to the reverse swept spread spectrum signal; tracking the forward correlator output so that the forward correlator output is sampled at times when a received signal would be received if it was a forward swept signal; tracking the reverse correlator output independently of the tracking of the forward correlator output so that the reverse correlator output is sampled at times when a received signal would be received if it was a reverse swept signal; and making decisions as to whether a received signal is a forward or reverse swept signal based on samples of the forward and reverse correlator outputs that are taken generally at different times.
26. Apparatus for receiving and decoding data that has been encoded and transmitted using forward and reverse swept frequency spread spectrum signals, so that the received signal consists a succession of spread spectrum signals in which information is encoded as the difference in direction of sweep, so that different digital values are represented by different patterns of forward and reverse swept frequency signals, said apparatus comprising: means for receiving said stream of frequency swept spread spectrum signals; means for passing said signals through a correlator having forward and reverse outputs, the 


forward output representing the correlation of a received signal to the forward swept spread spectrum signal, and the reverse output representing the correlation of a received signal to the reverse swept spread spectrum signal; means for tracking the forward correlator output so that the forward correlator output is sampled at times when a received signal would be received if it was a forward swept signal; means for tracking the reverse correlator output independently of the tracking of the forward correlator output so that the reverse correlator output is sampled at times when a received signal would be received if it was a reverse swept signal; and means for making decisions as to whether a received signal is a forward or reverse swept signal based on samples of the forward and reverse correlator outputs that are taken generally at different times.
27. The subject matter of claim 25 or 26 wherein the receiver includes a local oscillator for generating a signal that is mixed with the received signal to demodulate the received signal, and wherein said local oscillator is not synchronized to the local oscillator used for modulating the signal at the transmitter, and wherein said local oscillator is therefore generally operating at a different frequency and phase from that of the local oscillator used for modulating.
28. A method of transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising the steps of: receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two possible values; 


 generating at least two different direct sequences each containing a plurality of chips, the difference between said direct sequences being recognizable independently of the relative phase between the two sequences; encoding said digital signals by using different ones of said direct sequences to represent different values of said digital signals; pseudorandomly varying the overall phase of said direct sequences; using said direct sequences to generate a direct sequence spread spectrum signal, said signal having a spectrum; and transmitting said spread spectrum signal across said channel.
29. Apparatus for transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising: means for receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two possible values; means for generating at least two different direct sequences each containing a plurality of chips, the difference between said direct sequences being recognizable independently of the relative phase between the two sequences; means for encoding said digital signals by using different ones of said direct sequences to represent different values of said digital signals; means for pseudorandomly varying the overall phase of said direct sequences; means for using said direct sequences to generate a direct sequence spread spectrum signal, said signal having a spectrum; and 


 means for transmitting said spread spectrum signal across said channel.
30. The subject matter of claim 28 or 29 wherein said direct sequences are used to modulate a carrier to generate said direct sequence spread spectrum signal.
31. The subject matter of claim 28 or 29 wherein said pseudorandom variation of phase is done so that each successive direct sequence has its phase pseudorandomly varied with respect to prior sequences.
32. The subject matter of claim 31 in which the double level coding is used, in which subbits are represented by one or more of said direct sequences, and said subbits are arranged in at least two different subbit patterns, and in which the pseudorandom variation of phase is at the subbit level so that the phase of the direct sequences varies pseudorandomly from subbit to subbit.
33. The subject matter of claim 32 wherein the pseudorandom variation repeats after a time period that is greater than the number of subbits in said subbit patterns, and that is not an integral multiple of the length of said subbit patterns.
34. The subject matter of claim 28 or 29 wherein the pseudorandom variation of phase reduces the peak power in the spectrum of the transmitted signal by comparison to the peak power in the spectrum of the transmitted signal without the pseudorandom variation of phase. 


 35. A method of receiving and decoding data that has been encoded and transmitted using dual level spread spectrum modulation in which information is conveyed as superbits, and in which superbits are encoded as unique sequences of a plurality of subbits, each represented by a unique spread spectrum signal, said method comprising the steps of: receiving a stream of spread spectrum signals; passing said signals through a correlator configured to distinguish between said unique spread spectrum signals representing said subbits; sampling the output of the correlator, and determining therefrom the values of a succession of subbits; determining a quality indicator from the strength of the sampled correlator output used in determining the value of a subbit; combining the value and quality indicators for a succession of subbits in decoding the superbits.
36. Apparatus for receiving and decoding data that has been encoded and transmitted using dual level spread spectrum modulation in which information is conveyed as superbits, and in which superbits are encoded as unique sequences of a plurality of subbits, each represented by a unique spread spectrum signal, said apparatus comprising: means for receiving a stream of spread spectrum signals; means for passing said signals through a correlator configured to distinguish between said unique spread spectrum signals representing said subbits; means for sampling the output of the correlator, and determining therefrom the values of a succession of subbits; 


 means for determining a quality indicator from the strength of the sampled correlator output used in determining the value of a subbit; means for combining the value and quality indicators for a succession of subbits in decoding the superbits.
37. The subject matter of claim 35 or 36 wherein each superbit is represented by a fixed number of subbits, and wherein a superbit correlation output is determined at each subbit from the value and quality indicators for a segment of subbits of the same length as said fixed number of subbits making up a superbit.
38. The subject matter of claim 37 wherein the superbit correlation is determined by accumulating a total of a match indicator and the quality indicator for each subbit in said segment of subbits, wherein the match indicator is determined by comparing said unique sequences of subbits to the actual subbit values in said segment.
39. The subject matter of claim 38 wherein the superbit correlation output has a range of values representative of the likelihood that the received pattern of spread spectrum signals is one of the unique sequences of subbits representing a superbit, wherein superbit decoding is performed by initiating a superbit tracker when the superbit correlation output exceeds a threshold, and by sampling the superbit correlation output at intervals spaced by the length of a superbit following detection of the above-threshold correlation output. 



 40. The subject matter of claim 12, 13, 15, 16, 25, 26, 28, 29, 35, or 36 wherein said spread-spectrum signals are transmitted at RF frequencies.
41. The subject matter of claim 25 or 26 wherein the forward and reverse swept signals are generated using forward and reverse swept direct sequences.
42. A method of transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising the steps of: receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two possible values; generating a direct sequence containing a plurality of chips; encoding said digital signals by using said direct sequence and a reverse ordered sequence, identical to said direct sequence except having the reverse order, to represent different values of said digital signals; and transmitting said direct and reverse ordered sequences across said channel.
43. Apparatus for transmitting data on a communication channel, comprising: means for receiving a stream of digital signals for transmission on said communication channel, said digital signals having at least two possible values; means for generating a direct sequence containing a plurality of chips; means for encoding said digital signals by using said direct sequence and a reverse ordered sequence, identical to said direct sequence except having the reverse order, to represent different values of said digital signals; and 


 means for transmitting said direct and reverse ordered sequences across said channel.
44. The subject matter of claim 42 or 43 wherein said direct and reverse ordered sequences are used to modulate a carrier signal, and the modulated carrier signal is transmitted across said channel.
45. The subject matter of claim 42 or 43 wherein said direct and reverse ordered sequences approximate swept frequency waveforms, in which successive square waves are formed by said chips, and in which the durations of the square waves extend over a plurality of said chips, and in which the frequency of the square waves varies approximately progressively across at least a portion of said sequence, from a low to a higher frequency in a forward swept sequence, and from a high to a lower frequency in a reverse swept sequence.
46. The subject matter of claim 42 or 43 wherein said direct sequence and reverse ordered sequence each have a spectrum, and wherein the energy in said spectrum is primarily in a passband.
47. The subject matter of claim 42 or 43 wherein said direct sequence and said reverse-ordered sequence are transmitted directly without modulation of a carrier.
48. The subject matter of claim 47 wherein said direct and said reverse-ordered sequence are transmitted over power lines.
49. The subject matter of claim 44 wherein said modulated carrier signal is in the RF frequency range. 


 50. A method of receiving and decoding data that has been encoded and transmitted using forward and reverse ordered versions of a direct sequence, so that the transmitted signal comprises a sequence of spread spectrum signals corresponding to one of said forward and reverse ordered versions of said direct sequence, said method comprising the steps of: receiving said sequence of spread spectrum signals; passing said received signals through a correlator configured to provide forward and reverse correlator outputs, the forward output representing the correlation of a said received signal to the forward directed sequence, and the reverse output representing the correlation of a said received signal to the reverse directed sequence; and using said forward and reverse correlator outputs to decode said received signals to reconstruct the digital data encoded in the transmitter.
51. Apparatus for receiving and decoding data that has been encoded and transmitted using forward and reverse ordered versions of a direct sequence, so that the transmitted signal comprises a sequence of spread spectrum signals corresponding to one of said forward and reverse ordered versions of said direct sequence, said apparatus comprising: means for receiving said sequence of spread spectrum signals; a correlator for receiving said sequence of signals and configured to provide forward and reverse correlator outputs, the forward output representing the correlation of a said received signal to the forward directed sequence, and the reverse output representing 


the correlation of a said received signal to the reverse directed sequence; and a decoder for using said forward and reverse correlator outputs to decode said received signals to reconstruct the digital data encoded in the transmitter.
52. The subject matter of claim 50 or 51 wherein said received signals are demodulated using a locally generated carrier signal prior to being applied to the correlator.
53. The subject matter of claim 50 or 51 wherein said correlator comprises a forward matched filter configured to recognize said forward ordered direct sequence and a reverse matched filter configured to recognize said reverse ordered direct sequence, wherein said forward matched filter is the mirror image of said reverse matched filter, and wherein said forward and reverse matched filters share the same shift register.
54. The subject matter of claim 53 wherein said correlator comprises four matched filter sections, a 0 and 90 degree phase section for each of said forward and reverse ordered sequences.
55. The subject matter of claim 54 wherein approximately half of the taps in said shift register are assigned to 0-degree sections and the remainder of the taps are assigned to 90-degree sections; wherein for each of the taps assigned to 0-degree sections and for each of the taps assigned to 90-degree there are formed two additional groups of taps, a common group that have the same value for the forward and reverse ordered sequences and a difference group that 


have opposite values for the forward and reverse ordered sequences; wherein each of the four groups of taps is summed to form four sums, a 0-degree common sum, a 0-degree difference sum, a 90-degree common sum, and a 90-degree difference sum; and wherein the outputs of each of said four filter sections are formed by combining corresponding common and difference sums.
56. The subject matter of claim 55 wherein said combining of corresponding common and difference sums comprises forming the sum of said common and difference sums for one of said forward and reverse ordered sequences and forming the difference of said common and difference sums for the other of said sequences.
57. The subject matter of claim 15 or 16, further comprising a receiver with matched filters for detecting said forward and reverse swept signals, and with independent tracking for accommodating differences in the times at which said matched filters indicate receipt of the signals. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
