<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610922</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor memory device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L21822	H01L218242	H01L23544	H01L23544	H01L2358	H01L2358	H01L2704	H01L2704	H01L2710	H01L2710	H01L27108	H01L27108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor memory device having a memory cell including
a transistor having, as source and drain regions, impurity-diffused

regions formed selectively in the active area isolated
by field insulating film formed selectively at the surface of a

semiconductor substrate and a capacitor comprising a lower
electrode including a bottom electrode and a cylindrical

electrode. The bottom electrode is formed on an interlayer
insulating film formed over the substrate and is connected to one

of the impurity-diffused regions through a first hole opened in
said interlayer insulating film. The cylindrical electrode is

formed at the edge portion of said bottom electrode and a
plurality of second holes formed in the interlayer insulating

film on said field insulating film. The first hole and the
second holes have substantially the same dimensions except for

a depth thereof. The second holes are arranged to be a mark
representing characters to assist the process control. In

addition, a check element fabricated by forming the lower
electrodes covering a plurality of second holes and cylindrical

electrodes so that these electrodes assume a loop toothed at a
certain pitch can be prevented from being broken down even if the

dimensions are large.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIMOTO SHOZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIMOTO, SHOZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory 
device and more particularly to a semiconductor memory device 
comprising memory cells having a stacked-type capacitor 
comprising a cylindrical electrode. The most widely employed capacitor structure for present day 
DRAMs is a stacked-type capacitor structure. A stacked-type 
capacitor having a cylindrical storage electrode for enlarging 
the surface area with the effects of increasing the charge per 
unit area of projective plane is known in the art. The 
manufacturing process sequence of a conventional example of such 
structure is described below. Referring to Fig. 13a, on a surface of a p-type silicon 
substrate 5, field oxide film 1 is selectively formed to isolate 
an active area. In this area, gate oxide film 2 is formed, on 
which polysilicon film is deposited and patterned to form a word 
line 3 serving also as a gate electrode. Using word line 3 and 
the field oxide film as a mask, ion implantation is carried out 
to form a pair of n⁺ regions 4-1 and 4-2 each on opposite sides, 
respectively, of word line 3. Interlayer insulating film 6-1 is 
deposited and a contact hole 7-1 leading to one n⁺ region 4-1 is 
opened. After bit line 15 is formed, interlayer insulating film 
6-2 is deposited and another contact hole 7-2 leading to the 
other n⁺ region 4-2 is opened.  As shown in Fig. 13b, polysilicon film 11 serving as a 
support for a cylindrical electrode, followed by silicon dioxide 
film 16 serving as a core are deposited by a chemical vapor 
deposition (CVD) technique. As shown in Fig. 13c, after forming 
a core 16a of silicon dioxide film by photolithography above n⁺ 
region 4-2 (alternatively, both silicon oxide film 16 and 
polysilicon film 11 serving as a support are patterned at this 
process step), polysilicon film 13 is deposited by CVD. As shown in Fig. 13d, anisotropic etching is applied to the 
entire surface of the substrate to remove polysilicon film 13 and 
11 except portions at just under and on the sides of core 16a. 
Thus, a bottom electrode 11a and cylindrical electrode 13a are 
formed. Next, as shown in Fig. 13e, core 16a of silicon dioxide 
film is removed with buffered fluoric acid, leaving a completed 
lower electrode comprising electrodes 11a and 13a and connected 
to n⁺ region 4-2. Then, as illustrated in Fig. 13f, a silicon 
dioxide dielectric film 17 and an upper electrode 18 of 
polysilicon film are formed. The fact should be noted with regard to this fabrication 
process that a formation of a core involves a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor memory device comprising: 
   a memory cell including a transistor having, as source and 

drain regions, impurity-diffused regions formed selectively in 
the active area isolated by field insulating film formed 

selectively at the surface of a semiconductor substrate and a 
capacitor comprising a lower electrode including a bottom 

electrode and a cylindrical electrode, said bottom electrode 
being formed on an interlayer insulating film formed over the 

substrate and being connected to one of said impurity-diffused 
regions through a first hole opened in said interlayer insulating 

film, and said cylindrical electrode being formed at the edge 
portion of said bottom electrode, a plurality of second holes 

being formed in said interlayer insulating film on said field 
insulating film, said first hole and second holes being 

substantially the same in dimensions except for a depth thereof. 
The semiconductor memory device of claim 1, wherein said 
plurality of second holes constitute a mark representing a 

character. 
The semiconductor memory device of claim 1, wherein said 
plurality of second holes constitute an alignment mark. 
The semiconductor memory device of claim 1, further 
comprising a monitor means comprising another lower electrode 

including another bottom electrode and another cylindrical 
electrode, and the edge of said another bottom electrode and said 

another cylindrical electrode have a toothed pattern formed 
thereon at a specified pitch and are looped. 
A semiconductor memory device comprising:
 

   a memory cell including a transistor having, as source and 
drain regions, impurity-diffused regions formed selectively in 

the active area isolated by field insulating film formed 
selectively at the surface of a semiconductor substrate and a 

capacitor comprising a lower electrode including a bottom 
electrode and a cylindrical electrode, said bottom electrode 

being formed on an interlayer insulating film formed over the 
substrate and being connected to one of said impurity-diffused 

regions through a first hole opened in said interlayer insulating 
film, and said cylindrical electrode being formed at the edge 

portion of said bottom electrode, a second hole having a size 
larger than said first hole formed in said interlayer insulating 

film, sidewall layer deposited on the side of said second hole 
and formed of the same material with said bottom electrode and 

a cylindrical structure formed of the same material with said 
cylindrical electrode to cross over said sidewall layer. 
A semiconductor memory device comprising: 
   a memory cell including a transistor having, as source and 

drain regions, impurity-diffused regions formed selectively in 
the active area isolated by field insulating film formed 

selectively at the surface of a semiconductor substrate and a 
capacitor comprising a lower electrode including a bottom 

electrode and a cylindrical electrode, said bottom electrode 
being formed on an interlayer insulating film formed over the 

substrate and being connected to one of said impurity-diffused 
regions through a first hole opened in said interlayer insulating 

film, and said cylindrical electrode being formed at the edge 
portion of said bottom electrode, and an electrically floating 

lower electrode being in contact with a top surface area of said 
 

interlayer insulating film and formed of the same material with 
said lower electrode. 
The semiconductor memory device of claim 6, wherein said 
top surface area has a size at least twice as large as the 

thickness of said interlayer insulating film. 
The semiconductor memory device of claim 6, wherein said 
electrically floating lower electrode constitutes a mark 

representing a character. 
The semiconductor memory device of claim 6, wherein said 
electrically floating lower electrode constitutes an alignment 

mark. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
