<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644633</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical-fibre passively mode locked laser generator with nonlinear polarisation switching
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F135	H01S310	H01S306	H04B1000	H01S317	H01S3098	H01S306	H01S307	H01S3067	H01S3094	H01S3098	H01S3094	G02F135	H04B1000	H01S310	H01S317	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	H01S	H01S	H04B	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	G02F	H04B	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	H01S3	H01S3	H04B10	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	G02F1	H04B10	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A passively-mode-locked laser generator comprising an active optical 
fibre and fibre pumping means adapted to cause the generation of an 

emission signal in the fibre, a polarization control means, signal 
extraction means and at least one optical component with 

transmissiveness depending on polarization, all inserted in an optical 
fibre path that, for a pumping energy lower than a predetermined value 

corresponding to a linear propagation condition of the signal, gives 
rise to a polarization rotation of the emission signal through an 

angle causing the extinction of the signal itself within said optical 
component with transmissiveness depending on polarization and, for a 

pumping energy of a higher power than said predetermined value, causes 
a polarization rotation of the emission signal through an angle 

corresponding to the transmission with low losses within said optical 
components of the only pulses of high peak power of the emission 

signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIRELLI CAVI SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIRELLI CAVI S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FONTANA FLAVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FONTANA, FLAVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Under many circumstances in the telecommunications field it is 
desirable to obtain pulsated laser emissions of a particularly limited 
duration. Pulses of the above kind having a duration δt < 100 ps, commonly 
referred to as ultrashort pulses, or "solitons" under guided 
propagation conditions, apply for example in the field of high speed 
digital telecommunications (up to 10 GBit/s), for making optical 
instruments, carrying out tests on semiconductor components and also 
remote measurements, in topography or in the atmospheric-radar field, 
for example. To this end, optical-fibre laser devices using erbium-doped optical 
fibres are known, in which an active modulating device of the 
electro-optical type is inserted in an optical path forming a laser 
cavity so as to enable propagation and amplification of the desired 
pulses alone. Such devices are commonly referred to as mode-locked devices of the 
active type, because the modulating device present therein and 
operated from the exterior acts on the modes generated in the laser, 
thus enabling amplification as far as a level supporting the laser 
emission in the selected modes alone. Devices of the above kind are for example described in OPTICS LETTERS, 
vol. 14, No. 22, November 15, 1989, pages 1269-1271 by J.D. Kafka, T. 
Baer and D.W. Hall, in ELECTRONICS LETTERS, vol. 26, No. 3, February 
1, 1990, pages 216-217, by A. Takada and H. Miyazawa, and in 
PROCEEDINGS OF II TOPICAL MEETING ON OPTICAL AMPLIFIERS, Optical 
Society of America, 1991, Snowmass Village, Colorado, US, pages 
116-119, by T. Pfeiffer and H. Schmuck (SEL Alcatel Research Centre). Also known are mode-locked pulse laser generators of the passive type  
 
comprising optical-fiber laser devices (a "figure-of-eight" laser) in 
which a nonlinear amplifier loop mirror (NALM) is employed which is 
connected to a unidirectional loop to make a laser in which 
mode-locking is generated in the absence of external drive means. In the above devices the nonlinearity of the amplifier loop, when the 
highest luminous intensities occur, causes a light deviation from one 
inlet fibre to the other at the unidirectional loop; in this manner 
the system exhibits lower losses at higher luminous intensities than 
at lower luminous intensities, so that only pulses of greater 
intensity are maintained; this condition forces the laser to operate 
in a pulsated manner. Devices of this kind are described in ELECTRONICS LETTERS; Vol. 27, 
No. 6, March 14, 1991, pages 542-543, by D. J. Richardson, R. I. 
Lami
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator (1) comprising: 

an active optical fibre (2) doped with a fluorescent dopant; 
a means (3,4,5,6) for feeding luminous pumping energy to one end of the 
active fibre, said pumping energy being adapted to excite the 

active-fibre fluorescent dopant to a laser emission state (24), from 
which said dopant may decay to a base state (25) with a luminous 

emission at a predetermined wavelength constituting an emission 
signal comprising pulses of different peak powers, of a value 

depending on the power of said pumping energy; 
a polarization control means (12;13') adapted to orient the polarization 
of said emission signal in a predetermined plane; 
feedback means (10,26) optically connected to the ends of said active 
fibre; 
at least one optical component (10) with transmissiveness depending on 
polarization; 
extraction means (8,14) for drawing said emission signal from said 
active fibre; 
 
in which at least the active fibre, polarization control means, 

feedback means and optical component with transmissiveness depending 
on polarizat
ion are components of an optical fibre path, in which said 
emission signal propagates and in which at least one portion of the 

emission signal present at one end of the active fibre is sent back to 
the interior of said fibre;
 
characterized in that the components of said optical path have an 

orientation that, on the whole, gives rise to a rotation of the 
polarization of said emission signal which, in case of pumping energy 

having a power lower than a predetermined value causing a linear-condition 
propagation of said emission signal in the optical path, takes place 

through an angle corresponding to the extinction of the emission 
signal within said optical component with transmissiveness depending 

on polarization and to the consequent absence of emission signal in 
said extraction means, and, in case of pumping energy of higher power 

than said predetermined value 
causing a nonlinear-condition propagation of said emission signal in the optical path, 

takes place through an angle 
corresponding to a transmission with low losses within said optical  

 
component for pulses of high peak power of the emission 

signal only, so giving rise to ultrashort pulses of the emission signal. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that the means for supplying luminous 

pumping energy comprises a laser emitter (6) of a pumping wavelength, 
connected through a respective optical fibre (5) to an inlet of a dichroic 

couple (4) having an outlet at which said pumping energy and emission 
signal are coupled, and having an inlet for said emission signal. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that said predetermined value of the pumping 

power is included within an adjustment field of the emission power of 
the pumping laser emitter. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that said predetermined value of the pumping 

power is in the range of 7 to 10 mW. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that said polarization rotation means (12) of 

said emission signal travelling through said active fibre consists of 
at least one optical-fibre turn (20,21,22), serially connected in said optical 

fibre path, with a lying plane of adjustable orientation relative to 
the remaining portion of the optical path itself. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that said polarization rotation means (12) of 

said emission signal travelling through said active fibre consists of 
a liquid-crystal polarization controller. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that said polarization rotation means (12) of 

said emission signal travelling through said active fibre consists of 
a planar-optics polarization controller.  

 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that said optical component having 

transmissiveness depending on polarization has a polarization 
selectivity greater than 10%. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 8, characterized in that said optical component with 

transmissiveness depending on polarization is a Bragg grating 
reflector (10). 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according 
to claim 8, characterized in that said optical component with 

transmissiveness depending on polarization is a polarizer (13'). 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that the optical fibre path (A) comprises an 

active fibre (2) having one end connected to one inlet of a directional 
coupler (8) which has a second inlet connected to a second end of the 

active fibre, one outlet connected to a selective reflector (10), with 
transmissiveness depending on polarization, and a second outlet 

constituting the extraction means (14) of said emission signal, a 
unidirectional optoisolator (13) being interposed between said first and 

second inlets of said directional coupler in series with said active 
fibre, said polarization control means (12) for controlling and adjusting the polarization 

rotation being interposed in said optical fibre path at an 
intermediate position between one of said active-fibre ends and said 

selective reflector, and the means (3,4,5,6) for supplying pumping energy being 
serially interposed within said optical fibre path, and connected to 

one of said ends of said active fibre. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that the optical fibre path (B) comprises an 

active fibre (2) having one end connected to a wideband reflector (26) and a 
second end connected to the inlet of a selective reflector (10), with 

transmissiveness depending on polarization, the polarization control means (12) for controlling 
and adjusting the polarization rotation being inserted within the  

 
optical path at an intermediate position between the selective 

reflector and wideband reflector, the means (4,5,6) for supplying pumping 
energy being serially interposed within said optical fibre path, and 

connected to one of said ends of said active fibre. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 12, characterized in that the means (12) for controlling and 

adjusting the polarization rotation are inserted within the optical 
path, between the active fibre (2) and wideband reflector (26). 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that the optical fibre path comprises an 

active fibre (2) connected in a closed circuit comprising the polarization control means (12) for 
controlling and adjusting the polarization rotation, a polarizer (13'), a 

unidirectional optoisolator (13), means (4,5,6) for supplying pumping energy 
connected to one of said ends of said active fibre, and a directional 

coupler (8) for extracting the emission signal. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 1, characterized in that said fluorescent dopant of said active 

fibre is erbium. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 15, characterized in that said means for supplying luminous 

pumping energy has an emission of 980 nm pumping wavelength. 
An active-fibre passively-mode-locked laser generator according to 
claim 15, characterized in that said predetermined wavelength of said 

emission signal is in the range of 1530 to 1560 nm. 
A method of generating passively-mode-locked stimulated pulses in 
an optical-fibre laser generator (1) comprising: 


an active optical fibre (2) doped with a fluorescent dopant; 
a means (3,4,5,6) for feeding luminous pumping energy to the active fibre, 
said pumping energy being adapted to excite the fluorescent dopant 

to a laser emission state (24), from which said dopant may decay to a  
 

base state (25) with a luminous emission at a predetermined wavelength 
constituting an emission signal; 
a polarization control means (12) adapted to orient the polarization 
of said emission signal in a predetermined plane; 
feedback means (10;26) optically connected to the ends of said active 
fibre; 
at least one optical component (10,13') with transmissiveness depending on 
polarization; 
extraction means (8,14) for drawing said emission signal from said 
active fibre; 
 
in which at least the active fibre, polarization control means, 

feedback means and optical component with transmissiveness depending 
on polarization are components of an optical fibre path, in which said 

emission signal propagates and in which at least one portion of the 
emission signal present at one end of the active fibre is sent back to 

the interior of said fibre;
 
characterized in that it comprises the steps of: 


i. adjusting said polarization control means to a configuration 
causing the absence of an emission signal coming out of said 

extraction means in a linear propagation condition of the 
emission signal within said optical path; 
ii. supplying said active fibre with a pumping power corresponding to 
the stimulated emission in the active fibre of an emission signal 

having a luminous power higher than a predetermined value, 
corresponding to nonlinear luminous-propagation conditions of the 

emission signal in the optical path, while keeping the 
configuration of the polarization control means constant, 

and so giving rise to ultrashort pulses of the emission signal. 
A method of generating stimulated passively-mode-locked pulses 
according to claim 18, characterized in that it comprises the steps 

of: 

i. supplying said active fibre with a pumping power corresponding to 
the stimulated emission in the active fibre of an emission signal 

having a luminous power lower than a predetermined value, 
corresponding to linear luminous-propagation conditions of the 

emission signal in the optical path;  
 
ii. controlling the presence of said emission signal coming out of 
said extraction means; 
iii. adjusting said polarization control means in a configuration 
causing the absence of an emission signal coming out of said 

extraction means; 
iv. increasing the pumping power supplied to said active fibre as far 
as a second predetermined value is overcome, which value 

corresponds to nonlinear luminous-propagation conditions of the 
emission signal in the optical path in which the polarization of 

the emission signal is rotated at right angles to that in said 
linear propagation conditions, while keeping the configuration of 

the polarization control means constant. 
A method of generating stimulated passively-mode-locked pulses 
according to claim 19, characterized in that the pumping power is 

adjustable between predetermined minimum and maximum values, in which 
said minimum value is lower than a value corresponding to the 

stimulated emission of said active fibre propagating in a linear 
condition in said optical path and said maximum value is higher than a 

value corresponding to a stimulated emission in said active fibre 
corresponding to nonlinear conditions of luminous propagation of the 

emission signal in the optical path in which the polarization of the 
emission signal is rotated at right angles to that in said linear 

propagation conditions. 
A method of generating stimulated passively-mode-locked pulses 
according to claim 20, characterized in that said predetermined 

minimum value of the pumping power is lower than or equal to 7 mW. 
A method of generating stimulated passively-mode-locked pulses 
according to claim 20, characterized in that said predetermined 

maximum value of the pumping power is greater than or equal to 10 mW. 
A method of generating stimulated passively-mode-locked pulses 
according to claim 18, characterized in that said polarization control 

means consists of at least one optical-fibre turn (20,21,22) capable of spatial  
 

orientation, serially connected in said optical fibre path, and said 
arrangement of the polarization control means itself in a 

configuration causing the absence of an emission signal from said 
signal extraction means is accomplished by varying the spatial 

orientation of said optical-fibre turn or turns. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
