<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623613</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fungicidal spiroheterocyclic compounds.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N4348	A01N4354	A01N4364	A01N4364	C07D23900	C07D23942	C07D23952	C07D40500	C07D40512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N43	A01N43	A01N43	A01N43	C07D239	C07D239	C07D239	C07D405	C07D405	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
New fungicidal spiroheterocyclic compounds are described, 
having the general formula I, 


in which 

X
represents O or CH₂, 
R¹
represents a hydrogen atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, 
cycloalkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl or aralkyl 

group, 
R² or each R²
independently represents an optionally substituted 
alkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkoxy, alkoxyalkyl, aryl 

or aryloxy group, or R² or each R², together with the ring to 
which they are attached, represents a polycyclic hydrocarbyl 

group, 
A and B
both represent a nitrogen atom, or A represents a group CR⁵ 
and B represents a nitrogen atom or a group CR⁶, 
R³, R⁴, R⁵ and R⁶
each independently represent a hydrogen or 
halogen atom, a hydroxy or cyano group or an optionally 

substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl, alkoxyalkyl, 

aralkyl, aryl, alkylamino, alkylthio or alkoxy or group, 
l
represents an integer from 1 to 3, 
m
represents zero or an integer from 1 to 6, and 
n
represents zero or an integer from 1 to 3. 
The invention further relates to the preparation of the above 
spiroheterocyclic compounds, intermediates prepared during the 

synthesis of these compounds, compositions containing the compounds 
and their use as fungicides in the control of undesired plant 

growth. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to certain new spiroheterocyclic 
compounds having fungicidal properties, processes for the preparation 
of these compounds, fungicidal compositions containing the 
compounds and the use of the compounds as fungicides for the 
control of phytopathogenic fungi. In EP 281842, EP 349247 and EP 413223 fungicidal 
spiroheterocyclic compounds have been described. These known 
compounds contain a substituted cyclohexyl ring in spiro conjunction 
with a substituted heterocyclic five or six membered ring. 
The substituents of the cyclohexyl ring are usually (substituted) 
(branched) alkyl or phenyl groups. The substituents of the 
heterocyclic ring are usually (substituted) (cyclo)alkyl- or 
dialkyl-amino-methyl or dialkyl-amino-polymethyl groups, including 
alkylene-amino-methyl or alkylene-amino-polymethyl groups. Other 
fungicidal spiroheterocyclic compounds have been described in 
EP 278352 and WO 92/16518. It has now been found that certain new spiroheterocyclic 
compounds show excellent fungicidal activity against certain 
phytopathogenic fungi, for instance against Plasmoporaviticola, 
Botrytiscinerea, Erysiphegraminis, Pseudocercosporella 
herpotrichoides, Rhizoctoniasolani and Venturiainaequalis. The present invention therefore relates to compounds of the 
general formula I 
in which 
Xrepresents O or CH₂, R¹represents a hydrogen atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, 
cycloalkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl or aralkyl 
group, R² or each R²independently represents an optionally substituted 
alkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkoxy, alkoxyalkyl, aryl 
or aryloxy group, or R² or each R², together with the ring to 
which they are attached, represents a polycyclic hydrocarbyl 
group, A and Bboth represent a nitrogen atom, or A represents a group CR⁵ 
and B represents a nitrogen atom or a group CR⁶, R³, R⁴, R⁵ and R⁶each independently represent a hydrogen or 
halogen atom, a hydroxy or cyano group or an optionally 
substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl, alkoxyalkyl, 
aralkyl, aryl, alkylamino, alkenylamino, alkylthio, alkoxy, 
alkenoxy or alkynoxy group, lrepresents an integer from 1 to 3, mrepresents zero or an integer from 1 to 6, and nrepresents zero or an integer from 1 to 3. The invention especially relates to compounds of the general 
formula I in which any alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl part of any of the 
substituents R¹ to R⁶ contains up to 12 carbon atoms, preferably up 
to 10 carbon atoms, more preferably up to 8 carbon atoms, any 
cycloalkyl part of any
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A compound of the general formula I, 
 

in which 
Xrepresents O or CH₂, R¹represents a hydrogen atom or an optionally substituted alkyl, 

cycloalkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl or aralkyl 
group, R² or each R²independently represents an optionally substituted 

alkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, alkoxy, alkoxyalkyl, aryl 
or aryloxy group, or R² or each R², together with the ring to 

which they are attached, represents a polycyclic hydrocarbyl 
group, A and Bboth represent a nitrogen atom, or A represents a group CR⁵ 

and B represents a nitrogen atom or a group CR⁶, R³, R⁴, R⁵ and R⁶each independently represent a hydrogen or 
halogen atom, a hydroxy or cyano group or an optionally 

substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl, alkoxyalkyl, 
aralkyl, aryl, alkylamino, alkylthio or alkoxy or group, lrepresents an integer from 1 to 3, mrepresents zero or an integer from 1 to 6, and nrepresents zero or an integer from 1 to 3. 
A compound according to claim 1, in which any alkyl, alkenyl, 
alkynyl part of any of the substituents R¹ to R⁶ contains up to 10 

carbon atoms, any cycloalkyl part of any of the substituents R¹ to 
R⁶ contains from 3 to 8 carbon atoms, any alkylene chain contains 

 
from 1 to 8 chain members, and any aryl part of any of the 

substituents R¹ to R⁶ contains 6 to 10 carbon atoms, and in which 
each optionally substituted group independently is substituted by 

one or more halogen atoms or nitro, cyano, C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₃₋₆ 
cycloalkyl, C₁₋₆ haloalkyl, C₃₋₆ halocycloalkyl, C₁₋₆ alkoxy, C₁₋₆ 

haloalkoxy, optionally substituted amino, formyl, C₁₋₆ 
alkoxycarbonyl, carboxyl, phenyl or halo- or dihalo-phenyl groups. 
A compound according to claim 1 or 2, in which X represents O. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 3, in which R¹ 
represents a hydrogen atom, a C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₃₋₆ cycloalkyl, C₂₋₆ 

alkenyl, C₂₋₆ alkynyl, phenyl or benzyl group, each group optionally 
substituted by one or more halogen atoms, especially chlorine 

and/or fluorine atoms, or C₁₋₄ alkyl, C₁₋₄ haloalkyl, C₁₋₄ alkoxy, 
C₁₋₄ alkylamino, C₁₋₄ dialkylamino or phenylamino groups. 
A compound according to claim 4, in which R¹ represents a 
hydrogen atom or a methyl or ethyl group optionally substituted by 

up to three chlorine or fluorine atoms, an ethenyl, propenyl or 
propynyl group of a phenyl or benzyl group. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 5, in which R² or 
each R² independently represents a C₁₋₁₀ alkyl, C₃₋₆ cycloalkyl, 

C₃₋₈ cycloalkyl-C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₁₋₆ alkoxy, C₁₋₁₀ alkoxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl or 
phenyl group, R² or each R² together with the ring to which they 

are attached, represents a C₇₋₂₀ polycyclic group, especially a 
C₈₋₁₂ bicyclic, C₉₋₁₄ tricyclic or C₉₋₁₆ quadricyclic saturated 

hydrocarbyl group, each of the above groups optionally substituted 
by one or more halogen atoms, or C₁₋₄ alkyl, C₁₋₄ haloalkyl or C₁₋₄ 

alkoxy groups. 
A compound according to claim 6, in which R² represents a 
secondary or tertiary C₁₋₈ alkyl group. 
A compound according to claim 7, in which R² represents a 
secondary butyl, tertiary butyl or tertiary amyl group attached to 

the 4-position of the cycloalkyl ring. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 8, in which m 
represents 1 or 2. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 9, in which R² is 
attached to the positions 3, 4 or 5 of the cycloalkyl ring. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 10, in which A 
represents a group CR⁵ and B each represent a nitrogen atom. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 11, in which R³, 
R⁴, R⁵ and R⁶ each independently represent a hydrogen or halogen 

atom, or an optionally substituted C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₁₋₆ alkenyl, C₁₋₆ 
haloalkyl, benzyl, phenyl or C₁₋₆ alkoxy group, each group optionally 

substituted by one or more halogen atoms or a C₁₋₄ alkyl, C₁₋₄ 
haloalkyl, C₁₋₄ alkoxy, C₁₋₄ alkylamino, C₁₋₄ dialkylamino or 

phenylamino groups. 
A compound according to claim 12, in which R³ and R⁴ each 
independently represent a hydrogen or halogen atom, especially a 

chlorine or fluorine atom, a hydroxy group or a methyl, ethyl, 
propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, phenyl, methoxy or ethoxy group, each 

group optionally substituted by up to three chlorine or fluorine 
atoms. 
A compound according to claim 12 in which R⁵ and/or R⁶ each 
independently represent a hydrogen or halogen atom, especially a 

chlorine or fluorine atom, or a methyl, ethyl, propyl, methoxy or 
ethoxy group, each group optionally substituted by up to three 

chlorine or fluorine atoms. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 14, in which l and 
n represent 1. 
A compound substantially as described hereinbefore with 
reference to the examples. 
A process for the preparation of a compound of the general 
formula I as defined in any of the preceding claims and in which X 

represents O, which process comprises reacting a compound of the 
general formula II 


 
in which R², n and m are as defined in any of the preceding claims, 

with a compound of the general formula III 
 

in which R¹, R³, R⁴, A, B and l are as defined in any of the 
preceding claims, as well as a process for the preparation of 

compounds of the general formula I as defined in any of the preceding 
claims and in which X represents O or CH₂, which process 

comprises reaction of a compound of the general formula IV 
 

in which R¹, R², l, m and n are as defined in any of the preceding 
claims, with a compound of the general formula V 

 
in which R³, R⁴, A and B are as defined in any of the preceding 

claims and Z represents a leaving group, or, optionally, in the 
case A represents a group CR⁵ and B represents N, by reaction of a 

compound of the general formula IV with a compound of the general 
 

formula VI 
 

in which P represents a leaving group, followed by reaction with a 
compound of the general formula VII 

 
in which R³, R⁴ and R⁵ are as defined hereinbefore, while in the 

case that R¹ represents a hydrogen atom, this hydrogen atom may be 
exchanged by another substituent within the definition of R¹ by 

reaction with a suitable alkylating agent. 
A process according to claim 17 substantially as described 
hereinbefore with reference to the examples. 
A fungicidal composition which comprises a carrier and, as 
active ingredient, a compound of the general formula I or an acid 

addition salt thereof as defined in any one of claims 1 to 16. 
A composition according to claim 19, which composition comprises 
at least two carriers, at least one of them being a surface 

active agent. 
A method of combating fungi at a locus which comprises treating 
the locus with a compound of the general formula I or an acid 

addition salt thereof as defined in any one of claims 1 to 16. 
A method-according to claim 21, in which the locus comprises 
plants subject to or subjected to fungal attack, seeds of such 

plants or the medium in which the plants are to be grown. 
The use as a fungicide of a compound of the general formula I 
or an acid addition salt thereof as defined in any of claims 1 to 

16 or a composition as defined in claims 19 or 20. 
The use according to claim 23 against fungicidal diseases in 
cereals. 
A compound of the general formula III 
 

in which R¹, R³, R⁴, A and B are as defined in any one of claims 1 
to 16. 
A process for the preparation of a compound of the general 
formula III as defined in claim 25, which comprises oxidation of a 

compound of the general formula VIII 
 

in which R¹, R³, R⁴, A, B and l are as defined in claim 25, with a 
suitable dihydroxylation reagent. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
