<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641632</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Waste removing apparatus for use in punching machine for manufacturing carton.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D718	B26D718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D7	B26D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A waste removing apparatus, for use in a punching machine for manufacturing 
a carton, for separating from each other a waste region (17) of a sheet and a 

product region (18) of the sheet having a punching line (12) comprising a 
cut-out portion (19) and a remaining portion (20) formed thereon and inserted 

between an upper die (11) and a lower die (12) which are approached 
to each other, by pressing down the waste region and tearing the remaining 

portion by means of a punching member (13) projecting downward from one 
of the dies so as to remove the waste region from the sheet. A plurality of 

grooves (30) is formed on a surface (26a) of the punching member to be 
brought into contact with a surface of the waste region to form pressing portions 

(31) between the grooves at regular intervals. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON DIE STEEL KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON DIE STEEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEUCHI TAKAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEUCHI TAKAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a waste removing 
apparatus, of a punching machine for manufacturing a 
carton, for removing a waste region from a sheet inserted 
between a pair of dies and more particularly, a waste 
removing apparatus for punching, or cutting the sheet along 
punching lines defined thereon in a preceding process by 
means of a punching member projecting downward from one of 
the dies so as to remove, from the sheet, a waste region 
disposed outside a punching line defining a product region 
and a waste region to be formed into a hollow region on the 
product region. An example of a conventional waste removing 
apparatus of this kind is described below with reference to 
Fig. 26. The apparatus removes, from a material sheet 1, 
a waste region 3A disposed outside a product region 2 and 
partitioned from the product region 2 along an outer 
punching line (L) defined along the periphery of the 
product region 2 and a waste region 3B disposed inside the 
product region 2 and partitioned from the product region 2 
along an inner punching line (L') defined along the periphery 
of a hollow region to be formed on the product region 
2. The outer punching line (L) and the inner punching line  
 
(L') are formed by a required punching operation in a 
preceding process. The sheet 1 is perforated at predetermined 
intervals to form the punching lines (L) and (L') by the 
preceding process as shown in Fig. 27. Unperforated 
portions of the sheet 1 are referred to as a remaining 
portion 4. The waste removing operation of the conventional 
apparatus is described below with reference to Figs. 28A 
and 28B. In this waste removing apparatus, a punching 
member 7A for cutting the sheet 1 along the outer punching 
line (L) and a punching member 7B for cutting the sheet 1 
along the inner punching line (L') project downward from a 
substrate 6 of an upper die 5, whereas a substrate 9 which 
is a little smaller than the product region 2 of the sheet 
1 is fixed to a lower die 8 via a supporting frame 10. In 
this construction, the upper die 5 is moved downward so 
that the punching members 7A and 7B hang the waste regions 
3A and 3B on the remaining portion 4, thus tearing the 
remaining portion 4 from the product region 2 and removing 
the waste regions 3A and 3B from the product region 2. As described above, in this waste removing 
apparatus, the punching members 7A and 7B press the upper 
surface of the waste regions 3A and 3B downward, thus 
bending the sheet 1 along the outer and inner punching 
lines
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A waste removing apparatus used in a punching machine for 
manufacturing a carton, for separating from each other a waste region (17, 

17') and a product region (18) of a sheet (10) having a punching line (L, L', 

L'') comprising a cut-out portion (19) and a remaining portion (20) formed 
thereon and inserted between an upper die (11) and a lower die (12) which 

are approached to each other, by pressing down the waste region and tearing 
the remaining portion by means of a punching member (13, 14, 15) projecting 

downward from one of the dies so as to remove the waste region from the 
sheet, characterized in that 

   a plurality of grooves (30) is formed on a surface of the punching member 
to be brought into contact with a surface of the waste region so as to form 

pressing portions (31) between the grooves at regular intervals. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the grooves 
(30) of the punching member are V-shaped in section and formed successively 

and the V-shaped pressing portions (31) are formed between the grooves. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the grooves 
(30) of the punching member are U-shaped in section and an edge (31b) is 

formed on each of the pressing portions (31) formed between the grooves. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in anyone of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein the pressing portion (31a) adjacent to the punching line is a little 

longer than the other projections (31). 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in anyone of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein the punching member (13; 14; 15) comprises a vertical portion (25; 

25A, 25B; 25A', 25B') and a horizontal portion (26) continuous with one end 
of the vertical portion; the other end of the vertical portion is formed as a 

fixing portion (27) to be embedded in a substrate (11) of one of the dies; the 
vertical portion is disposed on the waste region side with the fixing portion 

fixed to the substrate; and an outer surface (26a) of the horizontal portion is 
brought into contact with the waste region. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the 
punching member (13) is L-shaped in section; the vertical portion (25) is 

disposed along the punching line and on the waste region side; and the 
horizontal portion (26) extends from one end of the vertical portion toward 

an outer end of the waste region. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 6, wherein a stepped 
portion (28) projecting toward the punching line is formed on the side of the 

vertical portion confronting the punching line at a position spaced by a predetermined 
interval from the horizontal portion so that an end portion (29) 

of the stepped portion is brought int contact with the cut-out portion (19a, 
20a) of the punching line, which is forced to be horizontal by the pressing 

portion. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein a V-shaped 
projection (29) is formed on the end portion of the stepped portion so that 

the V-shaped projection is brought into contact with the cut-out portion. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the lower 
ends of two vertical portions (25A, 25B) of the punching member (14) are 

connected with each other by means of the horizontal portions (26); and the 
grooves and pressing portions are formed on the horizontal portions. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in anyone of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein a lower portion (25a) of two vertical portions (25, 25a) of the 

punching member (19) is upward tapered; and the grooves and pressing 
portions are formed on the lower surface of the punching member. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the area of 
a substrate (12) of the other die to which the punching member is not fixed 

is set to be a little smaller than the area of a region surrounded with the 
punching line; and the substrate is fixed to the die via a supporting frame 

(21) projecting from a portion of a peripheral surface of the substrate (12); 
   two L-shaped punching members (15') are arranged with a gap (41) between 

horizontal portions (26) of the punching member projecting in 
opposite directions; ends of vertical portions disposed on both sides of the 

gap are connected with each other; and a fixing portion (27) projects from a 
 

connecting portion (40) connecting the ends of the vertical portions; and 
   the gap (41) is opposed to the supporting frame (21) so as to separate 

the waste region and press down the waste region on both sides of the 
supporting frame. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the area of 
a substrate (12) of the other die to which the punching member is not fixed 

is set to be a little smaller than the area of a region surrounded with the 
punching line; and the substrate is fixed to the die via a supporting frame 

(21) projecting from a portion of a peripheral surface of the substrate; 
   two U-shaped punching members (15) are arranged with a gap (41) 

provided therebetween; ends of vertical portions (25A, 25A') disposed on 
both sides of the gap are connected with each other; and a fixing portion (27) 

projects from a connecting portion (40) connecting the ends of the vertical 
portions; and 

   the gap (41) is opposed to the supporting frame (21) so as to separate 
the waste region and press down the waste region on both sides of the 

supporting frame. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
punching member (14) is a cylindrical or square pillar; grooves (30) are 

formed on a surface of the punching member to be brought into contact with 
a surface of the waste region to form pressing portions between the grooves; 

and an edge (31b) is formed on each pressing portion. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein the 
grooves (30) are U-shaped. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
punching member (14) is hollow cylindrical and both ends thereof are open; 

and the grooves (30) are formed at regular intervals on a peripheral surface of 
the punching member to be brought into contact with the surface of the 

waste region to form pressing portions (31) at regular intervals between the 
grooves. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 15, wherein the 
grooves are U-shaped or V-shaped. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 15, wherein the 
punching member is hollow cylindrical, hollow semi-cylindrical or hollow 

square pillar-like and both ends are open. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 15, wherein the area of 
a contact surface of the punching member is a little smaller than that of the 

waste region (17') to be formed as a hollow region (16). 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein a plurality 
of thick portions (51) projecting outward in opposite directions from both 

vertical side surfaces of the punching member (14) and a plurality of thin 
portions (52) are formed alternately with each other on the punching 

member; and grooves (30) are formed on the surface of the punching member 
to be brought into contact with the surface of the waste region to form 

pressing portions (31) between the grooves. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein each thick 
portion (51) projects in a V-shaped configuration in opposite directions. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein the 

punching member is curved by bending the thin portions (52). 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
punching member (14, 14, 15) is made of metal and the substrate (11, 12) is 

made of wood. 
The waste removing apparatus as defined in claim 22, wherein a fixing 
portion (27) of the punching member is pressed into a hole formed in the 

substrate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
