<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630213</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RETRACTING TIP TROCAR ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1734	A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B100	A61B1900	A61B100	A61B1734	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B1	A61B19	A61B1	A61B17	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A retracting tip trocar assembly (1) including a trocar tube (4) and a shaft (3) having a piercing tip (5) at one end thereof. The device includes a retracting mechanism (A) which allows the piercing tip (5) to be held in a cutting position upon application of an insertion force such as when the piercing tip (5) is pressed against a wall of a human body cavity. Upon release of the insertion force, such as when the piercing tip (5) passes through the wall, the retracting mechanism (A) causes the piercing tip (5) to be retracted into the trocar tube (4). The retracting mechanism includes two links (1) pivoting at one end to each other and at the other end respectively to the proximal end of the obturator shaft and to the handle housing (2a).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROTH ALEX T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROTH, ALEX, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to surgical
instruments. More particularly, it relates to a
retracting tip trocar assembly with an improved
protective shield latch.Trocars are sharp-pointed instruments used to
puncture a body cavity. A body cavity is often
punctured so that fluids may be drained using a cannula
inserted into the opening. Trocars are also used
during endoscopic procedures. A conventional
endoscopic procedure follows three steps. The first
step is the insertion of a Veress cannula into an
abdominal cavity through a small incision in the
abdominal wall. The second step is the inflation of
the cavity with insufflating gas passed through the
cannula. After inflation, the Veress cannula is
removed. The third step is the thrusting of standard
trocar housed within the bore of a trocar tube into the
inflated abdomen. Standard trocars are shaped like a
large metal peg with a sharpened point. The trocar is
then removed, and the endoscopic instrument is inserted
into the abdominal cavity through the trocar tube.U.S. Patent Nos. 4,601,710 (the '710 patent)
and 4,654,030 (the '030 patent)
describe
embodiments of a trocar assembly having a spring-biased 
tubular protective shield. One of the embodiments in
the '710 patent has a shield locking mechanism that
comprises a slide valve-actuated locking tooth that
engages a slot in the wall of the shield. The '030
patent discloses an embodiment wherein the flap valve
functions as a shield locking means wherein a tip seats
against a recessed shoulder on the shield. The valve
is manually controlled to release the shield.Trocar assemblies having spring-biased
tubular protective shields include a tubular protective
shield within a trocar tube. In addition, once the
piercing tip of the obturator penetrates a wall of a
body cavity, the protective shield must further widen
the opening created by the piercing tip before the
protective shield can move outwardly of the trocar tube
to shield the piercing tip which remains in the body
cavity. U.S. Patent No. 4,535,773 (the '773 patent)
discloses a reusable trocar wherein the obturator can
be retracted by means of a spring and an electro-mechanical
latching mechanism. In particular, the
piercing tip of the obturator includes pressure sensing
means which transmits signals to activate a solenoid
which in turn releases the obturator shaft so that it
can be retracted. The retractable obturator disclosed
in the '773 patent requires a complex arrangement
wherein sliding contacts and circuitry are used to
energize a solenoid which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A retracting tip trocar assembly comprising:

an elongated trocar obturator (3) extending in an
axial direction and having a piercing tip (5) at a distal

end thereof;
an elongated trocar tube (4) in which the trocar
obturator is housed, the piercing tip being movable in

the axial direction from a cutting position at which the
piercing tip is outside a distal end of the trocar tube

to a shielded position at which the piercing tip is
entirely within the trocar tube;
a trocar handle housing (2a)
a first link (13) having one end thereof pivotally
attached to the proximal end of the trocar obturator and

the other end thereof pivotally attached to one end of a
second link (14), the other end of the second link being

pivotally attached to the trocar handle housing, the
links being in a first configuration when the piercing

tip is in the cutting position and the links being in a
second configuration when the piercing tip is in the

shielded position; and
retracting means (8) for retracting the piercing tip
from the cutting position to the shielded position.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 1, further
comprising:


a member (11) movable from a first position at which
the member prevents movement of the links from the first

configuration to the second configuration to a second
position at which the member does not prevent movement of

the links from the first configuration to the second
configuration, the member being held in the first 

position when the piercing tip is pressed against an
object with an axial force above a threshold value; and
biasing means (8) biasing the member toward the
second position, the biasing means applying a bias force

on the member such that when the axial force is below the
threshold value the member moves from the first position

to the second position and the retracting means moves the
links from the first position to the second position to

retract the piercing tip to the shielded position,
wherein the biasing means moves the member to the second

position upon release of an insertion force load placed
upon the piercing tip while the piercing tip is in the

cutting position.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 2, wherein
the insertion force load comprises a compressive load

acting in an axial direction.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the retracting means comprises

a spring (8) connected to at least one of the links and
biasing the links towards said second configuration.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 4, wherein
the spring comprises a torsion spring.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 5, wherein
the torsion spring comprises a wire having first (8a) and

second (8b) arms extending from a coiled portion of the
wire, the first arm pressing against the first link and

the second arm against the second link.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of any one of the
preceding claims, further comprising a stop (12b) in the

trocar handle housing for sustaining the insertion force
load which acts axially on the piercing tip, the trocar

obturator and the first and second links being aligned 
substantially axially and supporting the insertion force

load against the stop when the piercing tip is in the
cutting position and the piercing tip is pushed against

an object.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the first and second links

include abutting surface (13f, 14f) which press against
each other when the piercing tip is in the cutting

position.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 8, wherein
the first and second links comprise a single piece of

plastic material.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 9, wherein
the single piece of plastic comprises two plastic links

connected by a bendable section (16) of the plastic
material.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the ends of the first and

second links not pivotally connected to one another are
moved closer together when the piercing tip moves to the

shielded position.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of any one of the
preceding claims, further comprising a latch arm (11) on

one of the links for manually moving the links to the
first configuration, the trocar handle housing including

catch means (12b) for holding the latch arm in an armed
position at which the piercing tip is in the cutting

position.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 12, wherein
one end of the latch arm is connected to one of the links

and the other end thereof extends outwardly of the trocar 
handle, the catch means comprising a curved slot (12) in

the trocar handle, the latch arm being movable along the
curved slot, the curved slot terminating in an enlarged

opening (12a) formed in part by a support surface against
which the latch arm presses when the piercing tip is in

an armed position.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 13, wherein
the piercing tip is located further outside the distal

end of the trocar tube in the armed position than when
the piercing tip is in the cutting position.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of claim 14, wherein
the latch arm automatically moves from the support

surface (12b) to a position in alignment with the curved
slot when the piercing tip is pushed against an object.
The retracting tip trocar assembly of any one of the
preceding claims wherein the trocar handle housing

includes a track (12) and the shaft includes a slider
(11), the slider co-operating with the track to guide the

shaft assembly along the trocar tube.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
