<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644923</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXTRACTION OF OILS FROM GRAIN MATERIALS AND GRAIN-BASED FOOD PRODUCTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1100	B01D1100	B01D1102	B01D1102	C11B100	C11B102	C11B104	C11B110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C11B	C11B	C11B	C11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D11	B01D11	B01D11	B01D11	C11B1	C11B1	C11B1	C11B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention pertains to a method of obtaining oil from grain materials such as rice bran, wheat mill feed, CanolaR, rapeseed, amaranth, and similar grains. The method includes processes for: stabilizing the oil contained in the grain material (when necessary) while increasing the porosity of such grain material; extraction of oil from the grain material by contact with a solvent in vapor form; and separation of extracted oil/solvent compositions into fractions containing various amounts of saturated and unsaturated oils. The portion of the method which pertains to extracting the oil from the grain material by contact with a solvent in vapor form can also be used to remove oils from: previously-extracted oil seeds, which were extracted using a less efficient extraction method; flaked or crushed vegetable matter; and grain-based food products such as chips, crackers and noodles.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOOD SCIENCES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOOD SCIENCES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARENDT PHILLIP S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGLEY CHARLES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARENDT, PHILLIP S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGLEY, CHARLES E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EXTRACTION OF OILS FROM GRAIN MATERIALS AND GRAIN-BASED FOOD PRODUCTSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention This invention pertains to a process for the extraction of oils from grain materials such as rice bran, wheat mill feed, Canola®, rapeseed, amaranth and similar grains. The process not only provides a method of oil extraction, but provides for the separation of saturated from unsaturated oils. A specially designed apparatus is used to achieve this separation. Use of the process not only provides the extracted oil, but also enables production of a number of grain products having low residual oil contents, which products have particularly desirable food and feed characteristics.The process for oil extraction applicable grain materials can also be applied to crushed or flaked vegetable matter and to grain-based food products which are somewhat porous, such as chips, noodles and crackers.2. Background of the Invention It is known that the best and easiest oilseed to process is soy bean. Canola® and rapeseed have also been processed on the kind of equipment used to process soy bean; however, they have been ground, cooked, and rolled into flakes to provide an extractable bed. Generally Canola® flakes can be run only at a much slower rate than soy beans. The resultant rapeseed and Canola® residual material after oil removal, called "Marc", cannot readily be used as meals for animal feeding due to the presence of trypsin inhibitors, high euric acid and high glucosinolates.The process and apparatus of the present invention can be used to process oil seeds such as soy bean and safflower; however, the process was designed particularly for obtaining oil from grain materials such as rice bran, wheat mill feed, Canola®, rapeseed in general, and amaranth (as will as similar grains). These grain materials do not have as high an oil content as soy bean and safflower and have not been economically competitive as an oil source prior to the present process.Typically, oil seeds contain from about 15 percent to about 40 percent by weight oil. Grains of the kind described above contain only from about 4 percent to about 20 percent by weight oil, and prior to the method of the present invention, processing of grain materials having this low oil content was not competitive with processing of oil seeds. The present oil extraction method makes possible not only the extraction of oil from grain materials, but further extraction of additional oils from crushed or flaked vegetable materials previously oil
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method for increasing the porosity of grain materials, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a grain material having a moisture content of at least 6 percent by weight; b) applying heat to said grain material of step a), while maintaining at least said 6 percent moisture content, until said grain material reaches a temperature ranging from about 100°F to about 215°F; and c) providing an absolute pressure of less than 25 in. Hg at die surface of said grain material of step b), whereby the moisture in said grain material expands, creating porosity in said grain material.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein said vacuum is applied in an essentially instantaneous manner. 3. The method of Claim 1, wherein said moisture content of said grain material is increased to at least 12 percent by weight by contacting the surface of said grain material with water and permitting said water to be absorbed into said grain material over a time period sufficient for said moisture content to become essentially uniform within said grain material.
4. The method of Claim 3, wherein said heat is applied in a manner which maintains the moisture content of said grain material at at least 12 percent by weight.
5. The method of Claim 4 wherein said heat is applied by contacting said grain material with steam.
6. The method of Claim 1, Claim 2, or Claim 3 wherein die absolute pressure provided at die surface of said grain material of step c) is 10 in. of Hg or less. 7. The method of Claim 6, wherein said absolute pressure is 4 in. of Hg or less.
8. A method of extracting at least a portion of die oil contained in grain materials, or grain products said method comprising the steps of: a) contacting said grain material or grain product widi a solvent vapor capable of forming a weak bond wim said oil to be extracted from said grain material or grain product; and b) separating a weakly bonded oil/solvent component from said grain material or grain product.
9. The method of Claim 8, wherein said contacting occurs at a temperature ranging from about 100°F to about 190°F. 


10. The method of Claim 9, wherein said separation is carried out under a vacuum such at die absolute pressure at d e surface of said grain material or grain product ranges from atmospheric pressure to about 0.1 in. of Hg absolute.
11. The method of Claim 8, wherein said solvent vapor comprises principally an acetate, an alcohol or a mixture mereof.
12. The method of Claim 12 wherein said solvent vapor is comprised principally of a food grade solvent selected from the group consisting of ediyl acetate, medianol, edianol, isopropyl alcohol, hexyl alcohol, heptyl alcohol, dectyl alcohol, or mixtures diereof.
13. The method of Claim 13, wherein the oil extraction is carried out on a grain material selected from die group consisting of rice bran, wheat mill feed, Canola
®
, rapeseed, amaranth, and combinations thereof.
14. The method of Claim 13, wherein the oil extraction is carried out on a grain-based food product selected from the group consisting of chips, crackers and noodles.
15. The method of Claim 13, wherein the oil extraction is carried out on a flaked/crushed vegetable matter selected from the group consisting of peanut and olive.
16. The method of Claim 8, wherein said contacting is carried out at a volumetric ratio of solvent vapor to grain material or grain product ranging from about 3:1 to about 10:1.
17. The method of Claim 17, wherein said contacting is carried out at a volumetric ratio of solvent vapor to grain material or grain product ranging from about 6:1 to about 8:1. 18. The method of Claim 8, wherein the amount of solvent used to extract said oil from said grain material is such that the weight ratio of solvent to grain material or grain product ranges from about 0.7 : 1 to about 5 : 1.
19. The method of Claim 19, wherein said weight ratio of solvent to grain material or grain product ranges from about 0.7 : 1 to about 3 : 1. 20. A method of separating an oil/solvent composition into a principally saturated oil/solvent fraction and a principally unsaturated oil/solvent fraction, said method comprising the steps of: a) introducing said oil/solvent composition in die form of a vapor into a relatively open, unpacked, vapor space in a first volumetric area, wherein said vapor space is at least periodically under a vacuum; and b) causing oil/solvent components generated in step a) to move upward from said first volumetric area through a second volumetric area comprising surface contacting area, said second volumetric area being at least periodically under vacuum, or to move downward from said first volumetric area, due to gravitational forces, through a diird volumetric area comprising surface contacting area, whereby a principally saturated oil/solvent fraction is separated from a principally unsaturated oil/solvent fraction. 


21. The method of Claim 21, including d e additional steps c) removing said principally saturated oil/solvent fraction from said second volumetric area; and d) removing said principally unsaturated oil/solvent fraction from said third volumetric area.
22. The method of Claim 21 or Claim 22, wherein said oil/solvent composition is generated by extracting oil from a grain material using die mediod of Claim 8.
23. The method of Claim 23, wherein the solvent used to extract said oil from said grain material is an acetate or an alcohol. 24. The method of Claim 24, wherein said solvent is methyl acetate or ethyl acetate.
25. The method of Claim 21, wherein said oil/solvent composition is introduced into said first volumetric area in a periodic manner.
26. The method of Claim 21, wherein said vacuum in said first volumetric area is essentially constant. 27. The method of Claim 21, wherein said vacuum in said first volumetric area is periodic.
28. The method of Claim 21, wherein said vacuum in an upper portion of said second volumetric area is such that the absolute pressure is 4 in. of Hg absolute or less.
29. The method of Claim 29 wherein the temperature in said first volumetric area ranges from about 100°F. to about 190°F. 30. The method of Claim 30, wherein the average residence time of oil/solvent components in said third volumetric area is less an about 2 minutes.
31. The method of Claim 21, wherein the relative amounts of oil to solvent in said oil/solvent composition ranges from about 10 percent oil with 90 percent solvent to about 40 percent oil with 60 percent solvent on a weight to weight basis. 32. The method of Claim 33, wherein said solvent is ediyl acetate.
33. The method of Claim 34, wherein said grain material is rice bran.
34. A method for producing oils from grain materials, the method comprising the steps of: a) increasing die porosity of said grain materials using the moisture content of said grain materials in combination with an applied partial vacuum; b) extracting at least a portion of the oil content of said grain material from step a) by contacting said grain material with a solvent in vapor form; c) separating an oil/solvent composition from step b) into components comprising a principally saturated oil/solvent fraction and a principally unsaturated oil/solvent fraction.
35. The method of Claim 36, wherein step a) is accomplished using the method of Claim 1. 36. The method of Claim 36, wherein step b) is accomplished using the method of Claim 8. 


37. The method of Claim 36, wherein step c) is accomplished using the method of Claim 21.
38. An apparatus for increasing die porosity of a grain material, said apparatus comprising: a) means for heating said grain material in a manner such mat a moisture content of at least 12 percent by weight water is present in said grain material after heating; and b) means for contacting said heated grain material containing at least 12 percent by weight moisture wi a vacuum, so mat die absolute pressure at the surface of die grain material is 10 in. Hg or less, said vacuum contacting means being in communication widi said means for heating.
39. The apparatus of Claim 40, wherein said means for increasing die moisture content of said grain material comprises: a) a means for applying a thin film of water to the surface of said grain material; and b) a means for causing said water on die surface of said grain material to migrate to the interior of said grain material. 40. An apparatus for contacting heated grain material containing at least 6 percent moisture with a vacuum, said apparatus comprising: a) an air lock located at the upper portion of a columnar structure, through which said grain material passes on entering said columnar structure; b) said columnar structure through which said grain material moves downward due at least in part to gravitational forces; c) at least one means for applying vacuum to at least one portion of said columnar structure; and d) an air lock located at the lower portion of said columnar structure, through which said grain material passes on exiting said columnar structure. 41. The apparatus of Claim 43, wherein said downward movement of said grain material is assisted by presence of a means for vibrating either said columnar structure as a whole or means for vibrating at least a portion of said structural means for directing the downward movement of said grain material.
42. The apparatus of Claim 44, including a means for deflecting grain material from the point of application of said at least one means for applying vacuum.
43. An apparatus for separation of an oil/solvent composition into at least one fraction comprising saturated oils which are principally saturated and at least one odier fraction comprising unsaturated oils which are principally unsaturated, said apparatus comprising: a) a columnar structure; 


 b) a first volumetric area in a central potion of said columnar structure into which said oil/solvent composition enters; c) a second volumetric area located above said first volumetric area, said second volumetric area containing a packing designed to provide surface area and to promote an increased residence time of material passing dirough said second volumetric area; d) a tiiird volumetric area located below said first volumetric area, said diird volumetric area containing a packing designed to provide surface area and to promote an increased residence time of material passing through said diird volumetric area; e) at least one means for applying vacuum to at least one volumetric area within said columnar structure; f) at least one means for supplying said oil/solvent composition to said first volumetric area; g) at least one means for removing said fraction comprising oils which are principally saturated from said second volumetric area within said columnar structure; and h) at least one means for removing said fraction comprising oils which are principally unsaturated from said diird volumetric area within said columnar structure.
44. The apparatus of Claim 47, wherein said means for removing said fraction comprising oils which are principally saturated oil from said second volumetric area comprises a fourth volumetric area which serves as a collection area for said fraction, and wherein at least one of said means for applying vacuum is located in said fourth volumetric area.
45. The apparatus of Claim 47 or Claim 48, wherein said means for removing said fraction comprising oils which are principally unsaturated from said diird volumetric area comprises a fifth volumetric area which serves as a collection area for said fraction comprising oils which are principally unsaturated. 46. The apparatus of Claim 47, wherein at least one of said means for applying vacuum is capable of applying vacuum in a periodic or pulsed manner.
47. The apparatus of Claim 47, wherein said means for supplying said oil/solvent composition to said first volumetric area is capable of supplying said oil/solvent composition in a periodic or pulsed manner. 48. The apparatus of Claim 47, wherein said first volumetric area is essentially an open volume.
49. The apparatus of Claim 47, wherein said first volumetric area is comprised principally of open volume, but contains means for directing the flow of said oil/solvent composition.
50. The apparatus of Claim 53, wherein said means for directing the flow of said oil/solvent composition comprises at least one baffle. 


51. The apparatus of Claim 49, wherein said fourth and fifth volumetric areas are essentially open, unpacked volumes.
52. The apparatus of Claim 49, wherein said fourth and fifth volumetric areas are comprised of principally open, unpacked volume, but contain means for directing the flow of component materials passing through.
53. A grain product comprising rice bran Marc and amaranth Marc, wherein e weight to weight ratio of rice bran Marc to amaranth Marc ranges from about 80:20 to about 60:40.
54. The grain product of Claim 57, wherein said rice bran Marc and said amarandi Marc were produced using the method specified in steps a) and b) of Claim 33. 55. The grain product of Claim 58, wherein the total oil content ranges from about 0.5 percent to about 10 percent by weight.
56. A grain product comprising rice bran Marc and whole amaranth, wherein the weight to weight ratio of rice bran Marc to whole amaranth ranges from about 75:25 to about 60:40.
57. The grain product of Claim 60, wherein said rice bran Marc was produced using the method specified in steps a) and b) of Claim 36.
58.The grain product of Claim 60, wherein the total oil content ranges from about 2 percent by weight to about 14 percent by weight.
59. A grain product comprising Canola
®
 or rapeseed Marc and anodier component selected from the group consisting of rice bran Marc, amaranth Marc, whole amarandi, or mixtures thereof, wherein the weight to weight ratio of Canola
®
 or rapeseed Marc to the component selected ranges from about 30:70 to about 50:50.
60. The grain product of Claim 63, wherein said Canola
®
 or rapeseed Marc, said rice bran Marc and said amaranth Marc were produced using die method specified in steps a) and b) of Claim 33. 61. The grain product of Claim 64, wherein said grain product total oil content ranges from about 0.05 percent by weight to about 14 percent by weight.
62. A principally saturated grain oil product produced by the method of Claim 21.
63. A principally unsaturated grain oil product produced by the method of Claim 21.
64. A grain-based food product in die form of a chip, produced using the method of Claim 8. 65. A grain-based food product in the form of a cracker, produced using the method of Claim
8.
66. A grain-based food product in the form of a noodle, produced using die me od of Claim
8. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
