<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655022</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIPE JOINING TOOL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B2702	B25B2710	B25B2714	B25B2716	F16L106	F16L109	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	B25B	B25B	B25B	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B27	B25B27	B25B27	B25B27	F16L1	F16L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tool (10) for joining plastic pipe and fittings that provides for a quarter turn rotation of a pipe fitting (14) while simultaneously pulling a free end of a longitudinally aligned pipe section (12) into the fitting. The tool includes an inner ring (10) that slips over a free end of a pipe section and is secured thereto by inwardly directed mounting screws, and an outer ring (72) coaxially circumposed about, and rotatably connected to, the inner ring. A detachable semicircular partial collar (90) fits snugly about the outer ring (72) and reversibly attaches to a pair of outwardly directed nibs (84) positioned at opposite sides of the outer ring (72) in a plane that bisects the pipe section. A handle (46) is pivotally mounted above a yoke (24) and chain (26) that encircle and grasp the fitting (14).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEEBEECK MARCEL DE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DE LEEBEECK, MARCEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE LEEBEECK MARCEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE LEEBEECK, MARCEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PIPE JOINING TOOLBackground of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to pipe joining tools and more specifically to a tool for joining plastic pipe sections to fittings such as a coupling, elbow, tee, 90 or other fitting.2. Description of the Prior ArtPolyvinyl (PVC) pipe sections are joined one to another by PVC pipe fittings. To join a pipe section to a pipe fitting, a free end of the pipe section is cut square, burrs are removed, the pipe is cleaned, a primer is applied, and PVC plastic pipe cement is applied to the free end of the pipe section and to the inside surface of one socket of the fitting. The fitting and a free end of the pipe section are pulled together to force the pipe section into a socket of the fitting. In order to avoid trapping air in the cement, which results in a weak joint, the fitting should be rotated one quarter turn as the free end of the pipe section enters the fitting socket. Once the free end of a pipe section is inserted into the fitting socket, the joint so formed must remain under compressive force for a period of time to permit the cement to begin to set, generally ranging from thirty seconds to several minutes depending on ambient temperature, diameter of the pipe, and other factors. The procedure can then be repeated using an opposite socket of the same fitting and a free end of another pipe section, thereby joining two pipe sections. If one attempts to perform this procedure by grasping the pipe section in one hand and the fitting in the other hand, and then pushing and holding the fitting and pipe section together, one encounters at least two problems (particularly with larger diameter PVC and CPVC pipe sections, i.e., 6 inches or more): it is difficult to avoid bounce between a pipe section and the fitting into which it is being inserted, and a high degree of sustained compressive force is required to hold the fitting and pipe section together while the cement begins to set.Manually operable tools have been previously described for pulling and holding together a pipe section and a pipe fitting by compressive force. Illustrative of such tools are the pipe mating tool of Topper, U. S. Patent No. 4,015,323 (Apr. 5, 1977), the 

plastic pipe assembly tool of Bjalme, et al., U. S. Patent No. 3,831,256 (Aug. 27, 1974), and the pipe coupling device of Carter et al, U.S. Patent No. 3,668,766 (June 13, 1972). Although such tools of the prior art can provide adequate force to hold a free end of a pipe section immobile inside a fitting socket
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 I claim:
1. A tool for joining a pipe section to a pipe fitting by pulling and holding the pipe section and pipe fitting together, comprising:
(A) a fitting engaging assembly for circumferential engagement of the pipe fitting;
(B) a pipe engaging assembly including:
1. an inner ring;
2. an outer ring coaxially circumposed about, and rotatably connected to, the inner ring;
3. means for attaching the inner ring to the pipe section;
(C) an equalizing yoke including:
1. a semicircular partial collar having first and second ends and adapted to fit snugly about the outer ring;
2. a pair of horizontally-spaced, outwardly directed lugs attached to the partial collar at points equidistant from the first and second ends thereof;
3. a crossbar mounted between the lugs;
(D) actuator means including
1. a pair of longitudinally extended, horizontally- spaced draw bars having first and second ends, each draw bar having a hook-shaped projection at the second end for receiving and engaging the crossbar;
2. a spacer mounted between the projections;
(E) means for detachably connecting the first and second ends of the partial collar to opposite sides of the outer ring; and
(F) manually operable means attached to the fitting engaging assembly for rotation of the pipe fitting and for reciprocative longitudinal movement of the actuator means.
2. The tool of claim 1 in which the means for detachably connecting the first and second ends of the partial collar to opposite sides of the outer ring includes a pair of outwardly directed nibs attached to opposite sides of the outer ring and equidistant from the lugs thereof, and wherein the partial collar has an aperture at each of the first and second ends thereof adapted to receive the nibs.
3. The tool of claim 2 in which the inner ring includes an 


outwardly directed circular flange, and the outer ring includes an inwardly directed circular flange in mating engagement with the flange of the inner ring, the apposing surfaces of the flange of the outer ring and the flange of the inner ring having circular recesses of semicircular cross-section, thereby defining a race, and a plurality of ball bearings inserted in the race.
4. The tool of claim 3 in which the width of the inner ring is greater than the width of the outer ring thereby providing the inner ring with an exposed margin, and the means for attaching the inner ring to the pipe section includes three or more inwardly directed mounting screws inserted through the exposed marginal disk of the inner ring at equal intervals and in threaded engagement therewith.
5. The tool of claim 2 in which the fitting engaging assembly comprises:
(a) a substantially horseshoe-shaped fitting yoke having first and second arcuate portions;
(b) a link chain for wrapping around the circumference of the fitting and having a first end and a second end;
(c) chain tightening means attached to the first end of the chain; and
(d) means for securing the second end of the chain to the second arcuate portion of the yoke.
6. The tool of claim 5 in which the first arcuate end portion of the fitting yoke includes a shoulder having a cylindrical recess forming a seat and an axial bore through the seat, and in which the chain tightening means comprises:
(a) a threaded shank attached to the first end of the chain and inserted through the bore of the seat;
(b) a cylindrical nut mounted in the recess of the first end portion of the yoke and in threaded engagement with the shank, said nut having shallow recesses disposed on opposite sides thereof; and
(c) a vertical twist arm having a pair of horizontal oppositely directed prongs for insertion into the recesses of the cylindrical nut.
7. The tool of claim 1 in which the manually operable means attached to the fitting engaging assembly for rotation of the pipe 


fitting and for reciprocative longitudinal movement of the actuator means comprises:
(a) a pair of horizontally-spaced handle supports having first ends tangentially attached to the yoke and second ends extending outwardly therefrom;
(b) an elongated, outwardly directed handle having inward, intermediate and outward portions, and pivotally mounted at an intermediate portion thereof between the second ends of the supports; and wherein the inward portion of the handle is disposed between the first ends of the draw bars and pivotally mounted to the first ends of the draw bars.
8. A tool for joining a pipe section to a pipe fitting by pulling and holding the pipe section and pipe fitting together, comprising:
(A) a fitting engaging assembly:
(B) a combination pipe engaging and equalizing yoke assembly including:
1. a pipe engaging sub-assembly comprising:
(a) a first semicircular partial collar portion having first and second ends;
(b) a second semicircular partial collar portion contiguous and coaxial to the first partial collar portion, and having tapered first and second ends;
(c) a first link chain for wrapping around the circumference of the pipe section and having a first and second end;
(d) first chain tightening means attached to the first end of the first chain;
(e) means for securing the second end of the first chain to the second end of the second partial collar portion;
2. an equalizing yoke sub-assembly comprising:
(a) a semicircular partial collar having first and second ends and adapted to fit snugly about the first collar portion;
(b) a pair of horizontally-spaced, outwardly- directed lugs attached to a central portion of the partial collar at points equidistant from the first and second ends thereof;
(c) a crossbar mounted between the lugs; 


 (C) actuator means including:
1. a pair of longitudinally extended, horizontally- spaced draw bars having first and second ends, each draw bar having a hook-shaped longitudinal projection at the second end for receiving and engaging the crossbar;
2. a spacer mounted between the projections;
(D) means for detachably connecting the first and second ends of the partial collar of the equalizing yoke sub-assembly to opposite sides of the first partial collar portion thereof; and
(E) manually operable means attached to the fitting engaging assembly for rotation of the fitting and for reciprocative longitudinal movement of the actuator means.
9. The tool of claim 8 in which the manually operable means attached to the fitting engaging assembly for rotation of the fitting and for reciprocative longitudinal movement of the actuator means comprises:
(a) a pair of horizontally-spaced handle supports having first ends tangentially attached to the fitting yoke and second ends extending outwardly therefrom;
(b) an elongated, outwardly-directed handle having inward, intermediate and outer portions, pivotally mounted at an intermediate portion thereof between the second ends of the supports; wherein the inward portion of the handle is disposed between and pivotally mounted to the first ends of the draw bars.
10. The tool of claim 9 in which the means for detachably connecting the first and second ends of the partial collar to the opposite sides of the first partial collar portion includes a pair of outwardly-directed nibs attached to opposite sides of the first partial collar portion and equidistant from the lugs thereof, and the partial collar has an aperture at each of the first and second ends thereof adapted to receive the nibs.
11. The tool of claim 10 in which the fitting engaging assembly comprises:
(a) a substantially horseshoe-shaped fitting yoke having first and second end portions;
(b) a second link chain for wrapping around the circumference of the fitting and having a first and second end; 


 O 94/04307 -1 ,4 
Λ
- PCT/US93/06549
(c) second chain tightening means attached to the first end of the second chain; and
(d) means for securing the second end of the second chain to the second end portion of the fitting yoke.
12. The tool of claim 11 in which the first end pf the first partial collar portion of the pipe engaging sub-assembly includes a shoulder having a cylindrical recess forming a seat and a bore through the seat, and in which the first chain tightening means comprises:
(a) a first threaded shank attached to the first end of the first chain and inserted through the bore of the seat;
(b) a first cylindrical nut mounted in the recess of the first end of the first partial collar portion and in threaded engagement with the shank, said nut having a pair of recesses disposed on opposite sides thereof; and
(c) a second twist arm having a pair of horizontal, oppositely-directed prongs for insertion into the recesses of the second nut.
13. The tool of claim 7 further comprising a combination pipe engaging and equalizing yoke assembly including:
1. a pipe engaging sub-assembly comprising:
(a) a first semicircular partial collar portion having first and second ends;
(b) a second semicircular partial collar portion contiguous and coaxial to the first partial collar portion, and having tapered first and second ends;
(c) a second link chain for wrapping around the circumference of the pipe section and having a first and a second end;
(d) second chain tightening means attached to the first end of the second chain;
(e) means for securing the second end of the second chain to the second end of the second partial collar portion; and
2. an equalizing yoke sub-assembly comprising:
(a) a second semicircular partial collar having first and second ends and adapted to fit snugly about the first collar portion of the pipe engaging sub-assembly;
(b) a second pair of horizontally-spaced, outwardly- 


O 94/04307 — .lb --- PCT/US93/06549
directed lugs attached to a central portion of the partial collar at points equidistant from the first and second ends thereof; and (c) means for detachably connecting the first and second ends of the second partial collar of the equalizing yoke sub- assembly to opposite sides of the first partial collar portion of the pipe engaging sub-assembly.
14. The tool of claim 13 in which the means for detachably connecting the first and second ends of the second partial collar of the equalizing yoke sub-assembly to opposite sides of the first partial collar portion of the pipe engaging sub-assembly includes a pair of outwardly-directed nibs attached to opposite sides of said partial collar portion and equidistant from the lugs thereof, and said partial collar has an aperture at each of the first and second ends thereof adapted to receive said nibs. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
