<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611062</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electromagnetic alignment apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23Q162	B23Q100	G03F720	B23Q125	B25J916	B23Q552	B23Q528	G03F720	B25J916	B23Q100	B23Q522	H01L21027	H01L2102	H01L2167	H01L2168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23Q	B23Q	G03F	B23Q	B25J	B23Q	B23Q	G03F	B25J	B23Q	B23Q	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23Q1	B23Q1	G03F7	B23Q1	B25J9	B23Q5	B23Q5	G03F7	B25J9	B23Q1	B23Q5	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electromagnetic sub-stage (14) and an 
electromagnetic monolithic stage (40) are coupled such that 

one follows the other having a single reference surface 
(42) positioned therebetween. The sub-stage (14) having 

linear motors (16,18) for movement in the X-Y direction is 
mounted by a U bracket (36) to a monolithic stage. The 

monolithic stage (40) is suspended by flat electromagnetic 
coils providing precise motion of the body of the 

monolithic stage in X, Y, Z, and rotation about the Z axis 
or ϑ. Follow control means (66) links or tracks the 

movement of the monolithic stage (40) to the sub-stage (14) 
such that the monolithic stage positioning coils are 

centred in their respective magnetic structure. Adjustable 
mechanical stops (49) attach the monolithic stage in 

combination with air bearings riding on the reference 
surface limit travel of the monolithic stage in the focus 

or Z direction. The single reference surface (42) extends 
over the entire range of motion of the monolithic stage. 

This improves position accuracy, and cleaning and servicing 
of the apparatus. The modular nature of the monolithic 

stage permits easy removal for inspection and repair. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SVG LITHOGRAPHY SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SVG LITHOGRAPHY SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALBURT DANIEL N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNOR GEOFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALBURT, DANIEL N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNOR, GEOFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to an electromagnetic
alignment device for example for use in semiconductor
manufacturing and more particularly to an electromagnetic
wafer stage for aligning and positioning a wafer in a
microlithography system.In the modern manufacture of semiconductor wafers using
microlithography, it is necessary to accurately position and
align semiconductor wafers on which circuit patterns are
formed. As the feature size of the elements reproduced on a
semiconductor wafer become ever smaller, the demands on the
mechanical positioning and aligning of the wafer increase. A
wafer stage used in aligning and positioning a wafer is
disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,952,858 entitled "Microlithographic
Apparatus" issuing August 28, 1990 to Daniel N. Galburt, the
same inventor as the present invention. Therein disclosed is
an electromagnetic alignment apparatus including a monolithic
stage, a sub-stage and an isolated reference structure. Force
actuators are interposed between the monolithic stage and the
sub-stage for suspending and positioning the monolithic stage.
Means for controlling a position of the sub-stage to follow
the approximate position of the monolithic stage is also
disclosed. While the invention disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,952,858
has accomplished its intended purpose, there is an ever
increasing need to provide a wafer stage with better
performance and more accurate and repeatable positioning.
This is especially true in view of the ever decreasing
feature sizes placed on the semiconductor wafers.US-A-5040431 discloses an X-Y stage having a Y stage
between two parallel stationary guides fixed to an upper
surface plate. Actuators drive the Y stage, and an
actuator drives the X stage. A carrying table is placed on
mounting plates having air bearing pads riding on a
reference surface.In accordance with the present invention, we provide
an electromagnetic alignment device comprising:
a base;a sub-stage riding on said base;motor means, coupled to said sub-stage, for
controlling the position of said sub-stage;a monolithic stage;a flat reference surface;suspension means, mounted on said monolithic stage,
for suspending and positioning said monolithic stage over
said flat reference surface;stop means, coupled to said monolithic stage and said
reference surface, for keeping said monolithic stage
within a predetermined distance from said flat reference
surface;sensing means, coupled to said monolithic stage, for
sensing the position of said monolithic stage; andfollow control means, coupled
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus comprising:

a base (10);
a sub-stage (14) riding on said base (10);
motor means (16,18), coupled to said sub-stage (14),
for controlling the position of said sub-stage (14);
a monolithic stage (40) ;
a flat reference surface (42);
suspension means (56,58), mounted on said monolithic
stage (40), for suspending and positioning

said monolithic stage (40) over said flat reference
surface (42);
stop means (49), coupled to said monolithic stage (40)
and said reference surface (42), for keeping said

monolithic stage (40) within a predetermined distance from
said flat reference surface;
sensing means (55), coupled to said monolithic stage
(40), for sensing the position of said monolithic stage

(40); and
follow control means (66), coupled to said sub-stage
(14), said monolithic stage (40), and said sensing means

(55), for controlling the position of said sub-stage (14)
to follow the position of said monolithic stage (40),


characterized in that
 a bracket (36) is attached to said
sub-stage (14) at one end and said monolithic stage (40) at

the other end; and 
in that
 the reference surface (14) is
positioned between said sub-stage (14) and said monolithic

stage (40).
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus as in claim 1,
wherein said stop means includes:


at least one mechanical stop (49) attached to said
monolithic stage (40); and
at least one air bearing (48) attached to said
monolithic stage (40) and riding on said reference surface.
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus as in claim 1
or claim 2, wherein said bracket comprises:

   a U-shaped bracket (36). 
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus as in any of
the preceding claims, wherein said motor means comprises:

   a first linear motor (16) moving in the X direction;
and

   a second linear motor (18) moving in the Y direction.
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus as in any of
the preceding claims, wherein said suspension means

comprises:

   a plurality of electromagnetic coils (56,58).
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus as in claim 5,
wherein said plurality of electromagnetic coils includes:


at least two X direction positioning coils (58);
at least two Y direction positioning coils (56); and
at least four Z direction positioning coils (52).
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus as in any of
the preceding claims, wherein said sensing means includes:


an interferometer detecting X-Y position of said
monolithic stage, including rotation about the Z axis;
a cap gauge (54) detecting the position of said
monolithic stage along the Z axis; and

relative position sensor means, associated with said
sub-stage and said monolithic stage, for detecting the

relative position between said sub-stage and said
monolithic stage.
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus as in any of
the preceding claims, wherein:

the plane formed by said reference surface (42) is
vertical.
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus as in claim 8,
further comprising:


sub-stage counter force means, attached to said sub-stage
(14), for countering the weight of said sub-stage;

and
monolithic counter force means, attached to said
monolithic stage (40), for countering the weight of said

monolithic stage.
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus according to at
least claims 3, 4 and 6 wherein the base (10) has two legs

and a beam extending between the two legs, the X direction
linear motor (16) is mounted on the beam, the sub-stage

(14) is mounted on the beam, the Y direction linear motor
(18) is mounted on a portion of said sub-stage (14), a coil

plate is mounted on the U-shaped bracket (36), the X
direction, Y direction and Z direction electromagnetic

coils are mounted on the coil plate, the monolithic stage
is suspended and positioned by the Y direction coils, X

direction coils, and Z direction coils, a wafer chuck is,
attached to the monolithic stage, the single reference

surface (42) is positioned between said monolithic stage
and said sub-stage, said reference surface being

sufficiently large so as to encompass the entire range of
motion of said sub-stage and said monolithic stage, at

least three air bearings are mounted on the coil plate
positioned to glide along the reference surface, the

sensing means includes X-Y direction position sensing
means, associated with the monolithic stage, for detecting

the X-Y position, including rotation of said monolithic
stage and Z direction sensing means, associated with said

monolithic stage, for detecting displacement between said
reference surface and said monolithic stage; and wherein

   relative position sensor means, associated with said
coil plate and said monolithic body, is provided for

detecting relative position between the coil plate and the
monolithic stage, and wherein the follow control means (66)

is associated with said X direction linear motor, said Y
direction linear motor, said Y direction coils, and said X

direction coils, and said relative position sensor means,
for tracking the position of said monolithic body to keep

said monolithic body in predetermined position relative to
the range of motion of said Y direction coils and said X

direction coils.
An electromagnetic alignment apparatus for use in
semiconductor manufacturing as in claim 10 wherein:
 
   the predetermined position is a position where said Y

direction coils and said X direction coils are centred.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
