<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634083</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AID TO HEARING SPEECH IN A NOISY ENVIRONMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R2500	H04R2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R25	H04R25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUDITORY SYSTEM TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUDITORY SYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRISINA ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULLER LYNN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER KENNETH R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR JAMES C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTON JOSEPH P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRISINA, ROBERT, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULLER, LYNN, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, KENNETH, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, JAMES, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTON, JOSEPH, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLEAID TO HEARING SPEECH IN A NOISY ENVIRONMENTTECHNICAL MELDThe invention relates to the field of audio processing devices for improving intelligibility of speech in noisy environments.BACKGROUNDSpeech intelligibility can be reduced by background noises, which include loud, confusing, or distracting sounds. Hearing impaired persons often have particular difficulty discerning speech in noisy environments, but people without any hearing disorder can experience similar difficulties in environments with high noise levels.Audio processing devices have used a variety of techniques for suppressing unwanted noise. One commonly used technique attenuates large amplitude audio signals for protecting against the reproduction of excessively loud noises. Another technique attenuates low frequencies of sound to help prevent a so-called "upward spread of masking" by low frequency noises, which reduces intelligibility of the higher frequency sounds.For example, U.S. Patent 4,061,875 to Freifeld et al. discloses an audio processor that incorporates an adjustable high pass filter to reduce low frequency noise components of an audio signal. The cut-off frequency of the high pass filter can be adjusted in steps from .25 to 1.5 kilohertz, and the rate of attenuation of the filter (i.e., the roll-off rate) can be adjusted at each cut-off frequency in steps of 6, 12, and 18 decibels per octave. Together, 

these two adjustments are used to discriminate against particular noises.U.S. Patent 4,792,977 to Anderson et al. discloses a hearing aid circuit having a series of state variable filters for controlling frequency response characteristics. The pass band of the filter series can be adjusted to attenuate predetermined low frequencies of noise. The state variable ilters are implemented in an integrated circuit using capacitor loaded operational transconductance amplifiers and include separate external controls for varying respective outputs of a high pass filter, a low pass filter, and a variable slope filter. The high and low pass filters are both fourth order filters (e.g., four pole filters) made up of two cascaded second order filters. The external controls set frequency response characteristics by adjusting the cut-off frequencies of the high and low pass filters without substantially changing the respective shapes ("Q") of their frequency response curves.Although a predetermined amount of attenuation of particular low frequencies of sound can help to prevent certain kinds of noise from masking higher frequencies that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A signal processing circuit for suppressing noise while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising: a detecting circuit for determining an energy level of a noise component of an audio signal; a filtering circuit exhibiting a variable response curve expressible in decibels over a domain of audible frequencies; and a controlling circuit for varying a slope of a portion of the variable response curve as a continuous function of the energy level of the noise component of the audio signal for reducing the noise component of the audio signal without perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels.
2. The circuit of claim 1 in which said filtering circuit separates a band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated from a band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted at a cut-off frequency that is below the range of frequencies conveying the majority of second formant transitions.
3. The circuit of claim 2 in which said cut-off frequency is below 1500 hertz.
4. The circuit of claim 3 in which said controlling circuit provides for varying the slope of the response curve up to a maximum roll-off no greater than 24 decibels per octave.
5. The circuit of claim 2 in which said cut-off frequency remains substantially constant while the slope of the response curve is varied.
6. The circuit of claim 5 in which attenuation throughout the range of frequencies conveying the majority of 


second formant transitions is no greater than 5 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at a maximum roll-off.
7. The circuit of claim 6 in which attenuation at 1000 hertz is no greater than 5 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at the maximum roll-off.
8. The circuit of claim 6 in which attenuation at 250 hertz is at least 35 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at the maximum roll-off.
9. The circuit of claim 2 in which said detecting circuit includes a second filtering circuit having a cut-off frequency that separates the audio signal into a band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a band of high frequencies that are substantially attenuated.
10. The circuit of claim 9 in which said detecting circuit also includes a level detector for determining a magnitude of the audio signal that is transmitted by said second filtering circuit.
11. The circuit of claim 10 in which said cut-off frequency of the second filtering circuit is related to said cut-off frequency of the filtering circuit exhibiting the variable response curve so that the band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the second filtering circuit approximately corresponds to the band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated by the filtering circuit exhibiting the variable response curve.
12. The circuit of claim 1 in which the response curve is defined by at least a fourth order transfer function.
13. The circuit of claim 12 in which said filtering circuit.is constructed from two biquadratic filter structures cascaded together in series. 


 14. The circuit of claim 13 in which a corner frequency representing a zero of the transfer function is movable in response to changes in the energy level of the noise component of the audio signal for varying the slope of the response curve.
15. The circuit of claim 14 in which movement of said corner frequency also changes a maximum attenuation of a portion of the response curve.
16. The circuit of claim 15 in which the transfer function has a constant quality factor.
17. The circuit of claim 1 in which the response curve includes a first corner frequency representing a cut-off frequency from which the slope of the response curve is varied and a second corner frequency from which the slope of the response curve levels off to an approximately zero slope.
18. The circuit of claim 17 in which a range of frequencies just below the second corner frequency is attenuated by a constant amount.
19. An adaptive signal processor for improving speech discernment in a noisy environment comprising: a first filter having a first cut-off frequency that separates an audio signal into a first band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a second band of high frequencies that are substantially attenuated; a level detector for determining a magnitude of the audio signal that is transmitted by the first filter; and a variable second filter having a second cut-off frequency that independently separates the audio signal into a third band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a fourth band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated as a function of the determined magnitude of the audio signal that is transmitted by the first filter. 


 wherein said first filter at least partially attenuates high frequencies of the audio signal just above the second cut-off frequency and at least partially transmits low frequencies of the audio signal just below the second cut-off frequency.
20. The processor of claim 19 in which said first cut-off frequency is related to said second cut-off so that the first band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the first filter approximately corresponds to the fourth band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated by the variable second filter.
21. The processor of claim 20 in which said second cut-off frequency is higher than said first cut-off frequency so that the irst band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the first filter does not include frequencies that are within the third band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the variable second filter.
22. The processor of claim 21 in which said first cut-off frequency is not more than one-half octave lower than said second cut-off frequency so that the fourth band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated by the variable, second filter includes a minimum range of frequencies that are above the irst band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the first filter.
23. The processor of claim 19 in which said first cut-off frequency is above a range of frequencies that convey a majority of first for ants.
24. The processor of claim 23 in which said second cut-off frequency is below a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formants. 


 25. The processor of claim 24 in which said first cut-off frequency is above 600 hertz.
26. The processor of claim 25 in which said second cut-off frequency is below 1500 hertz.
27. The processor of claim 19 in which said first filter attenuates frequencies above said second cut-off frequency at a rate of at least 24 decibels per octave.
28. The processor of claim 19 further comprising filter control logic for varying an overall rate of change in amplitude with respect to a change in frequency of a portion of the fourth band of low frequencies as a continuous function of the determined magnitude of the audio signal transmitted by the first filter.
29. The processor of claim 28 in which said first filter attenuates frequencies above said second cut-off frequency at a rate of at least 24 decibels per octave.
30. The processor of claim 29 in which said first filter and said variable second filter are both fourth order filters.
31. The processor of claim 30 in which said filter control logic provides for varying the overall rate of change in amplitude with respect to the change in frequency up to a maximum roll-off from said second cut-off frequency of no greater than 24 decibels per octave.
32. A method of processing an audio signal for suppressing noise while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising the steps of: determining an energy level of a noise component of the audio signal; 


 filtering the audio signal in accordance with a variable response curve expressible in decibels over a domain of audible frequencies; and varying a slope of a portion of the variable response curve as a continuous function of the determined energy level of the noise component for reducing the noise component without perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels.
33. The method of claim 32 in which said step of filtering includes separating the audio signal into a first band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated and a second band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted at a first cut-off frequency that is below the range of frequencies conveying the majority of second formant transitions.
34. The method of claim 33 in which said step of varying slope includes varying the slope of the response curve up to a maximum roll-off from the first cut-off frequency of no greater than 24 decibels per octave.
35. The method of claim 34 in which said step of varying slope includes limiting attenuation throughout the range of frequencies conveying the majority of second formant transitions to no more than 5 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at maximum roll-off.
36. The method of claim 33 in which said step of determining includes independently separating said audio signal into a third band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a fourth band of high frequencies that are substantially attenuated at a second cut-off frequency.
37. The method of claim 36 in which said step of determining includes detecting a magnitude of the audio 


signal that is transmitted by said step of independently separating the audio signal.
38. The method of claim 37 in which said second cut-off frequency is related to said first cut-off frequency so that the third band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted approximately corresponds to the first band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated.
39. The method of claim 36 in which said second cut-off frequency is above a range of frequencies that convey a majority of first formants.
40. The method of claim 39 in which said second cut-off frequency is above 600 hertz.
41. The method of claim 40 in which said first cut-off frequency is below 1500 hertz.
42. The method of claim 32 in which the variable response curve is defined by a fourth order transfer function.
43. The method of claim 42 in which said step of varying slope includes moving a corner frequency representing a zero of the transfer function as a continuous function of the determined energy level of the noise component.
44. A method of processing an audio signal for improving speech perception in a noisy environment comprising the steps of: separating the audio signal into a first band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a second band of high frequencies that are substantially attenuated at a first cut-off frequency; determining a magnitude of a portion of the audio signal that is transmitted by said step of separating the audio signal as a measure of noise; 


 independently separating the audio signal into a third band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a fourth band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated at a second cut-off frequency; varying the attenuation of the fourth band of frequencies as a function of the determined magnitude of noise; and said step of separating the audio signal into first and second bands includes at least partially attenuating high frequencies of the audio signal just above the second cut-off frequency and at least partially transmitting low frequencies of the audio signal just below the second cut-off frequency.
45. The method of claim 44 in which the first cut-off frequency is related to the second cut-off frequency so that the first band of frequencies approximately corresponds to the fourth band of frequencies.
46. The method of claim 45 in which the first cut-off frequency is not higher than the second cut-off frequency and is not more than one-half octave lower than the second cut-off frequency.
47. The method of claim 44 in which the first cut-off frequency is above a range of frequencies that convey a majority of first formants.
48. The method of claim 47 in which the second cut-off frequency is below a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formants.
49. The method of claim 48 in which the first cut-off frequency is above 600 hertz.
50. The method of claim 49 in which the second cut-off frequency is below 1500 hertz. 


 51. The method of claim 44 in which said second band of frequencies exhibits a roll-off rate above said second cut-off frequency of at least 24 decibels per octave.
52. The method of claim 44 in which said step of varying the audio signal provides for varying an overall rate of change in amplitude with respect to a change in frequency of a portion of the fourth band of frequencies as a continuous function of the determined magnitude of noise.
53. The method of claim 52 in which said step of varying the audio signal provides for varying the overall rate of change in amplitude with respect to the change in frequency up to a maximum roll-off from said second cut-off frequency of no greater than 24 decibels per octave. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 30 June 1993 (30.06.93); original claims 3,20,21,45,46 and 51 cancelled; original claims 1,2,4,5,9, 12,14,17,19,22,27,29,31,32,34,35,42-44 and 53 amended and renumbered, new claim 48 added; other claims unchanged but renumbered (10 pages)]
1. A signal processing circuit for suppressing noise- while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising: a detecting circuit for determining an energy level of a noise component of an audio signal; a filtering circuit exhibiting a variable response curve expressible in decibels over a domain of audible frequencies; a controlling circuit for varying a slope of a portion of the variable response curve as a continuous function of the energy level of the noise component of the audio signal for reducing the noise component of the audio signal without perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels; said portion of the variable response curve within which the slope is varied including frequencies between 250 hertz and 1000 hertz; and attenuation at 1000 hertz being no greater than 5 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at a maximum roll-off.
2. The circuit of claim 1 in which attenuation at 250 hertz is at least 35 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at the maximum roll-off.
3. The circuit of claim 2 in which said controlling circuit provides for varying the slope of the response curve up to a maximum roll-off no greater than 24 decibels per octave.
4. A signal processing circuit for suppressing noise while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising: a detecting circuit for determining an energy level of a noise component of an audio signal; a filtering circuit exhibiting a variable response curve expressible in decibels over a domain of audible frequencies; 


 a controlling circuit for varying a slope of a portion o the variable response curve as a continuous function of the energy level of the noise component of the audio signal for reducing the noise component of the audio signal without perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels; said filtering circuit separating a band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated from a band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted at a cut-off frequency that is below the range of frequencies conveying the majority of second formant transitions; and said cut-off frequency remaining substantially constant while the slope of the response curve is varied.
5. The circuit of claim 4 in which attenuation throughout the range of frequencies conveying the majority of second formant transitions is no greater than 5 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at a maximum roll-off.
6. The circuit of claim 5 in which attenuation at 1000 hertz is no greater than 5 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at the maximum roll-off.
7. The circuit of claim 5 in which attenuation at 250 hertz is at least 35 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at the maximum roll-off.
8. The circuit of claim 4 in which said detecting circuit includes a second filtering circuit having a cut-off frequency that separates the audio signal into a band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a band of high frequencies that are substantially attenuated.
9. The circuit of claim 8 in which said detecting circuit also includes a level detector for determining a magnitude of the audio signal that is transmitted by said second filtering circuit. 


 - 26 -
10. The circuit of claim 9 in which said cut-off frequency of the second filtering circuit is related to said cut-off frequency of the filtering circuit exhibiting the variable response curve so that the band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the second filtering circuit approximately corresponds to the band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated by the filtering circuit exhibiting the variable response curve.
11. A signal processing circuit for suppressing noise while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising: a detecting circuit for determining an energy level of a noise component of an audio signal; a filtering circuit exhibiting a variable response curve expressible in decibels over a domain of audible frequencies; a controlling circuit for varying a slope of a portion of the variable response curve as a continuous function of the energy level of the noise component of the audio signal for reducing the noise component of the audio signal without perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels; the variable response curve being defined by a transfer function; and a corner frequency representing a zero of the transfer . function being movable in response to changes in the energy level of the noise component of the audio signal for varying the slope of the response curve.
12. The circuit of claim 11 in which the response curve is defined by at least a fourth order transfer function.
13. The circuit of claim 12 in which said filtering circuit is constructed from two biquadratic filter structures cascaded together in series. 


 14. The circuit of claim 11 in which movement of said corner frequency also changes a maximum attenuation of a portion of the response curve.
15. The circuit of claim 14 in which the transfer function has a constant quality factor.
16. A signal processing circuit for suppressing noise while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising: a detecting circuit for determining an energy level of a noise component of an audio signal; a filtering circuit exhibiting a variable response curve expressible in decibels over a domain of audible frequencies; a controlling circuit for varying a slope of a portion o the variable response curve as a continuous function of the energy level of the noise component of the audio signal for reducing the noise component of the audio signal without perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels; and the response curve including a first corner frequency representing a cut-off frequency from which the slope of the response curve is varied and a second corner frequency from which the slope of the response curve levels off to an approximately zero slope.
17. The circuit of claim 16 in which a range of frequencies just below the second corner frequency is attenuated by a constant amount.
18. An adaptive signal processor for improving speech discernment in a noisy environment comprising: a first filter having a first cut-off frequency that separates an audio signal into a first band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a second band of high frequencies that are substantially attenuated; a level detector for determining a magnitude of the audi signal that is transmitted by the first filter; 


 a variable second filter having a second cut-off frequency that independently separates the audio signal into a third band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a fourth band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated as a function of the determined magnitude of the audio signal that is transmitted by the first filter; said second cut-off frequency being higher than said first cut-off frequency; and said first filter being arranged for attenuating frequencies above said second cut-off frequency at a rate of a least 24 decibels per octave so that the first band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the first ilter does not include frequencies that are within the third band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the variable second filter.
19. The processor of claim 18 in which said first cut-off frequency is not more than one-half octave lower than said second cut-off frequency so that the fourth band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated by the variable second filter includes a minimum range of frequencies that are above the first band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted by the first filter.
20. The processor of claim 18 in which said first cut-off frequency is above a range of frequencies that convey majority of first formants.
21. The processor of claim 20 in which said second cut-off frequency is below a range of frequencies that convey majority of second formants.
22. The processor of claim 21 in which said first cut-off frequency is above 600 hertz.
23. The processor of claim 22 in which said second cut-off frequency is below 1500 hertz. 


 24. The processor of claim 18 further comprising filte control logic for varying an overall rate of change in amplitude with respect to a change in frequency of a portion the fourth band of low frequencies as a continuous function o the determined magnitude of the audio signal transmitted by t first filter.
25. The processor of claim 24 in which said filter control logic provides for varying the overall rate of change in amplitude with respect to the change in frequency up to a maximum roll-off from said second cut-off frequency of no greater than 24 decibels per octave.
26. The processor of claim 25 in which attenuation at 1000 hertz is no greater than 5 decibels when the overall rat of change in amplitude with respect to the change in frequenc is at the maximum roll-off.
27. The processor of claim 26 in which attenuation at 250 hertz is at least 35 decibels when the overall rate of change in amplitude with respect to the change in frequency is at the maximum roll-off.
28. The processor of claim 27 in which said first filte and said variable second filter are both fourth order filters.
29. A method of processing an audio signal for suppressing noise while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising the steps of: determining an energy level of a noise component of the audio signal; filtering the audio signal in accordance with a variable response curve expressible in decibels over a domain of audibl frequencies; 


 varying a slope of a portion of the variable response curve as a continuous function of the determined energy level of the noise component for reducing the noise component without perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels; and limiting attenuation of the audio signal at 1000 hertz to no greater than 5 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at a maximum roll-off.
30. The method of claim 29 in which said step of filtering includes separating the audio signal into a first band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated and a second band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted at a first cut-off frequency that is below the range of frequencies conveying the majority of second formant transitions.
31. The method of claim 30 in which the maximum roll-off from the first cut-off frequency is no greater than 24 decibels per octave.
32. The method of claim 30 including a further step of attenuating the audio signal at 250 hertz by at least 35 decibels when the slope of the response curve is at the maximum roll-off.
33. The method of claim 30 in which said step of determining includes independently separating said audio signal into a third band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a fourth band of high frequencies that are substantially attenuated at a second cut-off frequency.
34. The method of claim 33 in which said step of determining includes detecting a magnitude of the audio signal that is transmitted by said step of independently separating the audio signal. 


 35. The method of claim 34 in which said second cut-off frequency is related to said first cut-off frequency so that the third band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted approximately corresponds to the first band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated.
36. The method of claim 33 in which said second cut-off frequency is above a range of frequencies that convey a majority of first formants.
37. The method of claim 36 in which said second cut-off frequency is above 600 hertz.
38. The method of claim 37 in which said first cut-off frequency is below 1500 hertz.
39. The method of claim 30 in which said step of varyin the slope includes maintaining the cut-off frequency substantially constant while the slope of the response curve i varied.
40. A method of processing an audio signal for suppressing noise while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising the steps of: determining an energy level of a noise component of the audio signal; filtering the audio signal in accordance with a variable response curve expressible as a transfer function in decibels over a domain of audible frequencies; varying a slope of a portion of the variable response curve as a continuous function of the determined energy level of the noise component for reducing the noise component withou perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels; and said step of varying slope including moving a corner frequency representing a zero of the transfer function as a continuous function of the determined energy level of the nois component. 


 41. A method of processing an audio signal for improvin speech perception in a noisy environment comprising the steps of: separating the audio signal into a first band of low frequencies that are substantially transmitted and a second band of high frequencies that are substantially attenuated at first cut-off frequency; determining a magnitude of a portion of the audio signal that is transmitted by said step of separating the audio signa as a measure of noise; independently separating the audio signal into a third band of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted an a fourth band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated at a second cut-off frequency; setting the first cut-off frequency not higher than the second cut-off frequency; attenuating said second band of frequencies above said second cut-off frequency at a roll-off rate of at least 24 decibels per octave; and varying the attenuation of the fourth band of frequencie as a function of the determined magnitude of noise.
42. The method of claim 41 in which the first cut-off frequency is above a range of frequencies that convey a majority of first formants.
43. The method of claim 42 in which the second cut-off frequency is below a range of frequencies that convey a majority of second formants.
44. The method of claim 43 in which the first cut-off frequency is above 600 hertz.
45. The method of claim 44 in which the second cut-off frequency is below 1500 hertz. 


 46. The method of claim 41 in which said step of varyin the audio signal provides for varying an overall rate of chang in amplitude with respect to a change in frequency of a portio of the fourth band of frequencies as a continuous function of the determined magnitude of noise.
47. The method of claim 46 in which said step of varyin the slope includes maintaining the second cut-off frequency substantially constant while varying the overall rate of chang in amplitude with respect to the change in frequency of the portion of the fourth band of frequencies.
48. A method of processing an audio signal for suppressing noise while preserving distinctive features of speech comprising the steps of: determining an energy level of a noise component of the audio signal; filtering the audio signal in accordance with a variable response curve expressible in decibles over a domain of audibl frequencies; separating the audio signal into a first band of low frequencies that are substantially attenuated and a second ban of high frequencies that are substantially transmitted at a cut-off frequency that is below the range of frequencies conveying a majority of second formant transitions between consonants and vowels; varying a slope of a portion of the variable response curve as a continuous function of the determined energy level of the noise component for reducing the noise component withou perceptively attenuating a range of frequencies that convey th majority of second formant transitions; and maintaining the cut-off frequency substantially constant while the slope of the response curve is being varied. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
