<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637162</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Duplex document handler and image forming apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N100	B65H2960	B65H8302	B65H526	H04N100	G03G1500	G03G1500	B65H526	B65H2960	B65H8300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	B65H	B65H	B65H	H04N	G03G	G03G	B65H	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	B65H29	B65H83	B65H5	H04N1	G03G15	G03G15	B65H5	B65H29	B65H83	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A duplex document handler feeds document sheets from a 
document sheet supply to a stationary exposure position through which 

the document sheets are moved for scanning by a linear CCD array. 
Duplex document sheets are fed from the exposure station into a loop, 

leading edge first, and returned, still leading edge first, to the exposure 
for exposure of the opposite side of the sheet. The document sheets 

are moved in opposite directions through the exposure station for 
exposure of the two sides. The loop is the size to receive either one 

large, for example, ledger sized document, or two smaller, for 
example, letter or legal sized document sheets, before receipt of further 

document sheets. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWNICZAK GARY PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWNICZAK, GARY PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a duplex document handler particularly
usable as part of a document scanner. It also relates to an image
forming apparatus which includes a scanner having a duplex document
handler.U.S. Patent No. 4,884,097 to Giannetti et al, issued November
28, 1989, shows a duplex document handler in which a stack of
original document sheets is positioned facedown in a supply tray to
one side of a scanning position. Duplex sheets are fed off the bottom
of the stack past an exposure station which is backed by a turnover
drum. As one side is being exposed, the sheet is moved around the
turnover drum and into an inverting path to a reversing location
generally above the supply tray. As the trailing edge of the sheet
moves past the turnover drum into the reversing location, the trailing
edge is sensed and the movement of the sheet reversed to bring the
opposite side of the sheet past the exposure station. The turnover drum
then moves the sheet back through the reversing location and into a
duplex exit tray positioned generally above the supply tray. Simplex
documents are fed off the bottom of the stack, past the exposure station
and into a simplex exit tray positioned opposite the supply tray from
the exposure station.This particular document handler is presently used commercially
as part of an electronic scanner. The scanner, in turn, is part of an
electronic copier which produces copies of the original from an
electronic signal created by the scanner. The duplex document handler
shown in the Giannetti et al patent has been commercially successful,
scanning simplex documents at a speed of 70 images per minute. This
invention is an improvement in this apparatus.U.S. Patent No. 4,712,906, granted to Bothner et al December
15, 1987, shows a color image forming apparatus, usable with the
Giannetti duplex document handler, with a transfer device that
transfers letter sized color images in pairs and ledger sized color
images one at a time.U.S. Patent No. 4,140,387, granted February 20, 1979 to
Gustafson, shows a duplex recirculating document feeder for an optical 
copier. A stack of duplex original sheets are fed one after another
from the bottom through a single inversion to an exposure platen
where they are stopped for exposure. The sheets are then fed through
an inverting path which includes a change in direction of the sheets
and back to the platen where the sheet is, again, stopped for exposure
of the opposite side. The sheet is returned to the top of the stack for
recirculation through an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A duplex document handler for moving each side of a
document sheet past a stationary scanning station (16), comprising:


supply means (22) for receiving at least one document
sheet;
first means (24) for feeding the document sheet from
said supply means (22) along a supply path, through said

scanning station (16) with a first side of the document sheet
facing in a scanning orientation to scan the first side of the

document sheet;
second means (26, 28, 36) for feeding the document

sheet, leading edge first, from said scanning station (16),
through an inverting loop (36), wherein said second means

for feeding (22, 38, 36) includes means for feeding the
document sheet from the inverting loop (36), back to said

scanning station (16) and through said scanning station (16),
leading edge first, with a second side of the document sheet

opposite the first side facing in the scanning orientation to
scan the second side of the document sheet, said document

sheet moving through said scanning station (16) when
scanning the second side of the document sheet, in a

direction opposite the movement of the document sheet when
scanning the first side; and
means (33, 19, 18) for electronically scanning
whichever side of the document sheet is facing in the

scanning orientation as the document sheet moves through
the scanning station (16), and wherein said handler is

equipped to receive both large size document sheets and
smaller size document sheets characterized in that said loop

(36) is of a size to receive said large size document sheet
with the leading edge of said document sheet not being

returned to the scanning station (16) before the trailing edge
of the document sheet leaves the scanning station and said

handler includes logic and control (100) responsive to an
input indicating that said supply means (22) contains duplex

document sheets of said smaller size for feeding a second
document sheet to said scanning station (16) immediately

after feeding of a first document sheet and for delaying the
feeding of a third document sheet to provide time for 

scanning of both sides of the first and second document
sheets.
A duplex document handler according to claim 1 wherein said
scanning station (16) includes reversible means (26, 28, 32) for feeding

the document sheet in both first and second opposite directions through
the scanning station (16).
A duplex document handler according to claim 2 wherein said
scanning station includes a transparent plate (30), a pair of feed rollers

(26, 28) on each side of said plate (30) and reversible means (32) for
driving said feed rollers.
A duplex document handler according to claim 1 wherein said
scanning means includes a linear CCD array (19) and means (18) for

projecting a moving image from said scanning station (16) to said CCD
array.
A duplex document handler according to claim 1 wherein said
logic and control (100) includes means responsive to an input that large

size document sheets are in said supply means for delaying feeding a
second document sheet for sufficient time to permit exposure of both

sides of a first document sheet before arrival of the second document
sheet at the scanning station.
Image forming apparatus including means (40) for forming
images one after another on receiving sheets from electronic signals

containing image information, means for presenting both sides of a
receiving sheet to the image forming means to form duplex images on

the receiving sheets, a scanner including the duplex document handler of
claim 1 and logic and control for controlling the image forming apparatus

to provide duplex output corresponding to images on duplex document
sheets handled by said duplex document handler,

said handler including logic and control (100) responsive to an input
indicating that said supply means (22) contains duplex document sheets

of said smaller size for feeding a second document sheet to said
scanning station (16) immediately after feeding of a first document sheet

and for delaying the feeding of a third document sheet to provide time for
scanning of both sides of the first and second document sheets.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
