<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648403</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GRAY-SCALE STEPPED RAMP GENERATOR WITH INDIVIDUAL STEP CORRECTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G320	G09G320	G09G330	G09G330	H05B3302	H05B3308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	H05B33	H05B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Pixel luminance of an electroluminescent display panel (22) is controlled by a row driver (24) applying a voltage equal to the panel's threshold voltage, and column drivers (26) applying the voltage value above the threshold voltage to bring the pixel (30) to the desired luminance. Each column driver (26) independently samples a stepped ramp voltage signal at its own predetermined time selected as a function of the desired luminance. Each column driver (26) then holds the sampled voltage value, and applies to its corresponding column electrode at the appropriate time a voltage equal to the sampled voltage value. The voltage rate of change of each individual step of the stepped ramped voltage signal can be controlled to vary the luminance levels, and to uniformly separate each of the luminance levels.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONGray-Scale Stepped Ramp Generator With Individual Step CorrectionCross Reference to Related ApplicationsThis application contains subject matter related to commonly assigned co-pending application. Attorney Docket N-1204, Serial Number 07/906,605, entitled "Symmetric Drive for an Electroluminescent Display Panel" filed even date herewith.Technical FieldThis invention relates to drive circuits for an AC thin film electroluminescent display panels, and more particularly to an improved gray-scale stepped ramp generator for such drive circuits.Background ArtThe operation of an AC thin film electroluminescent (TFEL) display panel is based on the principle that a luminescent material (e.g., phosphor) will emit light when a voltage of sufficient magnitude is applied across it. The TFEL display is typically constructed with luminescent material sandwiched between a plurality of row electrodes on one side, and a plurality of column electrodes on the opposite side. Each intersection of the plurality of row and column electrodes defines a pixel. A typical high resolution TFEL display panel may have 512 row electrodes and 640 column electrodes, resulting in 327,680 pixels. Commonly assigned U.S. patent application. Serial Number 07/897,210, Attorney Docket Number R-3612N, entitled "Low Resistance, 

Thermally Stable Electrode Structure for Electroluminescent Displays" filed June 11, 1992, discloses the construction of a TFEL display panel. The luminance of each pixel in the panel is dependent upon the magnitude of the voltage applied across the particular row and column electrode which define the pixel. As a result of this relationship, gray scaling can be achieved by controlling the magnitude of the voltage across the pixel. As an example, each pixel may display one of sixteen luminance levels depending on the magnitude of the voltage applied across the pixel. The magnitude of the minimum voltage required across the pixel before the electroluminescent material will display light is often referred to as the threshold voltage.Referring to Fig. 1, a thin film electroluminescent (TFEL) display panel system 20 includes a TFEL display panel 22, a plurality of row drivers 24, a plurality of column drivers 26, and a ramp voltage generator 28. A well known method for scanning, often referred to as a row-at-a-time drive scheme places a voltage value equal to the threshold voltage (e.g. , -160 vdc or 220 vdc) on the row electrode associated with the particular row to be updated, and applies to the column
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An electroluminescent display panel gray scale drive circuit which generates a stepped ramp voltage signal for controlling the separation of possible luminance levels across a pixel, comprising: a row driver; a column driver which combines with said row driver to provide a variable voltage value across the pixel, and is responsive to the stepped ramp voltage signal, for sampling the stepped ramp voltage signal at a predetermined variable time, for holding a sampled voltage signal value indicative of the sampled value of the stepped ramp signal, and for applying said sampled voltage signal value to a column electrode to achieve the desired pixel luminance; a stepped ramp voltage generator for generating said stepped ramp voltage signal value, comprising means for generating a predetermined pattern of digital data on a plurality of data lines; means for converting said predetermined pattern of digital data to an analog signal value; and means for integrating over time said analog signal value to provide said stepped ramp voltage signal value.
2. An electroluminescent display panel drive circuit which generates a stepped ramp voltage waveform signal for controlling the separation between a plurality of pixel luminance levels, comprising: first driver means, for applying to a display panel electrode a voltage signal value substantially equal to the threshold voltage of the electroluminescent display panel; second driver means, responsive to a stepped ramp voltage signal value, for combining with said first 


driver means to provide a voltage of a certain value across a certain display panel pixel to achieve a desire luminance, for sampling said stepped ramp voltage waveform at a predetermined time, for holding a sampled voltage signal value of the ramp voltage waveform, and for applying said sampled voltage signal value to a corresponding pixel electrode to achieve the desired pixel luminance; and means for generating said stepped ramp voltage signal value by generating a predetermined pattern of digital data on a plurality of data lines, for convertin said predetermined pattern of digital data to an analog signal value and providing an analog signal value indicative thereof, and for integrating over time said analog signal value to provide said stepped ramp voltage signal value. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
