<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642442</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VARIABLE STRETCH DETACKIFICATION ADHESIVE TAPE UNITIZER SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B1102	B65B1102	B65B1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B11	B65B11	B65B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dispenser apparatus comprised of a stretchable adhesive tape (30) which is detackified when stretched longitudinally. The tape is advanced through a stretching station (40) to an array of articles to be unitized (24). Tension rollers (45, 46, 47) are utilized on either side of the stretching station to ensure that the tape advances evenly and does not recoil. The dispenser apparatus also includes a first prime mover (48b) which advances the tape through the tension rollers and stretching station at a rate which ensures proper stretching (at predetermined intervals) and proper feeding of the tape to the array of boxed items. A controller simultaneously controls the z-axis motion of the dispenser and rotation of the articles to be unitized. Therefore, both the number of wraps about the articles and the location of the wraps between the base of the articles and the top of the articles may be controlled.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBOT AIDED MANUFACTURING CENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBOT AIDED MANUFACTURING CENTER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAHLANDER ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARROLL DAVID W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONNELLY CRAIG S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUNG THOMAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHALSKI DANIEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMACIER JAMES D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWARTZ MARK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAHLANDER, ROBERT, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARROLL, DAVID, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONNELLY, CRAIG, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUNG, THOMAS, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHALSKI, DANIEL, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMACIER, JAMES, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWARTZ, MARK, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VARIABLE STRETCH DETACKIFICATIONADHESIVE TAPE UNITIZER SYSTEMField of the Invention This invention relates generally to a dispenser system and more specifically to an apparatus for unitizing a plurality of articles utilizing a variable stretch detackification adhesive tape.Background of the Invention In manufacturing and other settings, crated and boxed items are typically grouped together in a stacked arrangement to facilitate handling, storage, loading and shipping. However, as a consequence of placing the plurality of boxed items in stacked arrangement upon one another, the boxes must be secured in order to remain in place in the stack. The securing process is oftentimes referred to as "unitizing." A common form of unitizing includes the boxed items being placed upon a pallet (i.e., the boxed items are "palletized"). As those skilled in the art will appreciate, the boxed items are generally placed in a cube or other rectangular prism arrangement, with a plurality of boxes forming each of the several sides, top, and bottom. Accordingly, a typical stack of boxes may be considered a three dimensional array of boxes of 1 x m x n (in describing the present invention, an [x, y, z] Cartesian coordinate system will be discussed below, wherein 1 and m are variables which lie in a plane above and parallel to the x-y plane and n describes the height z above the x-y plane) .It will be immediately appreciated that numerous factors contribute to the stability (both vertical and lateral) of the array of boxes. The requirement for the lateral stability is increased as the unitized stack is moved from one location to another. For example, the stacking strength of a load of boxed items depends on the pattern or layout of each tier. In many instances a column stack yields the greatest vertical strength, but has little lateral stability . Other interlocking 

patterns increase lateral strength, at the expense of vertical strength, and may also improve the space utilization of the pallet. The balancing of these several factors (i.e., vertical strength, lateral stability, and space utilization) tends to produce a wide variety of pallet patterns depending on the type and size of the boxed items being unitized.Since lateral stability is oftentimes sacrificed for optimization of space utilization and/or vertical stability, virtually every array requires some sort of restraining device. Previously, several methods have been utilized to unitize palletized arrays.One example of a prior method comprised placing a net type
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An apparatus for unitizing a plurality of articles, comprising:
(a) means for holding a supply of stretch detackification adhesive tape, the tape having a leading end, and wherein the adhesive of the tape is detackified when said tape is stretched, said detackification being defined as the adhesive of the tape being reduced to an approximate level where it does not damage the surface of the articles to which it is applied;
(b) dispenser means including:
(A) means for feeding the tape through said dispenser means from said supply of tape to an outlet; (B) means for stretching the tape, wherein the tape is detackified when stretched by said stretching means while retaining the structural integrity of the tape backing, whereby the tape may be delivered continuously to said output; and
(C) means for selectively activating said stretching means for detackifying the tape at predetermined intervals from the leading edge of the tape; wherein the tape may be wrapped about the articles upon movement of the tape about and vertically relative to the articles, whereby a unitizing pattern of the tape is created about the articles with predetermined portions of the wrap pattern including detackified tape.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said stretching means includes a first stretching zone having first and second tape engagement surfaces which frictionally engage the tape, which move at disparate speeds relative to one another to stretch the tape, and wherein the tape is not stretched between said stretching means and said holding means. 


 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said first and second tape engagement surfaces are curvilinear.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said first and second tape engagement surfaces are circular, are of approximately equal diameter, and which rotate at differing speeds when the tape is being stretched.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said first and second tape engagement surfaces are circular, are of differing diameter, and which rotate at approximately equal speeds when the tape is being stretched.
6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said stretching means includes a second stretching zone which is located between said outlet and said first stretching zone, said second stretching zone stretching the tape to a desired final stretch percentage, wherein the tape is stretched by different percentages in said first stretching zone and said second stretching zone, and wherein said first and second tape engagement surfaces are cooperatively connected to said selective activation means so as to be selectively powered to stretch the tape or free wheeling to allow the tape to remain unstretched.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
(a) turntable means for rotating the plurality of articles to be unitized; and
(b) vertical movement means, cooperatively connected to said dispenser means, for moving said dispenser apparatus vertically relative to the articles.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said selective activating means includes a controller device operatively connected to said turntable means and said 


vertical movement means for coordinating the rotation of the articles and vertical movement of said dispenser means, wherein predetermined patterns may be automatically formed by the tape to unitize the articles.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said controller device further includes first sensor means for determining the vertical height of said dispenser apparatus relative to the articles and second sensor means for determining the location of the articles on said turntable means.
10. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said stretching means includes a first clutch and a second clutch each having shafts operatively connected to said first and second tape engagement surfaces respectively, wherein said first and second tape engagement surfaces freewheel when said clutches are in a first state, and said wheels are constrained to move at disparate speeds when said clutches are in a second state.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein a controller device is operatively connected to said clutches so as to shift said clutches between said first and second states, wherein the portions of the tape that are stretched may be controlled by said controller device.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said dispenser means is oriented such that said leading edge of the tape requires an approximately ninety (90) degree twist from said outlet to lie flat against the surface of the articles to be unitized, whereby the tape tends to lie flat and resist folding over on itself when applied to the articles.
13. A unitizing apparatus comprising: 


 (a) means for carrying an array of articles to be unitized;
(b) a supply of stretchable adhesive tape, said tape being of the type which progressively detackifies when stretched;
(c) support means for carrying said supply of stretched adhesive tape;
(d) stretching means, arranged and configured to threadably receive said tape from said dispenser means, for stretching said tape at predetermined intervals along its longitudinal axis, said stretching means including first and second tape translation means for translating said tape at disparate speeds at predetermined times, wherein said tape is selectively stretched between said first and second tape translation means during the unitizing process;
(e) means for creating relative rotation between said stretching means and said array carrying means, whereby the array to be taped rotates relative to said stretching means;
(f) elevation means, cooperatively connected to said stretching means, for elevating said stretching means in a predetermined manner relative to the array, wherein said tape is stretched prior to being applied about the array except at desired locations.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising processor means for simultaneously controlling said stretching means, said means for creating said relative rotation, and said elevation means in a predetermined manner.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said stretching means includes a second tape stretching zone comprising a third tape translation means for translating the tape at a disparate speed relative to said second tape translation means, wherein the 


resultant desired final stretch percentage of the tape is achieved while maintaining the structural integrity of the tape.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said stretching means includes a first and second clutch having shafts which are cooperatively connected to said first and second tape engagement surfaces respectively, and wherein said first and second tape engagement surfaces freewheel when said clutches are in a first state, and said wheels are constrained to move at disparate speeds when said clutches are in a second state.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a controller device, cooperatively connected to said clutches, for controlling said state of said clutches, wherein the amount that the tape is stretched may be controlled by said controller device.
18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said stretching means is oriented such that the tape requires about a ninety (90) degree twist between said stretching means and the articles in order to lie flat against the surface of the articles.
19. An apparatus for unitizing a plurality of articles that are arranged in one or more tiers with a variable stretch dependant adhesive tape, comprising: (a) means for holding a supply of variable stretch dependant pressure-sensitive adhesive tape having (1) a backing having a Young's modulus of at least about 2500 psi but less than about 100,000 psi, a lengthwise elongation at break of at least about 150%, and low recovery, and (2) the backing bearing a layer of pressure-sensitive adhesive thereon, wherein the adhesive detackifies upon longitudinal elongation of the 


backing;
(b) means for feeding the tape between said holding means and an outlet proximate the articles;
(c) means for stretching the tape between said holding means and said outlet by entraining the tape over at least two tape engagement roller surfaces, wherein the tape is frictionally engaged and is stretched between said two surfaces when said surfaces move at a disparate speed relative to one another at predetermined times and wherein the tape remains unstretched between said holding means and said stretching means, wherein the tape may be applied to the articles in a v itizing pattern in either a stretched or unstretched state, while minimizing the amount of surface area of the articles which is covered by an adhesive;
(d) turntable means for rotating the plurality of articles to be unitized about a z-axis, said z-axis being defined as an axis which is normal to a mean plane formed by said trrntable means;
(e) vertical movement means for moving the apparatus vertically relative to the articles; and
(f) controller mean
e
-, operatively connected to said turntable means and sai ertical movement means for coordinating the rotation of the articles and vertical movement of the apparatus, wherein predetermined patterns may be formed with the tape to unitize the articles.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said stretching means d ludes a first and second clutches having shafts coo, .atively connected to one of said engagement surfaces, wherein said first and second engagement surfaces freewheel when said clutches are in a first state, and are constrained to move at disparate speeds when said clutches are in a second state. 


 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein when the tape exits said outlet it is oriented so as to require about a ninety (90) degree twist to lie flat against the surface of the articles to be unitized, whereby the tape tends to resist folding over on itself.
22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein stretched portions of the tape are stretched to a final ratio of about 7:1 by said stretching means.
23. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein stretched portions of the tape are stretched to a ratio of about 6:1 by said first stretching zone and to a ratio of about 1.167:1 by said second stretching zone, wherein a final stretching ratio of about 7:1 results.
24. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein stretched portions of the tape are stretched to a final ratio of about 7:1 by said stretching means.
25. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein stretched portions of the tape are stretched to a ratio of about 6:1 by said first stretching zone and to a ratio of about 1.167:1 by said second stretching zone, wherein a final stretching ratio of about 7:1 results.
26. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein stretched portions of the tape are stretched to a final ratio of about 7:1 by said stretching means.
27. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
(a) second tape holding means for holding a second supply of stretch detackification adhesive tape, the second tape having a leading end, and wherein the adhesive of the second tape is detackified when the second tape is stretched;
(b) second dispenser means including: 


 (A) second feeding means for feeding the second tape through said dispenser means from said second supply of tape to an outlet;
(B) second stretching means for stretching the second tape, wherein the second tape is detackified when stretched by said second stretching means while retaining the structural integrity of the second tape backing, whereby the second tape may be delivered continuously to said output; and
(c) wherein the second tape may be wrapped about the articles upon movement of the second tape about and vertically relative to the articles, whereby a unitizing pattern of the second tape is created about the articles with predetermined portions of the wrap pattern including detackified tape.
28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the second tape is wrapped at an elevation on the articles which is higher than the elevation on the articles at which the first tape is wrapped, whereby the articles can be wrapped more quickly.
29. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a take-up reel located proximate said outlet, said take-up reel having prime mover means for rotating said take-up reel, wherein predetermined lengths of stretched and unstretched tape may be wound upon said take-up reel for later manual application to unitize the articles.
30. A unitizing apparatus comprising:
(a) means for carrying an array of articles to be unitized;
(b) supply means for carrying a supply of stretchable adhesive tape, the tape being of the type which progressively detackifies when stretched;
(c) stretching means, arranged and configured to 


threadably receive the tape from said dispenser means, for automatically stretching the tape at predetermined intervals along its longitudinal axis, said stretching means including first, second, and third tape translation means for translating the tape at disparate speeds at predetermined times to stretch the tape, said disparate speeds occurring between said first and second tape translation means forming a first stretching zone, and said second and third tape translation means forming a second stretching zone and wherein said stretching means further comprises a plurality of clutches for creating said disparate speeds, whereby when said clutches are engaged said first and second tape translation means are powered and when said clutches are not engaged said first and second tape translation means free wheel;
(d) means for creating relative rotation between said stretching means and said array carrying means, whereby the array to be taped rotates relative to said stretching means;
(e) elevation means, cooperatively connected to said stretching means, for elevating said stretching means in a predetermined manner relative to the array, wherein the tape is stretched prior to being applied about the array except at desired locations.
31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein for stretched intervals of tape, the resultant desired final stretch percentage of the tape is achieved while maintaining the structural integrity of the tape, and wherein the tape is stretched to a ratio of about 6:1 by said first stretching zone and to a ratio of about 1.167:1 by said second stretching zone, resulting in a final stretching ratio of about 7:1.
32. A method for unitizing a plurality of articles, comprising the steps of: 


 (a) rotatably mounting a supply of stretch detackification adhesive tape, wherein the adhesive of the tape is detackified when said tape is stretched, said detackification being defined as the adhesive of the tape being reduced to an approximate level where it does not damage the surface of the articles to which it is applied;
(b) feeding the tape through a dispenser which transports the tape from the supply to a dispenser outlet;
(c) selectively stretching the tape in the dispenser by frictionally entraining the tape over a plurality of rotating curvilinear surfaces which either freewheel or are constrained to rotate at a predetermined rate, wherein when said curvilinear surfaces are rotated at said predetermined rate said curvilinear surfaces have a differing circumferential velocity with respect to one another thereby stretching the tape lying therebetween, and whereby predetermined lengths of stretched and unstretched tape may be automatically and continuously delivered to the output.
33. The method of claim 32, further comprising the following step: winding the tape about a take-up reel located proximate the outlet.
34. The method of claim 33, further comprising the following steps:
(a) rotatably mounting said take-up reel onto a hand-held device; and
(b) moving said take-up reel about the articles while imparting up and down movements with said take-up reel so as to form a wrap pattern, whereby the articles are unitized.
35. The method of claim 32, further comprising the steps of: 


 (a) rotating the plurality of articles to be unitized about a z-axis on a turntable, said z-axis being defined as an axis which is normal to a mean plane formed by said turntable; and (b) moving said dispenser vertically relative to the articles.
36. The method of claim 35, further comprising the following step: coordinating the rotation of the articles and the vertical movement of the apparatus, wherein predetermined wrap patterns may be formed with the tape to unitize the articles.
37. The method of claim 32, wherein said stretching step includes selectively engaging a clutch which is operatively connected to at least one of said curvilinear surfaces about which the tape is entrained, wherein said curvilinear surfaces to which said clutch is connected freewheel when said clutch is in a first state, and the tape is not stretched, and said curvilinear surfaces to which said clutch is connected are constrained to move at disparate speeds in order to stretch the tape lying therebetween when said clutch is in a second state.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein said stretching step includes use of two stretching zones by including first, second and third curvilinear surfaces, wherein the area between said first and said second curvilinear surfaces comprise a first stretching zone and the area between said second and said third curvilinear surfaces comprise a second stretching zone.
39. The method of claim 37, wherein said stretching step results in the tape being stretched to a final ratio of about 7:1 in those lengths which are stretched. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
