<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638203</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOS GATED THYRISTOR HAVING ON-STATE CURRENT SATURATION CAPABILITY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2966	H01L29739	H01L2974	H01L29745	H01L29749	H01L2978	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An emitter switched thyristor structure (100') providing on-state current saturation capability is disclosed herein. The thyristor structure includes anode (192') and cathode (196') electrodes, and a remote electrode (234') connected to the cathode electrode. A multi-layer body of semiconductor material (110') has a first surface (140') and includes regenerative (114') and non-regenerative (166') portions each operatively coupled between the anode and cathode electrodes. The regenerative portion includes adjacent first (116'), second (120'), third (130', 150') and fourth (158') regions of alternating conductivity type arranged respectively in series, wherein the remote electrode is in electrical contact with the second region and the anode electrode is in electrical contact with the fourth region. The emitter-switched thyristor is turned on by applying an enabling voltage to an insulated gate electrode (202', 216') disposed adjacent the first surface such that a conductive channel is created in the non-regenerative portion via modulation of the conductivity therein.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV NORTH CAROLINA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALIGA BANTVAL JAYANT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEKAR MALLIKARJUNASWAMY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALIGA, BANTVAL, JAYANT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEKAR, MALLIKARJUNASWAMY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MOS GATED THYRISTOR HAVING ON-STATE CURRENT SATURATION CAPABILITYThe present invention relates generally to the field of four-layer, latching semiconductor devices, and particularly to methods for controlling the conduction characteristics of such devices by modulating the voltage applied to the gate electrode of a MOSFET portion of the device.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe development of power MOSFETs was at least in part motivated by the objective of reducing the control current required by power bipolar devices during forced turn-off. In bipolar devices the injection of minority carriers into their drift region reduces the resistance to forward current flow. These devices are capable of operation at appreciable current densities, but are relatively inefficient as a consequence of the large currents required during device turn-on and turn-off.In contrast, the gate structure of the power MOSFET has a very high steady-state impedance. This allows control of the device by a voltage source, since only relatively small gate drive currents are required to charge and discharge the input gate capacitance. Unfortunately, the ease of gating the power MOSFET is offset by its high on-state resistance arising from the absence of minority carrier injection. Hence, a combination of low-resistance bipolar-type current conduction with MOS gate control would provide the desired features of high operating forward current density and low gate drive power. 

Referring to the cross-sectional illustration of Fig. 1 , a device known as an insulated gate bipolar transistor (IGBT) illustrates one approach to combining these features. In this type of structure most of the forward current flow occurs between the emitter and collector terminals of the vertical PNP bipolar transistor portion of the device. The on-state losses of the IGBT at high voltages are significantly less than those of power MOSFET's due to the injection of minority carriers (electrons) into the N-base drift region.As shown in Fig. 2, a regenerative device known as MOS-controlled thyristor (MCT) exhibits less forward voltage drop than does the IGBT. This P-N-P-N structure can be regarded as two transistors - an upper NPN transistor and a lower PNP transistor- that are internally connected in such a fashion as to obtain regenerative feedback between each other. Specifically, a thyristor may be considered as a combination of PNP and NPN bipolar transistors connected such that the base of each is driven by the collector current of the other. Once the thyristor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A semiconductor thyristor device comprising: a substrate having a drift region extending in a longitudinal direction, a floating emitter region, a base region adjacent said drift region and said floating emitter region, and an anode region adjacent a portion of said drift region distal said base region; a cathode region comprising a P-well adjacent said drift region and an N-region in said P-well, said P-well merging with said base region in a plane transverse to said longitudinal direction; a cathode electrode coupled to said cathode region; an anode electrode coupled to said anode region; and an insulated gate forming a MOS transistor connecting said cathode electrode to said drift region when said first MOS transistor is enabled; wherein a current path from said anode to said cathode is formed by said
MOS transistor during operation in a regenerative mode, said regenerative operation being precipitated by application of an enabling voltage to said insulated gate, and wherein, when a non-enabling voltage is applied to said MOS transistor said current path is extinguished and any charges remaining in said base region flow through said P-well to said cathode electrode.
2. The semiconductor device of Claim 1 wherein said insulated gate includes: a thin oxide layer adjacent said cathode region, a thick oxide layer adjacent said floating emitter region, and a gate electrode in contact with said thick and thin oxide layers.
3. The semiconductor device of Claim 2 wherein a portion of said current path comprises a conductive channel underlying said thin oxide layer, said channel becoming pinched-off during operation in said regenerative mode when a saturation-mode control voltage is applied to said first insulated gate; whereby pinch-off of said conductive channel allows current flow through said cathode electrode to be controlled by modulating said saturation-mode control voltage applied to said gate electrode. 


4. The semiconductor device of Claim 2 wherein conductivity of a portion of said drift region interposed between said floating emitter and cathode regions is modulated when said thyristor is operative in a regenerative mode; whereby said conductivity-modulated portion of said drift region serves to control resistance between said anode and cathode electrodes during operation in said regenerative mode.
5. The semiconductor device of Claim 4 wherein said thick and thin oxide layers both overlap said conductivity-modulated portion of said drift region.
6. A semiconductor thyristor device comprising: a substrate forming a drift region, a floating emitter region, a base region adjacent said drift region and said floating emitter region, and an anode region adjacent a portion of said drift region distal said base region; a cathode region comprising a P-well adjacent said drift region and an
N-region in said P-well; a first cathode electrode coupled to said cathode region; an anode electrode coupled to said anode region; an insulated gate forming a MOS transistor connecting said first cathode electrode to said drift region when said MOS transistor is enabled; and a remote cathode electrode, electrically coupled to said first cathode electrode and to said base region, for collecting charge carriers from said base region; wherein a current path from said anode region to said cathode region is formed by said MOS transistor during operation in a regenerative mode, said regenerative operation being precipitated by application of an enabling voltage to said insulated gate, and wherein, when a non-enabling voltage is applied to said insulated gate said current path is extinguished and any charges remaining in said base region are collected by said remote electrode.
7. The semiconductor device of Claim 6 wherein said insulated gate includes: a thin oxide layer adjacent said cathode region, a thick oxide layer adjacent said floating emitter region, and 


 a gate electrode in contact with said thick and thin oxide layers.
8. The semiconductor device of Claim 7 wherein a portion of said current path comprises a conductive channel underlying said thin oxide layer, said channel becoming pinched-off during operation in said regenerative mode when a saturation-mode control voltage is applied to said gate electrode; whereby pinch-off of said conductive channel allows current flow through said cathode electrode to be controlled by modulating voltage applied to said gate electrode.
9. The semiconductor device of Claim 8 wherein conductivity of a portion of said drift region inteφosed between said floating emitter and cathode regions is modulated when said thyristor is operative in a regenerative mode; whereby said conductivity-modulated portion of said drift region serves to control resistance between said anode and cathode electrodes during operation in said regenerative mode.
10. The semiconductor device of Claim 9 wherein said thick and thin oxide layers both overlap said conductivity-modulated portion of said drift region.
11. A semiconductor thyristor device comprising: anode and cathode electrodes; a remote electrode electrically coupled to said cathode electrode; a multi-layer body of semiconductor material having a first surface and including a regenerative portion and a non-regenerative portion each operatively coupled between said anode and cathode electrodes, said regenerative portion including adjacent first, second, third and fourth regions of alternating conductivity type arranged respectively in series, wherein said remote electrode is in electrical contact with said second region and said anode electrode is in electrical contact with said fourth region; and an insulated gate electrode disposed adjacent said first surface for modulating electrical conductivity within said non-regenerative portion in order to turn said device on upon application of an enabling voltage to said gate 


electrode, and for modulating electrical conductivity within said third region of said regenerative portion and within said non-regenerative portion in order to turn said device off upon application of a non-enabling voltage to said gate electrode; wherein any charges remaining in said second region of said regenerative portion are collected by said remote electrode subsequent to said application of said non-enabling voltage to said gate electrode.
12. The semiconductor device of Claim 11 wherein said third region separates said second region and said non-regenerative portion adjacent said insulated gate electrode.
13. The semiconductor device of Claim 12 wherein said non-regenerative portion includes a cathode region having a P-well adjacent said drift region and an N-region in said P-well, said cathode electrode being connected to said P-well and to said N-region.
14. The semiconductor device of Claim 13 wherein a conductive channel is created in said P-well adjacent a thin oxide portion of said insulated gate upon application of an enabling voltage thereto, said conductive channel becoming pinched off upon application of a saturation voltage to said insulated gate.
15. A semiconductor thyristor device comprising: anode and cathode electrodes; a remote electrode; a multi-layer body of semiconductor material having a first surface and including a regenerative portion and a non-regenerative portion each operatively coupled between said anode and cathode electrodes, said regenerative portion including adjacent first, second, third and fourth regions of alternating conductivity type arranged respectively in series wherein said remote electrode is in electrical contact with said second region and said anode electrode is in electrical contact with said fourth region; 


 an insulated gate foπning a MOS transistor adjacent said first surface connecting said cathode electrode to said third region when said MOS transistor is enabled; and a remote cathode electrode, electrically coupled to said first cathode electrode and to said second region, for collecting charge carriers from said second region; wherein a current path from said anode to said cathode is formed by said MOS transistor during operation in a regenerative mode, said regenerative operation being precipitated by application of an enabling voltage to said insulated gate, and wherein, when a non-enabling voltage is applied to said MOS transistor said current path is extinguished and any charges remaining in said base region flow through said P-well to said cathode electrode. 


AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 8 September 1993 (08.09.93); original claims 1,4,5,9 and 10 amended; other claims unchanged (6 pages)]
1. A semiconductor thyristor device comprising: a substrate having a drift region extending in a iongitudinai direction, a floating emitter region contiguous to said drift region, a base region adjacent said drift region and said floating emitter region, and an anode region adjacent a portion of said drift region distal said base region, said base region being doped with P-type dopants to a first level of dopant concentration; a cathode region comprising a P-well adjacent said drift region and an N-region in said P-well, said P-well being doped with P-type dopants to a second level of dopant concentration and merging with said base region In a plane transverse to said longitudinal direction; wherein said second level of dopant concentration exceeds said first level of dopant concentration; a cathode electrode coupled to said cathode region and separated by said cathode region from said floating emitter region; an anode electrode coupled to said anode region; and an insulated gate forming a MOS transistor connecting said cathode electrode to said drift region when said MOS transistor is enabled; wherein a current path from said anode to said cathode is formed by said
MOS transistor during regenerative operation in a regenerative mode, said regenerative operation being precipitated by application of an enabling vcitage to said insulated gate, and wherein, when a non-enabling voltage is applied to said MOS transistor said current path is extinguished and any charges remaining in said base region flow through said P-well to said cathode electrode.
2. The semiconductor device of Claim 1 wherein said insulated gate includes: a gate electrode, a thin oxiαe layer interposed between said gate electrode and said cathode region, and a thick oxide layer Interposed between said gate electrode and said floating emitter region. 


3. The semiconductor device of Claim 2 wherein a portion of said current path comprises a conductive channel underlying said thin oxide layer, said channel becoming pinched-off during operation in said regenerative mode when a saturation-mode control voltage is applied to said first insulated gate, said semiconductor device further inciuding means for modulating said saturation-mode control voltage applied to said gate electrode so as to control current flow through said cathode electrode during pinch-off of said conductive channel.
4. The semiconductor device of Claim 2 wherein conductivity of a first portion of said drift region interposed between said floating emitter and cathode regions is modulated when said thyristor is operative in a regenerative mode; whereby said first portion of said drift region serves to control resistance between said anode and cathode electrodes during operation in said regenerative mode.
5. The semiconductor device of Claim 4 wherein said thick and thin oxide layers both overlap said first portion of said drift region.
6. A semiconductor thyristor device comprising: a substrate forming a drift region, a floating emitter region contiguous to said drift region, a base region doped with P-type dopants to a first level of dopant concentration, said base region being formed adjacent said drift region and said floating emitter region, and an anode region adjacent a portion of said drift region distal said base region; a cathode region comprising a P-v/eli adjacent said drift region and an
N-region in said P-well, said P-weli being doped with P-type dopants to a second level of dopant concentration; wherein said second level of dopant concentration exceeds said first level of dopant concentration; a first cathode electrode coupled to said cathode region; an anode electrode coupled to said anode region; 


 an insulated gate forming a MOS transistor connecting said first cathode electrode to said drift region when said MOS transistor is enabled; and a remote cathode electrode, electrically coupled to said first cathode electrode and to said base region, for collecting charge carriers from said base region; wherein a current path from said anode region to said cathode region is formed by said MOS transistor during operation in a regenerative mode, said regenerative operation being precipitated by application of an enabling voltage to said insulated gate, and wherein, when a non-enabling voltage is applied to said insulated gate said current path is extinguished and any charges remaining in said base region are collected by said remote electrode.
7. The semiconductor device of Claim 6 wherein said Insulated gate includes: a gate electrode, a thin oxide layer interposed between said gate electrode and said cathode region, and a thick oxide layer interposed between said gate electrode and said floating emitter region.
8. The semiconductor device of Claim 7 wherein a portion of said current path comprises a conductive channel unαerlying said thin oxide layer, said channel becoming pinched-off during operation in said regenerative mode when a saturation-mode control voltage is applied to said gate electrode, said semiconductor device further inciuding means for modulating voltage applied to said gate electrode so as to control current flew through said cathode electrode during pinch-off of said conductive channel.
9. The semiconductor device of Claim 3 further including means for modulating conductivity cf a first portion of said drift region inteφosed between said floating emitter and cathode regions so as to control resistance between said anode and cathode electrodes when said thyristor is operative in said regenerative mode; 


 whereby said conductivity-modulated portion of said drift region serves to control resistance between said anode and cathode electrodes during operation in said regenerative mode],
10. The semiconductor device of Claim 9 wherein said thick and thin oxide layers both overlap seid first portion of said drift region.
11. A semiconductor thyristor device comprising: anode and cathode electrodes; a remote electrode electrically coupled to said cathode electrode; a multi-layer body of semiconductor material having a first surface and including a regenerative portion and a non-regenerative portion each operatively coupied between said anode and cathode electrodes, said regenerative portion including adjacent first, second, third and fourth regions of alternating conductivity type arranged respectively in series wherein said first region of said regenerative portion is contiguous to said third region, and wherein said remote electrode is in electrical contact with said second region and is separated from said first region thereby, and wherein said anode electrode is in electrical contact with said fourth region; and an insulated gate electrode disposed adjacent said first surface for modulating electrical conductivity within said non-regenerative portion in order to turn said device on upon application of an enabling voitage to said gate electrode, and for modulating electrical conductivity within said third region of said regenerative portlcn and within said non-regenerative portion in order to turn said device off upon application of a non-enabling voitage to said gate electrode; wherein any charges remaining in said second region of said regenerative portion are collected by said remote electrode subsequent to said application of said non-enabling voltage to said gate electrode. 



12. The semiconductor device of Claim .1 wherein said third region separates said second region and said non-regenerative portion adjacent said insulated gate electrode.
13. The semiconductor device of Claim 12 wherein said non-regenerative portion includes a cathode region having a P-well adjacent said drift region and an N-region in said P-well, said cathode electrode being connected to said P-well and to said N-region.
14. The semiconductor device of Claim 13 wherein a conouciive channel is created in said P-well adjacent a thin oxide portion of said insulated gate upon application of an enabling voitage thereto, said conductive channel becoming pinched off upon application of a saturation voltage to said insulated gate.
15. A semiconductor thy ristor device comprising: anode and cathode electrodes; a remote electrode; a multi-layer body of semiconductor material having a first surface and including a regenerative portion and a non-regenerative portion each operatively coupled between said anode and cathode electrodes, said regenerative portion including adjacent first, second, third and fourth regions of alternating conductivity type arranged respectively in series wherein said first region of said regenerative portion is contiguous to said third region, and wherein said remote electrode is in electrical contact with said second region and said anode eiectrode Is in electrical contact with said fourth region; an insulated gate forming a MOS transistor adjacent said first surface connecting said cathode electrooe to said third region when said MOS transistor is enabled; and a remote cathode electrode, electrically coupled to said first cathode electrode andto said second region, said remote electrode being separated from said first region of said regenerative portion by said second region, for collecting charge carriers from said second region; 


 wherem a current path from said anode to said cathode is formed by said MOS transistor during operation in a regenerative mode, said regenerative operation being precipitated by application of an enabling voltage to said insulated gate, and wherein, when a non-enabling voltage is applied to said MOS transistor said current path is extinguished and any charges remaining in said base region flow through said P-well to said cathode electrode. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
