<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631512</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEDICAL VALVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M5168	A61M5168	A61M532	A61M532	A61M3900	A61M3900	A61M3902	A61M3904	A61M3926	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M39	A61M39	A61M39	A61M39	A61M39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A medical valve has a cannula (40) mounted on a hub (42) fixed in a fluid conduit. The cannula points upstream. An elastomeric valve element (56) is mounted on the valve hub within the conduit so as to enclose the cannula. The valve elements has a first solid frustoconical portion (64) upstream of the cannula point, a second hollow frustoconical portion (80) within which the cannula point is disposed, and a third hollow cylindrical portion (68) surrounding the cannula downstream from its point and fixed to the hub. The second portion has a frustoconical interior passageway tapering inwardly from the first portion toward the hub. A supplementary metallic frustoconical sleeve (78) is fixed within the second element interior so as to open outwardly toward the first element and enclose the cannula point.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARE MEDICAL DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARE MEDICAL DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONALDO JEAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONALDO, JEAN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MEDICAL VALVEBackground of the InventionField of the Invention;The present invention relates to a valve for medical5. use in a fluid conduit to prevent the back-flow of blood or other fluid upstream of the valve and is particularly adapted for use in multiple inlet connectors such as Y- side ports.Description of the Prior Art; 0 U.S. Patent No. 4,512,766, issued April 23, 1985 toVincent L. Vailancourt, discloses a valve mechanism for catheter use to avoid fluid backflow, including an elastomeric self-sealing valve element which may be pierced by an external needle used to insert a catheter. In an 5 alternate embodiment, the valve element is pre-slit and is opened by an internal insert tube when the valve element is compressed by an external adaptor fitted, for example, on a medication administration set.Summary of the Invention 0 According to the present invention, a valve for medical usage within a rigid fluid conduit has, as a first component, a hub fixed within the conduit so as to hold a cannula so that the cannula lumen opens onto a point which points away from the hub and, as a second component, an 5 elongated flexible valve element having a first solid frustoconical portion which tapers from a base which forms an internal seal at the conduit to a top, a second hollow valve portion element which is at least in part frustoconical with its base formed on a first element top 0 so as to continue the frustoconical taper, and a third portion which is cylindrical and connected to the second portion so as to extend away from said second portion and 

terminate in a valve outlet, the first, second, and third portions being axially aligned with one another, and in which the third portion '"has a longitudinal passage extending therethrough so as to be in direct communication with and axially aligned with the interior of the second portion, the second portion interior being generally frustoconical so as to open outwardly between the third portion and the first portion, and within which a rigid supplementary frustoconical sleeve is disposed so as also to open outwardly between the third portion and the first portion, and in which the third portion is attached to the hub so that the valve first and second portions normally enclose the cannula and the valve third portion forms an internal seal of the conduit at the conduit inlet by extending slightly beyond the conduit inlet.Brief Description of the DrawingThe medical valve of the present invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawing, in which like
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A medical valve for use in a conduit comprising: a hub; means for fixing said hub within the conduit so as to hold a cannula with a point within the conduit with its point pointing in a first direction; an elongated flexible valve element having: a first portion which is solid and is generally frustoconical along at least a major part of its length and tapers from a base forming a first end of the element to a top; a second portion which is hollow and is generally frustoconical along at least a major part of its length and is axially aligned with the first portion so as to taper from a second portion base coincident with the first portion top to a second portion top; and a third portion which is hollow and is generally cylindrical along at least a major part of its length and is axially aligned with the second portion and extending from said second portion top away from said first portion to a valve element second end opposite said first end, the third portion having a longitudinal passageway extending between the second end and the second portion and in which said second portion has a longitudinal passageway extending therethrough in direct communication with and axially aligned with said third portion passageway, said second portion passageway being generally frustoconical over at least a substantial part of its length so as to open outwardly from the third portion toward the first portion and contain said cannula point; and means for attaching the valve to the hub so that the valve element is disposed in the conduit and the third valve portion normally closes the conduit.
2. A medical valve according to Claim 1, and including a supplementary frustoconical sleeve disposed within the frustoconical interior of the second valve 


portion passageway so as to open outwardly away from the third valve portion toward the first valve portion.
3. A medical valve according to Claim 2, and in which the valve is attached to the hub adjacent the third valve element second end.
4. A medical valve according to Claim 3, and in which the valve element is attached to the hub by the engagement of the valve element second end with an annular recess formed on the hub. 5. In a medical connector having a connector body with an outlet arm having an outlet and at least one inlet arm having an inlet, and in which the inlet arm and the outlet arm each have a passage extending therethrough in communication with one another to provide a fluid passageway between the inlet and the outlet, the combination of: a hub fixed within the inlet arm passage so as to hold a cannula within the inlet arm so that the cannula is aligned to point away from the outlet; an elongated flexible valve element having: a first portion which is solid and generally frustoconical in shape over at least the majority of its length so as to taper from a base of a first diameter to a top of a second diameter, smaller than said first diameter, a second portion which is hollow and generally frustoconical over at least the majority of its length and having a base of said second diameter formed at said first portion top and axially aligned with said first portion so as to taper away from said first portion base to a second portion top of a third diameter, smaller than said second diameter; and a third portion which is generally cylindrical along at least the majority of its length and is connected to said second portion top so as to extend away from said second portion to a valve outlet end, said first, second, and third portions being axially aligned 


with on another; and in which the third portion has a longitudinal passage extending therethrough of a fourth diameter and said second portion has a longitudinal passage extending therethrough so as to be in direct communication with and axially aligned with said third portion passage, said second portion passage being generally frustoconical over a substantial part of its length so as to open, outwardly between said third portion passage and the top of the first portion in axial alignment with said third portion passage; a rigid frustoconical sleeve disposed within the second portion passageway so as to open outwardly between the third portion and the first portion and enclose one end of the cannula; and means for attaching the valve to the hub so that the valve normally seals the inlet.
6. A connector according to Claim, and in which the means for attaching the valve element to the hub includes the outlet end. 7. A connector according to Claim 6, and in which the outlet end engages an annular recess formed on the hub.
8. A connector according to any of Claim 5, 6, or 7, and in which the first valve portion extends at least to the inlet arm inlet. 9. A connector according to Claim 8, and including a second inlet arm attached to the connector body and having a passageway therethrough which joins the fluid passageway downstream of the hub.
10. In a Y-side port type medical connector having a connector body with at least one inlet arm with an inlet passage terminating in an inlet and an outlet arm with an outlet passage terminating in an outlet, and in which the inlet arm passage is of generally circular cross-section over the majority of its length and extends from the inlet through the inlet arm so as to be in fluid communication with the outlet passage, the combination of: a hub fixed within the inlet arm passage so 


as to hold a cannula within the inlet arm, the cannula thereby being axially aligned with the inlet arm, the cannula having a lumen which opens onto a point which points away from the outlet arm; an elongated valve element having: a first portion which is generally frustoconical in shape and tapers from a base which is solid and of a first diameter to a top which is solid and of a second diameter, smaller than said first diameter, a second portion which is generally frustoconical in shape over the majority of its length and tapers from a base at the top of the first portion of said second diameter to a second portion top of a third diameter, smaller than said second diameter; and a third portion disposed on said second portion top so as to extend away from said second portion and which is generally cylindrical with an outer diameter which is not substantially greater than the third diameter, said first, second and third portion being axially aligned with one another; and in which the third portion has a longitudinal passage extending therethrough and said second portion has a longitudinal passage formed therein which is at least in part frustoconical in shape and is in direct communication and axially aligned with said third portion passage so that said frustoconical part opens outwardly between said third portion and the top of the first portion; a frustoconical metallic sleeve disposed within the frustoconical part of the second portion passage in axial alignment therewith so as to open outwardly between the third portion and the first portion, said metallic sleeve having an outer surface generally continuously in shape to the frustoconical part of the second portion passage; and means for attaching the valve to the hub so that the valve element third portion normally seals the inlet arm passage at the inlet.
11. A connector according to Claim 10, and in which 


the valve element second portion frustoconical passage terminates in a shoulder adjacent said valve element third portion, against which shoulder the sleeve is seated.
12. A connector according to Claims 10 or 11, and in which the valve element first portion extends at least slightly externally at the inlet arm inlet.
13. A connector according to Claim 12, and in which the means for attaching the valve element to the hub includes an end of the valve element third portion remote from the valve element second portion.
14. A connector according to Claim 13, and in which the valve element third portion remote end engages an annular recess formed on the hub.
15. A connector according to Claim 14, and including at least one additional inlet arm attached to the connector body and having an inlet passage which joins the outlet passage upstream of the outlet and downstream of the hub. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
