<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623203</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BY-PASS MANIFOLD VALVE SYSTEM FOR CHARGING, REPAIRING AND/OR TESTING REFRIGERANT SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25B4100	F25B4100	F25B4500	F25B4500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25B	F25B	F25B	F25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25B41	F25B41	F25B45	F25B45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Two alternative embodiments (Figs. 1 and Figs. 5) of a double, by-pass valve system for a closed refrigerant type system allowing its safe servicing, the first being included in the original manufacturing of the compressor unit in the refrigerant exit line of the compressor (Fig. 4) and the second installed as a retro-fit on the compressor unit and provided "in-line" in the liquid refrigerant line. The first includes a block having two valves (1, 2) and a port (5) with an internal, transverse passageway (3). The second uses two, structurally independent, spaced valves (26 and 27) connected by a "tee" to the refrigerant liquid line, forming a by-pass between the two valves. Also taught are methods for entering a closed system for testing, charging and exiting it, vacuum processing to vaccum the entire system and either the high or low sides of it simultaneously, and for the storage and transfer of the system refrigerant.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUBBELL PAUL J JR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUBBELL STEVEN J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLLUTION REDUCTION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUBBELL, PAUL J., JR.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUBBELL, STEVEN J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLLUTION REDUCTION, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUBBELL PAUL J JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUBBELL, PAUL, J., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BY-PASS MANIFOLD VALVE SYSTEM FOR CHARGING, REPAIRING AND/OR TESTING REFRIGERANT SYSTEMSThe present invention relates to a closed refrigera¬ tion system and more particularly to adding or including a by-pass system therefor. In a first, exemplary embodiment the by-pass system includes valved fittings having two capped, threaded stems extending from, for example, two parallel, elongated manifolds intersected by a transverse manifold, typically at a ninety (90°) degree angle, upstream from the liquid shut-off valve and shut-off seat of the main flow valve of the refrigeration system. The present invention also relates to associated methods for servicing, installing, testing or vacuuming the system and/or removing, storing or adding fluid refrigerant to the system.In the context of this specification the phrases "refrigerating system, " "refrigeration system" or "refrig- erant system," as used herein, relates to the current and future, state-of-the-art systems that use compressible evaporative refrigerants to transfer heat, e. g. , refrigera¬ tors, freezers, chillers and other air conditioning units, including residential, commercial, automotive and other mobile types.The maintenance of such systems requires that the refrigerant system be tested and additional refrigerant fluid be added thereto if the fluid contained in the system 

is below a predetermined pressure. Also, the refrigerant must sometimes be removed from the system in order to effect repairs, and the system must then be recharged.Installation, maintenance, testing and/or repairs of such pressurized systems and the infusion of additional refrigerant fluids to said systems require that a valve device or means be installed in the system to accomplish such work without the evaporative fluid in the enclosed space escaping from the system in order that the work can be performed in a safe, economical, efficient and environ¬ mentally protective manner.The present invention, termed the "Hubbell-Double"™ valve, provides a means to accomplish the aforesaid purposes that is simple to install in a refrigerating system and is simple to construct and inexpensive to manufacture.Background ArtMany refrigeration and air conditioning systems, especially residential and mobile systems, have threaded fittings in which a threaded check valve core is installed to provide access to the system. Such threaded check valves are of the type commonly used in automobile tire valve stems and are often referred to as "Schrader" type (depressing) valve cores. Most have no
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. In a closed refrigerant type system including a comdenser, an evaporator coil and a high pressure liquid refrigerant line between the condenser and the evaporator coil through which compressible evaporative refrigerant flows between the condenser and the evaporator coil, the improvement of enhancing the servicing of the refrigerant system comprising: a double valve manifold sub-system installed in the high pressure line between the condenser and the evaporator coil and having -
- a first manually operated shut-off valve (1/26) , with open and closed dispositions, a second manually operated shut-off valve (2/27) , with open and closed dispositions, a by-pass passageway (3, 28/29/9) , including a proximal end and a distal end portion, extending be¬ tween and interconnecting said first and said second manually operated valves, with said proximal end con¬ nected to said first valves, and said second valve connected to said distal end portion of said passageway, and - a port (5, 31) connected to said distal end portion of said 


 passageway, further downstream than said second manually operated valve, allowing all of the refrigerant from the condenser to flow through the high pressure line potentially to the evapora¬ tor coil and not through said port when said first valve is in its open disposition and said second valve is in its closed disposition, but causing any refrigerant from the condenser to flow through said by-pass passageway out said port into an outside line connected to said port and not through said high pressure line when said first valve is in its closed disposition and said second valve is in its open disposition. . The improvement of Claim 1 wherein neither of said first and second valves nor said port include a Shrader- type valve.
3. The improvement of Claim 1 wherein said valves and said port each have an internal back-side, and wherein there is further included: a basic manifold body with an internal bore (3) , with said first and second valves and said port extending out from said basic manifold body, with the internal back¬ sides of said valves in communication with said bore and with the internal side of said port being in communication with said bore when said second valve is open, and with said bore forming at least in part said passageway.
4. The improvement of Claim 3, wherein said basic body has inner and outer sides, and wherein there is further included: 


 an inlet stub (8) and an outer stub (4) extending out from said basic body past said inner and said outer sides, respectively, with said inlet stub connected in line with an upstream end of said high pressure line and said outlet stub connected to a downstream end of said high pressure line, said outlet stub being connected to said passageway through said first valve and being in communica¬ tion with it when said first valve is opened, interconnect¬ ing the upstream and the downstream ends of said high pressure line.
5. The improvement of Claim 1, wherein at least said second valve and said port have male threaded outer ends, and wherein there is further included: a set of at least three, female threaded caps, with each one being threadingly engageable with a respec¬ tive one of said male threaded outer ends, closing its respective end off.
6. The improvement of Claim 1, wherein said first and said second valves are separated from each other with an interconnecting section of the main line between them (Fig. 5) and said second valve and said port each have an internal back-side, and wherein there is further included: a basic manifold body with an internal bore (28) , with said second valve and said port extending out from said basic manifold body, with the internal back-side of said second valve in communication with said bore, and with the internal back-side of said port being in communication with said bore when said second valve is open, and with 


said bore and the interconnecting section of the main line in combination forming at least in part said passageway.
7. A method of enhancing the servicing of a closed refrigerant type system including a condenser, an evapora¬ tor coil, and a high pressure liquid refrigerant line between the condenser and the evaporator coil through which compressible evaporative refrigerant flows between the condenser and evaporator coil, comprising the following step: installing in the high pressure line between the condenser and the evaporator coil a double valve manifold system having -
- a first manually operated shut-off valve (1/26) with open and closed dispositions,
- a second manually operated shut-off valve (2/27) , with open and closed dispositions, - a by-pass passageway (3, 28/29/9), in¬ cluding a proximal end and a distal end portion, extending between and interconnecting said first and said second manually operated valves, with said proximal end connected to said first valve, and said second valve connected to said distal end portion of said passageway, and
- a port (5, 31) connected to said distal end portion of said passageway, further down¬ stream than said second manually operated valve, allowing all of the refrigerant from the condenser to flow through the high pressure line potentially to the evapora- 


tor coil and not through said port when said first valve is in its open disposition and said second valve is in its closed disposition, but causing any refrigerant from the condenser to flow through said by-pass passageway out said port into an outside line connected to said port and not through said high pressure line when said first valve is in its closed disposition and said second valve is in its open disposition.
8. The method of Claim 7, wherein there is included the further sub-step of: incorporating said valves and said port into a basic manifold body with an internal bore (3/Fig. 1) , with said first and said second valves and said port extending out from said basic manifold body, with the internal back¬ side of said valves in communication with said bore and with the internal back-side of said port being in communi¬ cation with said bore when said second valve is open, and with said bore forming at least in part said passageway. 

9. The method of Claim 7, wherein there is included the further sub-steps of: separating said first and said second valves from each other with an interconnecting section of the main line between them (Fig. 5) ; and incorporating said second valve and said port into a basic manifold body with an internal bore (28) , with said second valve and said port extending out from said basic manifold body, with the internal back-side of said second valve in communication with said bore, and with the internal back-side of said port being in communication with said bore when said second valve is open, and with said bore and the interconnecting section of the main line in combination forming at least in part said passageway.
10. A device containing a double valve manifold with a by-pass of the shut-off valve in the main flow refriger¬ ant line between the condenser and evaporator coils of a closed refrigeration system, comprising: a longitudinal main flow manifold containing a manually operated shut-off valve through which compressible evaporative refrigerants flow between the condenser and evaporator coils of a closed refrigeration system and having an en- trance and exit to a passageway for the flow of said refrigerant through the said manifold; and further comprising, a second longitudinal manifold containing a manually operated shut-off valve that is gener- 


 ally parallel to the said firstly described main flow manifold and shut-off valve with an exter¬ nal threaded access port thereon, without a Schrader valve core therein, extending from said second longitudinal manifold, and a transverse tubular manifold between the first and secondly described lon¬ gitudinal manifold valves, on a gener¬ ally ninety degree angle, which inter¬ sects the first and secondly described manifold valves on the upstream side of the seat thereof, which provides a means to infuse in and to extract refrigerants from a closed refrigeration system through the threaded access port of the sec¬ ondly described manifold, and then through the tubular transverse mani¬ fold, intersecting the first and sec¬ ondly described manifolds, into the firstly described manifold, upstream of the seat of its shut-off valve, allowing a by-pass of the main flow shut-off valve. 11. In a refrigerant system having a condenser and evaporator coils operating in a generally closed refrigera¬ tion system and having a main flow refrigerant line for 


transferring refrigerant between the condenser and the evaporator coils, the improvement comprising: a by-pass valve sub-system included in-line between the condenser and the evaporator coils, compris¬ ing -
- two, independent, valve manifolds serving as a by-pass of the main shut-off valve, including
-- a first, longitudinal, highpressure refrigerant line manifold containing a first, manually operated shut-off valve having a seat through which compressible evaporative refrigerants can flow between the condenser and evaporator coils of a closed refrigeration system and having an entrance and exit to a passageway for the flow of the refrigerant through it, and
-- a second longitudinal manifold containing a second, manually operated shut-off valve having a seat and being operationally parallel to said first shut-off valve, and further having an access port thereon, without a Schrader valve core therein, extending from said second manifold; and - a "T" in the high pressure refrigerant line, said "T" connecting the refrigerant line to said first and second valve manifolds on the upstream sides of the valve seats thereof, providing a means to infuse in and to extract refrigerants from a closed refrigeration system through said access port of said second manifold, and then 



through the "T", allowing a by-pass of the high pressure refrigerant line shut-off valve.
12. A method of entering, for testing and charging, and exiting a closed refrigeration or air conditioning system having a compressor, a condenser on the high pressure side of the compressor, an evaporator on the low pressure side of the compressor, and a double valve manifold on the refrigerant liquid line connected with a by-pass tubular connection on the upstream side of the valve seats thereof, comprising the steps of: a) when entering the system, while the unit is in operation, attach high pressure gauge hose to the access port of the by-pass manifold valve, the low pressure gauge hose to the suction port valve, the gauge manifold adapter hose to the refrigerant source and the second adapter hose to the vacuum tank, and, with liquid line shut- off valve in open position, open the charging port valve to read the high side pressure of the system, and b) in exiting the system, with the unit in operation or when it is idle, close the access port valve and, with the drum valve closed, open the high side gauge valve first and then the low side gauge valve to induce the refrigerant back into the low side of the system; then secure, in normal operating position, both charging port valves to a closed position and 


 then "bleed" the gauge hoses into the vacuum tank.
13. A method of executing a vacuum process of a closed refrigeration or air conditioning system having a compressor, a condenser on the high pressure side of the compressor, an evaporator on the low pressure side of the compressor and a double valve manifold on the refrigerant liquid line connected with a by-pass tubular connection thereof on the upstream side of the valve seats, comprising the steps of: a. with the main flow liquid line valve in the normal open position with the unit off and the system minus refrig¬ erant, attach high pressure gauge hose to the access port of the by-pass manifold valve, the low pressure gauge hose to the suction port valve, the gauge manifold adapter hose to the refrigerant source drum and the second adapter hose to the vacuum pump, and, with liquid line shut-off valve in open position, open the suction charg¬ ing port valve to read the vacuum, and b. with the liquid line access port valve open and the suction charging port valves opened, vacuum the lines, and c. to vacuum the condensing unit side only, with the charging hose connected 


 to the vacuum pump and the high side manifold gauge hose connected to the liquid line access port by-pass valve,
30 close the liquid line shut-off valve and open the charging port valve with the suction line valve closed and then proceed to initiate the vacuum pump operation, and
35 d. to vacuum the evaporator side from the condensing unit valves through the ex¬ pansion valve and evaporator coils to the suction line service valve, close the liquid line main shut-off valve,
40 the liquid line charging port valve and the suction line service valve and open the suction line service valve access port valve and proceed to ini¬ tiate the vacuum pump operation
45 through the low side (suction) mani¬ fold gauge hose, and 

e. to exit the system and return to nor¬ mal operating position, after the unit has been vacuumed, return to normal operating valve positions, i.e., the main flow valve open and the charging port valve closed and, with the re¬ frigerant drum valve closed, connect adapter valve hose to vacuumed tank, open refrigerant drum valve, purge hoses into vacuum tank and then system is ready for recharging. 14. A method of storing and transferring refrigerants into either the condenser or evaporator sections of a closed refrigerant system having a compressor, a condenser on the high pressure side of the compressor, an evaporator on the low pressure side of the compressor and two indepen¬ dent valves on the refrigerant liquid line connected with a by-pass tubular connection thereof on the upstream side of the valve seats thereof by means of a "T", comprising the steps of: a. with the unit in operation, in order to sal¬ vage the refrigerant in the system, when repairing or replacing the condensing unit section of a system, attaching gauges to respective high, low and refrigerant drum connections, and, after purging the hoses into the vacuum tank, closing the refrigerant drum valve and, with the liquid line valve closed, opening the liquid charging 


port shut-off valve and reading the pressure on the manifold high side gauge and the suction line pressure on the suction access port valve, and then closing the suction line service valve and, after transferring the refrigerant into the condensing unit, closing the suction service valve and turning the condensing unit off, and b. in order to transfer the liquid refrigerant from the condenser into the evaporator side of the system, vacuuming the evaporator side of the system through the suction port, with the drum and vacuum tank valves closed, and opening the high side gauge valve, then the low side gauge valve, and allowing the liquid refrigerant to flow through the gauge manifold into the suction line and into the evaporator, and, when the liquid refrigerant has flowed into and filled the evaporator and the liquid and suction lines, closing the manifold gauges and liquid line port valve; c. if the unit is unable to run, in order to store the liquid refrigerant in the evaporator section of the system, using an auxiliary refrigerant pump, or reclaim unit; d. if any refrigerant remains in the condensing unit section, evacuating an empty, refillable refrigerant drum on a vacuum and inducing the remaining refrigerant into the drum, or using a reclaim unit; e. after the repairs and/or replacements are completed, opening the liquid line valve, allowing the 


refrigerant to migrate back into the condenser from the evaporator; f. when the pressure equalizes on the condenser and evaporator sides of the system, opening the suction service valve, allowing the unit to be operational, and, with the unit running, balancing the refrigerant charge; and g. when the refrigerant is in a system with a compressor "burn out", filtering and passing the entire charge through a reclaiming process.
15. A method of servicing a closed refrigerant type system including a condenser, an evaporator section, and a high pressure refrigerant line between the condenser and the evaporator section through which compressible evapora- tive refrigerant flows between the condenser and evaporator section, comprising the following step:
(a) using in the high pressure line between the condenser and the evaporator section a double valve manifold system having - - a first manually operated shut-off valve
(1/26) with open and closed dispositions,
- a second manually operated shut-off valve (2/27) , with open and closed dispositions,
- a by-pass passageway (3, 28/29/9), in- eluding a proximal end and a distal end portion, extending between and interconnecting said first and said second manually operated valves, with said proximal end connected to said first valve, 


 and said second valve connected to said distal end portion of said passageway, and
- a port (5, 31) connected to said distal end portion of said passageway, further down¬ stream than said second manually operated valve, allowing all of the refrigerant from the condenser to flow through the high pressure line potentially to the evapora¬ tor section and not through said port when said first valve is in its open disposition and said second valve is in its closed disposition, but causing any refrigerant from the condenser to flow through said by-pass passageway out said port into an outside line connected to said port and not through said high pressure line when said first valve is in its closed disposition and said second valve is in its open disposition; and
(b) connecting a refrigerant hose to either said second valve or to said port, closing off said first valve and, after said hose is connected, opening said first valve, thereby accessing said high pressure line through said by-pass passageway to service the refrigerant system.
16. The method of Claim 15, wherein the refrigerant system further includes a vacuum tank and a suction port valve, and wherein there is further provided a refrigerant source, high-side/low-side gauges with associated charging hoses and with a two valve, adapter connection and two associated hoses for the refrigerant source and the vacuum tank; and wherein step "b" includes the following steps: 


 i. while the refrigerant system is in operation, attaching the high-side gauge hose to at least one of said port and said second valve; ii. connecting the low-side gauge hose to the suction port valve, the first adapter hose to the refriger¬ ant source, and the second adapter hose to the vacuum tank; and iii. with said first valve open, opening said second valve to read the high side pressure of the refrig¬ erant system.
17. The method of Claim 16, wherein the refrigerant system is exited by the following steps: i. closing said second valve and the refrigerant source valve; ii. opening the high-side gauge valve and the low-side gauge valve, inducing the refrigerant back into the low side of the refrigerant system; iii. closing off the high-side valve and then the low-side valve; and iv. then securing said first and second valves in their normal operation dispositions.
18. The method of Claim 17, wherein there is included after sub-step "iii" the further sub-step of bleeding the gauge hoses into the vacuum tank.
19. The method of Claim 15, wherein there is included the further steps of: i. placing substantially all of the refrigerant fluid in the condenser and then transferring it to the 


evaporator section of the refrigerant system, allowing service work on either separately from the other.
20. The method of Claim 15, wherein there is included the further steps of: independently vacuum processing the condenser and the evaporator section.
21. The method of Claim 15, wherein there is included the further step of: evacuating the refrigerant from the hose between the gauge and said port.
22. The method of Claim 15, wherein there is further included at least one of the other innovative method steps disclosed in the foregoing specification. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
