<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643753</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POLYOL ESTER HEAVY DUTY COMPRESSOR LUBRICANTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K500	C09K504	C10M10500	C10M10538	C10M10542	C10M16900	C10M16904	C10M17100	C10M17100	C10N2002	C10N3000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10M	C10N	C10N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K5	C09K5	C10M105	C10M105	C10M105	C10M169	C10M169	C10M171	C10M171	C10N20	C10N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high quality heavy duty lubricant for refrigerating compressors, especially those using chlorine free hydrofluorocarbon refrigerant working fluids, is provided by mixed esters of hindered polyols, most desirably pentaerythritol with a mixture of carboxylic acids including at least some iso-pentanoic acid along with at least 13 % of dibasic acids such as adipic.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENKEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENKEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNUR NICHOLAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZEHLER EUGENE R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNUR, NICHOLAS, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZEHLER, EUGENE, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 POLYOL ESTER HEAVY DUTY COMPRESSOR LUBRICANTSCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThis application is a continuation-in-part of copend- ing International Application No. PCT/US92/04438 designat¬ ing the United States and filed June 3, 1992, the entire disclosure of which, except to the extent contrary to any explicit statement herein, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention This invention relates to lubricant base stocks, which can also serve as complete lubricants in some cases; compounded lubricants, which include at least one additive for such purposes as improving high pressure resistance and/or wear resistance, corrosion inhibition, and the like along with the lubricant base stocks which contribute the primary lubricity to the compounded lubricants; refriger¬ ant working fluids including lubricants according to the invention along with primary heat transfer fluids; and methods for using these materials. The lubricants and lubricant base stocks are generally suitable for use with most or all halocarbon refrigerants and are particularly suitable for use with substantially chlorine-free, fluoro- group-containing organic refrigerating heat transfer flu¬ ids such as pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1- trifluroethane, and tetrafluoroethanes, most particularly 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane. The lubricants and base stocks, in combination with these heat transfer fluids, are particularly suitable for lubricating compressors that require ISO grades from about 320 to about 1000 because of their heavy duty cycles. Statement of Related ArtChlorine-free heat transfer fluids are desirable for use in refrigerant systems, because their escape into the 

atmosphere causes less damage to the environment than the currently most commonly used chlorofluorocarbon heat trans¬ fer fluids such as trichlorofluoro ethane and dichlorodi- fluoromethane. The widespread commercial use of chlorine- free refrigerant heat transfer fluids has been hindered, however, by the lack of commercially adequate lubricants. This is particularly true for one of the most desirable working fluids, 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane, commonly known in the art as "Refrigerant 134a" or simply "R134a". Other fluoro-substituted ethanes are also desirable working flu¬ ids.Esters of hindered polyols, which are defined for this purpose as organic molecules containing at least five carbon atoms, at least 2 -OH groups, and no hydrogen atoms directly bonded to any carbon atom that is directly bonded to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 The invention claimed is: CLAIMS
1. A composition of matter suitable for serving as a lub¬ ricant or lubricant base stock, said composition being a liquid with a viscosity between about 300 and about 1300 centistokes at 40° C and consisting essentially of a mix¬ ture of polyol ester molecules in which at least about 92 % of the alcohol moieties are selected from the group con¬ sisting of the alcohol moieties derived from TMP, DTMP, PE, DPE, TPE, and TTMP and at least about 92 % of the acyl groups are selected from the group consisting of the acyl groups of all the straight and branched chain monobasic and dibasic carboxylic acids with from four to twelve carbon atoms each, said alcohol moieties and acyl groups being further selected subject to the constraints that (a) a total of at least about 15 % of the acyl groups in the mixture are acyl groups of i-C
5
 acid; (b) the ratio of the % of acyl groups in the mixture that contain 8 or more carbon atoms and are unbranched to the % of acyl groups in the mixture that are both branched and contain not more than six carbon atoms is not greater than about 1.56; (c) the % of acyl groups in the mixture that contain at least nine carbon atoms, whether branched or not, is not greater than about 81; (d) not more than about 2 % of the acyl groups in the ester mixture contain more than two carboxyl groups each; and (e) at least about 13.8 % of the acyl groups in the ester mixture are dibasic; and a total of at least about 82 % of the monobasic acyl groups in the acid mixture have either five or six carbon atoms each. 

2. A composition according to claim 1, with a viscosity between about 450 and about 1100 centistokes at 40° C and consisting essentially of a mixture of polyol ester mole¬ cules in which the alcohol moieties and acyl groups are selected subject to the constraints that (a) a total of at least about 27 % of the acyl groups in the mixture are acyl groups of i-C
5
 acid; (b) the ratio of the % of acyl groups in the mixture that contain 8 or more carbon atoms and are unbranched to the % of acyl groups in the mixture that are both branched and contain not more than six car¬ bon atoms is not greater than about 1.21; (c) the % of acyl groups in the mixture that contain at least nine car¬ bon atoms, whether branched or not, is not greater than about 67; and (e) at least about 15.3 % of the acyl groups 
*
 in the ester mixture are dibasic and a total of at least about 85 % of the monobasic acyl groups in the ester mix¬ ture have either five or six carbon atoms each. 

3. A composition according to claim 2 consisting essen¬ tially of a mixture of polyol ester molecules in which at least about 95 % of the alcohol moieties are selected from the group consisting of the alcohol moieties derived from TMP, DTMP, TTMP, PE, DPE, and TPE and at least about 95 % of the acyl groups are selected from the group consisting of the acyl groups of all the straight and branched chain monobasic and dibasic carboxylic acids with from four to twelve carbon atoms each, said alcohol moieties and acyl groups being further selected subject to the constraints that (a) a total of at least about 36 % of the acyl groups in the mixture are acyl groups of i-C
5
 acid; (b) the ratio of the % of acyl groups in the mixture that contain 8 or more carbon atoms and are unbranched to the % of acyl groups in the mixture that are both branched and contain not more than six carbon atoms is not greater than about 1.00; (c) the % of acyl groups in the mixture that contain at least nine carbon atoms, whether branched or not, is not greater than about 49; (d) not more than 1 % of the acyl groups in the esters contain more than two carboxyl groups each; and (e) at least about 16.2 % of the acyl groups in the ester mixture are dibasic; and a total of at least about 93 % of the monobasic acyl groups in the acid mixture have five carbon atoms each.
4. A composition according to claim 3 consisting essen¬ tially of a mixture of polyol ester molecules in which the alcohol moieties and acyl groups are selected subject to the constraints that (a) a total of at least about 45 % of the acyl groups in the mixture are acyl groups of i-C
5
 acid; (d) not more than 0.4 % of the acyl groups in the ester mixture contain more than two carboxyl groups each; and (e) at least about 17.0 % of the acyl groups in the ester mixture are dibasic and contain from five to seven carbon atoms each and a total of at least about 96 % of the monobasic acyl groups in the acid mixture have five carbon atoms each. 



5. A composition according to claim 4 with a viscosity between about 810 and about 990 centistokes at 40° C and consisting essentially of a mixture of polyol ester mole¬ cules in which a total of at least about 95 % of the acyl groups are selected from the group consisting of the acyl groups of all the straight and branched chain monobasic and dibasic carboxylic acids with from four to twelve car¬ bon atoms each and the alcohol moieties and acyl groups are selected subject to the constraints that (a) a total of at least 51 % of the acyl groups in the ester mixture are acyl groups of i-C
5
 acid; (d) at least about 95 % of the alcohol moieties in the esters are those of PE; and (e) at least 17.6 % of the acyl groups in the ester mix¬ ture are dibasic. 6. A compounded lubricant consisting essentially of at least about 95 % by weight of a composition according to claim 5 and a balance of one or more additives selected from the group consisting of oxidation resistance and thermal stability improvers, corrosion inhibitors, metal deactivators, lubricity additives, viscosity index im¬ provers, pour and floe point depressants, detergents, dis- persants, antifoaming agents, anti-wear agents, and ex¬ treme pressure resistant additives.
7. A compounded lubricant consisting essentially of at least about 92 % by weight of a composition according to claim 3 and a balance of one or more additives selected from the group consisting of oxidation resistance and thermal stability improvers, corrosion inhibitors, metal deactivators, lubricity additives, viscosity index im- provers, pour and floe point depressants, detergents, dis- persants, antifoaming agents, anti-wear agents, and ex¬ treme pressure resistant additives. 


8. A compounded lubricant consisting essentially of at least about 92 % by weight of a composition according to claim 2 and a balance of one or more additives selected from the group consisting of oxidation resistance and thermal stability improvers, corrosion inhibitors, metal deactivators, lubricity additives, viscosity index im¬ provers, pour and floe point depressants, detergents, dis- persants, antifoaming agents, anti-wear agents, and ex¬ treme pressure resistant additives.
9. A compounded lubricant consisting essentially of at least about 92 % by weight of a composition according to claim 1 and a balance of one or more additives selected from the group consisting of oxidation resistance and thermal stability improvers, corrosion inhibitors, metal deactivators, lubricity additives, viscosity index im¬ provers, pour and floe point depressants, detergents, dis- persants, antifoaming agents, anti-wear agents, and ex¬ treme pressure resistant additives.
10. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group consisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1-trifluroethane, tetrafluoroeth¬ anes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 9. 11. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group consisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1-trifluroethane, tetrafluoroeth¬ anes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 8.
12. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group consisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1-trifluroethane, tetrafluoroeth- anes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 7. 


13. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane and a ■balance of a lubricant according to claim 6.
14. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group consisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, l,1,1-trifluroethane, tetrafluoroeth¬ anes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 5.
15. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group consisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1-trifluroethane, tetrafluoroeth¬ anes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 4.
16. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group consisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1-trifluroethane, tetrafluoroeth- anes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 3.
17. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group consisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1-trifluroethane, tetrafluoroeth¬ anes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 2.
18. A refrigerant working fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group consisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1-trifluroethane, tetrafluoroeth¬ anes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 1. 


19. A process for operating a refrigerator comprising cyclic compression, liquefaction, expansion, and evapor¬ ation of a heat transfer fluid, said heat transfer fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 6.
20. A process for operating a refrigerator comprising cyclic compression, liquefaction, expansion, and evapor¬ ation of a heat transfer fluid, said heat transfer fluid consisting essentially of at least 85 % by weight of a primary heat transfer fluid selected from the group con¬ sisting of pentafluoroethane, 1,1-difluoroethane, 1,1,1- trifluroethane, tetrafluoroethanes, and mixtures thereof and a balance of a lubricant according to claim 1. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
