<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650622</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DOCUMENT COUNTING AND BATCHING APPARATUS WITH COUNTERFEIT DETECTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H352	B65H352	G06M700	G06M706	G07D700	G07D704	G07D712	G07D1100	G07D1100	G07F1900	G07F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	G06M	G06M	G07D	G07D	G07D	G07D	G07D	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H3	B65H3	G06M7	G06M7	G07D7	G07D7	G07D7	G07D11	G07D11	G07F19	G07F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for counting and verifying documents (10) includes an improved stripper assembly (36a) and a digital control network (6A). The stripper assembly includes a friction belt (38) which is rotated counter to the direction that documents are fed into the apparatus. The tension of the friction belt may be adjusted by rotating of an eccentric member (117). The digital control network coordinates the operations of counting and verifying documents. A transport mechanism (2D) moves documents along a guide path (50) through the apparatus. Sensors (80, 82, 84, 86) are located along the guide path for determining optical and magnetic characteristics of the documents and producing signals relative thereto. The measured signals are sampled and digitized by an analog-to-digital converter (304) under the control of a microprocessor (302). Multiple samples of the sensor signals are accumulated within memory as each document passes adjacent to the sensors. The accumulated values are compared with reference values in order to verify each document after it has passed adjacent to the sensors. Documents are counted after verification. Individual piece counts and monetary values of such piece counts are provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECHNITROL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECHNITROL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARGILL N ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES ARTHUR D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCINERNY GEORGE P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARGILL, N. ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES, ARTHUR D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCINERNY, GEORGE P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DOCUMENT COUNTING AND BATCHING APPARATUS WITH COUNTERFEIT DETECTIONThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application Serial No. 07/913,224. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to a document counting and batching apparatus which incorporates magnetic detection of counterfeit suspect documents. BackgroundIn order to be successful in the marketplace, document counters, which are used to count paper money and other documents, should be capable of operating at low and high speeds, while accurately counting and batching documents, which may include currency and food coupons. Prior to processing documents in standard document counters, the documents are manually separated into stacks of like denomination or type. In developing a comprehensive document counter, it would be desirable for the document counting and batching apparatus to provide visual running totals of the pieces and value of the currency counted and/or batched, to be capable of detecting errors such as counterfeit suspects, doubles, chains, off-widths, and half documents, and the document counter should be designed to stop when an error is detected to permit the operator to correct the detected error. As an additional feature, it would be desirable for a document counting and batching apparatus to be capable of (i) stand alone operation, (ii) connection as a slave to a host, such as a personal computer, or (iii) stand alone operation with connection to a printer for a print-out of totals. It would further be desirable for a document counter to maintain and to selectively 

display or print several types of counts and totals divided into operator-designated categories. One category would be a piece count with no designation of denomination. Other categories (such as 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 dollar denominations) would be piece counts of operator-designated denominations. It would be desirable relative to these categories to display a running piece count of the first category, and running piece counts multiplied by the denomination to yield the value of denominations counted for each of the other categories. Also, it would be desirable to be able to display, or to display and to print, the accumulated totals for each category in the same or similar format as for running total displays. Further, it would be desirable to display and/or print the grand total value of the values of all of the denomination categories counted.Document counting and handling devices are known which count, verify and stack a particular type of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. Apparatus for separating documents in a document counter, comprising: a pair of support walls; a first shaft rotatably mounted between said support walls; a feed roller assembly mounted on said first shaft for frictionally engaging a document to be counted; and a stripper assembly including: a second shaft rotatably mounted between said support walls in parallel relation to said first shaft; a drive pulley mounted on said second shaft; an idler shaft mounted between said support walls in parallel to said second shaft; a rotatable idler member mounted upon said idler shaft; eccentric adjust means connected with said idler shaft; a friction stripper belt engaged under tension with said drive pulley and with said idler member, the tension on said friction belt being adjustable by rotation of said adjust means, wherein the friction belt interacts with the feed roller assembly to separate documents.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said connection between said idler shaft and said adjust means includes a bracket, said adjust means including a camming member held by the bracket.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said feed roller assembly comprises two feeder pulleys keyed to said first shaft having frictional surfaces for engaging said documents and an idler collar between said feeder 


pulleys rotatably mounted on said first shaft.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said stripper assembly further comprises: a bracket pivotally supported by said second shaft; and a tension idler roller supported by said bracket for maintaining tension on said friction belt.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for rotating said first shaft and said second shaft such that said friction belt is rotated in opposition to said feed roller assembly.
6. An apparatus for counting documents, comprising: a guide plate defining a document transport path, said transport path having righthand, central, and lefthand path portions; a right sensor disposed adjacent the righthand portion of said transport path for generating a right sensor signal in response to the presence of a portion of a document in said righthand path portion; a center sensor disposed adjacent the central portion of said transport path for generating a center sensor signal in response to the presence of a portion of a document in said central path portion; a left sensor disposed adjacent the lefthand portion of said transport path for generating a left sensor signal in response to the presence of a portion of a document in said lefthand path portion; digital sampling means for sampling said left sensor signal, said center sensor signal, and said right sensor signal to produce representative values thereof; and a programmable controller means programmed to produce a count of the documents, control signals for 


operating the apparatus, and status signals for monitoring the operation of the apparatus in response to said representative values.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said digital sampling means comprises: timing means for generating timing pulses, and digital conversion means for producing said representative values; and said programmable controller being programmed to sample said representative values in response to said timing pulses.
8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the right sensor is operated in response to the timing pulses and the right sensor signal is indicative of opacity along a righthand segment of the document and the left sensor signal is operated in response to the timing pulses and the left sensor signal is indicative of opacity along a lefthand segment of the document, the right and left sensor signals being supplied to the digital sampling means.
9. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the programmable controller means includes accumulating means for accumulating the representative values and comparison means for comparing the accumulated representative values with predetermined values indicative of an authentic document to determine whether the opacity of the document is acceptable.
10. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a serial communication port operatively connected to said programmable controller for communicating with an external device. 


11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said serial communication port is an RS-232 port.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said external device comprises a computer.
13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said external device comprises a printer.
14. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said programmable controller includes a non-volatile memory for storing reference values for comparison by said controller to said representative values.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the non¬ volatile memory is replaceable with another non¬ volatile memory having different reference values.
16. An apparatus for verifying a document having a magnetic property, comprising: a document guide path for guiding the document in the apparatus; a magnetic transducer mounted along the document guide path for detecting the magnetic property of the document moving along said document guide path, said magnetic transducer producing a signal when the magnetic property of the document is detected by said magnetic transducer; digital conversion means responsive to the signal from the magnetic transducer for producing representative digital values; sampling means for sampling said digital values to produce sampled values; accumulating means for accumulating said sampled values and for providing an accumulated value; and comparison means responsive to said accumulated 


value for comparing said accumulated value with a predetermined value indicative of an authentic document, whereby the document having the magnetic property can be verified.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising magnetizing means for magnetizing the document.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said magnetizing means is mounted in a rigid relationship with said magnetic transducer.
19. The apparatus of claim 16 further including a signal condition circuit responsive to said magnetic transducer signal for providing a conditioned signal to the digital conversion means.
20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said signal conditioning circuit comprises an integrator for producing an integrated signal in response to said signal from the magnetic transducer.
21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said signal conditioning circuit comprises: a first amplifier for amplifying said signal from the magnetic transducer and producing a first amplified signal; and a bandpass filter for filtering said first amplified signal and producing a filtered signal.
22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said signal conditioning circuit further comprises: a second amplifier for amplifying said filtered signal and producing a second amplified signal; rectifier means for rectifying said second amplified signal and producing a rectified signal; and 


 an integrator for integrating said rectified signal and producing an integrated signal that is indicative of the magnetic property of the document.
23. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising constricting means for constricting the document guide path in the vicinity of said magnetic transducer such that the magnetic property of any document passing said magnetic transducer is uniformly detected.
24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said constricting means comprises a rotatable roller.
25. A control network for a document counting and verifying apparatus, which has a guide path for guiding documents and transport means for transporting the documents along the guide path, the control network comprising: a central processing unit; a motor for driving the document transport means; a motor controller operatively connected to said central processing unit for regulating the speed of said motor in response to a motor control signal from said central processing unit; a keyboard for manually entering commands for the control network; a keyboard interface operatively connected between said keyboard and said central processing unit for transmitting commands from said keyboard to said central processing unit; a plurality of sensors disposed in the guide path for producing sensor signals, at least one sensor indicating the presence of a document in the guide path and at least one different sensor for indicating a physical property of the document; digital conversion means responsive to said 


sensor signals to produce digital signals to said central processing unit; and timing means operatively connected to said central processing unit for providing timing pulses to said central processing unit in synchronization with the transport means., whereby the central processing unit processes the digital signals in a manner to count and verify documents transported along the guide path.
26. The control network of claim 25 further comprising memory means for maintaining (i) a piece count of documents counted and verified, (ii) a denomination piece count of each denomination of document counted and verified and (iii) a denomination value count of the total value of each document counted and verified.
27. The control network of claim 26 further comprising means for computing a grand total value count of the total value of all documents counted.
28. The control network of claim 25 wherein said plurality of sensors comprises: a first sensor located at a first sensor position along the guide path for producing a first sensor signal when a document is detected by said first sensor; a right sensor located adjacent to said first sensor along a line across the guide path for producing a right sensor signal indicative of the detection of a document and indicative of the opacity of the document; a left sensor located adjacent to said first sensor along a line across the guide path for producing a left sensor signal indicative of the 


detection of a document and indicative of the opacity of the document.
29. The control network of claim 25 wherein said plurality of sensors includes a magnetic sensor for producing a sensor signal indicative of a magnetic characteristic of the document.
30. A method of controlling a document counting apparatus comprising the steps of:
(a) transporting a document along a guide path through the counting apparatus;
(b) generating timing pulses as the document is transported along said guide path;
(c) sensing the presence of the document along the guide path; (d) counting the timing pulses that occur when a document is sensed during said sensing of step (c) ;
(e) measuring the opacity of the document along a first segment of the document in response to said timing pulses that occur when the document is detected during said sensing of step (c) ;
(f) accumulating said opacity measurements to produce a first opacity value associated with the first segment of said document;
(g) determining whether the pulses counted during said counting step are in a predetermined counting range indicative of a desired document length;
(h) generating a length error signal indicative of a length error when said counted pulses are outside of said predetermined range; and (i) generating a double-error signal indicative of a double-error when said first opacity value is indicative of an opacity error. 


31. The method of claim 30 further comprising the step of adjusting said predetermined range according to the number of timing pulses counted during detection of the document.
32. The method of claim 30 further comprising the steps of : measuring the opacity of the document along a second segment of the document in response to said timing pulses that occur when the document is detected during said sensing of step (c) ; accumulating said opacity measurements to produce a second opacity value associated with the second segment of the document; and generating a double-error signal indicative of a double-error when said second opacity value is indicative of an opacity error.
33. A method of verifying a document having a magnetic property comprising steps of : transporting the document along a guide path; detecting a magnetic property of the document during said transporting step; producing a signal in response to said magnetic property detected in said detecting step; amplifying the signal and producing an amplified signal; bandpass filtering the amplified signal and producing a bandpass filtered signal; rectifying said bandpass filtered signal and producing a rectified signal; integrating said rectified signal and producing an integrated signal; sampling said integrated signal and producing sample values; accumulating said sample values to produce a 


cumulative value; comparing said cumulative value with a predetermined value indicative of an authentic document, whereby a document having a magnetic property can be verified. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
