<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0422403</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-SCALE RECOGNIZER FOR HAND DRAWN STROKES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K900	G06K900	G06K962	G06K962	G06K980	G06K980	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A known hand drawn stroke is serially sampled at 
different scales by n angle filters to provide n 

filtered known strokes at n different scales. An 
unknown hand drawn stroke is sampled in a like manner 

to provide n filtered unknown strokes at n different 
scales. Filtered unknown strokes are compared with 

filtered known strokes. If there is a comparison 
within predetermined limits at any scale, the unknown 

hand drawn stroke is recognized as being the same as 
the known hand drawn stroke. 



</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPSCOMB, JAMES SARGENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to signal processing, and in 
particular is directed to handwriting recognition. 
Specifically, the invention is directed to a multi-­
scale recognizer for hand drawn strokes. Reference is made to an U.S. Patent Application 
YO 989 017 which is entitled "Cross-Product Filter", 
which application is assigned to the assignee of this 
patent application, and which describes a mechanism for 
providing a filtered stroke to the input of the Multi-­
Scale Recognizer of this application. In many signal processing applications a digitizing 
tablet is used to convert pen or stylus motion into a 
set of electrical data which is then processed by 
digital equipment. Typically, there is a special 
electronic or electromagnetic grid or surface which 
detects the X and Y positions of the pen as it moves 
along the surface at a periodic rate. The information 
is present as two digital data words at a periodic 
clock rate. This class of technology is used for 
signature verifications, automatic drafting, graphics, 
character recognition, handwriting recognition and so 
forth. In each case, the user writes on the writing 
surface with the writing instrument and the position is 
monitored electronically.  In connecting such a device directly to a processing 
system there are problems because the raw data may 
contain certain kinds of noise or other defects which 
can adversely effect applications that process the data 
for editing, character recognition, graphics and other 
uses. The noise may be electrical or mechanical noise 
produces by the equipment employed to generate the 
sequence of signals corresponding to the stroke of the 
writing instrument. The noise may also be nature noise 
produced by the writer retracing a portion of the 
stroke at either end. An angle filter used in stroke recognition produces 
output at a given angle. There are a number of patents 
dealing with this technological area, each having 
certain advantages and disadvantages. In U.S. Patent No. 4,718,103 to Shojima et al. a method 
and apparatus are described for on-line recognizing 
handwritten patterns. A handwritten pattern 
approximated to a series of polygonal lines consisting 
of segments is compared with a candidate pattern 
selected from dictionary patterns stored in the memory, 
basing on the angular variation between angular 
variations of adjoining segments of both patterns is 
outside of a certain range, it is tested whether the 
difference between an angular variation across three or 
more consecutive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A handwritten character recognition apparatus 
comprising: 

means for sampling a known handwritten character; 
n filters, where n is an integer, with the first 

such filter filtering out direction changes 
greater than a first angle in said known hand­

written character to provide a first filtered 
known character, with the second such filter 

filtering out direction changes greater than a 
second angle in said first filtered known 

character, where said second angle is greater than 
said first angle for providing a second filtered 

known character and so on, with the nth filter 
filtering out direction changes greater than an 

nth angle in the (nth-1) filtered known character, 
where the nth angle is greater than the (nth-1) 

angle, to provide an nth filtered known character; 
and 

storing the n filtered known characters for 
subsequent comparison to an unknown handwritten 

character. 
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
each of said n filters includes means for removing 

lines in a filtered character that are shorter 
than a given length. 
3. The apparatus according to claim 2, including 
means for removing any retrace from at least 

said first filtered known character. 
4. The apparatus according to claim 1, including: 
means for sampling an unknown handwritten 

character; 
m filters, where m is an integer, with the first 

such filter filtering out direction changes 
greater than a first angle in said unknown 

handwritten character to provide a first filtered 
unknown character, with the second such filter 

filtering out direction changes greater than a 
second angle in said first filtered unknown 

character, where said second angle is greater than 
said first angle, for providing a second filtered 

unknown character and so on, with the mth filter 
filtering out direction changes greater than an 

mth angle in the (mth-1) filtered unknown 
character, when the mth angle is greater than the 

(mth-1) angle, to provide an mth filtered unknown 
character; 

comparison means for comparing said first filtered 
unknown character with said n filtered known 

characters, for comparing said second filtered 
unknown character with said n filtered known 

characters and so on, and for comparing said mth 
filtered unknown character with said n filtered 

known characters; and 
means for recognizing said unknown character as 

said known character if any comparison matches 
within predetermined limits. 
5. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein 
each of said m filters includes means for 

removing lines in a filtered unknown character 
that are shorter than a given length. 
6. The apparatus according to claim 5, includ­
ing means for removing any retrace from at 

least said first filtered unknown character. 
7. A handwritten character recognition apparatus, 
comprising: 

means for sampling a known handwritten charac­
ter: 

a first means for filtering out direction changes 
greater than a first angle in said sampled known 

handwritten character to provide a first filtered 
known character; 

at least a second means for filtering out 
direction changes greater than a second angle, 

where said second angle is larger than said first 
angle, in said first filtered known character to 

provide a second filtered known character; 
means for storing said first filtered known 

character and said second filtered known 
character; 

means for sampling an unknown handwritten 
character; 

a third means for filtering out direction changes 
greater than said first angle in said sampled 

 
unknown handwritten character to provide a first 

filtered unknown character; 
at least a fourth means for filtering out 

direction changes greater than said second angle 
in said first filtered unknown character to 

provide a second filtered unknown character; 
a first comparison means for comparing said first 

filtered unknown character with said stored n 
filtered known characters; 

a second comparison means for comparing said 
second filtered unknown character with said stored 

n filtered known characters; and 
means for recognizing said unknown character as 

said known character if either comparison by said 
first or second comparison means matches within 

predetermined limits. 
8. A handwritten character recognition apparatus, 
comprising: 

means for sampling a known handwritten character: 
a first means for filtering out direction changes 

and greater than a first angle and lines less than 
a first length in said sampled known handwritten 

character to provide a first filtered known 
character; 

means for removing any retrace in said first 
filtered known character;

 
at least a second means for filtering out 

direction changes greater than a second angle, 
where said second angle is larger than said first 

angle, and lines less than a second length, in 
said first filtered known character with any 

retrace removed to provide a second known 
character; 

means for removing any retrace in said second 
filtered known character; 

means for storing said first filtered known 
character and said second filtered known character 

with any retrace removed; 
means for sampling an unknown handwritten 

character; 
a third means for filtering out direction changes 

greater than said first angle and lines less than 
a first length in said sampled unknown handwritten 

character to provide a first filtered unknown 
character; 

means for removing any retrace in said first 
filtered unknown character; 

at least a fourth means for filtering out 
direction changes greater than said second angle 

and lines less than said second length in said 
first filtered unknown character to provided a 

second filtered unknown character; 
means for removing any retrace in said second 

filtered unknown character;
 

a first comparison means for comparing said first 
filtered unknown character with retrace removed 

with said stored n filtered known characters with 
retrace removed; 

a second comparison means for comparing said 
second filtered unknown character with retrace 

removed with said stored n filtered known 
characters with retrace removed; and 

means for recognizing said unknown character as 
said known character if either comparison by said 

first or second comparison means matches within 
predetermined limits. 
9. A method of recognizing hand drawn strokes made up 
of a plurality of line segments connecting xy 

points, said method comprising the steps of: 
sampling a known hand drawn stroke; 

filtering out all adjacent line segments in said 
known hand drawn stroke that form an angle greater 

than a first angle at their common xy point, and 
replacing said adjacent line segments with a line 

segment between their uncommon xy points, to form 
a first filtered known stroke; 

filtering out all adjacent line segments in said 
first filtered known stroke that form an angle 

greater than a second angle at their common xy 
point, and replacing said adjacent line segments 

with a line segment between their uncommon xy 
points to form a second filtered known stroke;

 
storing said first filtered known stroke and said 

second filtered known stroke for subsequent 
comparison to an unknown hand drawn stroke. 
10. The method of claim 9, including the steps of: 
removing any line segments in said first and 

second filtered known strokes that are less than a 
predetermined length. 
11. The method of claim 10, including the step of: 
removing any retrace in said first and second 

filtered known strokes. 
12. The method of claim 9, including the steps of: 
sampling an unknown hand drawn stroke; 

filtering out all adjacent line segments in said 
unknown hand drawn stroke that forms an angle 

greater than a first angle at their common xy 
point, and replacing said adjacent line segments 

with a line segment between their uncommon xy 
points, to form a first filtered unknown stroke; 

filtering out all adjacent line segments in said 
first filtered unknown stroke that form an angle 

greater than a second angle at their common xy 
point, and replacing said adjacent line segments 

with a line segment between their uncommon xy 
points to form a second unknown stroke; 

comparing said first filtered unknown stroke with 
said n filtered known strokes;

 
comparing said second filtered unknown stroke with 

said n filtered known strokes; and 
recognizing said unknown hand drawn stroke as said 

known hand drawn stroke if either comparison is 
within predetermined limits. 
13. The method of claim 12, including the step of: 
removing any line segments in said first and 

second filtered unknown strokes that are less than 

a predetermined length. 
14. The method of claim 13, including the step of: 
removing any retrace in said first and second 

filtered unknown strokes. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
