<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642353</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TREATMENT OF VASCULAR LEAKAGE SYNDROME AND COLLAGENASE INDUCED DISEASE BY ADMINISTRATION OF MATRIX METALLOPROTEINASE INHIBITORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K31495	A61K31495	A61K31535	A61K31535	A61K3855	A61K3855	A61K4900	A61K4900	G01N33573	G01N33573	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K38	A61K38	A61K49	A61K49	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for identifying patients at risk of developing vascular leakage syndrome and systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) such as septic shock by determining the serum levels of metalloproteinase expression, in particular type IV collagenase expression, as well as a method of treating or preventing vascular leakage syndrome and SIRS by the administration of one or more metalloproteinase inhibitors, preferably type IV collagenase inhibitors is taught. Additionally, the therapeutic efficacy of bis(dioxopiperazine) compounds is determined on the basis of collagenase inhibiting activity, and the compounds which inhibit collagenase activity are utilized for the treatment of collagenase related disorders, e.g., vascular leakage syndrome, septic shock, stroke, cardiac disorders, angiogenesis, and arthritis. Finally, a method for preventing or treating toxicity caused by endogenous cytokine expression or cytokine administration by the administration of one or more metallo-proteinase inhibitors, preferably type IV collagenase inhibitors is taught.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ONCOLOGIX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV OHIO STATE RES FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ONCOLOGIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIANG CHI-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNER NANCY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITIAK DONALD T OHIO STATE UNI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIANG, CHI-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNER, NANCY, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITIAK, DONALD T., OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TREATMENT OF VASCULAR LEAKAGE SYNDROME AND COLLAGENASE INDUCED DISEASE BY ADMINISTRATION OF MATRIX METALLOPROTEINASE INHIBITORSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a novel method for the treatment of vascular leak and systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), which conditions include, e.g., sepsis syndrome, septic shock, nonresponsive septic shock, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, multiple organ failure syndrome and shock resulting from immunologically mediated organ injury, pancreatitis, hemorrhage, ischemia or multitrauma. The invention further relates to a method for identifying patients at risk of developing vascular leakage syndrome and SIRS on the basis of levels of matrix metalloproteinase expression, in particular, expression of collagenases. The invention further relates to in vitro methods for determining specific compounds which comprise utility in the treatment of vascular leakage syndrome and SIRS, such as septic shock and other metalloproteinase related disorders on the basis of their ability to inhibit the activity of matrix metalloproteinases or to inhibit the expression of matrix metalloproteinases.Further, the invention provides in vitro methods for screening specific bisdioxopiperazine compounds those of which inhibit matrix metalloproteinases, in particular, type TV collagenases. The invention 

further relates to methods of using bis(dioxopiperazine) compounds for the treatment of metalloproteinase, in particular collagenase related disorders, such as vascular leakage syndrome and SIRS, particularly septic shock.It is believed that there are about 400,000 cases of sepsis each year, and 200,000 cases of septic shock, with about 100,000 of such cases resulting in death annually. However, despite the prevalence of these disease conditions, available methods for treatment of sepsis and septic shock are ineffective, at least in part because the precise cause of these disease conditions has been poorly understood. Sepsis essentially comprises clinical evidence of bacterial infection and symptoms characterized by (i) temperatures in excess of about 101 °F, or less than 96°F, (ii) heart rates greater than 90 beats per minute, and (iii) respiratory rates in excess of about 20 breaths per minute. Such symptoms are often followed by hypothermia, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Sepsis syndrome comprises sepsis together with evidence of altered organ perfusion. Such evidence may include one or more of (i) acute changes in mental states, (ii) Pao /-Flo < 280, (iii)
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A method for treating or preventing vascular leakage syndrome or systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) comprising administering to a patient at risk of developing or having vascular leakage syndrome or septic shock a therapeutically effective amount of one or more matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the metalloproteinase inhibitors is a coUagenase inhibitor.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the collagenase inhibitor is a type IV collagenase inhibitor.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the type IV coUagenase inhibitor inhibits MMP-2 or MMP-9.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the matrix metaUoproteinase inhibitor is conjugated or complexed with a moiety which targets it to a specific site.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the targeting moiety is an antibody, a receptor protein, a TIMP-1 or TIMP-2 protein, or a fragment thereof.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the administered matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors comprises TIMP-1, TIMP-2 or a fragment thereof capable of inhibiting matrix metalloproteinase.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the administered matrix metaUoproteinase inhibitors comprises a bis(dioxopiperazine) compound or derivative. 


 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the bisdioxopiperazine compound is selected from the group consisting of razoxane, diasteromers and isopropylamine derivatives of 4,4'-(4,5-dihydroxy- l,2,cyclohexanediyl)bis(2,6-dioxopiperazine), probimane, and bimolane.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein therapeuticaUy effective amount ranges from about 0.1 to about 2.0 mg/kg of body weight daUy.
11. A method for identifying patients who are at substantial risk of developing vascular leakage syndrome or SIRS comprising:
(i) quantifying the concentration of at least one type IV coHagenase contained in a serum sample obtained from a patient possibly at risk for developing vascular leakage syndrome or SIRS; and
(n) comparing said type IV coHagenase concentration to the normal concentration range for said type IV coUagenase; wherein patients who comprise higher than normal concentrations of said type IV coUagenase are considered to be at substantial risk of developing vascular leakage syndrome or septic shock.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein the quantified type IV coUagenase comprises MMP-2 or MMP-9.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein said type IV coUagenases are measured using antibodies capable of specificaUy binding to MMP-2 or
MMP-9.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein said antibodies are polyclonal antibodies, single chain antibodies, or monoclonal antibodies.
15. A method for treating or preventing vascular leakage syndrome or SIRS comprising administering to a patient having or at risk of developing 


vascular leakage syndrome or septic shock a therapeutically effective amount of (3aα, 5β, 6α, 7aβ)-4,4'-(hexahydro-2,2-dimethyl-l,3-benzodioxole-5,6- diyl)bis(2 , 6-piperazinedione) .
16. A method for treating or preventing vascular leakage syndrome or septic shock comprising administering to a patient having or at risk of developing vascular leakage syndrome or septic shock a therapeutically effective amount of (3aα, 5α, 6β, 7aα)-4,4'-(hexahydro-2,2-dimethyl-l,3- benzodioxole-5 , 6-diyl)bis(2 , 6-piperazinedione) .
17. A method for treating a coUagenase related disorder or disease comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of (3aα, 5β, 6α,
7aβ)-4,4'-(hexahydro-2,2-dimethyl-l,3-benzodioxole-5,6-diyl)bis(2,6- piperazinedione).
18. A method for treating a collagenase related disorder or disease comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of (3aα, 5α, 6β, 7aα)-4,4'-(hexahydro-2,2-dimethyl-l,3-benzodioxole-5,6-diyl)bis(2,6- piperazinedione).
19. A method for determining whether a specific bis(dioxopiperazine) compound comprises potential therapeutic efficacy for treating coUagenase related disorders which method comprises: determining in vitro assay whether said bis(dioxopiperazine) compound inhibits coUagenase activity wherein coUagenase inhibitory activity is indicative of the probable therapeutic efficacy of said compound.
20. The method of claim 19 which further comprises subjecting compounds which exhibit in vitro coUagenase inhibitory activity to in vivo testing to establish whether said compound comprises utility in the treatment of coUagenase related disorders. 


 21. The method of claim 19 wherein said in vitro assay comprises determining whether said compound inhibits attachment of ceUs to basement membrane proteins.
22. The method of claim 19 wherein said in vitro assay comprises determining in a Boyden chamber assay whether said compound inhibits directed motility of ceUs to a chemoattractant.
23. The method of claim 19 wherein said in vitro assay comprises determining whether said compound inhibits in vitro invasion in the presence of isolated basement membrane proteins.
24. The method of claim 19 wherein said in vitro assay comprises determining the effect of said compound on metaUoproteinase inhibitor expression.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein said metaUoproteinase inhibitor is TIMP-1 or TIMP-2.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein expression is assayed using antibodies capable of specificaUy binding to ΗMP-1 or TIMP-2.
27. The method of claim 25 wherein expression is assayed using DNA probes capable of specificaUy binding to TIMP-1 or TIMP-2 polynucleotides.
28. A method of preventing or treating in a patient toxicity caused by the administration or endogenous expression of cytokines comprising administering to said patient a therapeuticaUy effective amount of one or more metaUoproteinase inhibitors. 


 29. The method of claim 28 wherein said cytokine is selected from the group consisting of IL-1, IL-2 and TNF.
30. The method of claim 28 wherein said metalloproteinase inhibitor comprises a type IV coUagenase inhibitor.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein said coUagenase inhibitor inhibits MMP-2 or MMP-9.
32. The method of claim 28 wherein the toxicity caused by cytokine expression or administration comprises vascular leakage syndrome or SIRS.
33. The method of claim 28 wherein at least one of said metaUoproteinase inhibitors is selected from the group consisting of TIMP-1, TJMP-2 and bis(dioxopiperazine) compounds.
34. A method for treatment of a coUagenase related disorder comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a bis(2,6- dioxopiperazine) compound.
35. The method of claim 34 wherein the bis(dioxopiperazine) compound comprises at least two bis(dioxopiperazine) rings.
36. The method of claim 34 wherein said bis(dioxopiperazine) rings are in a cisoid relationship.
37. The method of claim 34 wherein the bis(dioxopiperazine) rings are substituted with functional groups which provide for enhanced solubUity. 


 38. The method of claim 37 wherein said solubilizing groups are selected from the group consisting of hydroxyl, carboxyHc acid, and morphoHnomethyl functionaUties.
39. The method of claim 37 wherein said compound comprises a cyclopropanediyl analog, a tricycHc tetraazoperhydrophenanthrene, a tricycHc tetraazaperhydroanthracene, a diasteromer or isopropylamine derivative of 4,4'-(4,5-dihydroxy-l,2-cyclohexanediyl) bis(2,6-dioxopiperazine) or an octahydro-2,2-dϊmethyl-6-oxo-l,3-dioxolo[4,5-g] quinoxaline 5,8-diacetic acid ester. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
