<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630503</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IDENTIFICATION OF ANATOMICAL FEATURES FROM DATA.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01T100	G01T1164	G06T100	G06T100	G06T500	G06T500	G06T700	G06T700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01T	G01T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01T1	G01T1	G06T1	G06T1	G06T5	G06T5	G06T7	G06T7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A nuclear medicine image is scanned and pixels of maximum and minimum intensity are identified and correlated with each other using constraints which are empirically determined to relate to the feature of interest (such as the heart). The information thus obtained is used to define a region of interest in which an anatomical feature of interest may be located, and to position a scintillation camera detector to carry out a nuclear medicine study at optimal positions. To properly position a subject patient, anatomical landmarks relating to a target organ are automatically identified by a computer. The landmarks are superimposed upon a nuclear medicine persistence image of the target organ. This facilitates technician identification of the target organ and also facilitates repeatability of, e.g., myocardial perfusion studies, which require that two studies be performed on a single patient at two different times. To determine the depth of the target organ, two planar nuclear medicine images of a target organ are acquired using a focussing collimator at two different heights. An anatomical landmark associated with the target organ is computer-identified in each of the images, and the depth of the target organ is determined geometrically using the differences in size between the images of the identified landmark and the differences in height.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWMAN PEGGY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QIAN JIANZHONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWMAN, PEGGY, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QIAN, JIANZHONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 -EDENπFICATIO OF ANATOMICAL FEATURES FROM DATATechnical FieldThe invention relates to nuclear medicine and, more particularly, to images produced by nuclear medicine studies of patient organs. In its most immediate sense, the invention relates to nuclear medicine studies of the heart, proper positioning of a patient in studies of patient organs, and determinations of the depth of an organ, such as the heart, within the body. Background ArtIn contrast with nuclear medicine studies, modalities such as computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging produce clearly defined images. However, this is not the case in nuclear medicine, e.g. cardiac bloodpool studies - - which are concerned more with functional determinations such as ejection fractions rather than the location of malignant regions as in other studies. Here, since cardiac tissue is engorged with blood and the tissue adjoins blood pools within the heart, there are no sharp edges (as exist with images produced by other modalities) and even under the best of circumstances it is difficult to locate exactly that portion of the image which relates to, e.g. , the left ventricle. Thus, it is necessary to identify such organ features as the interventricular septum, the left ventricle, and the right ventricle.Attempts have been made to use edge detection methods to identify the location of anatomical features, but such attempts have been unsuccessful.- This is because the data used to construct such images is contaminated by scatter and attenuation. Additionally, nuclear medicine images become even more ambiguous because of low resolution, low 

signal-to-noise ratio, and the presence of radioactivity from adjacent organs and background tissue. Consequently, conventional detection methods are not helpful in identifying anatomical structures of interest; these methods may locate an edge which is without diagnostic significance and may overlook an edge which is highly important.Additionally, it frequently happens that the camera is mispositioned with respect to the patient's target organ (i.e., the organ of interest). (This may happen where the patient has, e.g., an abnormally oriented heart, or where the patient shifts position after being positioned properly.) Even an experienced technician needs substantial time to collect enough data to assess the positioning of the patient and to correct any mispositioning, and an inexperienced technician may need to repeat these steps one or more times before the patient is positioned properly. Worse, if the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of identifying, from image data acquired in a nuclear medicine study of a patient's body, an anatomical feature of interest, comprising the steps of: conducting a nuclear medicine study and thereby acquiring an image of the feature, said image including, for each image pixel, an intensity representing that number of detected scintillation events which correspond to the location of that pixel in the patient's body; establishing, on the basis of the feature to be identified, a scan curve and a scan direction; scanning the image with the scan curve along the scan direction and registering, for each location of the scan curve, the pixels with local intensity maxima and minima; grouping together, in accordance with their connectedness, some of such registered pixels, to form maxima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with local intensity maxima and minima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with local intensity minima; and determining which of said line segments correspond with the feature by identifying whether said line segments satisfy constraints which have been empirically determined to relate to the feature.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature is the interventricular septum of the heart, the scan curve is a straight line which is generally normal to the interventricular septum and the scanning direction is generally parallel to the interventricular septum.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of creating, from the line segments which have been determined to relate to the feature, a region of interest within the image.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of searching the region of interest for at least one 


predetermined anatomical feature.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the feature is the boundary of the left ventricle.
6. A method of identifying, from image data acquired in a nuclear medicine study of a patient's body, an anatomical feature of interest, comprising the steps of: conducting a nuclear medicine study and thereby acquiring an image of the feature, said image including, for each image pixel, an intensity representing that number of detected scintillation events which correspond to the location of that pixel in the patient's body; mapping the image to a local curvature image wherein only pixels with local intensity maxima and minima have non-zero values; grouping together, in accordance with their connectedness, at least some of such non-zero value pixels, to form maxima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with local intensity maxima and minima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with local intensity minima; and determining which of said line segments correspond with the feature by identifying whether said line segments satisfy constraints which have been empirically determined to relate to the feature.
7. A method of optimizing the position of a scintillation camera detector with respect to a target organ within the body of the patient and thereby optimizing image data acquired in a nuclear medicine study, comprising the steps of: acquiring a first image of the target organ at an initially preferred position of the detector with respect to the patient's body,
'
 said first image including, for each image pixel, an intensity representing that number of 


10 detected scintillation events which correspond to the
11 location of that pixel in the patient's body; 2 establishing, on the basis of the target organ, a scan 3 curve and a scan direction;
14 scanning the first image with the scan curve along the 5 scan direction and registering, for each location of the
16 scan curve, the pixels with local intensity maxima and 7 minima;
18 grouping together, in accordance with their L9 connectedness, some of such registered pixels, to form 0 maxima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with 21 local intensity maxima and minima line segments composed -2 exclusively of pixels with local intensity minima; 3 determining which of said line segments correspond 4 with anatomical features of the target organ by identifying 5 whether said line segments satisfy constraints which have 6 been empirically determined to relate to said features; 7 ascertaining, from the line segments which have been 8 so determined to correspond to the feature, a current
29 position of the scintillation camera detector with respect
30 to said target organ; 1 establishing a second preferred position of the 2 scintillation camera detector with respect to the target 3 organ; 4 acquiring a second image of the target organ at said 5 second preferred position of the detector with respect to 6 the patient's body, said second image including, for each 7 image pixel, an intensity representing that number of 8 detected scintillation events which correspond to the 9 location of that pixel in the patient's body; 0 scanning the second image with the scan curve along 1 the scan direction and registering, for each location of 2 the scan curve, the second image pixels with local 3 intensity maxima and minima; 4 grouping together, in accordance with their 5 connectedness, some of such registered second image pixels, 


to form second image maxima line segments composed exclusively of second image pixels with local intensity maxima and second image minima line segments composed exclusively of second image pixels with local intensity minima; determining which of said second image line segments correspond with anatomical features of the target organ by identifying whether said second image line segments satisfy constraints which have been empirically determined to relate to said features; and ascertaining, from the second image line segments which have been so determined to correspond to the feature, a current position of the scintillation camera detector with respect to said target organ.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of determining which of the first and second positions is better for conducting the study.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the scintillation camera detector is moved automatically to an optimized position determined by comparing information acquired at the first position with information acquired at the second position.
10. A method of identifying a patient's cardiac ventricles and interventricular septum from image data acquired in a gated cardiac bloodpool study of the patient's heart, comprising the steps of: acquiring a nuclear medicine image of the heart wherein the interventricular septum extends generally vertically from the top of the image to the bottom of the image, said image including, for each image pixel, an intensity representing that number of detected scintillation events which correspond to the location of that pixel in the patient's heart;
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 scanning the image with a horizontally extending line which is moved in a direction that is generally parallel to the patient's interventricular septum and registering, for each vertical location of the horizoritally extending scan line, the pixels with local intensity maxima and minima; grouping together, in accordance with their connectedness, some of such registered pixels, to form maxima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with local intensity maxima and minima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with local intensity minima; identifying S-patterns wherein a minima line segment intervenes, along the horizontally extending scan line, between two maxima line segments; and extracting, from all such identified S-patterns, and in accordance with constraints which have been empirically determined to relate to the interventricular septum and the cardiac ventricles, that single S-pattern which best corresponds to the long axes of the ventricles and the intervening interventricular septum.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein scanning and registration step includes the step of mapping the image to a local curvature image in which only local maxima and minima have non-zero values.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of determining, within the image and from the line segments in said single S-pattern, a region of interest which includes only the left ventricle.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of adaptively segmenting the left ventricle within the region of interest and creating a graphical plot of the boundary of the left ventricle.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the
SUBSTΓΓUTE SHEET 


step of superimposing the plot upon the image.
15. A method of processing a nuclear medicine image known to contain a feature of interest, comprising the steps of: automatically defining, based on the image itself and without operator intervention, a region of interest within the image; and automatically identifying the feature of interest within said region of interest.
16. A method of identifying anatomical features of interest of a patient's body, comprising the steps of: conducting a nuclear medicine study of the patient's body and thereby acquiring image data; and automatically identifying, based upon the image data and without operator intervention, at least one feature.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the feature is of a target organ located within a region of interest and wherein the step of identifying includes identifying, with respect to the target organ, at least two anatomical landmarks of interest, the method further comprising the steps of: displaying a persistence image of the region of interest; computer-generating plots representing said at least two anatomical landmarks of interest; and superimposing said plots on corresponding locations in the persistence image.
18. The method of claim 17, further including the step of positioning said plots in a predetermined display position.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein said identifying 


step comprises the step of identifying said at least two anatomical landmarks from persistence data in a persistence image.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the feature is of a target organ located within a region of interest; and wherein the step of conducting a nuclear medicine study and acquiring image data includes the steps of: acquiring a first nuclear medicine image of the target organ using a focussing collimator at a first predetermined height; and acquiring a second nuclear medicine image of the target organ using the same collimator at a second predetermined height; and wherein the step of identifying includes the steps of: computer-identifying an anatomical landmark associated with the target organ as said landmark appears in the first nuclear medicine image; computer-identifying the same anatomical landmark associated with the target organ as said landmark appears in the second nuclear medicine image; and determining, from differences in size between said identified landmarks and said heights, the depth of the target organ within the patient.
21. A method of conducting a nuclear medicine study of a target organ within a region of interest within a patient, comprising the steps of: identifying, with respect to the target organ, at least two anatomical landmarks of interest; commencing the study; displaying a persistence image of the region of interest; computer-generating plots representing said at least 


two anatomical landmarks of interest; and superimposing said plots on corresponding locations in the persistence image.
22. A method of determining the depth of a target organ within a patient, comprising the steps of: acquiring a first nuclear medicine image of.the target organ using a focussing collimator at a first predetermined height; acquiring a second nuclear medicine image of the target organ using the same collimator at a second predetermined height; 
•
 computer-identifying an anatomical landmark associated with the target organ as said landmark appears in the first nuclear medicine image; computer-identifying the same anatomical landmark associated with the target organ as said landmark appears in the second nuclear medicine image; and determining, from differences in size between said identified landmarks and said heights, the depth of the target organ within the patient.
23. Apparatus for identifying a patient's cardiac ventricles and interventricular septum from image data acquired in a gated cardiac bloodpool study of the patient's heart, comprising: scintillation camera means for acquiring and storing a nuclear medicine image of the heart wherein the interventricular septum extends generally vertically from the top of the image to the bottom of the image, said image including, for each image pixel, an intensity representing that number of detected scintillation events which correspond to the location of that pixel in the patient's heart; and computer means, said computer means comprising: means for scanning the image with a horizontally 


 extending line which is moved in a direction that is generally parallel to the patient's interventricular septum and registering, for each vertical location of the horizontally extending scan line, the pixels with local intensity maxima and minima, means for grouping together, in accordance with their connectedness, some of such registered pixels, to form maxima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with local intensity maxima and minima line segments composed exclusively of pixels with local intensity minima, means for identifying S-patterns wherein a minima line segment intervenes, along the horizontally extending scan line, between two maxima line segments, and means for extracting, from all such identified S- patterns, and in accordance with constraints which have been empirically determined to relate to the interventricular septum and the cardiac ventricles, that single S-pattern which best corresponds to the long axes of the ventricles and the intervening interventricular septum.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said computer means further includes means for mapping the image to a local curvature image in which only local maxima and minima have non-zero values.
25. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said computer means further includes means for determining, within the image and from the line segments in said single S-pattern, a region of interest which includes only the left ventricle.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said computer means further includes means for adaptively segmenting the 


left ventricle within the region of interest and creating a graphical plot of the boundary of the left ventricle.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a display and means for displaying, upon the display, a superposition of the plot and the image.
28. Apparatus for identifying anatomical features of interest in a patient's body, comprising: means for conducting a nuclear medicine study of the patient's body and thereby acquiring image data; and means, responsive to the image data, for identifying at least one feature.
29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the feature is of a target organ located within a region of interest and wherein the means for conducting a nuclear medicine study includes means for identifying at least two anatomical features of interest with respect to the target organ, the apparatus further comprising: display means for displaying a nuclear medicine persistence image of the region of interest; and means for generating plots representing said at least two anatomical landmarks of interest and superimposing said plots on corresponding locations in the persistence image.
30. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the feature is of a target organ and wherein the means for conducting a nuclear medicine study includes means for acquiring and storing a first nuclear medicine image of the target organ using a focussing collimator at a first predetermined height and acquiring and storing a second nuclear medicine image of the target organ using the same focussing collimator at a second predetermined height; and wherein the means responsive to the image data includes means for identifying an anatomical landmark 


associated with the target organ as said landmark appears in the first nuclear medicine image, for identifying the same anatomical landmark associated with the target organ as said landmark appears in the second nuclear medicine image, and for determining, from differences in size between said identified landmarks and said heights, the depth of the target organ within the patient's body.
31. Apparatus for conducting a nuclear medicine study of a target organ within a region of interest within a patient, comprising: a computerized scintillation camera system for acquiring and storing nuclear medicine images of a patient and for automatically identifying at least two anatomical features of interest with respect to the target organ; display means for displaying a nuclear medicine persistence image of the region of interest; and means for automatically generating plots representing said at least two anatomical landmarks of interest and superimposing said plots on corresponding locations in the persistence image.
32. Apparatus for determining the depth of a target organ within a patient, comprising: scintillation camera means for acquiring and storing a first nuclear medicine image of the target organ using a focussing collimator at a first predetermined height and acquiring and storing a second nuclear medicine image of the target organ using the same focussing collimator at a second predetermined height; and computer means for identifying an anatomical landmark associated with the target organ as said landmark appears in the first nuclear medicine image, for identifying the same anatomical landmark associated with the target organ as said landmark appears in the second nuclear medicine image, and for determining, from differences in size 


between said identified landmarks and said heights, the depth of the target organ within the patient. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
