<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635953</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for increasing the capacity of existing local area networks that use shielded twisted wire pair medium
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L502	H04L1240	H04L1240	H04L502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L5	H04L12	H04L12	H04L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The data communication capacity of an existing local area network (LAN) 10 that 
uses a shielded twisted wire pair 16 as its transmission medium may be increased with the 

addition of special frequency selective terminators 36 and single-ended transceivers 20. 
The single-ended transceivers 20 have two single-ended transmitter connections 42,44 to 

the two twisted wires 22,24 in the shielded twisted wire pair medium 16, respectively, 
and one single-ended receiver connection 46 to one of the two twisted wires 22,24 in the 

shielded twisted wire pair medium 16. The shielded twisted wire pair medium 16 is 
terminated by the special frequency selective terminators 36 which provide transmission 

line impedance matching over the signal bandwidth of a single-ended data channel, while 
providing a high impedance over the signal bandwidth of a differential data channel. 

Thus, differential data communications are allowed over the signal bandwidth of the 
differential data channel, while single-ended data communications are allowed over the 

signal bandwidth of the single-ended data channel, thereby increasing the overall data 

communication capacity of the LAN. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHNEIDER AUTOMATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHNEIDER AUTOMATION INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINNEGAN JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIDLAND ANATOLY V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLIGAN DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINNEGAN, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIDLAND, ANATOLY V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLIGAN, DAVID J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the communication of data over a local area
network (LAN) and, more particularly, to a system for increasing the data communication
capacity of an existing LAN that uses a shielded twisted wire pair as its transmission
medium.A local area network (LAN) is a data communication system that allows a large
number of sub-systems to communicate over a common data bus. Each of the sub-systems
is individually connected to the common data bus and a standard protocol is
adopted by each sub-system so as to prevent or minimize when more than one sub-system
transmits on the common data bus at the same time. Generally, each of the sub-systems
transmits data on the common data bus at the same rate, or frequency.The data communication frequency of the LAN is determined by a number of
factors, one being the medium of the common data bus. One of the more popular types
of media used today, due to its low cost of installation and service, is a shielded twisted
wire pair. The shielded twisted wire pair allows each of the sub-systems to transmit
signals differentially over the common data bus wire pair. As is commonly known, one
of the most important aspects of a differential medium is its Common Mode Rejection,
which allows the medium to be used in very noisy environments. Accordingly, if noise,
that is analogous in both amplitude and phase, is injected into both wires of the shielded
twisted wire pair, a data transmission from one of the sub-systems will not be affected by
that noise. Similarly, if a signal, that is also analogous in both amplitude and phase, is
injected into both wires of the shielded twisted wire pair, a data transmission from one of
the sub-systems will not be affected by that signal. To date, this important aspect of the 
shielded twisted wire pair differential medium has not been utilized to its fullest extent.Such a conventional system is disclosed, e.g. in DE-A-4 138 065.As previously discussed, the LAN allows a large number of sub-systems to
communicate over a common data bus at a specified frequency by adopting a standard
protocol. However, it is often desirable or required to have these same sub-systems
communicate at a higher data communication rate or by a different protocol. Since the
shielded twisted wire pair provides only a single data channel with no selectivity, an
additional data channel would be required to accommodate such a desire or requirement.
The present invention utilizes the Common Mode Rejection of the shielded twisted wire
pair differential
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for increasing the data communication capacity of an existing local area
network (LAN) that uses a shielded twisted wire pair medium to support differential data

communications, said system comprising:

a transmission medium having two conductors (22,24) and a shield (26) for shielding said two
conductors, said two conductors (22,24) forming a primary transmission line having a first

characteristic impedance, each of said two conductors (22,24) and said shield (26) forming a secondary
transmission line having a second characteristic impedance;
first terminating means (34) for terminating said primary transmission line at both ends
with an impedance matching said first characteristic impedance;
second terminating means (36) for selectively terminating said secondary transmission
line at both ends with a high impedance over a first signal bandwidth and with an

impedance matching said second characteristic impedance over a second signal bandwidth;
a plurality of primary transceivers (18) differentially connected to said primary
transmission line for providing differential data communications over said primary

transmission line at a frequency within said first signal bandwidth; and
a plurality of secondary transceivers (20) single-endedly connected to said secondary
transmission line for providing single-ended data communications over said secondary

transmission line at a frequency within said second signal bandwidth.
The system as defined in claim 1, wherein said two conductors are two twisted
conductors.
The system as defined in claim 2, wherein said shield is connected to earth ground
through an RC circuit at both its ends to reduce any noise effects from signal ground on

said LAN.
The system as defined in claim 3, wherein a high impedance resistor is connected
between said shield and each of said two twisted conductors so as to balance the voltage 

levels on said two twisted conductors with respect to said shield.
The system as defined in claim 1, wherein said first terminating means is
comprised of a resistor having a value equal to said first characteristic impedance.
The system as defined in claim 1, wherein said second terminating means is
comprised of:


a plurality of filters for selectively providing a high impedance over said first
signal bandwidth and a low impedance over said second signal bandwidth; and
a corresponding plurality of resistors each having a value equal to said second
characteristic impedance.
The system as defined in claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of filters are
referenced to signal ground.
The system as defined in claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of primary
transceivers are comprised of:


a high input impedance differential receiver; and
a low output impedance differential transmitter that is fully able to drive said
primary transmission line.
The system as defined in claim 8, wherein each of said plurality of primary
transceivers are isolated from signal ground.
The system as defined in claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of secondary
transceivers are comprised of:


a high input impedance single-ended receiver; and
two low output impedance single-ended transmitters that are fully able to drive
said secondary transmission line, wherein signals transmitted by said two transmitters are

in phase and are of the same amplitude.
The system as defined in claim 10, wherein each of said plurality of secondary
transceivers are further comprised of modulator/demodulator circuitry for encoding

transmit signals for said two transmitters and for decoding signals received by said
receiver.
The system as defined in claim 11, wherein each of said plurality of secondary
transceivers are further comprised of:


a filter located between said modulator/demodulator circuitry and said two
transmitters for reducing the level of any spurious signals that may be transmitted by said

two transmitters, and
a filter located between said modulator/demodulator circuitry and said receiver for
improving the signal to noise ratio of signals received by said receiver.
The system as defined in claim 12, wherein each of said plurality of secondary
transceivers are referenced to signal ground.
A method for increasing the data communication capacity of an existing local area
network (LAN) that uses a shielded twisted wire pair medium to support differential data

communications, said method comprising the steps of:

forming a primary transmission line from two conductors in a transmission
medium having two conductors and a shield for shielding said two conductors, said

primary transmission line having a first characteristic impedance;
forming a secondary transmission line from said two conductors and said shield in
said transmission medium, said secondary transmission line having a second characteristic

impedance;
terminating said primary transmission line at both ends with a first terminating
means that matches said first characteristic impedance;
selectively terminating said secondary transmission line at both ends with a second
terminating means that provides a high impedance over a first signal bandwidth and an

impedance matching said second characteristic impedance over a second signal bandwidth; 
differentially connecting a plurality of primary transceivers to said primary
transmission line for providing differential data communications over said primary

transmission line at a frequency within said first signal bandwidth; and
single-endedly connecting a plurality of secondary transceivers to said secondary
transmission line for providing single-ended data communications over said secondary

transmission line at a frequency within said second signal bandwidth.
The method as defined in claim 14, further comprising the step of connecting said
shield to earth ground through an RC circuit at both its ends to reduce any noise effects

from signal ground on said LAN.
The method as defined in claim 14, further comprising the step of connecting said
shield to each said conductor through a high impedance resistor so as to balance the

voltage levels on each said conductor with respect to said shield.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
