<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657372</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mounting assembly for reciprocating slat conveyor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G2504	F15B1500	F15B1514	B65G2506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	F15B	F15B	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G25	F15B15	F15B15	B65G25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A drive frame assembly includes opposite transverse drive 
frame members (64), each of which includes a metal plate (66) 

with a central portion having a plurality of longitudinal 
corrugations (68). The central portion is stiffened by 

transverse beams (78, 80). A plurality of piston-cylinder 
drive units each have opposite ball ends (24, 26) which are 

secured to end portions of the corrugations by means of ball 
blocks (50, 52). Opposite side portions of the metal plate 

(66) are free to bend relative to the central portion to 
accommodate variations in vertical spacing of the drive units 

relative to portions of the main frame of a structure in which 
the conveyor is mounted. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOSTER RAYMOND KEITH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOSTER, RAYMOND KEITH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOSTER RAYMOND KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOSTER, RAYMOND KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to systems for mounting
reciprocating slat conveyors and the drive assemblies thereof
and, more particularly, to such a system in which a drive frame
assembly has a transverse drive frame member with a
strengthened central portion to which the end of a drive unit
is secured, and opposite side portions that are bendable
relative to the central portion to permit adjustment of the
vertical position of the outer ends of the side portions
relative to the drive unit when the assembly is mounted on a
structure.Reciprocating slat conveyors are used in various types of
installations and may be mounted on different kinds of
structures. One example of a structure into which a
reciprocating slat conveyor may be incorporated is a trailer.
Reciprocating slat conveyors are typically mounted on an
existing trailer or other structure, rather than being
manufactured together with the structure itself as an original
part of the structure. Therefore, it is desirable for a
conveyor to be relatively easy to mount onto a structure and
have some flexibility in adjusting to variations in the
dimensioning of the structure. Ease and flexibility in
mounting is preferably accomplished while also achieving and/or
maintaining compactness and strength in the drive assembly of
the conveyor. Drive frame assemblies for reciprocating slat conveyors are
disclosed in my United States Patents No. 4,712,467, granted
December 15, 1987; No. 4,748,893, and No. 4,748,894, both
granted June 7, 1988; and No. 4,821,868, granted April 18,
1989. Each of these patents shows an assembly having opposite
end frame members to which the opposite ends of drive units are
secured. The use of ball blocks that receive the ball ends of
drive units to mount the drive units onto drive frame members
is illustrated in my U.S. Patents No. 4,817,783, granted
April 4, 1989; No. 4,969,389, granted November 13, 1990; No.
5,096,356, granted March 17, 1992; No. 5,125,502, granted
June 30, 1992; No. 5,165,524, granted November 24, 1992; and
No. 5,193,661, granted March 16, 1993.The object of the invention is to improve such reciprocating
slat conveyors. This is attained by a conveyor according to
claim 1. The preamble of claim 1 is based for instance on the
prior art according to US-A-5 165 524.A subject of the invention is a reciprocating slat conveyor
comprising a plurality of conveyor slats and a conveyor drive
for moving the slats in a first direction, for conveying a
load, and for retracting the slats in the opposite direction.
The conveyor drive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reciprocating slat conveyor, comprising:

at least two sets of conveyor slats (2);
a conveyor drive for moving the conveyor slats in a first
direction, for conveying a load, and for retracting the

conveyor slats in the opposite direction; said conveyor drive
including a separate piston-cylinder drive unit (10, 20) for each set

of conveyor slats (2); said drive units being positioned below the
conveyor slats; and each said drive unit including a movable

portion (10) connected to its set of conveyor slats and a fixed

portion (20) including a mounting end part;
a main frame below the conveyor slats; and
a transverse drive frame member (64) below the conveyor slats,
connected to the main frame;

characterised in that
said frame member includes a

generally horizontal metal plate (66) formed to include a plurality
of corrugations (68) extending longitudinally of the conveyor

generally in line with the drive units, and said corrugations (68)
including end portions confronting and connected to the

mounting end parts (50, 52) of the drive units so that said corrugations
carry axial drive forces generated by the drive units.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 1,
wherein said metal plate (66) includes opposite side portions (74)

projecting laterally outwardly from the corrugations, each said
side portion including an outer end, and said outer ends being

connected to portions of the main frame.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 2,
wherein the side portions (74) of the metal plate are bendable in

position relative to the corrugations to permit adjustment of
the vertical position of said outer ends to accommodate

variations in vertical spacing of the drive units relative to
said portions of the main frame.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 3,
wherein the transverse drive frame member includes a transverse

beam (78, 80) at at least one end of the corrugations, firmly connected
to the corrugations, for stiffening the corrugations; said side

portions of the metal plate being free of connection to the 
transverse beam so that they are bendable in position relative

to the corrugations and the transverse beam.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 3,
wherein the transverse drive frame member includes a pair of

longitudinally spaced apart transverse beams (78, 80), wherein the metal
plate is positioned longitudinally between the two transverse

beams, and wherein the ends of the corrugations are firmly
connected to the transverse beams but the side portions of the

metal plate are free of connection with the transverse beams
so that said side portions are bendable in position relative

to both the corrugations and the transverse beams.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 1,
claim 2, or claim 3, in which said mounting end part of each

drive unit comprises a ball end (24, 26), and which comprises a ball
block (50, 52) for each drive unit, each said ball block defining a

cavity into which said ball end of the corresponding drive unit
is received, and each said ball block being firmly connected

to said end portions of the corrugations to secure the drive
unit to the transverse drive frame member.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 6,
wherein each said ball block (50, 52) includes at least one passageway

for delivering fluid pressure to, and returning fluid pressure
from, said ball end.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 6,
wherein each said ball block (50, 52) includes a plurality of

passageways for delivering fluid pressure to, and returning
fluid pressure from, said ball end, for moving the conveyor

slats in said first direction and retracting the conveyor slats
in said opposite direction.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 6,
wherein said fixed portion (20) of each drive unit has opposite ends

comprising said ball end and a second ball end, respectively;
and said conveyor comprises a second said transverse drive

frame member (64), and a second ball block corresponding to each
said second ball end; said second ball block defining a cavity

into which the corresponding second ball end is received and
being firmly connected to said end portions of the corrugations 

of the second transverse drive frame member to secure the drive
unit thereto.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 6,
wherein the transverse drive frame member (64) includes a transverse

beam (78, 80) firmly connected to end portions of the corrugations
opposite said ball blocks for stiffening the corrugations.
A reciprocating slat conveyor according to claim 1,
comprising a drive frame including said transverse drive frame

member (64) and a second said transverse drive frame member (64), said
frame members being longitudinally spaced apart; said fixed

portion of each said drive unit having said mounting end part
and an opposite second mounting end part; and said second

mounting end part being connected to said corrugations of said
metal plate of said second transverse drive frame member.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
