<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631553</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOGYRO AIRCRAFT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64C2732	B64C2702	B64C2743	B64C2700	B64C2759	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64C27	B64C27	B64C27	B64C27	B64C27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An autogyro (10) has a teetering semi-rigid rotary wing (28) with rigid rotor blades (30a, 30b). The blade pitch of the rotor blades (30a, 30b) is fully adjustable in flight and varies along the blade length. A prerotator (100) rotates the rotor blades (30a, 30b) up to takeoff speed at minimum drag, no lift and optimum engine efficiency. Engine power is disconnected from the rotor blades (30a, 30b) and their angle of attack is changed for optimum lift. Rotor blade pitch is adjusted during vertical landing. In flight, rotor blade angle of attack is varied to adjust autorotation, lift and drag at any flight airspeed. On the ground, the rotary wing (28) is braked to prevent rotation. The autogyro (10) may roll, pitch or yaw, with complete independence of blade pitch with respect to all other relative motions. The pedals (61a, 61b) have disproportions forward and backward motions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEGO TOOL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEGO TOOL, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROEN DAVID LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROEN HENRY JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROEN, DAVID, LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROEN, HENRY, JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Field of the Invention: This invention relates to 
autogyro aircraft, including their components and control 
systems. State of the Art: An autogyro aircraft derives lift 
from an unpowered, freely rotating rotary wing or plurality 
of rotary blades. The energy to rotate the rotary wing 
results from the forward movement of the aircraft in 
response to a thrusting engine such as a motor driven 
propeller. During the developing years of aviation aircraft, 
autogyro aircraft were proposed to avoid the problem of 
aircraft stalling in flight and to reduce the need for 
runways. The relative airspeed of the rotating wing is 
independent of the forward airspeed of the autogyro, 
allowing slow ground speed for takeoff and landing, and 
safety in slow-speed flight. Engines may be 
tractor-mounted on the front of an autogyro or 
pusher-mounted on the rear of the autogyro. Airflow passing the rotary wing, alternately called 
rotor blades, which are tilted upwardly toward the front of 
the autogyro, provides the driving force to rotate the 
wing. The Bernoulli effect of the airflow moving over the 
rotary wing surface creates lift. Various autogyro devices in the past have provided 
some means to begin rotation of the rotary wing prior to 
takeoff, thus further minimizing the takeoff run down a 
runway. U.S. Patent No. 1,590,497 (de la Cierva) illustrated 
a very early embodiment of an autogyro. The influence of 
the angle of attack of the blade of a rotary wing was 
recognized in U.S. Patent 1,947,901. The optimum angle of 
attack for the blades or rotary wing was described by 
Pitcairn in U.S. Patent No. 1,977,834. U.S. Patent 
2,352,342 (Pitcairn) disclosed an autogyro with blades 
which were fully hinged relative to the hub.  
 U.S. Patent No. 1,838,327 (Salisbury et al) showed a 
system to change the lift to drag response of a rotary wing 
but did not change the actual angle of attack of the rotor 
blade. U.S. Patent No. 4,092,084 (Barltrop) disclosed a 
system in which the rotor blade angle with respect to a 
longitudinal axis was allowed to teeter. As the teeter 
motion occurred, a linkage coupling the two rotor blades 
together tended to change the angle of attack of the 
blades. That is, the rotor blade pitch angle varied with 
the rotation rate. Again, no operator control was allowed 
but only a variation between set limits to facilitate 
spinning the rotary wing up to takeoff speeds. Similarly, 
U.S. Patent No. 3,149,802 (Wigal) shifts blade pitch 
between two angular positions dependent upon the rate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotor system for an autogyro aircraft that 
includes a frame with a fixed upright mast having a head 

end with a rotor system mounted thereon in freewheeling 
arrangement and with horizontal thrust provided to the 

aircraft by an engine turning a propeller, said rotor 
system comprising: 


a spindle journaled to said head end of said fixed upright 
mast for rotation with respect to said mast, said 

spindle having an axis; 
teeter means pivotably mounted to said spindle for 
sustaining non-symmetric lift forces; 
left and right rotor blades, each having a leading edge, a 
longitudinal axis and a root end, ea
ch said rotor 
blade being pivotably mounted at said root end to 

said teeter means to extend away therefrom for 
creating lift, each said rotor blade being 

selectively pivotable about its respective said 
longitudinal axis to move said leading edge 

through an arc between a no-lift and a maximum 
lift attitude; 
linkage means connected to said root ends for pivoting said 
left and right rotor blades equally; 
a collective cable having a proximal end and a distal end, 
said distal end being connected to said linkage 

means for movement thereof in response to tension 
in said collective cable; and 
adjustment means attached to said collective cable for 
selectively applying and releasing said tension 

in said collective cable. 
A rotor system for an autogyro aircraft 
having a roll axis, a pitch axis and a yaw axis and having 

a fuselage with aircraft control systems therein operable 
by a user and with a fixed mast having a mast head end 

extending upwardly away therefrom for connecting to said  
 

rotor system in freewheeling arrangement at said mast head 
end, said rotor system comprising: 


a collective cable having a proximal end and a distal end, 
said collective cable being connected to said 

rotor system at said distal end; 
control means attached to said proximal end of said 
collective cable for controlling tension in said 

collective cable; 
a spindle rotatably secured to said mast, said spindle 
having an upper end and a lower end; 
teeter means pivotably coupled to said spindle for teetering 
with respect thereto; 
first and second teeter bar assemblies rigidly attached to 
said teeter means and extending therefrom in 

opposite directions for teetering therewith; 
a first rotor blade having a first root end, a first tip 
end and a first longitudinal axis extending 

therebetween, said first rotor blade being 
pivotably secured at said first root end to said 

first teeter bar assembly for rotating with said 
teeters means and for pivoting with respect 

thereto between a no-lift and a maximum lift 
attitude; 
a second rotor blade having a second root end, a second tip 
end and a second longitudinal axis extending 

therebetween, said second rotor blade being 
pivotably secured at said second root end to said 

second teeter bar assembly for rotating with said 
teeters and for pivoting with respect thereto 

between said no-lift and said maximum lift 
attitude; 
first pitch change horn means attached to said first rotor 
blade at said first root end for pivoting said 

first rotor blade about said first longitudinal 
axis of said first rotor blade; 
second pitch change horn means attached to said second 
rotor blade at said second root end for pivoting  

 
said second rotor blade about said second 

longitudinal axis of said second rotor blade; 
a first blade bearing means secured to said first pitch 
change horn means and to said first teeter bar 

assembly for pivotably supporting said first 
rotor blade during said pivoting between said no-lift 

and said maximum lift attitude; 
a second blade bearing means secured to said second pitch 
change horn means and to said second teeter bar 

assembly for pivotably supporting said second 
rotor blade during said pivoting between said no-lift 

and said maximum lift attitude; 
a pitch change cross arm rotatably secured to said distal 
end of said collective cable for axial movement 

therewith; and 
linkage means connected between said pitch change cross 
arm, and said first and second pitch change horn 

means for pivoting said first rotor blade about 
said first longitudinal axis and pivoting said 

second rotor blade about said second longitudinal 
axis in response to said axial movement of said 

pitch change cross arm. 
The rotor system of Claim 2, wherein said 
control means further comprises: 


a collective arm secured to said axle means for rotation 
therewith, said collective arm having a proximal 

end and a distal end; 
connection means secured between said collective arm and 
said proximal end of said collective cable for 

applying said tension in said collective cable in 
response to said rotation of said collective arm; 

and 
adjustment means for selectively restraining and releasing 
said collective arm with respect to said rotation 

thereof. 
The rotor system of Claim 2, further 
comprising: 


a collective cable termination secured to said distal end 
of said collective cable to fit in sliding 

arrangement within said spindle means; and 
cross arm connection means rotatably secured to said 
collective cable termination for rotating with 

respect thereto for moving said pitch change 
cross arm axially without rotation thereof. 
An autogyro comprising: 

frame means to support a load in flight and on a support 
surface; 
support means connected to extend beneath said frame means 
to support said autogyro upon a surface; 
tower means attached to said frame means to extend above 
said frame means, said tower means having a 

distal end and a tower longitudinal axis; 
head means tiltably attached to said distal end of said 
tower means to tilt relative to said tower 

longitudinal axis 
about a head pitch axis and a head roll axis, 

said head means further having a rotor 
axis; 
rotor means rotatably attached to said head means to rotate 
about said rotor axis, said rotor means having a 

teeter axis; 
wing means attached to said rotor means to extend away 
therefrom and rotate therewith to generate a lift 

force, said wing means being comprised of blade 
means pivotable between a first minimum lift angle 

and a second lift angle; 
propulsion means attached to said frame means for 
generating a force to urge said autogyro forward, 

and to selectively rotate said rotor means; 
first control means connected to said frame means to 
control operation of said propulsion means, said 

first control means having means positioned to be 
operable by a user supported on the frame means;  

 
second control means connected to said head means to 
control the tilting of said head means, said 

second control means having means positioned to 
be operable by the user; and 
third control means connected to said rotor means to pivot 
said blade means between said first minimum 

lift angle and said second maximum lift angle 
and to selectively adjust said blade means at any 

position thereof between said first minimum 
lift angle and said second maximum lift angle, 

said third control means having means 
positioned to be operable by the user. 
An autogyro as in Claim 5 further 
comprising: 


teeter box means tiltably attached to the rotor means and 
supporting the wing means; 
bearing means rotatably attached to said teeter box means 
to turn about a longitudinal axis of said wing 

means; 
at least two spar means in said wing means, said spar means 
each having a proximal end and a distal end, said 

proximal end attached to said bearing means and 
said distal end extending away therefrom; 
connection means securing said spar means to said bearing 

means and distributing forces along said spar 
means and said teeter box means; 
blade means attached to sad spar means to provide 
aerodynamic lift, said blade means having a 

chord, a leading edge, a trailing edge, a blade 
longitudinal axis, means for changing blade pitch 

by rotation of said chord about said blade 
longitudinal axis, and said blade means also 

having a flap direction perpendicular to a plane 
defined by said chord and said blade longitudinal 

axis, and a lead-lag direction perpendicular to  
 

said blade longitudinal axis and tangent to the 
rotation of said rotor means; 
pitch change horn means attached to each of said spars; and 
pitch control linkage means flexibly attached to said 
cross-bar means and each of said pitch change 

horns means to transmit motions of said control 
means to said pitch change horns to rotate said 

blade means about said blade longitudinal axis. 
An autogyro as in Claim 6 further including 
collective pitch control means movably attached to said 

frame means to actuate rotation of the chord of the wing 
means about the blade longitudinal axis. 
An autogyro as in Claim 5, further 
including: 


rotor yoke means of the rotor means supporting the wing 
means and the spindle means, said rotor yoke 

means having a teeter axis and a blade pitch 
axis; 
rotor drive means fixedly attached to said rotor means to 
transmit power from said propulsion means to said 

rotor means; and 
cross-bar means movably attached to said rotor yoke means 
to transmit motions from the third control means 

to said wing means. 
An autogyro as in Claim 6, further including 
collective pitch control means movably attached to said 

frame means to actuate rotation of the chord of the blade 
means about the blade longitudinal axis. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
