<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617822</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING CONDITIONS IN A SPACE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B2514	G08B1900	H04L1228	G08B2500	H04L1228	G08B1900	G08B2514	G08B2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	H04L	G08B	H04L	G08B	G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B25	G08B19	H04L12	G08B25	H04L12	G08B19	G08B25	G08B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An environmental control system for a building intended for human occupancy in which the operating environment is controlled in response to any of a plurality of states of the building as represented by a state vector. A plurality of independently operating controllers (21-24) contain stored sets of addressable control functions (Figs. 4 and 5) which are accessed by the state vector signal. The controllers (21-24) produce operating point signals for apparatuses which affect operating environment parameters in accordance with the addressed control functions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIDDINGS RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RACHOR LLOYD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRICKLER LARRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VON DER HOFF H OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIDDINGS, RICHARD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RACHOR, LLOYD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRICKLER, LARRY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VON DER HOFF, H., OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to control of 
apparatuses affecting parameters which characterize the 
operating environment in a control space, and more 
particularly to a polymorphic distributed control system 
for determining the operating environment in a building and 
surrounding space intended for human occupancy, as a 
function of any of a plurality of control space states. Coordinated management of equipment for environmental 
control, lighting, security, entertainment, load/energy 
control, and scheduling of the foregoing, as well as 
scheduling the operation of appliances and devices used in 
homes, buildings and similar spaces, has long been 
recognized as a desirable objective for saving energy, 
improving security and achieving other benefits. There has 
been substantial progress in the development of apparatuses 
and systems, generally known as building automation, for 
achieving these objectives in commercial buildings. There 
are also a number of systems and approaches leading toward 
these objectives in residential applications. For example, published international patent 
application WO 90/08418 discloses a method and apparatus 
for central unit control of lights, heating equipment, 
alarms and other devices connected to switchable electric 
power outlets. In normal operation, manually operated 
switches, sensors and other input devices (transmitters), 
each having a unique address,  
 
provide inputs to one or more central units. The central 
unit(s), in turn, direct switching of the power outlets, 
each of which also has a unique address and is equipped 
with electronics to recognize only its own address. 
Control signals between the central unit(s) and power 
outlets are transmitted over a common communication link, 
which may include a communication bus. The logical 
connection between transmitters and power outlets is 
defined by a connection matrix in the central unit(s), 
whereby each transmitter independently controls a power 
outlet or grouping of power outlets. Published Australian patent document AU-B-55920/90 
discloses a domestic electrical power control system in 
which powered devices (lights, appliances, etc.) are 
controlled from a master control unit. Two-way 
communication between the master control unit and the 
devices, each of which has an identification code, is 
accomplished by a power line carrier signal. In operation, 
the master control unit transmits coded signals to the 
devices in response to human operator input and 
preprogrammed procedures. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for determining the operating 
environment of a building intended for human occupancy, 

including a primary controller with user input means 
connected by a communication bus to a plurality of 

secondary controllers for apparatuses which affect parameters 
of the operating environment, characterized in that:
 
   the primary controller is operable to generate 

state vector signals indicative of any of a plurality of 
operating environment states of a building in response to 

user specified variables;
 
   the secondary controllers include at least first 

and second operating environment controllers respectively 
operable to furnish operating point signals to first and 

second sets of apparatuses for affecting first and second 
parameters of the operating environment, the first and 

second operating environment controllers each having stored 
therein at least a two-dimensional matrix of addressable 

control functions, each control function corresponding to 
predetermined operating point signals for the apparatuses 

respectively associated with the operating environment 
controllers, the first dimension of the matrix comprising 

space occupancy values selected from a group comprising 
"occupied", "all asleep", "away", "vacation" and "shut 

down", the second dimension comprising space energy usage 
values selected from a group comprising "no savings", "no 

negative impact", "avoid waste" and "maximum savings"; and
 
   the communication bus supplies the state vector  

 
signal from said primary controller to said secondary 

controllers as the control function address. 
The system of claim 1 wherein the matrices of . 
addressable control functions in said at least first and 

second operating environment controllers have a third 
dimension reflecting a space emergency variable having 

values selected from a group comprising "no emergency", 
"fire", "burglary", "medical", "high temperature", "low 

temperature", "water leak" and "gas leak". 
The system of claim 2 wherein said first and 
second operating environment controllers are for heating, 

ventilation, air conditioning, and 
lighting control
s respectively. 
The system of claim 3 wherein at least one of 
said first and second operating environment controllers is 

operable to furnish first operating point signals having 
values derived from control functions corresponding to 

address components identified by predetermined state vector 
components for any unidentified components in the state 

vector signal. 
The system of claim 4 wherein at least one of 
said at least first and second operating environment 

controllers is operable to furnish first operating point 
signals having values derived from control functions 

corresponding to predetermined state vectors in the absence 
of a state vector signal. 
The system of claim 5 wherein at least one of 
said first and second operating environment controllers is 

operable to:
  
 

   produce second operating point signals 
respectively having values effective to cause predetermined 

ones of the apparatuses to achieve desired values of the 
operating parameters affected thereby; and
 
   selectively substitute the second operating point 

signals for the first operating point signals furnished to 
said predetermined ones of the apparatuses. 
A method of determining the operating environment 
of a building intended for human occupancy as a function of 

any of a plurality of states of the building by means of 
individually controllable apparatuses responsive to 

operating point signals derived from the building states, 
the method comprising the steps of:
 
   providing a matrix of addressable control 

functions having at least two dimensions for each of at 
least first and second apparatuses respectively operable to 

affect first and second parameters which characterize the 
operating environment of a building, the matrix of 

addressable control functions for each apparatus residing 
in an operating environment controller unique to that 

apparatus, the first dimension of the first and second 
matrices comprising building occupancy values selected from 

a group comprising "occupied", "all asleep", "away", 
"vacation" and "shut down", the second dimension of the 

first and second matrices comprising building energy usage 
values selected from a group comprising "no savings", "no 

negative impact", "avoid waste" and "maximum savings";
  
 

   supplying a command set signal representing a 
polymorphic command set indicative of any of a plurality of 

predetermined building states, the command set signal 
corresponding to addresses which have components in each of 

said two dimensions of the matrices of addressable control 
functions;
 
   producing first operating point signals having 

values established by the addressable control function 
corresponding to the command set signal; and
 
   furnishing said first operating point signals to 

the apparatuses respectively associated with the sets of 
addressable control functions. 
The method of claim 7 wherein the first and 
second operating environment controllers are for furnishing 

operating point signals to heating, ventilation, air 
conditioning, and lighting control 

apparatus respectively. 
The method of claim 8 including the step of 
furnishing first operating point signals having values 

corresponding to addresses identified by predetermined 
address components for any undefined components in the 

command set signal. 
The method of claim 9 including the step of 
furnishing first operating point signals having values 

corresponding to predetermined addresses in said matrices 
of control functions in the absence of a command set 

signal. 
The method of claim 10 including the further 
steps of:
  
 

   producing an address signal corresponding to said 
command set signal, the address signal specifying an 

address in which the number of address components is equal 
to the maximum number of dimensions in any said at least 

two dimensional matrix; and
 
   furnishing first operating point signals having 

values corresponding to the address defined by the address 
signal. 
The method of claim 11 including the further 
steps of:
 
   producing second operating point signals 

respectively having values effective to cause predetermined 
ones of the apparatuses to achieve desired values of the 

parameters affected thereby; and
 
   selectively substituting the second operating 

point signals for the first operating point signals 
furnished to said predetermined ones of the apparatuses. 
The method of claim 12 including the step of 
furnishing first operating point signals having values 

corresponding to addresses identified by predetermined 
address components for any address components unidentified 

in the command set signal. 
The method of claim 13 including the step of 
furnishing first operating point signals having values 

corresponding to predetermined addresses in the matrices of 
addressable control functions in the absence of a command 

set signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
