<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640833</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for continuous emissions monitoring system using gas chromatography.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3000	G01N3002	G01N3004	G01N3062	G01N3086	G01N3088	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of and apparatus for automatically 
monitoring and reporting the exact concentrations of 

specific chemicals contained in one or more air streams 
is disclosed in which the system automatically calibrates 

one or a plurality of gas chromatographs using a 
plurality of calibration gases and then alternatingly 

samples and analyzes air streams containing volatile or 
semi-volatile organic or inorganic compounds. When a 

plurality of gas chromatographs are utilized, the system 
of the present invention is capable of simultaneously 

analyzing one or more air streams for a plurality of 
compounds. Apparatus for ensuring sample line and 

measurement system integrity is also disclosed. The 
results of the analysis are recorded and are stored in 

computer files which include the exact chemical 
concentrations of a sample taken from an air stream. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWLING FORREST WENDELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLEMAN III WILLIAM MONROE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOMINGUEZ LUIS MAYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON BERT MILLER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TALBERT JR THOMAS WATKINS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWLING, FORREST WENDELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLEMAN III, WILLIAM MONROE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOMINGUEZ, LUIS MAYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, BERT MILLER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TALBERT JR., THOMAS WATKINS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of and an 
apparatus for a continuous emissions monitoring system 
using a gas chromatograph and, more particularly, to a 
method of and apparatus for monitoring compounds emitted 
by certain industrial users. As the public and private sectors have become more 
aware of the potential damage caused by waste products 
produced by industry which are discharged into the 
atmosphere, there has been an increased recognition and 
demand for monitoring and minimizing, to the extent 
possible, the discharge of such materials into the 
atmosphere. In that regard, the United States 
government, through the Environmental Protection Agency, 
has established certain regulations for the level of 
different types of emissions which may be discharged into 
the atmosphere. The EPA monitors compliance with its regulations 
essentially by requiring those individual companies whom 
it has licensed to discharge emissions at a certain rate 
to monitor such discharges and to maintain records of 
such discharges for reporting to and review by the EPA. 
Typically, the subject company monitors the output of the 
air stream being evacuated from equipment which uses 
substances monitored by the EPA. The company also is 
required to monitor the discharge stream from the device 
used to remove the licensed substances from the air 
stream before it is discharged into the atmosphere. Such 
a device can be a carbon bed. Monitoring of both the air  
 
stream input to and discharged from a carbon bed may be 
required to document both the level of monitored 
substance use 
as well as the level of discharge of that substance into 
the atmosphere. In that manner, the EPA ensures that 
companies stay within compliance of their license for 
that particular monitored substance. At the present time, while there are instruments 
available for performing such monitoring functions, 
accurate instruments are very expensive. Although 
inexpensive instruments are available, they are very 
inaccurate. The limitations of those instruments have 
been recognized by the EPA in the appendices to the 
proposed enhanced monitoring regulations. Prior to the 
present invention disclosed herein, the EPA was limited 
to the standards as currently written because no 
instruments could provide the level of accuracy of the 
present invention at a cost which is economical such that 
the affected industries could afford the equipment. 
Applicants have invented a system which can perform the 
measuring, monitoring and reporting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for monitoring the concentration of at 
least one volatile or semi-volatile compound contained in 

at least one air stream carrying said at least one 
volatile or semi-volatile compound, comprising the steps 

of: 

a) calibrating at least one gas chromatograph 
using at least three different calibration gases; 
b) obtaining a sample of said at least one 
air stream containing said at least one compound; 
c) providing said sample of said at least one 
air stream to said at least one gas chromatograph; 
d) operating said at least one gas 
chromatograph under control of a digital data processor 

to analyze said sample of said at least one air stream to 
determine the concentration of said at least one compound 

in said sample; and 
e) controlling steps a)-c) using said digital 
data processor. 
The method of claim 1, further including the 
step of generating an air stream mass flow signal 

representative of the mass flow of said air stream prior 
to the processing of said air stream and providing said 

air stream mass flow signal to said digital data 
processor. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said steps of 
calibrating said at least one gas chromatograph and 

providing said sample to said at least one gas 
chromatograph are accomplished using a plurality of 

digital data processor controlled valves contained in a 
heated valve enclosure. 
The method of claim 3, further including the 
step of heating said heated valve enclosure to a 

temperature which minimizes adsorption of said at least 
one compound and said calibration gases by said valves. 
The method of claim 4, wherein said temperature 
exceeds 110 degrees Celsius. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said at least 
one gas chromatograph is alternatingly calibrated using 

each of said at least three calibration gases. 
The method of claim 4, wherein said at least 
one gas chromatograph is first calibrated using said 

calibration gases and is then operated to analyze said 

samples. 
A method for monitoring at least one of a 
plurality of air streams for determining the 

concentration of at least one volatile or semi-volatile 
compound in at least one of said plurality of air streams 

carrying said at least one volatile or semi-volatile 
compound, comprising the steps of: 


a) calibrating at least one gas chromatograph 
using at least three calibration gases; 
b) selecting said at least one of said 
plurality of air streams to be sampled; 
c) obtaining a sample of said selected one of 
said plurality of air streams carrying said at least one 

compound; 
d) providing said sample of said selected air 
stream to said at least one calibrated gas chromatograph; 
e) operating said at least one calibrated gas 
chromatograph under control of a digital data processor 

 
to analyze said sample of said selected air stream to 

determine the concentration of said at least one compound 
in said sample; and 
f) controlling steps a)-d) using said digital 
data processor. 
The method of claim 8, further including the 
step of generating an air stream mass flow signal 

representative of the mass flow of said selected air 
stream and providing said air stream mass flow signal to 

said digital data processor. 
The method of claim 8, wherein said steps of 
calibrating said at least one gas chromatograph and 

providing said sample to said at least one gas 
chromatograph are accomplished using a plurality of 

digital data processor controlled valves contained in a 
heated valve enclosure. 
The method of claim 10, further including the 
step of heating said heated valve enclosure to a 

temperature which minimizes adsorption of said at least 
one compound and said calibration gases by said valves. 
The method of claim 11, wherein said 
temperature exceeds 110 degrees Celsius. 
The method of claim 8, wherein said at least 
one gas chromatograph is alternatingly calibrated using 

each of said at least three calibration gases. 
The method of claim 8, wherein said at least 
one gas chromatograph is first calibrated using said 

calibration gases and is then operated to analyze said 
 

samples. 
Apparatus for determining the concentration of 
at least one of a plurality of compounds contained in air 

carrying said at least one of a plurality of compounds, 
comprising: 

   at least one gas chromatograph; 
   a sample collection means connected between 

said air and said at least one gas chromatograph for 
providing at least one sample of said plurality of 

compounds to said at least one gas chromatograph; 
   a first, second and third calibrating gas means 

connected to said at least one gas chromatograph for 
calibrating said at least one gas chromatograph; and 

   a digital data processor connected to operate 
and control said at least one gas chromatograph, said 

sample collection means and said first, second and third 
calibrating gas means. 
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said sample 
collection means includes a plurality of conduit means 

connected to receive a plurality of samples containing 
said plurality of compounds. 
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said sample 
collection means further comprises a plurality of valves 

connected between said first, second and third 
calibrating gas means and said plurality of conduit means 

and said at least one gas chromatograph in order to 
alternatingly provide said first, second and third 

calibrating gases and each one of said plurality of 
samples to said at least one gas chromatograph for one of 

calibration and analysis. 
The apparatus of claim 17, wherein at least a 
portion of said plurality of valves are contained within 

a heated valve enclosure. 
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said heated 
valve enclosure is heated to a temperature of at least 

110 degrees Celsius in order to prevent adsorption of 
said plurality of compounds by said valves. 
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said sample 
collection means is heated to a temperature of at least 

110 degrees Celsius to prevent adsorption of said 
plurality of compounds by said sample collection means. 
The method of claim 1, further including the 
step of assuring the integrity of said sample from its 

collection until after its analysis by said at least one 
gas chromatograph. 
The method of claim 8, further including the 
step of assuring the integrity of said sample from its 

collection until after its analysis by said at least one 
gas chromatograph. 
The apparatus of claim 15, further including 
integrity assurance means connected between said sample 

collection means and said at least one gas chromatograph 
for assuring the integrity of said at least one sample 

from its collection through its analysis. 
The apparatus of claim 15, further including a 
plurality of sample collection means for receiving and 

providing a different air sample containing at least one 
 

of said plurality of compounds to said at least one gas 
chromatograph. 
The apparatus of claim 15, further including at 
least a second gas chromatograph and wherein said at 

least one sample is fed to said at least first and second 
gas chromatograph and is processed in parallel by said at 

least first and second gas chromatographs to determine 
the concentration of said at least one of a plurality of 

compounds. 
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said at 
least one gas chromatograph is a plurality of gas 

chromatographs and wherein said at least one sample is 
fed to at least two of said plurality of gas 

chromatographs and is processed in parallel by said at 
least two gas chromatographs to determine the 

concentration of said at least one of a plurality of 
compounds. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
