<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620532</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for synthesizing a three-dimensional image signal and producing a two-dimensional visual display therefrom
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T1550	G06T1550	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T15	G06T15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for formulating a picture and a 
household game playing apparatus are provided. Data necessary for 

formulating the picture are read from picture data of a three-dimensional 
object stored in a main memory (2), and coordinates (V) 

of apex points of relatively small-sized polygons comprising the 
three-dimensional object are produced by a geometry processor (61) 

for producing luminance data (L) and color data (D) for each apex 
point. Color data and coordinate data of boundary points between the 

apex points are produced by a raster processor (62). The raster 
processor uses the color data and coordinate data of the boundary 

points to produce color data and coordinate data of intermediate 
points between the boundary points. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY COMP ENTERTAINMENT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKA MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKA, MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods and apparatus
for synthesizing three-dimensional picture signals and producing
two-dimensional visual displays based on such signals.In general, TV receivers, receiver monitors and CRT
displays used in conjunction with household game playing
apparatus, personal computers and graphic computing devices
provide two-dimensional displays. The signals or data are
produced so that two-dimensional characters and the like are
suitably arrayed and moved on a planar background with or without
changes in shape. However, in such display techniques the
ability to change either the background or the character, as well
as the movement thereof, are limited so that the ambience of the
game or other display cannot be enhanced.Methods have been adopted for formulating pseudo-three-dimensional
images. In such techniques, plural pictures of a
character to be displayed are stored, each picture depicting the
character as viewed from a different direction. At a given time,
one such picture is selected and displayed depending on the
viewpoint adopted for the image being displayed. In another
aspect of this technique, two-dimensional pictures are superposed
along an image depth direction in order to display a pseudo-three-dimensional
picture. In generating or formulating picture
data, sometimes a texture mapping process is carried out whereby
a surface texture or pattern, such as a ground pattern, is 
affixed to a selected face of a polyhedron forming an element of
the image. A further technique employed involves converting
picture color data by means of a so-called color pickup table in
order to change the color of the displayed image.Fig. 1 provides a block diagram of a proposed household
game playing apparatus. In the apparatus of Fig. 1, a central
processing (CPU) 91 comprising a micro-processor fetches
operating information from an input device 94, such as an input
pad or a joystick, via an interface 93 and a main bus 99. As the
operating information is fetched by the CPU 91, three-dimensional
picture data stored in a main memory 92 are transferred by a
video processor 96 to a source video memory 95 for storage
therein.The CPU 91 also transmits data to the video processor
96 indicating the sequence in which pictures represented in
memory 95 are to be displayed. The video processor 96 reads out
picture data from the source video memory 95 in accordance with
the data supplied by the CPU 91 in order to create a superposed
picture display.Simultaneously with the display of the picture,

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for formulating picture data, comprising the steps of:


storing source data (V) for formulating output picture data (56) in a vacant space area (53) of a
video memory (5);
processing the stored source data for producing the output picture data; and
storing the output picture data in a display area (51) of the video memory not overlapping with said vacant space area (53)
thereof.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of storing said source data
comprises storing texture source picture data (52) in the vacant space area (53) of said video

memory, and the step of processing the stored source data comprises processing the
texture source picture data for producing the output picture data.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 and 2, wherein the step of storing
source data comprises storing conversion table data (55) in the vacant space area (53) of said

video memory, and the step of processing the stored source data comprises utilizing
the conversion table data for producing the output picture data.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein the step of
storing the output picture data comprises storing first and second output picture data

each representing a respective output picture in respectively different display
areas of said video memory.
A memory management method for a picture formulating apparatus in which
output picture data (56) for a picture display device is stored in a video memory (5),

comprising:

allocating a display area (51) in the video memory;
allocating a vacant space area (53) in the video memory other than the display area;
storing the output picture data in the display area; and
storing source data (V) in the vacant space area.
A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the source data comprises texture
source picture data.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 5 and 6, wherein the source data
comprises conversion table data.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 5; 6 and 7, wherein the memory
management method further comprising a step of re-allocating the display area in the

video memory to change output picture data.
A storage medium storing computer program instructions for controlling a picture
formulating apparatus to perform the method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8.
A picture formulating apparatus for formulating output picture data (56) for output
to a picture display device for displaying the output picture, comprising:


a video memory (5) for storing the output picture data in a display area (51)
thereof; and
a processor for storing source data (V) for formulating the output picture data in a
vacant space area (53) of said video memory not overlapping with said display area for said output picture data

and for producing the output picture data based on the source data.
A picture formulating apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the processor
is operative to store texture source picture data as said source data in said vacant space area

and to produce the output picture data
based on the texture source picture data.
A picture formulating apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 10 and 11
wherein the processor is operative to store conversion table data as said source data in

said vacant space area and to produce
the output picture data based on the stored conversion table data. 
A picture formulating apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 10, 11 and 12,
wherein the video memory is operative to store first output picture data representing a

first picture and second output picture data representing a second picture sequentially
following the first picture at respectively different display areas thereof.
A picture formulating apparatus as claimed in any one of the claims 10 to 13,
wherein the processor is operative to produce output picture data based on at least a

part of formerly formulated output picture data stored in the display area.
A household game playing apparatus for formulating output picture data (56) to be
output to and displayed by a picture display device, comprising:


a video memory (5) for storing data of said output picture in a display area (51)
thereof; and
a processor for storing source data (V) for formulating the output picture data in a
vacant space area (53) of said video memory not overlapping with said display area for said output picture data

and for producing the output picture data based on the source data.
A household game playing apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein the
processor is operative to store texture source picture data as said source data in the vacant space area

and to produce the output picture
data based on the texture source picture data.
A household game playing apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 15 and
16, wherein the processor is operative to store conversion table data as said source data

in said vacant space area and to produce the output picture data based on the conversion
table data.
A household game playing apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 15, 16
and 17, wherein the video memory is operative to store data of first and second output

pictures wherein the second output picture sequentially follows the first output picture
and is operative to store the data of the first output picture in a display area

differing from an area thereof where it stores the data of the second output picture. 
A household game playing apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 18,
wherein the processor is operative to produce output picture data based on at least a

part of formerly formulated output picture data stored in the display area.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
