<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640803</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spiral flighted double walled heat exchanger.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D5302	B21D5302	F28D700	F28D702	F28D704	F28D708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	F28D	F28D	F28D	F28D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D53	B21D53	F28D7	F28D7	F28D7	F28D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A heat transfer coil (10) and method of manufacture where a second piece of 
tubing (12) is wound around a first piece of tubing (10) while the first piece 

is straight, where the first piece of tubing (10) is then formed to define 
the overall coil shape, and then the first and second pieces of tubing 

(10,12) internally sized by internal pressurization to also force the two 
pieces of tubing (10,12) into intimate contact with each other. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRIC POWER RES INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLACKSHAW ANDREW LANDRUM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BODREY DOUGLASS MCARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILLER CARL CLIFFORD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBINSON GLEN PARMELEE JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLACKSHAW, ANDREW LANDRUM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BODREY, DOUGLASS MCARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILLER, CARL CLIFFORD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBINSON, GLEN PARMELEE, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to heat exchangers and more particularly to double 
wall helically flighted heat exchangers. Prior art heat exchangers are described in Patent Nos. 4,316,502 and 4,434,539. 
These heat exchangers have been in widespread use in heat pump water heaters, 
desuperheaters, and water source heat pumps since 1980 and have performed very 
satisfactorily. They are highly efficient, relatively easy to manufacture and offer the unique 
feature of being classified as a double wall heat exchanger. The double wall feature is 
required by many building codes to isolate the refrigerant circuit from the water circuit to 
prevent the high pressure refrigerant and oil from entering the potable water line in the 
event of a rupture in a single wall heat exchanger. A break in either the refrigerant line or 
the water line allows the refrigerant or water to escape to the atmosphere rather than enter 
the other coil. These prior art heat exchangers are typically made by winding at least two metal 
tubes (usually copper) that are to serve as the refrigerant and water tubes of the heat 
exchanger around a separate steel mandrel with steel end plates to which the wound tubes 
are clamped to prevent unwinding. During the winding process, the tubes collapse and then 
are expanded by internally pressurizing them to open the passageways back to the desired 
cross-sectional size. The size and shape of the tube coil is determined by the size and shape 
of the steel mandrel. This has limited the size and shape of the resulting heat exchanger. 
Moreover, all of the tubes in the coil had to have the same coiled configuration so that good 
heat transfer contact be maintained between the tubes.  These and other problems associated with the prior art are overcome by the present 
invention by eliminating the need for a mandrel and end plates during manufacture thereby 
reducing the manufacturing cost and weight and also permitting the coils in the heat 
exchanger to have a wide variety of sizes and shapes. Further, because one of the tubes 
forming the heat exchanger is wrapped around the other tube, the wrapped tube can then 
be formed into one of many different shaped coils. The refrigerant tube is wound in spiral 
flights around a straight length of tubing which serves as the water circuit. This straight 
section may then be formed into a helical, spiral, or serpentine shape in order to make it 
more compact. Next the refrigerant tube is internally pressurized to finally size it, usually 
after the tubes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A heat transfer coil for use with heat transfer fluids between which heat is to be 
transferred comprising: 

   a first elongate piece of heat conductive tubing defining a peripheral surface thereon 
and formed into a coil configuration; and 

   a second piece of heat conductive tubing wound around said first piece of heat 
conductive tubing in a helical configuration with respect to said first piece of 

tubing and defining a plurality of helical flights having an inboard portion 
thereon, said helical flights arranged so that said inboard portion of said 

helical flights is in conforming intimate physical contact with said peripheral 
surface on said first elongate piece of heat conductive tubing, said second 

piece of tubing having been wound around said first piece of tubing while said 
first piece of tubing is substantially straight and then said first piece of tubing 

with said second piece of tubing therearound formed into said coil 
configuration, said first and second pieces of tubing defining fluid passages 

therethrough, the cross-sectional area of said passage through second piece 
of tubing having been adjusted by internally pressurizing said second piece of 

tubing to nonelastically deform said second piece of tubing to change the 
cross-sectional area of said passage through said second piece of tubing to a 

desired final size after said first and second pieces of tubing simultaneously 
annealed while maintaining substantially the same cross-sectional area of said 

passage through said first piece of tubing and while maintaining intimate 
physical contact between said first and second pieces of tubing. 
The heat transfer coil of Claim 1 wherein said coil configuration into which said first 
piece of tubing is formed is a helical shape. 
The heat transfer coil of Claim 1 wherein said coil configuration into which said first 
piece of tubing is formed is a serpentine shape. 
The heat transfer coil of Claim 1 wherein said coil configuration into which said first 
piece of tubing is formed is a spiral. 
The heat transfer coil of any preceding Claim further including: 
   a plurality of said second pieces of tubing having been wound in parallel 

helical flights around said first piece of tubing before said first piece 
of tubing is formed into said coil configuration; and 

   manifold means connecting opposite ends of said second pieces of tubing in 
parallel with each other. 
A method of forming a heat transfer coil comprising steps of: 

(a) winding a second piece of tubing helically around a first piece of tubing to 
form a coil in the second piece of tubing so that the second piece of tubing 

lies against the peripheral surface of said first piece of tubing where said 
second piece of tubing is deformed into a non-circular shape and the passage 

through said second piece of tubing has a deformed cross-sectional area 
smaller than the desired cross-sectional area the passage is to have when the 

heat transfer coil is completed; 
(b) non-elastically forming the first of piece of tubing into an overall coil 
configuration independently of the configuration of the second piece of 

tubing; 
(c) after non-elastically forming the first piece of tubing, internally pressurizing 

the second piece of tubing having the passage with the deformed cross-sectional 
area smaller than the desired cross-sectional area while the tubing 

is maintained in the helical configuration to non-elastically deform the second 
piece of tubing to change the cross-sectional area of the passage through the 

second piece of tubing to a desired final size while maintaining intimate 
physical contact between the pieces of tubing; and 
(d) simultaneously annealing the first and second pieces of tubing prior to step 
(c). 
The method of Claim 6 wherein the first piece of tubing is internally pressurized during 
step (c). 
The method of Claim 6 or 7 wherein the first piece of tubing is internally pressurized during 
step (b). 
The method of Claim 6, 7 or 8 wherein step (d) further includes annealing both pieces of tubing 
to a dead soft condition. 
The method of Claim 9 wherein both pieces of tubing are copper. 
Amended claims in accordance with Rule 86(2) EPC.
1. A heat transfer coil for use with heat transfer fluids between which heat is to be 
transferred comprising: 

   a first elongate piece of heat conductive tubing defining a peripheral surface 
thereon and formed into a coil configuration; and 

   a second piece of heat conductive tubing wound around said first piece of heat 
conductive tubing in a helical configuration with respect to said first piece 

of tubing and defining a plurality of helical flights having an inboard 
portion thereon, said helical flights arranged so that said inboard portion 

of said helical flights is in conforming intimate physical contact with said 
peripheral surface on said first elongate piece of heat conductive tubing, 

said second piece of tubing having been wound around said first piece of 
tubing while said first piece of tubing is substantially straight and then 

said first piece of tubing with said second piece of tubing therearound 
formed into said coil configuration, said first and second pieces of tubing 

defining fluid passages therethrough, the cross-sectional area of said 
passage through second piece of tubing having been adjusted by 

internally pressurizing said second piece of tubing to nonelastically 
deform said second piece of tubing to change the cross-sectional area of 

said passage through said second piece of tubing to a desired final size 
after said first and second pieces of tubing simultaneously annealed while 

maintaining substantially the same cross-sectional area of said passage 
through said first piece of tubing and while maintaining intimate physical 

contact between said first and second pieces of tubing. 
3. The heat transfer coil of Claim 1 wherein said coil configuration into which said 
first piece of tubing is formed is a helical shape. 
4. The heat transfer coil of Claim 1 wherein said coil configuration into which said 
first piece of tubing is formed is a serpentine shape. 
5. The heat transfer coil of Claim 1 wherein said coil configuration into which said 
first piece of tubing is formed is a spiral. 
6. The heat transfer coil of Claim 1 further including: 
   a plurality of said second pieces of tubing having been wound in parallel 

helical flights around said first piece of tubing before said first 
piece of tubing is formed into said coil configuration; and 

   manifold means connecting opposite ends of said second pieces of tubing 
in parallel with each other. 
10. The method of Claim 13 wherein the first piece of tubing is internally pressurized 
during step (c). 
11. The method of Claim 13 wherein the first piece of tubing is internally pressurized 
during step (b). 
13. A method of forming a heat transfer coil comprising steps of: 

(a) winding a second piece of tubing helically around a first piece of tubing 
to form a coil in the second piece of tubing so that the second piece of 

tubing lies against the peripheral surface of said first piece of tubing 
where said second piece of tubing is deformed into a non-circular shape 

and the passage through said second piece of tubing has a deformed 
cross-sectional area smaller than the desired cross-sectional area the 

passage is to have when the heat transfer coil is completed; 
(b) non-elastically forming the first of piece of tubing into an overall coil 
configuration independently of the configuration of the second piece of 

tubing; 
(c) after non-elastically forming the first piece of tubing, internally 
pressurizing the second piece of tubing having the passage with the 

deformed cross-sectional area smaller than the desired cross-sectional 
area while the tubing is maintained in the helical configuration to non-elastically 

deform the second piece of tubing to change the cross-sectional 
area of the passage through the second piece of tubing to a desired final 

size while maintaining intimate physical contact between the pieces of 
tubing; and 
(d) simultaneously annealing the first and second pieces of tubing prior to 
step (c). 
14. The method of Claim 13 wherein step (d) farther includes annealing both pieces 
of tubing to a dead soft condition. 
15. The method of Claim 14 wherein both pieces of tubing are copper. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
