<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659323</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A THREE-DIMENSIONAL DISPLAY SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G300	H04N1300	H04N1300	G09G300	H04N1304	H04N1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	H04N	H04N	G09G	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	H04N13	H04N13	G09G3	H04N13	H04N13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A three-dimensional display device comprising an evacuated enclosure (45). A phosphor coated screen (44), means to rotate the phosphor coated screen, one or more electron gun (41-43) and control means to drive the one or more electron gun. Sequential image frames (figures 2b-2f) are written to the rotating phosphor coated screen (44) by the one or more electron gun (41-43) for a number of image sectors. Provided the screen rotates sufficiently rapidly and the phosphor coating has the required persistence the human eye will perceive a three-dimensional image within the display volume swept out by the phosphor coated screen. In the preferred embodiment the planar screen (44) rotates about a vertical axis with three electron guns (41-43) located below the display volume directed upwardly towards the centre of the display volume. In another embodiment the display screen is in the form of a helix (51) with the electron gun (52) being aligned substantially along the axis of rotation of the helix.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLUNDELL BARRY GEORGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLUNDELL, BARRY GEORGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLUNDELL BARRY GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLUNDELL, BARRY GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system for
displaying three-dimensional images. More
particularly, the invention relates to a system
consisting of a rotating phosphor coated screen and
one or more electron guns writing images to the
screen. As the screen sweeps out a display volume the
one or more electron guns fire at the screen to excite
the phosphor coating to produce voxels at the required
points in three-dimensional space.To the present time many methods of producing three-dimensional
displays have been suggested. Some
systems require a user to wear differently coloured or
polarised glasses. The different information being
presented to each eye results in the illusion of
depth. Such systems are non-volumetric, require the
user to wear special glasses and can only be observed
over a limited range of angles.Another proposal relies upon the intersection of beams
of radiation to create voxels in three-dimensional
space. In one proposal voxels are generated at the
intersection of two electron beams in a volume of
nitrogen gas. In this proposal the energy of each
beam is just below the threshold energy density
required for the luminous transition of nitrogen gas. Only at the intersection of the beams is the energy
density high enough to generate a luminous voxel.
However, no working implementation of this proposal
appears to have been produced.According to another proposal a laser beam is directed at
a translucent rotating screen. Such devices are expensive
and it is difficult to accurately direct the laser beam.The documents Patent Abstracts of Japan, vol.13, no.68 (E-716),
referring to JP-A-63-254647, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ELECTRON DEVICES, Vol. ED-10, pages 324-328, R.D. KETCHPEL, "Direct-View Three-Dimensional Display Tube", and US-A-2 967 905 disclose display systems
having the pre-characterising features of claim 1.It is an object of the present invention to provide a
three-dimensional display system which produces true
three-dimensional images and can be commercially produced
relatively inexpensively, or to at least provide the
public with a useful choice.The present invention provides display system as recited
in claim 1.The screen may be in the form of a generally planar screen
or a helix. The one or more electron gun is preferably
positioned above or below the display volume. For a
planar screen embodiment the screen preferably rotates 
about a vertical axis of rotation and three or more
circumferentially spaced apart electron screen preferably
rotates about a vertical axis of rotation and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display system comprising:

an evacuated enclosure (34), at least part of the
enclosure being transparent;
a phosphor coated substantially transparent
screen (31) within the enclosure;

means to rotate the screen (32) within the enclosure
so that the screen sweeps out a display volume;

one or more electron gun (35, 36) within the enclosure
(34) positioned so that images may be written to the

screen (31) as it sweeps out the display volume,
control means (88) to provide drive signals to
the one or more electron gun (35, 36) in accordance

with image information supplied thereto, characterised
in that a conductor (112) is provided around the

periphery of the screen (31, 110), an electrical path
(115) being provided from the conductor (112) to a

detector (116) outside the enclosure which supplies an
alignment signal to the control means (88) when an

electron beam hits the conductor (112).
A display system as claimed in claim 1
characterised in that the conductor (112)

follows a rectangular path around the periphery of the
screen (110).
A display system as claimed in claim 1 or 2
characterised in that three or more electron guns (41,

42, 43) are provided evenly circumferentially spaced
apart about the axis of rotation of the screen (31),

above or below the display volume, more 
preferably the axis of each electron gun is oriented

at an angle of between 30 to 65° to the axis of
rotation of the screen (31), and most preferably at an

angle of between 40 to 60° to the axis of rotation of
the screen (31).
A display system as claimed in any one of claims
1 to 3 characterised in that the screen (31) is

planar.
A display system as claimed in any one of claims

1 to 4 characterised in that a substantially optically
transparent phosphor film (44, 47) is applied to part

of the surface of a first side of the screen (31) and
a substantially optically transparent phosphor film is

applied to a complementary part of the surface of the
other side, and preferably complementary halves of the two

screen sides are phosphor coated.
A display device as claimed in any one of claims
1 to 5 characterised in that each side of the screen

(31) is divided into two halves (44, 47) about the
axis of rotation of the screen, each of the four

screen halves being coated with a phosphor producing a
different coloured light when excited by an electron

beam, and preferably the colours are red, green, blue and
white. 
A display system as claimed in claim 3
characterised in that, to calibrate the angle of the

screen (31) with respect to the axis of an electron
gun (35, 36), the control means (88) drives the one or

more electron gun (35, 36) to rapidly scan an electron
beam across the screen (31) as the screen (31) rotates

and the control means (88) includes means (78) to time
the period between alignment signals for each scan, and

preferably the
control means drives the one or more electron gun (35,

36) through a series of vertical scans along the
screen (31) and horizontal scans across the screen

(31) for a particular angle of rotation, the control
means (88) calculating rotation and translation from

the alignment signals and altering drive signals to
the one or more electron gun (35, 36) to compensate

for rotation and/or translation.
A display system as claimed in claim 1
characterised in that the screen (51) is in the shape

of a helix and rotates about the axis (53) of the
helix, the one or more electron gun (52) being a

single electron gun, the axis of which is
substantially in alignment with the axis of the helix

(53), and a conductor (54) is provided along the axis
(53) of the helix which terminates proximate the end

of the helix adjacent the electron gun (52), an
electrical path being provided from the conductor (54)

to the exterior of the enclosure to allow a bias
voltage to be applied to the conductor (54) to attract or

repel an electron beam towards or away from the centre
of the helix (51), and preferably the helix is supported

within a transparent cylinder. 
A display system as claimed in claim 8
characterised in that, for each angle of rotation of

the screen, a staircase voltage is supplied to the
conductor (54) to produce a raster scan in the form of

a series of concentric circles.
A display system as claimed in claim 8
characterised in that, for each angle of rotation of

the screen, a ramp voltage is supplied to the
conductor (54) to produce a raster scan in the form of

a spiral.
A display system according to any one of the
preceding claims characterised in that the control

means (88) includes two banks of memory (85, 86) which
alternately supply image information for a current

image to the display device and store image
information for the next image.
A display system as claimed in any one of claims
1 to 5 or 7 to 11 characterised in that the phosphor

coating is selected from phosphor P31, P5, P20 and
P45, preferably the screen (1) is formed either of

glass or a wire mesh, preferably the screen is between
.2 to 2mm thick and preferably the phosphor coating of

the screen is translucent.
A display system as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims characterised in that the means to

rotate (32) includes a motor (33) outside the
enclosure (34) which rotates a first magnetic coupling

and a second magnetic material coupling being located 
opposite the first magnetic coupling within the

enclosure connected to the screen, wherein preferably
the means to rotate rotates the screen (31) at a speed

of about or greater than 15hz.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
