<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612552</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Adsorption process to recover hydrogen from low pressure feeds.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D53047	B01D53047	C01B300	C01B356	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C01B	C01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	C01B3	C01B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is a process for recovering hydrogen from 
dilute refinery off gases using a vacuum swing adsorption process having a 

simultaneous cocurrent depressurization to provide purge gas for another 
bed under the influence of a vacuum and countercurrent depressurization to 

vent void space gas and/or adsorbed gas to ambient. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR PROD 
&
 CHEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUMAR RAVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHARPF ERIC WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUMAR, RAVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHARPF, ERIC WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to vacuum swing adsorptive processes 
for recovering hydrogen at high recoveries and high purities as an 
unadsorbed product from a feed gas at relatively low pressure and low 
hydrogen content, typically from refinery off gases. It is currently not economical to remove hydrogen from low pressure 
(<125 psig), low concentration streams present in oil refinery 
applications. The currently practiced process for using such streams is to 
blend them with natural gas to burn and recover the heating value from the 
hydrogen present. There are several current alternative methods for 
hydrogen generation in such a situation. Steam methane reformer generation 
of hydrogen has high capital and energy costs relative to the proposed 
process based on economic evaluation at 25 MMSCFD hydrogen production. 
Thus, steam methane reformer hydrogen generation applicability is limited 
to very large systems. Adsorption based purification of these lower 
pressure hydrogen streams with current technology is not effective since 
the resulting recoveries and product purities are extremely low. Recent 
adsorption process patents report only 76% recovery of only a 75% pure 
hydrogen product, starting with a 52% hydrogen feed. Semipermeable membrane based purification of comparable purity low 
pressure feed streams would have prohibitively high compression costs, 
since so much of the feed is waste gas. Also, membrane based systems have 
very high capital costs associated with medium-to-large scale operation so 
they would not be suitable for the applications addressed by the current 
adsorption based process. Thus, there is a need for a low cost process for 
hydrogen recovery from low grade waste streams to meet the medium-to-large 
hydrogen demands in oil refineries and other similar environments. Recent changes in environmental regulations in association with the 
Clean Air Act have forced liquid fuel producers to acquire more hydrogen 
to process crude oil into more clean burning fuel formulations. This  
 
increased hydrogen demand must be met by new sources in oil refinery and 
similar environments so a greater need for new methods of hydrogen 
purification of production now exists. U.K. Patent 2,154,465 discloses a vacuum swing adsorption process for 
recovering hydrogen in waste gas obtained in petrochemical plants. The 
vacuum swing adsorption process described is conducted through a series of 
stages, including adsorption, simultaneous cocurrent depressurization to 
provide pressure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for selectively separating at least one more strongly 
adsorbable component(s) from a less strongly adsorbable component of a feed 

gas mixture in a plurality of adsorption beds containing an adsorbent 
selective for the more strongly adsorbable component(s), comprising the 

steps of: 

(a) introducing a feed gas mixture at elevated pressure containing 
said more strongly adsorbable component(s) and said less 

strongly adsorbable component into an inlet of a first adsorption bed 
containing said adsorbent selective for the more strongly adsorbable 

component(s) and adsorbing the more strongly adsorbable component(s) 
on the adsorbent while the less strongly adsorbable component passes 

through said first bed unadsorbed until the adsorption front of the 
more strongly adsorbable component(s) approaches an outlet of said 

first bed and terminating the introduction of the feed gas mixture; 
(b) cocurrently depressurizing said first bed to a lower 
pressure to remove said gas mixture from said first bed and passing 

said gas mixture to an outlet of another bed of said plurality of 
adsorption beds at lower pressure to countercurrently purge said more 

strongly adsorbable component(s) from said other bed under the 
influence of a vacuum, while simultaneously countercurrently venting 

said first bed; 
(c) countercurrently evacuating said first bed under vacuum 
conditions to further remove said more strongly adsorbable 

component(s) at the lowest pressure; 
(d) countercurrently purging said first bed with cocurrently 
depressurizing gas mixture from another bed of said plurality of 

adsorption beds undergoing step (b) to remove additional more strongly 
adsorbable component(s) from said first bed under the influence of 

a vacuum; 
(e) repressurizing said first bed; and 
(f) performing steps (a) through (e) in each of said plurality 
of adsorption beds in a phased sequence. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein said bed is repressurized with 
feed gas mixture. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein said bed is repressurized with 
less strongly adsorbable component. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein said bed is repressurized with 
pressure feed gas mixture and with said less strongly adsorbable component. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein after the step (a) adsorption 
step, the first bed is cocurrently depressurized to pressure equalize with 

another bed at a lower pressure. 
The process of Claim 5 wherein the first bed is simultaneously 
countercurrently depressurized to pressure equalize with another bed at 

lower pressure. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein after the step (d) purging, the 
first bed is at least partially repressurized by pressure equalization with 

another bed. 
The process of Claim 7 wherein after the step (a) adsorption, 
the first bed is cocurrently depressurized to supply pressure equalization 

gas for another bed. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein during the step (a) adsorption, 
less strongly adsorbable component is produced for a product and for repressurizing 

another bed. 
The process of Claim 9 wherein during step (a) adsorption, less 
strongly adsorbable component is produced for a product during a portion of 

the step (a) adsorption and less strongly adsorbable component is produced 
for a product and for repressurizing another bed simultaneously in another 

portion of the step (a) adsorption. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein between three and six parallel 
beds are utilized. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein said feed gas mixture is a hydrogen 
containing gas mixture, said more strongly adsorbable component(s) 

is selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, methane, carbon 
monoxide, carbon dioxide and mixtures thereof and said less strongly 

adsorbable component is hydrogen. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein multiple beds are performing 
step (a) adsorption at a given time during the process. 
The process of Claim 1 wherein multiple beds are performing 
step (c) evacuation at a given time during the process. 
A process for selectively separating at least one more strongly 
adsorbable component(s) selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, 

methane, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and mixtures thereof from hydrogen 
in a hydrogen-containing feed gas mixture in a plurality of adsorption beds 

containing an adsorbent selective for the more strongly adsorbable 
component(s), comprising the steps of: 


(a) introducing a hydrogen-containing feed gas mixture at 
elevated pressure containing said at least one more strongly adsorbable 

component(s) and said hydrogen into an inlet of a first 
adsorption bed containing said adsorbent selective for said at least 

one more strongly adsorbable component(s) and adsorbing a more 
strongly adsorbable component(s) on the adsorbent while the hydrogen 

passes through said first bed unadsorbed until the adsorption front 
of the more strongly adsorbable component(s) approaches an outlet of 

said first bed and terminating the introduction of said hydrogen-containing 
feed gas mixture; 
(b) cocurrently depressurizing said first bed to a lower 
pressure to remove gas from said first bed and passing said gas to an 

outlet of another bed of said plurality of adsorption beds at lower 
pressure to countercurrently purge said more strongly adsorbable 

 
component(s) from said other bed under the influence of a vacuum, 

while simultaneously countercurrently venting said first bed; 
(c) countercurrently evacuating said first bed under vacuum 
conditions to further remove said more strongly adsorbable 

component(s) at a lowest pressure; 
(d) countercurrently purging said first bed with cocurrently 
depressurizing gas from another bed of said plurality of adsorption 

beds undergoing step (b) to remove additional more strongly adsorbable 
component from said first bed under the influence of a 

vacuum; 
(e) repressurizing said first bed; and 
(f) performing steps (a) through (e) in each of said plurality 
of adsorption beds in a phased sequence. 
The process of Claim 15 wherein said hydrogen-containing feed 
gas mixture contains less than 60% hydrogen. 
The process of Claim 15 wherein said hydrogen-containing feed 

gas mixture is at a pressure less than 125 psig. 
The process of Claim 15 wherein said hydrogen-containing feed 
gas mixture contains more than 1% carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide. 
The process of Claim 15 wherein said adsorbent is selected from 
the group consisting of 13X-zeolite, 5A-zeolite, CaA-zeolite, activated 

carbon and mixtures thereof. 
The process of Claim 19 wherein the adsorbent is layered in the 
plurality of adsorbent beds with a layer of activated carbon near a feed 

end of each bed, a layer of 13X-zeolite, a layer of 5A-zeolite and a layer 
of CaA-zeolite. 
The process of Claim 15 wherein the hydrogen recovered from the 
process has a recovery of at least 80%. 
The process of Claim 15 wherein the hydrogen recovered from the 
process has a purity of at least 95%. 
The process of Claim 15 wherein the hydrogen-containing feed 
gas mixture is a refinery off gas. 
A process for selectively separating at least one more strongly 
adsorbable component(s) selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, 

methane, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and mixtures thereof from hydrogen 
in a hydrogen-containing feed gas mixture in six parallel connected 

adsorption beds containing an adsorbent(s) selective for the more strongly 
adsorbable component(s), comprising the steps of: 


(a) introducing a hydrogen-containing feed gas mixture at 
elevated pressure in the range of 5 to 125 psig containing said at 

least one more strongly adsorbable component(s) and said hydrogen 
into an inlet of a first adsorption bed containing said adsorbent(s) 

selective for said at least one more strongly adsorbable component(s) 
and adsorbing a more strongly adsorbable component(s) on the 

adsorbent while the hydrogen passes through said first bed unadsorbed 
as a product of at least 95% purity until the adsorption front of the 

more strongly adsorbable component(s) approaches an outlet of said 
first bed and terminating the introduction of said hydrogen-containing 

feed gas mixture; 
(b) initially cocurrently depressurizing said first bed to a 
lower pressure to remove gas from said first bed and passing said gas 

to an outlet of another bed of said six adsorption beds at lower 
pressure to equalize the pressure in the two adsorption beds; 
(c) further cocurrently depressurizing said first bed to a 
lower pressure to remove gas from said first bed and passing said gas 

directly to an outlet of a third bed of said six adsorption beds at a 
lowest pressure to countercurrently purge said more strongly adsorbable 

component(s) from said third bed under the influence of a 
vacuum, while simultaneously countercurrently venting said first bed; 
(d) countercurrently evacuating said first bed under vacuum 
conditions to further remove said more strongly adsorbable 

 
component(s) to a lowest pressure in the range of 500 to 80 Torr 

absolute; 
(e) countercurrently purging said first bed with cocurrently 
depressurizing gas from another bed of said plurality of adsorption 

beds undergoing step (c) to remove additional more strongly adsorbable 
component(s) from said first bed under the influence of a 

vacuum; 
(f) initially repressurizing said first bed by passing gas 
from a bed undergoing step (b) initial cocurrent depressurization to 

pressure equalize the two beds; 
(g) repressurizing said first bed with hydrogen-containing 
feed gas mixture; and 
(h) performing steps (a) through (g) in each of said six adsorption 
beds in a phased sequence. 
The process of Claim 24 wherein step (g) repressurization is 
performed with product hydrogen and hydrogen-containing feed gas mixture. 
The process of Claim 24 wherein step (b) pressure equalization 
is performed between the two beds by connecting their respective outlets 

and their respective inlets. 
The process of Claim 24 wherein each bed has an idle period 
between step (f) pressure equalization and step (g) repressurization. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
