<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614482</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FIRE RETARDED SOLVENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K802	C09K832	C09K860	C09K860	C09K2100	C09K2108	E21B3500	E21B3500	F02B300	F02B306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	C09K	C09K	C09K	C09K	E21B	E21B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K8	C09K8	C09K8	C09K8	C09K21	C09K21	E21B35	E21B35	F02B3	F02B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRISOL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRISOL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOREE DWIGHT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORSSEN DONALD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOREE, DWIGHT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORSSEN, DONALD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLE; FIRE RETARDED SOLVENTSFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to solvents, particularly hydrocarbon solvents, and which may be used particularly as oil and gas well site operation fluid compositions or as industrial solvents, and to a method of fire retarding such solvents.BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Many industrial and household organic solvents such as hydrocarbon solvents manufactured under the trademark VARSOL of Imperial Oil, Calgary, Canada, or such as turpentine, are made of petroleum distillates and are frequently flammable. This evidently creates a hazard, particularly when these solvents are used in oil and gas exploration as well site operation fluids. Such well site operation fluids are pumped down the well, often under high pressure, and are frequently used in the vicinity of equipment with high temperature components, such as exhaust pipes. The use of flammable organic solvents in these conditions and during transportation evidently presents a hazard.In particular, when light petroleum distillates (having primarily between 5 and 12 carbon atoms) are used for fracturing a well formation, the very high pressures used can create a fire hazard. For example, among frac oils used in industry, the following products of Dome Petroleum Limited of Calgary, Alberta have densities (in kg/m3 at 15°C) and flash points (flash points are Pensky Martens throughout this patent disclosure) indicated: FRAC OIL 120... 780, 10°C; FRAC OIL 200... 785, 20°C; FRAC OIL 300... 800, -3°C; FRAC OIL 500... 798, 15°C. SUPERSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 FRAC m made by Home Oil Company Limited of Calgary, Alberta has a flash point of 15°C-and density of 778. Diesel P-40 has a flash point of 43°C and density of 820. These fluids are being actively used as frac oils and the present invention is believed to have utility for fire retarding them, and other similar flammable organic solvents.Substitution of other fluids for the volatile hydrocarbons, or alteration of these fluids to make them non-flammable, cannot be reliably predicted to work in part because of formation compatibility.The inventors have proposed a way of fire retarding flammable and combustible organic solvents suck as the lighter hydrocarbons particularly for use in wells te operations, but also for use as industrial or household solvents with low volume percentage of additive. These fluids are non-aqueous.The inventors have therefore proposed in one aspect of the invention a fire retarded solvent composition for use as an oil and gas
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 We claim:
1. A fire retarded solvent composition for use as an oil and gas operation fluid, the composition comprising: a mixture of at least one well formation compatible flammable or combustible organic solvent; and at least one non-fluorine containing brominated non-aromatic hydrocarbon dissolved in the organic solvent in an amount sufficient to cause a decrease in the flame propagation rate of the composition, said brominated non-aromatic hydrocarbon being present in an amount of no more than about 5% by volume of said organic solvent.
2. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 1 in which the mixture of at least one brominated hydrocarbon is selected from the group consisting of dibromoethane, dibromomethane, chlorodibromomethane, bromochloromethane and 1,2dibromoethylene.
3. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 2 in which the mixture of at least one organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of light petroleum distillate, diesel and crude, the organic solvent primarily having between 5 and 12 carbon atoms.
4. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 3 in which the mixture of at least one organic solvent is a light petroleum distillate having primarily between 5 and 12 carbon atoms.
STITUTE SHEET 


5. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 4 in which the organic solvent includes at least 30% by volume of aromatics.
6. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 1 in which the mixture of at least one organic solvent includes a mixture of at least one alcohol.
7. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 1 in which the mixture of at least one non-fluorinated brominated non-aromatic hydrocarbon is in an amount no greater than 1.5% by volume of the solvent composition.
8. The fire retarded so. ent composition of claim 7 in which the mixture of at least one non-fluor:nated brominated non-aromatic hydrocarbon is selecte; froτι the group consisting of dibromomethane 
&
 ~..
~
 bromochloromethane.
9. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 8 in which the organic solvent includes at least 30% by volume of aromatics.
10. A fire retarded solvent composition for use as an industrial or household solvent, the composition comprising: a mixture of at least one flammable organic solvent; and at least one brominated non-aromatic hydrocarbon dissolved in the organic solvent in an amount sufficient to cause a decrease in the flame propagation rate of the composition, said brominated non-aromatic hydrocarbon being present in an amount of
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 no more than about 5% by volume of said organic solvent.
11. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 10 in which the brominated hydrocarbon is selected from the group consisting of dibromoethane, dibromomethane, chlorodibromomethane, bromochloromethane, dibromodifluoromethane, dibromodifluoroethane, 1,2,dibromo-1.1-difluoroethane, c h l o r o d i b r o m o f l u o r o m e t h a n e , 1,2dibromotetrafluoroethane and 1,2dibromoethylene.
12. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 11 in which the organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of light petroleum distillate, diesel and crude, the organic solvent primarily having between 5 and 12 carbon atoms.
13. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 12 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is in an amount no greater than 1.5% by volume.
14. A method of fire retarding a flammable organic solvent to create a fire retarded organic solvent, the method comprising the step of dissolving in the flammable organic solvent a mixture of at least one brominated non-aromatic halogenated hydrocarbon in an amount sufficient to decrease the flame propagation rate of the organic solvent and in an amount less than 5% by volume.
15. The method of claim 14 in which the mixture of at least one brominated hydrocarbon is
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 selected from the group consisting of dibromoethane, dibromomethane, chlorodibromomethane , bromochloromethane, 1 , 2dibromoethylene, dibromodifluoromethane, dibromodifluoroethane, l , 2 , dibromo - l . 1 - d i f l u o r o e t h an e , chlorodibromofluoromethane and 1,2dibromotetrafluoroethane.
16. The method of claim 14 in which the halogenated hydrocarbon is selected from the group consisting of dibromomethane and bromochloromethane, and the organic solvent primarily includes a mixture of alkanes and aromatics.
17. In a method of drilling, completing, fracturing or working over a well in which an oil or gas well site operation fluid is applied to the well, the improvement comprising: pumping into the well a mixture of brominated non-aromatic hydrocarbons selected from the group consisting of dibromoethane, dibromomethane, chlorodibromomethane, bromochloromethane and 1,2dibromoethylene.
18. The method of claim 17 in which the mixture is selected from the group consisting of dibromomethane and bromochloromethane.
19. The metbri of claim 18 in which the mixture further include between 0% and 95% by volume hydrocarbons including a. significant proportion each of alkanes and aromatics.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


20. The method of claim 19 in which the hydrocarbons have predominantly seven, eight or nine carbon atoms.
21. The method of claim 20 in which the hydrocarbons include at least 30% by weight of aromatics.
22. The method of claim 21 in which the hydrocarbons include about 40% - 60% by weight aromatics and 40% - 60% by weight alkanes.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 19 April 1993 (19.04.93); original claims 1-9 and 14-22 cancelled; new claims 3 and 6 - 10 added; original claims 10,11,12 and 13 replaced by amended claims
1,2,4 and 5 (2 pages)]
1. A fire retarded solvent composition for use as an industrial or household solvent, the composition comprising: a mixture of at least one flammable organic solvent; and a mixture of at least one brominated hydrocarbon dissolved in the organic solvent in an amount sufficient to cause a decrease in the flame propagation rate of the composition, said brominated hydrocarbon being present in an amount of no more than about 5% by volume of said organic solvent.
2. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 1 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is selected from the group consisting of dibromoethane, dibromomethane, chlorodibromomethane, bromochloromethane, dibromodifluoromethane, dibroraodifluoroethane, 1,2,dibrσmo-1.1-difluoroethane, c h l o r o d i b r o m o f l u o r o m e t h a n e , l,2dibromotetrafluoroethane and l,2dibromoethylene.
3. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 1 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is selected from the group consisting of dibromomethane and bromochloromethane.
4. The fire retarded solvent composition of claim 3 in which the organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of light petroleum distillate, diesel and crude, the organic solvent primarily having between 5 and 12 carbon atoms. 


 5. The fire retarded solvent composition of any of claims 1, 3 or 4 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is in an amount no greater than 1.5% by volume of the organic solvent.
6. The fire retarded solvent composition of any of claims 1, 3 or 4 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is in an amount no greater than 1% by volume of the organic solvent.
7. The fire retarded solvent composition of any of claims 1, 3 or 4 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is in an amount no greater than 0.5% by volume of the organic solvent.
8. The fire retarded solvent composition of any of claims 1, 3 or 4 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is in an amount no greater than 1.5% by volume of the organic solvent and the organic solvent includes at least 30% by volume of aromatics.
9. The fire retarded solvent composition of any of claims 1, 3 or 4 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is in an amount no greater than 1% by volume of the organic solvent and the organic solvent includes at least 30% by volume of aromatics.
10. The fire retarded solvent composition of any of claims 1, 3 or 4 in which the mixture of brominated hydrocarbons is in an amount no greater than 0.5% by volume of the organic solvent and the organic solvent includes at least 30% by volume of aromatics. 


 STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
No changes are required to the disclosure as a result: of the amendments. The claims have been amended to emphasize the fire retarding of flammable solvents used in industrial and household applications with very small percentages of fire retardant. Flammable solvents have been the cause of- many accidents in which individuals have been burned. These accidents are made worse by the speed of propagation of the flame front. The invention is directed in part towards providing a significant decrease in the flame propagation rate of flammable organic solvents. The invention also increases flash points of flammable organic solvents with surprisingly small amounts of additive.
Claim 1 claims a mixture of an organic solvent and a brominated hydrocarbon where the brominated hydrocarbon is present in an amount no greater than about 5%. None of the cited art refers to this low percent level of fire retardant additive. Claim 2 restricts the additive to a named group, and claim 3 further restricts the additive to the disclosed brominated hydrocarbons. Claim 4 is a limitation on the organic solvent. Claims 5, 6 and 7 further restrict the additive to being present in amounts of less than 1.5%, 1% and 0.5% respectively, all of which are ranges that are not found in the cited prior art, yet show surprisingly good fire retarding effects. Claims 8, 9 and 10 are effectively claims 5, 6 and 7 with the further restriction that the organic solvent contains at least 30% aromatics, a level that is useful for many cleaning applications, including oilwell applications. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
