<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617823</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATICALLY CONTROLLING A SPACE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B1900	G08B1900	G08B2501	G08B2504	H04L1228	H04L1228	H04Q900	H04Q900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	G08B	G08B	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B19	G08B19	G08B25	G08B25	H04L12	H04L12	H04Q9	H04Q9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for controlling a space, wherein the space may be a building or buildings, including both residential and nonresidential buildings. A principal control system, which may include a security system, has the ability to control a plurality of control systems, including individual control devices. The principal control system has a main processor means, a memory means and interconnections to a plurality of control systems, and is capable, through the use of these elements, of controlling and integrating the control of these systems. Through a single selection made by an operator, control can be exercised automatically over the plurality of control systems, including the principal control system. Control is accomplished by predetermining and preprogramming a plurality of desired control modes, and storing these control modes in the memory means of the principal control system, such as a security system. Each control mode is designed to incorporate information defining a desired set of conditions which the space is to be controlled to. For example a "leave" mode may define the desired status of a plurality of control systems, such as a security system (e.g. armed), an HVAC system (e.g. setback temperature to a defined level), a lighting system (e.g. turn predefined lights on) as well as others. The modes are used in conjunction with the system to automate the control of a space.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREGORY RONALD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALD WILLIAM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREGORY, RONALD, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALD, WILLIAM, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATICALLY CONTROLLING A SPACEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the InventionThe present invention includes a system for automatically controlling a space by integrating the control and function of a plurality of control systems and devices utilized within the space, by using a principal control system, such as a security system. These control systems and devices can include an environmental control system, a telecommunications system, a lighting control system, and other electrical control systems including those which control individual electrical or electronic devices such as appliances, audio devices and video devices. This invention also includes a method of automating the control of a space by integrating the control and function of the various control systems utilized, through the execution of preprogrammed control modes which correlate to events having to do with the principal control system, such as security related events, and are executed through the operation of elements of the security system. These preprogrammed control modes contain information for the control of the principal control system, such as the security system, and the control systems and devices, based on the occurrence of certain control events related to the principal control system, such as events related to security, where a security system is the principal control system. More particularly, this invention pertains to building control systems which integrate various control systems and devices of the types described above, such that any one or all of them can be commanded to perform various of the tasks or functions for which they were designed, by the selection of a single, preprogrammed control mode. Therefore, building control requiring a plurality of control systems and devices can be accomplished automatically by a single selection made by an operator. Specifically, this invention relates to a security-event based home automation system of the type described above that includes a plurality of preprogrammed control modes, which 

 have embedded in them certain control commands for controlling control systems and devices of the types listed, and which are incorporated so as to permit the execution of the control steps for all of the systems and devices whose function, or functions, is desired in that particular control mode. The invention can be accessed by a user from within the space to be controlled, or remotely through the use of a telecommunications interface. The control systems
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 We Claim:
1. An automation system for automating the control of a space, comprising: a principal control system having a main processor means, a memory means connected to said main processor means, and a plurality of interconnections, said principal control system capable of receiving an input identifying a desired control mode from an operator, transmitting information related to the control mode identified by the input which has been previously stored in the memory from the memory to the main processor means, and generating a plurality of control instructions from the information.
2. The automation system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of control systems, each interconnected to said principal control system via the interconnections, and each having a control processor means capable of receiving control instructions from said main processor means and executing certain control functions.
3. The automation system of claim 2, wherein said primary control system comprises a security system.
4. A method of automating the control of a space having a security system and a plurality of control systems related to the space, comprising the steps of: selecting a control mode, said control mode comprising a preprogrammed set of instructions defining a control condition for the security system space and a control conditions for one of the plurality of control systems; communicating the preprogrammed set of instructions to the security system for execution by the security system; 


 transmission of control instructions to the control system identified in said preprogrammed set of instructions corresponding to the desired control condition; and executing said preprogrammed set of instructions within the security system corresponding to the desired control condition.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of: communicating information regarding the status of the security system and the control system to a device which can be interrogated by an operator.
6. A system for automatically controlling a space comprising: a principal control system having a main processor means, a memory means and a plurality of interconnections, said principal control system controlling at least one set of conditions within a space such as security conditions, lighting conditions and temperature conditions, said principal control system also adapted to issue control instructions to a plurality of devices controlling other conditions within the space; at least one control system, said at least one control system connected to and capable of receiving the control instructions from said principal control system through the interconnections, said control system controlling at least one set of conditions within the space not controlled by said principal control system; and at least one control mode comprising a set of preprogrammed instruction stored within the memory means, said control mode defining control parameters for the conditions controlled by said principal control system and said control system, wherein an operator may select the control mode and cause preprogrammed instructions in the memory means associated with said control mode to be communicated to the processor means and processor means takes the preprogrammed instructions and issues corresponding control instructions to said principal control system and said control system, thereby causing them to execute the conditions for the space defined by said control mode. 



 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising: a man machine interface means for making the control condition options, including said at least one control mode, available to the operator; receiving the operator's selection of control condition options, such as said at least one control mode; and communicating the control condition selected to said principal control system.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the man machine interface means comprises a home security panel having a display, a touch key pad and a home security panel processor means interconnected to said principal control system, such that control condition options are made available to the operator on the display, the touch key pad is utilized by the operator to select control condition options, and home security panel processor means communicates the selection to said principal control system.
9. The system of claim 8 wherein the interconnection connecting said home security panel and said principal control system is a data bus.
10. The system of claim 9 wherein the data bus utilizes 4 bit to 8 bit decoding/encoding, such that the processor means of said principal control system and the home security panel processor means of said home security panel can process 8 bit code words while communications between the devices is accomplished by transmission of 4 bit data words.
11. The system of claim 7 wherein the man machine interface means comprises a voice access system having a speech synthesizer means, and a touch tone telephone.
12. The system of claim 6 wherein said principal control system is a security system.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein the control system is a thermostat. 


 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the interconnection connecting said thermostat and said security system is a data bus.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein the data bus utilizes 4 bit to 8 bit decoding/encoding, such that the processor means of said security system and a thermostat processor means in the thermostat can process 8 bit code words while communications between the devices is accomplished by transmission of 4 bit data words over the data bus.
16. The system of claim 12 wherein said control system is a lighting control system.
17. The system of claim 6, further comprising: a programmer system for programming the preprogrammed instructions associated with said control modes into the memory means, and detachably interconnected to said principal control system, such that the programmer system can be utilized for programming the memory means and then removed when its use is not required.
18. The system of claim 17 wherein the programmer system comprises a personal computer.
19. A system for automatically controlling a space, comprising: a security system having a main processor means, a memory means and a plurality of interconnections, said security system controlling the security conditions comprising parameters for a plurality of security related devices, said security system also adapted to issue control instructions to a plurality of devices controlling other conditions within the space; a plurality of control systems, said control systems connected to and capable of receiving the control instructions from said principal control system 


 through the interconnections, said control systems each controlling at least one set of conditions within the space not controlled by said principal conttol system; and at least one conttol mode comprising a set of preprogrammed instruction stored within the memory means, said control mode defining control parameters for the conditions controlled by said security system and said conttol systems, wherein an operator may select the conttol mode and cause preprogrammed instructions in the memory means associated with said conttol mode to be communicated to the processor means and processor means takes the preprogrammed instructions and issues corresponding control instructions to said security system and said control systems, thereby causing them to execute the conditions for the space defined by said conttol mode.
20. The system of claim 19 wherein said plurality of conttol systems comprise a thermostat and a lighting control system. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
