<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640752</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Exhaust gas arrangement for an internal combustion engine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01N328	F01N330	F01N328	F01N334	F01N330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	F01N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present relation relates to an exhaust gas arrangement for an internal 
combustion engine, i.e. an engine exhaust gas cleaning system, including a 

converter section (29) that is disposed at the rear end of the exhaust pipe 
and which has an outer shell (46) arrangement comprising a rearwardly 

disposed air inlet (48) for introducing supplemental air and a forwardly 
atmospheric air outlet (57) that communicates with the inlet of the converter 

(29) preferrably through a venturi section in order to introduce said 
additional flow of atmospheric air into the flow of exhaust gas upstream of 

the catalytic converter (29). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an exhaust gas arrangement of an
internal combustion engine according to the preamble portion of
claim 1. More particularly, the present invention relates to
an engine exhaust gas cleaning system and improved arrangement
for introducing secondary air to an exhaust gas catalyzer.In order to control the emission of unwanted exhaust gas
constituents, a wide variety of devices have been proposed.
Frequently, catalytic converters are employed for treating the
exhaust gases before their discharge to the atmosphere. As is
well known, a catalytic converter must be operated at the
appropriate temperature in order for it to effectively treat the
exhaust gases.For this reason, it has been proposed to place the catalytic
converter as close to the exhaust ports of the engine as
possible. However, frequently a single catalytic converter is
not sufficient to provide all of the desired exhaust gas
treatment. Therefore, it has been proposed to employ plural
catalytic converters in series along the exhaust system. Where this is done, the downstream catalytic converter will
receive exhaust gases that have been previously treated. A
converter in effect causes afterburning of the exhaust gases and
this is one way in which their unwanted exhaust gas constituents
are controlled. However, the downstream catalytic converter will
not receive exhaust cases that are adequate to permit
afterburning.It has, therefore, been proposed to add supplemental air to
the exhaust system between the upstream and downstream
converters so that the downstream converter can effectively
treat the exhaust gases. One way in which this is done is
to provide an atmospheric air inlet to the downstream
catalytic converter which will introduce air to the converter
so as to permit more effective afterburning. This has been
done by providing a jacket around the catalytic converter
with the upstream end of the jacket being in communication
with the atmosphere and the downstream end being in
communication with the converter as shown in JP-A-50 58115.
This type of system has been proposed for use with motorcycles. There are a number of disadvantages of this type of system.
First, since the supplemental air is drawn from the atmosphere,
there is a risk that the exhaust gases may flow back into the
atmosphere through the supplemental air passage inlet. This
problem can be particularly acute where the application is with
a motorcycle since the air inlet is in Proximity to rider of the
motorcycle. In addition, exhaust gas sounds can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Exhaust gas arrangement of an internal combustion engine
having an exhaust pipe assembly and a catalytic

converter (29) disposed close to a rear end of said
exhaust pipe assembly (22a, 24), said catalytic

converter (29) being supported by a shell arrangement
comprising an inside shell (31) and an outside shell

(46) defining a supplementary air conduit (60), the
shell arrangement further comprising an inlet portion

for receiving exhaust gases from said exhaust pipe
assembly (22a, 24) and an outlet end for discharging

exhaust gases to the atmosphere, whereby the
supplementary air conduit (60) is provided for adding

atmospheric air to the exhaust gases flowing through
said catalytic converter (29), said supplementary air

conduit (60) having an air inlet (48) disposed in
proximity to said outlet end of said shell arrangement

and an air discharge end upstream of said catalytic
converter (29), 
characterized in that
 the outlet end of
the supplementary air conduit (60) terminates in a

venturi section formed by co-operating exhaust gas guide
members (25, 33) at an inlet portion of the inside shell

(31) of the shell arrangement (31, 46).
Exhaust gas arrangement as claimed in claim 1,

characterised in that
 the supplementary air conduit (60)
is provided in heat exchanging relationship with the

shell arrangement (31, 46) so as to heat the atmospheric
air before mixing same into the flow of exhaust gas

delivered to the catalytic converter (29). 
Exhaust gas arrangement as claimed in claim 1 or 2,

characterised in that
 the inside shell (31) supports the
catalytic converter (29), while both shells (31, 46) are

disposed concentrically to define an annular space
therebetween, having an air outlet in proximity to the

inlet end of the shell arrangement.
Exhaust gas arrangement as claimed in claim 3,

characterised in that
 a plurality of arcuate baffles
(49, 51) are disposed between the inside and outside

shell (31, 46) for causing a serpentine air flow of the
atmospheric air through the supplementary air conduit

(60) upstream of being introduced into the flow of
exhaust gas upstream of the catalytic converter (29).
Exhaust gas arrangement as claimed in at least one of
the preceding claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that
 the
inside shell (31) comprises a truncated header plate

(32) at an inlet portion thereof which, in turn,
supports an exhaust gas inlet tube (33) positioned in

proximity to a discharge end (25) of an expansion
chamber (24) of the exhaust pipe assembly (22a, 24)

leaving a small annular air gap between said
discharge end (25) of the expansion chamber (24) and the

inlet tube (33) defining said venturi section.
Exhaust gas arrangement as claimed in at least one of
the preceding claims 1 to 5, 
characterised in that
 an
exhaust gas silencer (34) is provided at a rear end of

the inside shell (31) downstream of the catalytic
converter (29).
Exhaust gas arrangement as claimed in at least one of
the preceding claims 1 to 6, 
characterised in that

first and second catalytic converters (28, 29) are
disposed in series inside the exhaust pipe assembly

(22a, 24), said first catalytic converter (28) being 
disposed at an upstream side of the exhaust pipe

assembly (22a, 24) relatively close to an exhaust outlet
port (22), whereas the second catalytic converter (29)

is disposed at the rear end of the exhaust gas assembly
(22a, 24) downstream of an expansion chamber (24) and a

tapered discharge end (25) of said expansion chamber
(24), said second catalytic converter (29) being fed

with a mixture of exhaust gas and fresh atmospheric air
introduced from rear end of the catalytic converter (29)

alongside of same receiving the heat of the flow of
exhaust gas before being mixed with said flow of exhaust

gas at an inlet side upstream of the catalytic converter
(29).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
