<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0755613</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HANDOVER METHOD AND ARRANGEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W3600	H04W3620	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W36	H04W36	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to handover methods and arrangements. A mobile station (MS) measures the reception level, and preferably also the quality of the signal in the serving cell (C3), as well as the level of the signal of adjacent cells (C1, C2, C4-C9), and transmits the measurement results to a fixed network (MSC, BSC), which determines the need for handover, and, with the aid of the measurement results, selects at least one adjacent cell as a candidate cell for handover. The handover algorithm has been adapted on the basis of the measurement results to estimate the interference level, such as the C/I ratio, in the candidate cell and select the candidate cell for handover so that the possibility of handove to a cell with a high interference level is diminished. Interference level is used as a criterion in intracell handovers, as well.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AALTO RISTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AALTO, RISTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Handover method and arrangementField of the InventionThe invention relates to a handover method comprising the steps of: measuring at a mobile station the reception level, and preferably also the quality of a signal of a serving cell, measuring at a mobile station the reception level of signals of cells adjacent to the serving cell, detecting a need for handover, and selecting with the aid of measurements at least one adjacent cell as a candidate cell for handover. Background of the Invention It is characteristic of a modern mobile communication system that it is possible to switch a call from one base station to another while a mobile station is moving from one cell to another within a mobile communication system. This is termed handover. So that the need for handover could be detected and a suitable target cell for handover could be selected in a mobile communication system, various measurements of the quality of the connection, as well as measurements of the field strength in adjacent cells are required. E.g. in the pan-European mobile communication system known as GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications), a mobile station (MS) monitors the level and the quality of the signal (downlink signal) received from the base station of the serving cell, as well as the reception level of the downlink signal from the base stations in cells adjacent to the serving cell. Furthermore, the base transceiver station (BTS) of the cell monitors the level and the quality of the signal (uplink signal) received to the base station from every mobile station (MS) that is served by said base station. Handover from 

the serving cell to an adjacent cell takes place either when (1 ) the measurement results of the mobile station/base station indicate that the signal level and/or quality in the currently serving cell is low, and a better signal level can be obtained from an adjacent cell, or (2) an adjacent cell allows communication with lower transmission power levels. The latter-mentioned situation may arise when the mobile station is located in the boundary area of the cells. The weakness of the decision procedure for handover described above is that the quality of the signals in adjacent cells is a completely unknown factor. The measurements carried out for handover decision described above may indicate that the signal level received from an adjacent cell is sufficient for handover, although the quality of the signal in the adjacent cell is not acceptable for transmission due to co-channel or adjacent-channel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims:
1. A handover method comprising the steps of: measuring at a mobile station the reception level and preferably also the quality of a signal of a serving cell, measuring at a mobile station the reception level of signals of cells adjacent to the serving cell, detecting a need for handover, and selecting with the aid of measurements at least one adjacent cell as a candidate cell for handover, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by estimating an interferece level, such as the
C/I ratio, caused by at least one other cell in said at least one candidate cell if said at least one other cell is a potential source of interference in the candidate cell, utilizing the estimated interference level as an additional criterion for the selection of the target cell for handover so that the possibility of handover to a cell with a high interference level is diminished.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, c h a r ¬ a c t e r i z e d by preventing handover to a candidate cell having an estimated interference level exceeding a predetermined threshold level. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that utilizing the estimated interference level as an additional criterion includes a stepwise change of the priority of the candidate cell in the selection of the target cell, in accordance with the interference level in the candidate cell, so that the priority declines as the interference level rises.
4. A method as claimed in any of the claims 1, 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by measuring only a limited number of adjacent cells at the mobile station, 


and assigning, from these adjacent cells to be measured, to substantially every candidate cell one or more reference cells possessing a signal profile similar to that of a more remote cell which is a potential source of co-channel or adjacent channel interference in the respective candidate cell, but not directly measurable by the mobile station.
5. A method as claimed in claim 4, c h a r ¬ a c t e r i z e d in that the estimation of the interference level is not carried out in a candidate cell to which no reference cell has been assigned.
6. A method as claimed in claim 4, c h a r ¬ a c t e r i z e d by estimating a low interference level for the candidate cell, and increasing or maintaining unchanged the priority of the candidate cell when the measurement results of the mobile station contain no information on the signal level of any reference cell of the candidate cell.
7. A method as claimed in claim 4, c h a r - a c t e r i z e d by determining the signal level of the actual interfering cell by correcting the measured signal level of the reference cell, considering the difference in signal levels between the reference cell and the actual interfering cell. 8. A method as claimed in claim 4, c h a r ¬ a c t e r i z e d by determining directly, without a reference cell, the interference level caused by a potential interfering cell which is one of the adjacent cells directly measurable by the mobile station. 9. Handover arrangement in a mobile communication system in which a mobile station (MS) measures the reception level, and preferably also the quality, of the signal of a serving cell (C3), as well as the level of the signals of adjacent cells (Cl, C2, C4-C9 ) , and transmits the measurement results to a fixed 


network (MSC, BSC), which determines the need for handover and selects, with the aid of the measurement results, at least one adjacent cell as a candidate cell for handover, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the handover algorithm has been adapted to estimate, on the basis of the measurement results, the interference level, such as the C/I ratio, in the candidate cell and select the candidate cell for handover so that the possibility of handover to a cell with a high interference level is diminished.
10. Handover arrangement as claimed in claim 9, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the measurement results of the mobile station relate to a limited number of adjacent cells only, and that substantially every candidate cell has been assigned from the measured adjacent cells at least one reference cell with an overspill profile similar to that of a more remote cell which is a potential source of co-channel or adjacent- channel interference in the candidate cell, but not directly measurable by the mobile station, and that the handover algorithm with which the target cell for handover is selected has been adapted to estimate the interference level in the candidate cell, if the measured cells include at least one reference cell of the candidate cell, and select the candidate cell for handover so that the possibility of handover to a cell with a high interference level is diminished.
11. Arrangement as claimed in claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the handover algorithm has been adapted to estimate the the signal level of the interfering cell by correcting the measured reception level in the reference cell, considering the difference in signal levels between the reference cell and the actual interfering cell. 


 12. A method for controlling intracell handover comprising the steps of: detecting a need for intracell handover, selecting one channel of the cell as the candidate for handover, c h a r a c t e r¬ i z e d by estimating the interference level caused by at least one other cell on said selected candidate channel if said at least one other cell is a potential source of interference on the candidate channel, utilizing the estimated interference level as an additional criterion for the handover decision so that intracell handover is not carried out to a channel with a high interference level. 13. Handover arrangement for intracell handover in a mobile communication system in which a mobile station (MS) measures the reception level, and preferably also the quality, of the signal of a serving cell (C3), as well as the level of the signals in adjacent cells (Cl, C2, C4-C9), and transmits the measurement results to a fixed network, which determines the need for intracell handover from one transceiver unit of the base station (BTS3) of the serving cell to another, and selects at least one transceiver unit as a candidate for handover, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the handover algorithm has been adapted on the basis of the measurement results to estimate the interference level, such as the C/I ratio, caused by adjacent cells on the channel of the candidate transceiver unit, and take the handover decision so that intracell handover is not carried out to a transceiver unit the channel of which has a high interference level. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
