<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641693</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Wireless digital code anti theft system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R2510	B60R2510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R25	B60R25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A theft prevention device that includes a digital control 
unit and digital receiving units. These digital components 

form a control system along with existing peripheral 
components. The control system utilizes a signal network 

where signals are transmitted and received on the existing 
wiring or through the air between the digital components. The 

components of the anti-theft device operate in either an armed 
or disarmed state, and the system automatically arms whenever 

the ignition key is turned from on to off. If the system is 
in a vehicle and the vehicle is started without disarming the 

system first, each component becomes active after its 
programmed time delay has elapsed. A unique code, generated 

by the digital control unit, is passed through alarm system's 
signal network during the disarmed state such that the digital 

components in the theft prevention device becomes active and 
perform their respective functions even if the power supply is 

cut in the armed state. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEPROMAX LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEPROMAX LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOO THOMAS TOWER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOO, THOMAS, TOWER 5
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to theft prevention 
and more particularly to electronic theft prevention that uses 
existing wiring in an automobile. Presently, many individuals have alarm systems 
installed in their automobiles in order to deter theft and 
vandalism. Alarm systems evolve in complexity as the 
abilities of thieves and vandals improve. The present state of the art in automobile alarms is 
to include a digital control unit attached to peripheral 
equipment which implements various anti-theft features. This 
equipment usually includes an ignition disable and a siren. 
For most alarm systems, it is desirable to hide the location 
of these devices to prevent the thief from discerning their 
location and defeating their operation. Unfortunately, installation of these devices 
requires that installers run new wiring to interconnect the 
components (e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,792,792, 4,992,670 and 
5,061,915). This extra wiring is a tell-tale sign allowing 
the devices' hiding places to be discovered. In addition, the 
wiring as an add-on may be unsightly, and in some instances, 
the attaching of additional wiring is difficult or impossible. 
Finally, the extra wiring provides another weak link in the 
alarm system because many alarm functions are disabled by 
cutting particular wires of the system (e.g., the newly added 
wires which provide a medium for the transmission and 
reception of signals between the various components of the 
alarm system). Often, a controller for an alarm system is a 
relatively large box, having many wires connecting the 
controller to various sensors and actuators. For convnetional 
systems, signals are sent on analog format or in "on/off"  
 
format. To preserve integrity of such a prior art system, the 
controller must be well-hidden, as well as the wires heading 
up to it, because disconnection of the additional wires will 
disable the theft system. Examples illustrating difficult wiring situations in 
automotive vehicles include (1) adding wiring between the 
engine compartment and the passenger compartment and (2) 
adding power door locks or window functions to the alarm 
system. When wiring from the engine compartment enters the 
passenger compartment, it must pass through a grommet such 
that the majority of the environment and noise from the engine 
compartment is deterred from entering the passenger 
compartment. This grommet has scant spare room for the 
addition of wiring for an alarm system. To install wiring for 
the control of power locks and windows, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A theft deterring device using existing peripheral 
components, comprising: 


(a) a control system including a plurality of 
components (120, 130, 140), the plurality of components 

each having a memory, the control system entering an 
activated state when (i) the control system is in a second 

state of operation, (ii) a disruption occurs and (iii) a 
code saved in the memory of the plurality of components 

(120, 130, 140) is absent; 
(b) a signal network coupling the plurality of 
components to each other; and 
(c) a code generator coupled to the control system, 
the code generator generating a disarm code periodically 

when the second state of operation changes to a first state 
of operation, the code being passed among the plurality of 

components only during the first state of operation, and 
the code being periodically saved in the memories of the 

plurality of components (120, 130, 140). 
The theft deterring device of Claim 1, wherein the 
control system is a digital control system and the 

plurality of components are a plurality of digital 
components. 
A theft deterring device according to Claim 1 or 2, 
wherein the theft deterring device is for a motorized 

vehicle (10) and is incorporated into the vehicle's 
existing wiring (105), the plurality of components (120, 

130, 140) each having a transmitter and a receiver, the 
signal network connecting the plurality of components to 

each other. 
A theft deterring device according to any preceding 
claim, wherein the signal network sends signals through the 

existing wiring (105). 
A theft deterring device according to Claim 4, 
wherein the components include a control unit (115) and at 

least one remote digital receiver (599). 
A theft deterring device according to Claim 5, 
wherein the control unit (115) comprises: 


(a) an alarm logic circuit (476) for sending out an 
analog signal, the analog signal being dependent on input 

information; 
(b) a unique code generator for receiving the 
analog signal and for generating a unique code signal from 

the code stored in memory; and 
(c) a frequency modulator (470, 472) for receiving 
and amplifying the signal, the signal being then sent out 

on the existing wiring (105). 
A theft deterring device according to Claim 6, 
wherein the remote digital receiver (599) comprises: 


(a) a frequency demodulator (270) for receiving and 
amplifying the signal sent on the existing wiring (105) and 

for converting the signal into a data signal; and 
(b) a code decoder (275) for receiving the data 
signal, for comparing it with the code in memory, and for 

generating an analog signal for removing the remote digital 
receiver (599) from the activated state. 
A theft deterring according to Claim 6 or 7, 
wherein the input information is a signal from the door, 

hood, trunk or other places located in the vehicle with 
sensors. 
A theft deterring device according to any one of 
Claims 5 to 8, wherein one of the remote digital receivers 

(599) contain a battery supply which maintains the device 
in the second state of operation if a disruption to power 

occurs. 
A theft deterring device according to any one of 
Claims 5 to 9, wherein the remote digital receiver (599) 

includes at least one siren and/or at least one immobilizer 
(280). 
A theft deterring device according to any one of 
Claims 5 to 10, wherein the remote digital receiver (599) 

contains a time delay feature which can be independently 
programmed in each of the components to allow a variety of 

delays before the activated state of each of the 
components. 
A theft deterring device according to any one of 
Claims 5 to 11, wherein the anti-theft device further 

comprises a means for polling the presence of each of the 
remote digital receivers (599). 
A theft deterring device according to any preceding 
claim, wherein the first state of operation is a disarmed 

state and the second state of operation is an armed state. 
A theft deterring device according to any preceding 
claim, wherein the code generated periodically by the 

control system is a code word containing a unique 
identification code, an incrementing value and an output 

from a formula which uses the incrementing value as an 
input. 
A theft deterring device according to Claim 1 or 2, 
wherein the signal network sends signals through the air. 
A theft deterring device according to any preceding 
claim, wherein the control system is a digital control 

system and the code generated by the digital control system 
is stored in an electrically erasable programmable read-only 

memory (464) in each of the remote digital components. 
A method of deterring theft using existing 
peripheral components, the method comprising: 


(a) detecting a disturbance, the disturbance being 
an input signal; 
(b) recognising a state of operation, the state of 
operation being either a first state of operation or a 

second state of operation. 
(c) comparing an entered code to a stored code; and 
(d) activating digital alarm components after a 
predetermined delay following the disturbance when the 

entered code does not match the stored code by inhibiting 
transmission of a digital disarm code word to alarm 

components when the entered code fails to match the stored 
code. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
