<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615613</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INFRARED CHEMICAL VAPOR DETECTOR AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J312	G01J312	G01N2131	G01N2135	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01J	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J3	G01J3	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to the remote infrared radiometric detection of chemical vapors (20). Air quality and substance control concerns present a need for more efficient ways of detecting the presence of select chemical vapors (20) in the atmosphere. A method and apparatus for such a detector includes elements for filtering (26, 34) collected infrared energy over a filter bandwidth by bandpass filtering only a fractional bandwidth of the filter bandwidth at any one time and repeatedly scanning the filter bandwidth with the passed fractional bandwidth. Also included are elements for measuring infrared energy (32) passed by the bandpass filtering thereby producing an output signal and for repeatedly nulling (40) the output signal in relation to the repeated scanning of the filter bandwidth. The invention is applicable to air monitoring including pollution control, chemical detection and the detection of any substances which provide telltale chemical vapors (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCKHEED SANDERS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCKHEED SANDERS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LABITT BRUCE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPADE GERALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LABITT, BRUCE, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPADE, GERALD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INFRARED CHEMICAL VAPOR DETECTOR AND METHOD Background of the Invention Field of the Invention The present invention generally relates to the identification of chemical vapors by means of infrared (IR) radiation emission and absorption and particularly to the performance of such detection at a location remote from the vapors detected. Statement of the Prior Art Increasing concern for various aspects of our environmental quality has generated a need in our technical capability for the convenient and remote detection of various substances which might take the form of vapors present in air. Various existing systems range in nature from laser photoacoust ic detection to differential absorption Lidar, to fluorescence or luminescence spectroscopy, and to thermal infrared emission imaging, unfortunately, all of these methods are very expensive high-technology systems requiring complex operation and extensive < signal processing. All, except thermal imaging, require active illumination which beacon their presence. These factors tend to enforce substantial limits on the nature and frequency of the use of the respective methods. Understandably, there is, therefore, a need for such detection equipment and 

 methods which are less expensive, easier to operate and simpler in nature to provide faster detection results. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In one form, the present invention provides an infrared radiometer, comprising means for collecting infrared energy, means for filtering the collected energy over a f ilter bandwidth including f ilter means for bandpassing only a fractional bandwidth of the f i lt er bandwidth at any one t ime and means f or repeatedly scanning the f ilter bandwidth with the passed fract ional bandwidth, means f or measuring infrared energy passed by the filter means and for producing an output s ignal in response thereto , and means for repeatedly nulling the output s ignal in relation to the repeated scanning o f the f ilter bandwidth. In another form, the present invention provides an apparatus for detecting the presence of substance vapors having known infrared spectral characteristics against a background having contrasting infrared spectral characteristics relative to the known infrared characteristics of the substance vapors , comprising means for collecting infrared energy emissions from the background and any vapors pre s ent be tween the background and the means for collecting, means for measuring the infrared energy levels collected both in a first plurality of wavelength bands
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 1. An infrared radiometer, comprising: means for collecting infrared energy; means for filtering the collected energy over a filter bandwidth including filter means for bandpassing only a fractional bandwidth of the filter bandwidth at any one time and means for repeatedly scanning the filter bandwidth with the passed fractional bandwidth; means for measuring infrared energy passed by the filter means and for producing an output signal in response thereto; and means for repeatedly nulling the output signal in relation to the repeated scanning of the filter bandwidth.
2. The inf rared radiometer of c laim 1 , further compris ing means f or synchroni z ing the means f or repeatedly scanning with the means f or repeat edly nulling for causing the output s ignal to be nulled between repeated scans of the f ilter bandwidth .
3. The infrared radiometer of claim 1, further comprising means for synchronizing the means for repeatedly scanning with the means for repeatedly nulling for causing the output signal to be nulled and the filter bandwidth to be scanned at an identical rate. 


 4. The infrared radiometer of claim 1, wherein the filter means has a bandpass wavelength which varies over the filter bandwidth and further wherein the fractional bandwidth of the filter means is substantially constant over the filter bandwidth.
5. The infrared radiometer of claim 4, wherein the bandpass wavelength of the filter means varies in accordance with position on the filter means .
6. The infrared radiometer of claim 5, wherein the filter means is circular having a bandpass wavelength which varies with rotational position of the filter means and further wherein the means for filtering further includes means for rotating the filter means in relation to the means for nulling the output signal.
7. The infrared radiometer of claim 4, further comprising means for sampling the output signal a predetermined number of times for each scan of the filter bandwidth which predetermined number is a multiple of the filter bandwidth divided by the fractional bandwidth.
8. The infrared radiometer of claim 7, further comprising computational means for summing output 


1. signal samples from the means for sampling into a
2 multiplicity of filter values each representing a separate wavelength within the filter bandwidth.
9. The infrared radiometer of claim 8, wherein each filter value has a bandwidth substantially equal to the fractional bandwidth of the filter means.
10. The infrared radiometer of claim 9, wherein the computational means includes means for grouping samples for summing for each filter value around the separate wavelength represented by the respective filter value.
11. The infrared radiometer of claim 10, wherein the means for grouping is adapted to include in each filter value those samples representing potential infrared energy passed by the filter means with the wavelength of the respective filter value.
12. A method for measuring infrared energy, comprising the steps of: collecting infrared energy; filtering the collected energy over a filter bandwidth including bandpass filtering only a fractional bandwidth of the filter bandwidth at any one time and repeatedly scanning the filter bandwidth with the passed fractional bandwidth; 


 measuring infrared energy passed by the bandpass f iltering produc ing an output s ignal in response thereto; and repeatedly nulling the output signal in relation to the repeated scanning of the filter bandwidth. ,
13 . The method of claim 12 , further comprising the step of synchronizing the scanning of the f ilter bandwidth with the repeated nulling of the output signal for causing the output signal to be nulled between repeated scans of the filter bandwidth.
14. The method of claim 12 , wherein the bandpass filtering has a bandpass wavelength which varies over the filter bandwidth and further wherein the fractional bandwidth of the bandpass filtering is substantially constant over the filter bandwidth.
15. The method of claim 14 , wherein the bandpass filtering is performed with a circular filter having a bandpass wavelength which varies with rotational position of the filter and further wherein the step of bandpass filtering further includes rotating the filter in relation to the means for nulling the output signal.
16. The method of claim 14 , further compris ing sampling the output signal a predetermined number of 


times for each scan of the filter bandwidth which predetermined number is a multiple of the filter bandwidth divided by the fractional bandwidth.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising summing output signal samples from the sampling step into a multiplicity of filter values each representing a separate wavelength within the filter bandwidth.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein each filter value has a bandwidth substantially equal to the fractional bandwidth used for the bandpass filtering.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of summing includes grouping samples for summing for each filter value around the separate wavelength represented by the respective filter value.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of grouping includes into each filter value those samples representing potential infrared energy passed by the filter means with the wavelength of the respective filter value. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
