<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611012</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Conveyor table
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G2120	B65G13071	B65G1300	B65G1310	B65G2120	B65G1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G21	B65G13	B65G13	B65G13	B65G21	B65G13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A conveyor table for displacing articles along a transporting 
surface (4), comprising a support construction (9) and 

driveable and steerable conveyor members (1) rotatably 
suspended therefrom, circumferential portions of the conveyor 

members (1) defining a plane of transport (4). A guard (13) 
parallel below the transport plane is provided having 

substantially circular openings (14, 36) through at least a 
number of which conveyor members (1) extend. By sucking off 

air along the conveyor members (1), articles supported by the 
conveyor members (1) are pulled against the conveyor members, 

allowing faster and more accurate transport, particularly of 
light objects. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HADEWE BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HADEWE B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER WERFF JEICHIENUS ADRIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER WERFF, JEICHIENUS ADRIAAN, A/B QUO VADIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a conveyor table according to
the introductory part of claim 1.Such a conveyor table is known from EP-A-0 311 699.By turning each of the rotation-symmetrical conveyor
members about a corresponding second line perpendicular to the
plane of transport, the direction of transport of the conveyor
members can be adjusted, so that the articles can be displaced
in a plurality of directions, along the conveyor members and
thus along the transport surface. The position of the axis of
each conveyor member corresponds in each case with the
direction of displacement of the portion of an article that
rests against that conveyor member.It is an object of the invention to provide a conveyor
table with which light objects can be moved more quickly and
accurately.This object is accomplished according to the present
invention by providing a conveyor table of the above-identified
type with the characterizing feature of claim 1.By sucking off air through the openings between the guard
and the conveyor members, an increased pressure force of an
object to be conveyed against the conveyor members is
accomplished, particularly in the case of light, flexible
articles, so that slip and lifting of these articles is
prevented. Thus, the articles can be conveyed over the
conveyor table at relatively high speeds and relatively
accurately. Since air is sucked off only along the conveyor
members, in the area between the conveyor members 1 the
articles are pulled towards the guard to a limited extent
only, so that friction between the guard and the articles
remains small.Some embodiments of the invention will now be further
explained and illustrated with reference to the accompanying
drawings, in which:
Fig. 1 is a sectional side view of a portion of an
embodiment of the conveyor table according to the invention; Fig. 2 is a sectional top plan view of a portion of a
second embodiment taken along the line II-II of Fig. 3;Fig. 3 is a sectional side view taken on the line
III-III of Fig. 2;Fig. 4 is sectional view of a portion of a third
embodiment of the invention;Fig. 5 is a view similar to Fig. 4 of a further
embodiment of the invention; Fig. 6 is a partly cutaway top plan view of a conveyor
table according to the invention;Fig. 7 shows a control grid for controlling a table with
a conveyor unit according to Figs. 2 and 3; andFig. 8 shows a second embodiment of a control grid.The portion of an embodiment of a conveyor table
according to the invention shown in Fig. 1 is a conveyor unit
supported by a support
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A conveyor table for displacing articles with at least
one substantially flat side along a transporting surface (4),

said table being provided with a support construction (9), a
plurality of substantially rotation-symmetrical conveyor

members (1) each suspended for rotation about an axis thereof
relative to the support construction and circumferential

portions thereof defining a plane of transport (4), the
direction of transport of said conveyor member (1) being

controllable by turning said transport member (1) relatively
to said support construction about a second line (10)

perpendicular to the plane of transport (4), a guard (13)
arranged parallel to the plane of transport (4), having

substantially circular openings (14, 36), at least a number
of said openings (14, 36) each having one of said conveyor

members (1) extending through them and each of said conveyor
members (1) having its corresponding second line (10)

extending virtually through the centre of the corresponding
opening (14, 36), 
characterized by
 means for sucking off air
along the conveyor members (1) via said openings (14, 36)

through which the conveyor members (1) extend, such that an
increased pressure force of an article being conveyed against

the conveyor members (1) is obtained.
A conveyor table according to claim 1, characterized in
that of at least one of the conveyor members (1), a

circumferential portion (12) which during rotation of said
conveyor member (1) about its axis (2) extends through the

corresponding opening (14) is constructed as a portion of a
sphere extending round about said axis, said sphere sealing

off the corresponding opening (14) except for an annular
outer portion thereof.
A conveyor table according to claim 1, characterized in
that at least one of the conveyor members (1) is suspended in

a suspension member (8) provided with an opening (34), which
said conveyor member (1) extends through, said suspension

member (8) being substantially circular in section in the 
plane of the guard (13) and filling up the corresponding

opening (36).
A conveyor table according to claim 3, characterized in
that the guard (13) also forms the support construction (9)

and at least said suspension member (8) is suspended in the
corresponding opening (36) in the guard (13).
A conveyor table according to claim 4, characterized in
that the second line (10) of each of the conveyor members

(1) is located at a distance (a) from the corresponding axis
of rotation (6) of the transmission member, the shaft (16) of

each of the transmission members (5) having its end remote
from the suspension member (8) rotatably connected at a fixed

place with a control grid (42), which is adapted for
translating displacement relative to the support construction

(9) along a circular path having a radius equal to the
distance (a) between the second line (10) and the axis of

rotation (6) of the transmission member (5).
A conveyor table according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterized by means for creating a reduced

pressure under the guard (13).
A conveyor table according to claim 1 or 2,
characterized in that each of the conveyor members (1) is

suspended from a suspension member (8), each of the
suspension members (8) being suspended for rotation about the

corresponding second axis (10) relatively to the support
construction (9) and being provided with a control arm (11),

the control arms (11) being mutually connected by means of a
control grid (60) which is connected to a free end of each of

the control arms (11) for hinge movement, each control arm
(11) being connected to the control grid (60) in such a way

that the conveyor members (1) are always oriented for
transport in a common direction.
A conveyor table according to claim 7, characterized in
that the control grid is suspended in a plane that extends

through the conveyor members (1) and the suspension members
(8) and is provided with openings (61) and recesses (62, 63,

64) each leaving space for one of the conveyor members (1) 
and a corresponding suspension member (8), and being formed

in such a way that the control grid (60) can be translatingly
displaced in its plane relatively to the second lines (10) of

each of said conveyor members (1) along a part of a circular
path having a radius equal to the distance (b) between each

of the second lines (10) and the axis of the hinge at the
free end of the corresponding control arm (11).
A conveyor table according to claim 7, characterized in
that the axes of rotation (2) of at least a number of the

conveyor members are directed parallel to the guard (13).
A conveyor table according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the surface of the guard (13)

proximal to the plane of transport (4) is made of smooth
material, such as PTFE, PA or anodized aluminium.
A conveyor table according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the surface of the guard (13)

proximal to the plane of transport (4) comprises material for
dissipating static electricity.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
