<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635172</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPACT AND EFFICIENT TRANSFORMERLESS POWER CONVERSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J318	H02J318	H02M304	H02M307	H02M3142	H02M3158	H02M502	H02M5257	H02M710	H02M710	H02M712	H02M7155	H02M719	H02M748	H02M748	H03K1708	H03K170814	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J3	H02J3	H02M3	H02M3	H02M3	H02M3	H02M5	H02M5	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H03K17	H03K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DC TRANSFORMATION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
D C TRANSFORMATION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIMPAECHER RUDOLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIMPAECHER RUDOLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPACT AND EFFICIENT TRANSFORMERLESS POWER CONVERSION SYSTEM Background of the invention Disclosed is a new Transformerless PowerConversion System (TPCS) that allows a direct voltage step-up or step-down of DC or AC power without the use of magnetic core transformers. The operation is accomplished with solid state switching devices, capacitors, preferentially air core inductors and a switch control system.The conversion and step-up from AC to DC and the inverse process can be implemented with high efficiency and without the generation of harmonics. The transformer elimination in conjunction with high inversion frequency operation results in a low weight system without transformer core losses and third harmonic generation. For high ratio DC to DC transformation the TPCS transports the input charge directly to the output without requiring an AC link. The three distinct operations of charging, transformation, and energy discharge are typically in sequential order and allows a complete isolation between the input and output power grids. The TPCS allows complete power flow control and with it allows an improvement of power grid stability. A number of integrated TPCS modules can be configured to perform in a single system as a voltage transformation stage, a power converter or inverter, an output regulator, an AC phase angle corrector as well as a fast power interruption device.The architecture is specifically suited for high voltage DC power distribution systems with AC to DC conversion and step-up at the power station for HVDC transmission; DC to DC step down for DC distribution in place of AC; and final DC to polyphase AC power 

conversion near the bulk power consumers.Summary of the Invention This invention relates to transformerless power conversion system that allows voltage transformation of either DC or AC, conversion of AC to DC or inversion of DC to AC. The system allows voltage step-up or step-down of either AC or DC without the use of a transformer. In combination with the appropriate control logic and solid state switching devices, highly regulated output can be obtained at Megawatt power level with an efficiency equivalent to that of unregulated standard AC power transformations.DC-DC TransformationIn the prior art for DC to DC step-up the DC needed to be first converted to high frequency AC The voltage transformation was then performed with a transformer and the AC was then converted back to DC The transformer not only adds to the system weight .but is the major contributor or the reduction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A transformerless power conversion system comprising: a plurality of capacitors connected in series; a charging circuit connected to said plurality of capacitors, said charging circuit charging the plurality of capacitors from a voltage source to a predetermined voltage; a circuit for inverting the polarity of the charge stored in selected capacitors of said plurality of capacitors, said polarity inverting circuit including a plurality of inductor circuits, each of which can be switchably coupled to a corresponding different one of the selected capacitors to form a resonant circuit which aids in inverting the polarity of a stored charge in that capacitor; and a discharging circuit for extracting power from the plurality of capacitors at a transformed voltage.
2. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 further comprising a control circuit controlling the operation of the charging circuit, the inverting circuit and the discharging circuit, said control circuit establishing a charging phase in which the charging circuit charges the plurality of capacitors, an inversion phase in which said inverting circuit to invert the polarity of said selected capacitors, and a discharge phase in which the discharge circuit extracts power from the plurality of capacitors.
3. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 2 wherein the control circuit causes the inversion phase and the discharge phase to overlap in time.
4. The transformerless power conversion system of 


claim 2 wherein a cycle of operation includes a charge phase, an inversion phase and an extraction phase, and wherein said control circuit causes said power conversion system to go through many cycles of operation per second.
5. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein said inverting circuit comprises a plurality of unidirectional switching devices for electrically coupling each of said inductor circuits to its corresponding one of said plurality of capacitors
6. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 5 wherein each of at least some of said plurality of unidirectional switching devices is a thyristor.
7. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 5 wherein each of at least some of said plurality of unidirectional switching devices is an SCR.
8. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 5 wherein each of at least some of said plurality of unidirectional switching devices is a Crossatron.
9. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 5 wherein each of at least some of said plurality of unidirectional switching devices is a gate turn-off device (GTO) .
10. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein each of at least some of said plurality of inductor circuits includes an inductor.
11. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 10 wherein the inductor in each of at least some of said inductor circuits is an air core inductor. 


 12. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 further comprising a high frequency output filter through which the extracted power passes.
13. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein each inductor circuit is connected across its corresponding capacitor and comprises an inductor in series with a unidirectional switch.
14. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 further comprising a high frequency input filter between the voltage source and the charging circuit.
15. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the charging circuit charges the plurality of capacitors during a charging phase to a voltage that is about twice the value of the instantaneous voltage of the voltage source.
16. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the charging circuit comprises an inductor which is connected in series with the voltage source.
17. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the charging circuit comprises an inductor and a unidirectional switch which are connected in series with the voltage source.
18. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 17 wherein the unidirectional switch of the charging circuit electrically couples the inductor of the charging circuit to said plurality of capacitors to form a resonance charging circuit. 


 19. The transforme less power conversion system of claim 17 wherein the control circuit causes the unidirectional switch of said charging circuit to electrically couple the charging circuit inductor to said plurality of capacitors and then subsequently decouple said charging circuit inductor from said plurality of capacitors when a preselected period of time has elapsed, wherein the electrical coupling of said charging circuit inductor with said plurality of capacitors forms a resonant circuit having a resonance period of T seconds, and wherein the preselected period of time is about T/2 seconds.
20. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 19 wherein the control circuit causes the charging circuit to couple and then decouple said charging inductor to said plurality of capacitors many times per second.
21. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the charging circuit charges said plurality of capacitors so that the polarities of the charged series connected capacitors alternate.
22. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 21 wherein the inverting circuit inverts the polarity of every other one of said plurality of capacitors so that the polarities of the charged series connected capacitors are the same.
23. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the magnitude of the transformed voltage is larger than the voltage of the voltage source.
24. The transformerless power conversion system 


of claim 23 wherein the number of said plurality of capacitors is N and the magnitude of the transformed voltage is 2N times the voltage of the voltage source.
25. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of capacitors comprises N capacitor stages each of which includes two of said plurality of capacitors connected in series and has a first and second terminal and a charging terminal electrically coupled to the point at which the two capacitors in that stage are connected together, and wherein said charging circuit charges said N capacitor stages through said charging terminals.
26. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 25 wherein said charging circuit includes a switching means for electrically coupling the first and second terminals of each of said capacitor stages to a common point during the charging of said capacitor stages.
27. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 26 wherein each of said plurality of inductor circuits is connected across the first terminal and charging terminal of a corresponding different one of said capacitor stages.
28. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 25 wherein N is greater than one.
29. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the series connected capacitors have a first terminal at one end and a second terminal at the other end and the discharging circuit electrically couples to the first and second terminals of said series 


connected capacitors to produce the transformed voltage.
30. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the charging circuit charges said plurality of series connected capacitors so that the polarities of the charged series connected capacitors are all the same.
31. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 30 wherein the inverting circuit inverts the polarity of every other one of said plurality of capacitors so that the polarities of the charged series capacitors alternate.
32. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the magnitude of the transformed voltage is less than the voltage of the voltage source.
33. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 32 wherein the number of said plurality of, capacitors is N and the magnitude of the transformed voltage is 2/N times the voltage of the voltage source.
34. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein said charging circuit charges said plurality of capacitors in series.
35. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of capacitors comprises N capacitor stages each of which includes two of said plurality of capacitors connected in series and has a first and second terminal and a discharging terminal electrically coupled to the point at which the two capacitors in that stage are connected together, and wherein said discharging charging circuit extracts power 



from said N capacitor stages through said discharging terminals.
36. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 35 wherein each of said plurality of inductor circuits is connected across the first terminal and the discharging terminal of a corresponding different one of said N capacitor stages so as to invert the polarity of one of the two capacitors in that stage.
37. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein the discharge circuit comprises an output inductor and a unidirectional switch which couples power from the plurality of capacitors into the output inductor during the discharge phase.
38. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 37 wherein the discharge circuit further comprises a unidirectional device preventing the output inductor from reversing the polarity of the plurality of capacitors during the discharge phase.
39. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein said discharging circuit transfers power to a load and wherein said control circuit monitors said load and controls the operation of the charging circuit, the inverting circuit and the discharging circuit to produce a regulated output to said load.
40. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein said control circuit operates said charging, inverting and discharging circuits to produce a predetermined output current pulse shape.
41. The transformerless power conversion system 


of claim 4 wherein said control circuit operates said charging, inverting and discharging circuits to produce a sequence of output current pulse shapes of varying amplitude.
42. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 4 wherein said voltage source is a DC voltage source and said control circuit operates said charging, inverting and discharging circuits to synthesize an AC voltage output.
43. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 further comprising a filter circuit that filters the transformed voltage to produce an output voltage, wherein said control circuit includes means for monitoring the output voltage and wherein said control circuit operates said charging, inverting and discharging circuits to regulate the output voltage.
44. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 42 further comprising a filter circuit that filters the AC voltage output to produce a filtered AC output voltage, wherein said control circuit includes means for monitoring the filtered AC output voltage and wherein said control circuit operates said charging, inverting and discharging circuits to regulate the filtered AC output voltage.
45. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 4 wherein said voltage source is an AC signal source of a frequency f
s
 and wherein said control circuit operates said charging, inverting and discharging circuits to synthesize an AC output signal having a frequency f
0
 that is different from the frequency f
s
. 


 46. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 45 wherein the frequency f
s
 of the AC signal source varies over time and wherein the frequency f
0
 of the AC output signal is fixed.
47. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 46 wherein f
0
 is 60 Hz.
48. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 1 wherein said charging circuit comprises a plurality of charge transfer circuits each connected to a different phase of a multiphase AC power line and said discharging circuit comprises a plurality of charge injection circuits each connected to a different phase of the multiphase AC power line and wherein said control circuit operates said plurality of charge transfer circuits and said plurality of charge injection circuits to extract power from one phase of said multiphase power line and inject the extracted power into another phase of said multiphase power line.
49. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 48 wherein said control circuit selects the other phase into which the extracted power is injected so as to alter the phase angle of the AC signal into which the extracted power is injected.
50. The transformerless power conversion system of claim 4 further comprising a separate energy storage device connected to said discharging circuit for temporarily storing the extracted power.
51. An electrical charge transfer apparatus for transferring charge from one phase to another phase of a multiphase power line carrying a AC signal having a 


period of T
AC
, said apparatus comprising: a capacitive storage circuit; a plurality of charging circuits each of which is for coupling a different phase of said multiphase AC power line to said capacitive storage circuit and to thereby transfer charge from that phase to the storage circuit, each of said plurality of charging circuits including a unidirectional switch and an inductor, wherein each of said charging circuits when coupled to said capacitive storage circuit forms a corresponding resonant circuit having a resonant frequency of l/T
i
 where i is an index identifying the charging circuit and wherein the T
L
 are all less than T
AC
; a plurality of injecting circuits each of which is for coupling said capacitive storage circuit to a different one of said phases of said multiphase power line and to thereby inject charge from said capacitive storage circuit into the phase to which it is coupled, each of said injection circuits comprising an inductor and a unidirectional switch; and a control circuit operating the unidirectional switches of said plurality of charging circuits to produce a sequence of resonant charging cycles that transfer charge from one phase to said capacitive storage unit and operating the unidirectional switches of said plurality of injecting circuits to transfer charge from the capacitive storage unit to another phase.
52. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of claim 51 wherein said control circuit operates the unidirectional switches of said plurality of charging circuits to transfer charge to the capacitive circuit through a sequence of resonant charging cycles each having a duration of about T
j^
/2 seconds. 


 53. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of claim 51 wherein said plurality of charging circuits and said plurality of injecting circuits share components whereby the inductor of one
■
of said charging circuits is also the inductor of a corresponding one of said injecting circuits.
54. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of claim 51 wherein said control circuit operates the unidirectional switches of said plurality of charging circuits and said plurality of injecting circuits to transfer energy from one phase to another so as to achieve phase angle correction in the phase to which the energy is transferred.
55. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of claim 51 wherein said control circuit operates the unidirectional switches of said plurality of charging circuits and said plurality of injecting circuits to transfer energy from one phase to another so as to achieve harmonic correction in the phase to which the energy is transferred.
56. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of claim 51 wherein said control circuit operates the unidirectional switches of said plurality of charging circuits and said plurality of injecting circuits to transfer energy from one phase to another so as to achieve waveform distortion correction.
57. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of claim 51 wherein the capacitive storage circuit comprises the transformerless power conversion system of claim 1.
58. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of 


claim 51 wherein the capacitive storage circuit is a capacitor.
59. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of claim 58 wherein said plurality of charging circuits and said plurality of injecting circuits all share a common inductor whereby that shared inductor serves as the inductor of each said charging circuits and the inductor of each of said injecting circuits.
60. The electrical charge transfer apparatus of claim 58 further comprising a series combination of an input inductor and an input unidirectional switch in parallel with said capacitive storage circuit and wherein said control circuit operates said input unidirectional switch to reverse polarity of charge stored in said capacitive storage circuit.
61. A method of converting power from a voltage source, the method comprising: charging a plurality of series connected capacitors from the voltage source; inverting the polarity of the charge stored in selected capacitors of said plurality of capacitors; electrically coupling to said plurality of capacitors to produce a transformed voltage; extracting power from the plurality of capacitors at the transformed voltage; and repeating the afore-mentioned sequence of steps many times per second. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
