<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643482</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic component and method of fabricating same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H300	H03H905	H03H308	H03H905	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H3	H03H9	H03H3	H03H9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic component comprising an electronic element, a 
case, and a lead, wherein the case is used to enclose the element 

and comprises upper and lower cases connected together by atomic 
bonding. The component is provided with through holes, with each 

hole used to provide a connection from the outside of the 
component to the element in the form of a lead arranged in the 

through hole to seal the hole hermetically and provides an 
electrical contact for the element, whereby the electronic 

element is packaged without deterioration due to hazardous gas 
generated by the conventional welding process used to seal the 

cases. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electronic component, 
especially to a structure of packaging an electronic element and 
a method of fabricating the same. An electronic component according to the preamble of Claim 1 is known from JP 60.170.316. For some electronic elements, for example, surface acoustic 
wave filters, it is necessary to package the filters in outer 
cases with some space between the filters and the inside of the 
case. Conventionally, a surface acoustic wave filter has been 
packaged in a case consisting of upper and lower cases welded 
together, keeping a small space upon or over the filter. 
However, the frequency characteristic of the filter has often 
been deteriorated, since a gas generated by welding the cases 
together penetrates into the space upon the filter to damage the 
filter. It is an object of the present invention to provide an 
electronic component comprising an electronic element and a case 
hermetically enclosing the element. It is another object of the present invention to provide an 
electronic component comprising an electronic element and a case 
enclosing the element with some clearance between the element and 
the case and without deterioration of the element due to harmful 
gas. It is still another object of the present invention to 
provide a method of fabricating an electronic component  
 
comprising an electronic element and a case hermetically 
enclosing the element. The invention is defined by the appended claims. As pointed out in greater detail below, this invention 
provides important advantages. For example, deterioration of the  
 
element is prevented since the element is enclosed in a case 
hermetically sealed by atomic bonding. Also, the case includes 
leads for connecting terminals on the outside of the case with 
electrodes on said element, said leads being formed from balls 
placed and deformed in the through holes in the case to 
hermetically seal the case. Another advantage is provided by the elimination of welding 
to form the cases of the component. The invention itself, together with further objects and 
attendant advantages, will best be understood by reference to the 
following detailed description taken in conjunction with the 
accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 is a partial fragmental perspective view of an 
example of an electronic component according to the present 
invention. Fig. 2 is a general exploded view of an example of an 
electronic component of the present invention. Fig. 3 is a sectional view of the electronic component of 
Fig. 1
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic component comprising:
 
   an electronic element (3), a case (1,7), and at least 

one lead (9), the electronic element (3) having at least 
one electrode (6), said case comprising an upper (7) and a 

lower (1) case having edges, to be connected together to enclose the 
electronic element (3) therein,
characterised in that
 
   the upper case (7) has a through hole (8) for each 

electrode (6), said lead (9) being arranged in the through 
hole (8) to hermetically fill the hole (8) and said upper 

(7) and lower (1) case are glass and are connected by introducing 
an OH group onto the edges to be connected and 

connecting by atomic bonding  
 
An electronic component of claim 1, wherein the lower 
case (1) is provided with a projection (1b) to support the electronic 

element (3). 
An electronic component according to claim 1, wherein 
said lead comprises a first conductor (9) and a second conductor (10;11), 

wherein said first conductor (9) is a lump having at least an 
electroconductive surface and said lump is depressed by said 

second conductor (10;11) to contact said electrode (6) and fill said through 
hole (8). 
An electronic component according to claim 3, wherein 
said second conductor (10;11) is made from a polymer conductor. 
An electronic component according to claim 3, wherein 
said second conductor (11) has an elongated part (11a) on the inner wall of 

the hole (8).  
 
An electronic component according to claim 5, wherein 
the elongated part (11a) has a further elongated part on the under 

surface of the upper case (7). 
An electronic component according to claim 1, wherein 
the electronic element (3) is a surface-acoustic wave element 

comprising a substrate with at least one aluminum electrode 
thereon. 
An electronic component according to claim 5, where a 
portion of said further elongated part provides an electrical 

shield for said component. 
An electronic component according to claim 5, wherein 
of portion of seal further elongated part extends to the outer 

edge of said upper case.  
 
A method of fabricating an electronic component comprising 
the steps of: 


enclosing an electronic element (3) with at least one 
electrode (6) in a case (1,7), compairing the steps of: 
preparing a pair of upper (7) and lower (1) cases of 
glass having edges to be connected together to surround 

the electronic element (3) and coupling said pair of cases 
(1,7) by an atomic bonding method including the step of introducing an OH group onto the edges to be connected, 
providing the electronic component with a lead (9) to 
connect said electrode (6) to the outside of the component 

and seal said through hole (8). 
A method of fabricating an electronic component of 
claim 10, wherein the step of enclosing an electronic element 

comprises the steps of: 

preparing a pair of upper and lower cases having edges 
to be connected together and flatter than flatness of 10nm/20mm, 
treating the pair of cases with a surface-active agent, 
washing the pair of cases with pure water to have an OH 
group appear on the surface. 
coupling the pair of cases with an electronic element 
inside the cases, and 
keeping the pair of cases in an inert gas of 
temperature higher than 200°C to bond the cases. 
A method of fabricating an electronic component of 
claim 10, wherein the step of providing the electronic element 

with a lead comprises the steps of: 

putting a lump of conductive material into a through 
hole to contact said electrode, and 
filling said through hole with said lump to seal said 
upper case. 
A method of fabricating an electronic component of 
claim 12, wherein the step of fixing the lump further comprises  

 
fixing a second conductor into the upper case to depress the lump 

to fill the hole. 
A method of fabricating an electronic component of 
claim 12, wherein the step of filling said through hole with said 

lump further comprises filling the through hole with a conductive 
paint. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
