<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651692</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SETTABLE MATERIAL MOULD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B28B700	B28B700	B28B706	B28B724	B28B734	B28B734	B28B2302	B28B2302	E04B264	E04B264	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B28B	B28B	B28B	B28B	B28B	B28B	B28B	B28B	E04B	E04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B28B7	B28B7	B28B7	B28B7	B28B7	B28B7	B28B23	B28B23	E04B2	E04B2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A settable material mould (10, 70, 90, 150, 200) having a resilient liner (20, 76, 94) which is set into dimples (22) to produce buttons (52) of resilient material to mechanically key the resilient liner to a rigid base (12) and side walls (16). The mechanical keying ensures the resilient liner (20, 76, 94) adheres to the rigid base (12) and that is dimensionally stable so as to produce constant dimension moulded units even after much use of the mould (10, 70, 90, 150, 200). The walls (16) can splay apart to release from a moulded unit moulded in a mould cavity (38). The settable material mould (90) can be used in a battery (110) to produce double sided panels (120). The moulds (90) can be refurbished or altered to change the shape of a mould cavity (42). The resulting panels (120) have a reinforcing frame (122) which carry two threaded nuts (142) for fixing to columns (170 and 202) to form a wall or a building (230).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERVAL PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERVAL PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERRELLA ANTONIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERRELLA, ANTONIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLESETTABLE MATERIAL MOULDFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a settable material mould particularly, although not exclusively, envisaged for use in moulding settable material being cementitious material such as concrete into paving blocks, panels, columns, lintels, kerbing, sills and the like.More particularly, the present invention relates to a settable material mould for use in moulding a texture into a top and one or more sides of concrete paving blocks, panels, columns, lintels, kerbing, sills or the like. The present invention also relates to a panel formed by moulding in the settable material mould. The present invention further relates to a battery for moulding a plurality of the panels at a time. The present invention further relates to a building formed from a plurality of the panels and a plurality of columns.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In the art of forming concrete paving it is known to make a mould using, for example, polyurethane to form a liner from a master whose shape is to be reproduced in a plurality of panels, say. The liner is typically glued or nailed into a framework to enable a plurality of panels or the like to be moulded to the shape of the master. A significant disadvantage of such prior art moulding members is that the liner is difficult to secure to the framework. Also, the polyurethane liner tends to adhere more vigorously to the settable material than it does to the framework. This has the result that often the liner becomes detached from the moulding member when removing the material when set from the moulding member. This can lead to localised bubbling between the liner and the framework which results in a moulded panel or the like which does not accurately match the master from which it was moulded. This leads to difficulties when using the panel in forming a wall or a building or the like. 

 Prior art attempts at forming a relief surface in a plurality of sides of a settable material block have involved the use of timber boxes with polyurethane liners located therein. In one form of the prior art the polyurethane liners are merely placed in the timber boxes and the settable material poured into the liners. Once set, the settable material block with the liner about it is removed from the timber box and the liner is peeled from the set material, cleaned and replaced in the timber box. The disadvantages of such a prior art system is that it is slow, labour intensive, the polyurethane liner tends to collapse inside the box during filling with the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A settable material mould for moulding settable material to the shape of a master, the settable material mould comprising: a rigid base having a plurality of raised members in it and a plurality of holes located in it; a resilient liner set about the raised members and through the holes for mechanically keying to the rigid base to ensure an intimate contact between the resilient liner and the rigid base; a plurality of walls attached to the base to form an endless wall for defining a periphery of the resilient liner, and for retaining a charge of the settable material; an open top defined by upper ends of the walls remote from the rigid base, the open top being capable of receiving the charge of settable material; whereby, in use, the resilient liner and the walls define a shape to which the charge of settable materials is to set.
2. A settable material mould according to claim 1, in which the raised members are dimples each with a frustoconical wall terminating at a top having an aperture in it and the resilient liner being set through the said holes of the dimples to form a plurality of buttons for mechanically keeping the resilient liner to the rigid base.
3. A settable material mould according to claim 2, in which the dimples are arranged in a regular pattern and the rigid base also has a plurality of further apertures disposed between the dimples, the further apertures being smaller in cross-sectional dimension than the said apertures in the dimples. 


4. A settable material mould according to claim 1, also having an external frame removably locatable about the said open top and in which the said walls attached to the base butt together at their adjacent ends but are not fixed together so that the ends of the said walls can be urged together into contiguous contact when the external frame is located about the open top and so that the ends of the said walls can splay apart to disengage from the settable material once set when the external frame is removed from said open top.
5. A settable material mould according to claim 4, in which at least one of the walls has raised members, the resilient liner being set into the raised members in at least one of the walls, the walls being hinged to the rigid base to allow for greater splaying of the walls for greater opening of the top to release moulded units having moulded features on a plurality of their sides.
6. A battery for forming a plurality of moulded units having relief one both faces, the battery comprising: a base frame for location upon a vibrator means for vibrating air bubbles out of settable material poured into the battery, a plurality of mould members pivotably attached to the base frame, each mould member comprising: a frame having a pivot for pivotable attachment to the base frame; and, two settable material moulds removably attached into the said frame , each settable material mould comprising: a rigid base having a plurality of raised members in it and a plurality of holes located in it; a resilient liner set about the raised members and through the holes for mechanically 



 keying to the rigid base to ensure an intimate contact between the resilient liner and the rigid base; a plurality of walls attached to the base to form an endless wall for defining a periphery of the resilient liner; an open top defined by upper ends of the walls remote from the rigid base, the open top being capable of receiving the charge of settable material; the mould members being pivotably moveable between a setting position in which adjacent ones of the mould members define between them a mould cavity for forming a moulded unit from a charge of the settable material, and a release position in which the mould cavity is opened to allow removal of the moulded unit when set; wherein, the settable material moulds can be removed from the mould members for refurbishing the mould members or to redefine the cavity formed between adjacent mould members so as to mould a different shape of moulded unit.
7. A battery according to claim 6, in which each of the settable material mould is further characterised according to one of claims 2 to 5.
8. A panel for use in a building structure also including columns and the like, the panel being formed by moulding a charge of settable material in a battery having adjacent settable material
'
 moulds which define between them a mould cavity, the panel having: a reinforcing frame having a grid of reinforcing bars fixed together and fastening means fixed to the reinforcing bars for use in fastening the panel to one of the columns in the building structure, the reinforcing frame being moulded within the charge of settable material; a face formed by the settable material, the face 


having shoulders for bearing against the columns, the shoulders each having an aperture passing from the face into the panel to provide access to the fastening means for fastening the panel to one of the columns, the face being substantially parallel to the reinforcing frame; and, a cap located within the panel about the fastening means for inhibiting ingress of the settable material into the fastening means during setting of the settable material.
9. A panel according to claim 8, in which the fastening means is two threaded nuts and the reinforcing frame has two vertically disposed reinforcing bars and two horizontally disposed reinforcing bars arranged in proximity to each other to support a plate for mounting the threaded nuts proximate opposite edges of the panel.
10. A building formed of prefabricated components including columns and panels, the columns being elongate and having a plurality of holes in opposite edges thereof for receiving threaded fasteners and each of the panels being formed by moulding a charge of settable material in a battery having adjacent settable material moulds which define between them a cavity, the panels each having: a reinforcing frame having a grid of reinforcing bars fixed together and fastening means fixed to the reinforcing bars for use in fastening the panel to one of the columns in the building structure, the reinforcing frame being moulded within the charge of settable material; a face formed by the settable material, the face having shoulders for bearing against the columns, the shoulders each having an aperture passing from the face into the panel to provide access to the fastening means for fastening the panel to one of the columns, the face being substantially parallel to the reinforcing frame; 


and , a cap located within the panel about the fastening means for inhibiting ingress of the settable material into the fastening means during setting of the settable material; the columns being disposed substantially vertically and a plurality of the panels being fastened between adjacent ones of the columns with threaded members passed through the holes in the columns and into the apertures in the shoulders of the panels and into engagement with the fastening means of the reinforcing frame.
11. A building according to claim 10, in which the panels are further characterised according to claim 9.
12. A building according to claim 11, in which the columns are "T" shaped in cross-section having two shoulders each for receiving one shoulder of one of the panels, each shoulder having a plurality of spaced apart holes, and a threaded bolt locatable through one of the holes in the shoulders and securable into the fastening means of the panel. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
