<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626902</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NOVEL APERTURED NON-WOVEN FABRIC
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D04H304	D04H144	D04H144	B32B310	D04H302	C09J406	C09J402	C09J18300	D04H302	C09J400	B32B310	C08F29908	D04H146	C09J400	D04H146	C08F29900	C09J18306	C09J406	C09J402	D04H170	D04H170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D04H	D04H	D04H	B32B	D04H	C09J	C09J	C09J	D04H	C09J	B32B	C08F	D04H	C09J	D04H	C08F	C09J	C09J	C09J	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D04H3	D04H1	D04H1	B32B3	D04H3	C09J4	C09J4	C09J183	D04H3	C09J4	B32B3	C08F299	D04H1	C09J4	D04H1	C08F299	C09J183	C09J4	C09J4	D04H1	D04H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fabric (50) comprises a multiplicity of yarn-like fiber bundles (51), which extend between and are interconnected at junctures (52). These fiber bundles and junctures define a pattern of openings (53) with the openings having a generally square configuration. Each of the fiber bundles comprises fiber segments which have been densified and compacted. In these fiber bundles many of the fiber segments are parallel to each other. As may be seen in the drawing, substantially at the center of the fiber bundle between adjacent junctures, there is a further entangled area (54) wherein the fibers tend to be circumferentially wrapped about the periphery of the parallel compacted fiber segments. As may be seen, the fiber bundle projects, from the opposite sides of the circumferentially entangled area. This configuration is hereinafter referred to as a "bow tie" or "bow tie area".
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCNEIL PPC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCNEIL-PPC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASSETT ALTON H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRELICH ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAMES WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNETTE JOHN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCMEEKIN LINDA J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASSETT, ALTON H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRELICH, ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAMES, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNETTE, JOHN W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCMEEKIN, LINDA J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
For many years, attempts have been made to produce a
fabric having the strength and other characteristics of
woven or knitted fabrics without having to go through
the innumerable steps required to produce such fabrics.
To produce woven or knitted fabrics, a yarn must first
be produced. Yarns are normally produced by opening and
carding fibers and producing a web of fibers. The fiber
web is condensed into a sliver from which a roving is
produced by doubling and drawing the slivers. A number
of rovings are further doubled and drawn to produce a
yarn. To produce the final fabric, the yarns are woven
by a loom into a woven fabric or are knitted on a
complicated knitting machine. Often the yarn has to be
sized with starch or other materials before it can be
processed on the weaving or knitting machines.During the past twenty to thirty years, various
processes have been developed and attempts have been
made to produce a fabric directly from a web of fibers
eliminating most if not all of the various steps
described above. Some of these methods involved the use
of pins or needles disposed in a pattern. The needles
are inserted through a fiber web to produce openings in
the web and simulate the appearance of a woven fabric.
The resultant product is weak and requires the addition
of a chemical binder to produce desired strength. The
addition of binder substantially modifies the hand, 
flexibility, drape and other desirable physical
properties and makes it virtually impossible to
duplicate the desired properties of woven or knitted
fabrics. Other techniques have involved the use
of fluid or liquid forces, which are directed at the
fiber web in a predetermined pattern to manipulate the
fibers in a manner that the product produced has some of
the characteristics of woven or knitted fabrics. In
some of these prior techniques the fiber web is
supported on a member having a predetermined topography
while being treated with fluid forces to alter the fiber
configuration and produce a nonwoven fabric. Examples
of methods for producing nonwoven fabrics are disclosed
and described in U.S. Patents 1,978,620; 2,862,251;
3,033,721; 3,081,515; 3,485,706; and 3,498,874.While fabrics, produced by some of the methods
previously described, have been successful commercially,
the resulting fabrics still have not had all of the
desired characteristics of many woven and/or knitted
fabrics. All of these techniques have lacked the
ability to obtain either the desired combinations of
physical properties in the final fabric or the desired
a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A nonwoven fabric comprising a multiplicity of
yarn-like fiber groups, said groups being interconnected

at junctures by fibers common to a plurality of said
groups to define a predetermined pattern of holes in the

fabric, characterized in that said fabric has a Clarity Index of at least
0.5 and a Calculated Strand Density of at least .14

grams per cubic centimeter.
A nonwoven fabric according to Claim 1 wherein
the Clarity Index is at least 0.6.
A nonwoven fabric according to Claim 2 wherein
the Calculated Strand Density is at least .15 grams per

cubic centimeter.
A nonwoven fabric according to Claim 1 wherein
the Clarity Index is at least .75.
A nonwoven fabric according to Claim 4 wherein
the Calculated Strand Density is at least .17 grams per

cubic centimeter.
A non-woven fabric according to claim 1 wherein said
yarn-like fiber groups comprise a plurality of parallel and

tightly compacted fiber segments, at least some of said
yarn-like fiber groups include fiber segments

circumferentially wrapped around at least a portion of the
periphery of said parallel and tightly compacted fiber

segments.
The non-woven fabric of Claim 6 wherein the
circumferentially wrapped portion includes fiber

segments which extend into and at least partially
through the yarn-like fiber groups. 
The non-woven fabric of Claim 6 wherein the
circumferentially wrapped portion is disposed

substantially in the center of the fiber group between
interconnected junctures.
The non-woven fabric of Claim 6 wherein the
plurality of parallel and compacted fiber segments in

some of the fiber groups have a helical path.
The non-woven fabric of Claim 6 wherein there
are a plurality of circumferentially wrapped portions

disposed between interconnected junctures.
The non-woven fabric of Claim 6 wherein the
junctures comprise a plurality of fiber segments, some

of said fiber segments being straight, while others of
said fiber segments have a 90 bend while still other

fiber segments have a diagonal path within the juncture.
The non-woven fabric of claim 11 wherein said
junctures include fiber segments extending in the 'Z'

direction of the fabric.
A non-woven fabric according to claim 1 wherein
said yarn-like fiber groups are comprised of re-arranged

fibers, wherein fiber segments within a group are compacted
and substantially parallelized, and wherein said junctures

comprise a plurality of highly entangled areas, some of said
entangled areas interconnecting said yarn-like fiber groups

while others of said entangled areas are disposed in yarn-like
fiber groups. 
The non-woven fabric of claim 13 wherein the
entangled area disposed in a yarn-like fiber group is

substantially centered between adjacent entangled areas
that interconnect the yarn-like fiber groups.
A non-woven fabric according to claim 1 wherein said
yarn-like fiber groups comprise a plurality of parallel and

tightly compacted fiber segments, the fiber segments in at
least some of said yarn-like groups being twisted whereby

the fiber segments follow a helical path as they pass along
said yarn-like fiber group.
A machine for producing a non-woven fabric according to
claim 1 from a layer of starting fibrous material, the

individual fibrous elements of which are capable of movement
under the influence of applied fluid forces, which comprises a

three dimensional backing member having a specific
topographical configuration for supporting a fibrous web

thereon, characterised in that said backing member has a plurality of
pyramids (61) disposed in a pattern over one surface thereof,

each pyramid having an apex (65) and a base, and a plurality
of sides extending from the apex to the base, the sides (104)

of the pyramids being at an angle greater than 55 to the
horizontal surface of the backing member, said backing

member including a plurality of openings therein, said
opening being disposed in a predetermined pattern with

respect to said pyramids and means for projecting

adjacent fluid streams simultaneously against the top of
said pyramids while a fibrous layer is disposed thereon.
A machine according to Claim 16 wherein the
openings are disposed in the areas where the sides of

the pyramids meet said backing member. 
A machine according to Claim 17 wherein the
openings extend up the sides of the pyramids.
A machine according to Claim 16 wherein each
pyramid has four sides.
A machine according to Claim 19 wherein the
apices of the pyramids are aligned longitudinally and

transversely of the backing member.
A machine according to Claim 16 which includes
openings at the sides of the pyramids and openings at

the corners of the pyramids.
A machine according to Claim 16 wherein the
openings are oval-shaped.
A machine according to Claim 16 wherein the
openings are oval-shaped and extend along a portion of

the sides of adjacent pyramids and through the corner
where four pyramids meet.
A machine according to Claim 16 wherein the
sides of the pyramids extend at an angle of at least 70째

to the horizontal surface of the backing member for a
portion of the side of the pyramid and thereafter make

an angle of less than 70째 with said horizontal surface
from said portion to the apex of the pyramid.
A machine according to Claim 16 wherein the
sides of the pyramids are at an angle of greater than 65째

to the horizontal surface of the backing member. 
A machine according to Claim 16 wherein the
openings are circular and have a diameter substantially

equal to the distance between the base of adjacent
pyramids.
A machine for producing a non-woven fabric according
to claim 1 from a layer of starting fibrous material, the

individual fibrous elements of which are capable of movement
under the influence of applied fluid forces characterised in that it comprises;

a rotatable hollow drum (90) having a plurality of pyramids (61)
extending from the outer surface of said drum, said pyramids

being disposed axially and circumferentially of the drum,
each pyramid having an apex (65) and a base and a plurality of

sides extending from the apex to the base, the sides of the
pyramids being at an angle of greater than 55째 to the surface

of the drum, said drum surface having a plurality of openings
disposed in a predetermined pattern, means for

positioning said fibrous layer on the apices of the
pyramids over a portion of the periphery of the drum,

means located outside the drum for projecting adjacent
fluid streams simultaneously against said fibrous layer

and then against the pyramids and then through the
openings and into the drum, means for rotating said drum

while said fluid is being projected against said outside
surface, means disposed inside the drum to remove the

fluid from the surface of the drum and means for
removing said rearranged fabric from the surface of the

drum. 
A method of producing a non-woven fabric according to
claim 1 which comprises; supporting a layer of randomly

arranged overlapping fibers in frictional engagement with
one another locally throughout the area to be affected to

maintain its integrity, while the layer is so supported,
moving segments of fibers in said layer under the influence

of applied fluid forces, sidewise from areas of the layer
spaced laterally and longitudinally from each other, into

closer proximity to and increased parallelism with segments
of adjacent fibers lying between said spaced areas,

simultaneously moving segments of fibers in a
circumferential path about the segments of fibers which are

moved into closer proximity and increased parallelism by
applying to the approximate centers of each immediately

adjacent pair of spaced areas fluid forces having opposed
lateral translatory components of force acting parallel to

the plane of the layer and cooperating rotational components
of force, a portion of said rotational components of force

acting in the plane of the fibrous layer and parallel to
said plane, while other rotational forces act in the plane

of the fibrous layer and perpendicular to said plane.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
