<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651372</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Automatic speech recognition (ASR) processing using confidence measures.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L1500	G10L1508	G10L1510	G10L1522	G10L1528	H04M342	H04M342	H04M350	H04M350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L15	G10L15	G10L15	G10L15	G10L15	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The user interface in an automatic speech recognition (ASR) system is is 
dynamically controlled, based upon the level of confidence in the results of the ASR 

process. In one embodiment, the system is arranged to distinguish error prone ASR 
interpretations from those likely to be correct, using a degree of confidence in the 

output of the ASR system determined as a function of the difference between the 
confidence in the "first choice" selected by the ASR system and the confidence in the 

"second choice" selected by the ASR system. In this embodiment, the user interface 
is arranged so that the explicit verification steps taken by the system as a result of 

uncertain information is different from the action taken when the confidence is high. 
In addition, different treatment can be provided based upon the "consequences" of 

misinterpretation as well as the historical performance of the system with respect to 
the specific user whose speech is being processed. In another embodiment, after an 

ASR system interprets an utterance, the confidence in the interpretation is assessed, 
and three different interactions with the user may then occur. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREMS DOUGLAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHOEFFLER MAX S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREMS, DOUGLAS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHOEFFLER, MAX S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), and in 
particular, to the user interface process provided in a system using automatic speech 
recognition wherein a confidence measure of the ASR interpretation of an 
individual's speech input is computed and then used to selectively alter the treatment 
afforded to that individual. Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems have begun to gain wide 
acceptance in a variety of applications. U.S. Patent 4,827,500 issued to Binkerd et 
al. on May 2, 1989 describes a technique for Automatic Speech Recognition to 
Select Among Call Destinations in which a caller interacts with a voice response unit 
having an ASR capability. Such systems either request a verbal input or present the 
user with a menu of choices, then wait for a verbal response, interpret the response 
using ASR, and carry out the requested action, all without human intervention. An important issue in designing the user interface to a system using 
ASR concerns the issue of handling the potential for recognition errors, since it is 
recognized that whenever an ASR system interprets an utterance, there is some 
residual uncertainty as to the correspondence between the utterance and the 
interpretation. This problem is especially important for input of digit strings, such as 
in a system in which telephone numbers or credit card numbers are spoken by the 
caller, because it is not uncommon to have an overall accuracy rate of only 85 to 90 
percent for a digit string (and, in some cases, even for a segment of a digit string). 
To deal with potential errors, systems today use some type of explicit verification for 
all transactions where the error rate causes concern in order to avoid the possibility 
of processing an incorrect digit string. For example, following input of each 
connected digit string, the ASR system may "read back" the best digit string 
candidate, and require an affirmative or negative response from the individual using 
the system. An example would be: "Please say 'yes' if your credit card number is 
XXX-YYYY, and please say 'no' otherwise". While this type of explicit verification 
is often necessary and useful, it is cumbersome, time consuming and annoying, 
especially for frequent users of the ASR system, or users for whom the ASR system 
has a high degree of confidence. Other systems have requested a user to re-input a 
speech request if a previous request could not be recognized. However, when 
recognition does occur, a static verification process is employed.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for adapting the user interface in systems that accept speech 
input and perform automatic speech recognition (ASR), comprising 

   means for receiving an utterance; 
   means for processing said utterance using ASR to generate an 

interpretation of said utterance and to determine a level of confidence in said 
interpretation; and 

   means for selectively adapting the verification of said interpretation 
requested from the user as a function of said confidence level. 
The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said processing means is 
arranged to determine at least first and second interpretations for said utterance, said 

interpretations having respective associated first and second confidence values, and 
   wherein said confidence level is determined as a function of the relative 

magnitudes of said first and second confidence values. 
The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said system further includes 
   means for storing, for each user of said system, information representing 

a success measure computed as a function of previous uses of said system, 
and 

   means for retrieving information from said storing means and for 

adapting said user interface as a function of the value of said success measure. 
The invention defined in claim 3 wherein said success measure 
includes the previous success rate for said each user of said system. 
The invention defined in claim 3 wherein said success measure 
includes previous confidence values associated with ASR interpretations for said 

each user. 
The invention defined in claim 3 wherein said system is arranged to 
compare said success measure to a user dependent threshold. 
The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said last mentioned means is 
arranged to adapt said verification as a function of the consequences of an error in 

said interpretation. 
An automatic speech recognition system comprising 
   means for generating at least first and second interpretations of a user's 

utterance and respective first and second confidence values for said interpretations, 
and 

   means operative in response to the relative magnitudes of said first and 
second confidence values, for prompting said user to verify said first interpretation 

prior to accepting said first interpretation as an accurate representation of said 
utterance. 
The invention defined in claim 8 wherein said system further includes 
means for prompting said user with information including said first interpretation. 
An automatic speech recognition system comprising 
   means for generating an interpretation of a user's utterance and a 

confidence value for said interpretation, and 
   user interface means operative in response to the magnitude of said 

confidence value, for (a) requesting said user to verify said interpretation prior to 
accepting said interpretation as an accurate representation of said utterance, or (b) 

accepting said interpretation as an accurate representation of said utterance without 
verification. 
The invention defined in claim 10 wherein said system further 
includes means for storing information indicative of the previous success of said 

system in interpreting utterances of said user, and 
   means for responsive to said stored information for controlling said user 

interface means. 
A method of adapting the user interface in systems that accept speech 
input and perform automatic speech recognition (ASR), comprising the steps 

of 
   receiving an utterance; 

   processing said utterance using ASR to generate an interpretation of said 
utterance and to determine a level of confidence in said interpretation; 

and 
   selectively adapting the verification of said interpretation requested from 

the user as a function of said confidence level. 
The method defined in claim 12 wherein said processing step 
 

includes determining at least first and second interpretations for said utterance, said 
interpretations having respective associated first and second confidence values, and 

   determining confidence level as a function of said first and second 
confidence values. 
The method defined in claim 12 further including 
   storing, for each user of said system, information representing a success 

measure computed as a function of previous uses of said system, and 
   retrieving information and altering the user interface as a function of the 

value of said success measure. 
The method defined in claim 14 wherein said success measure 
includes the previous success rate for said each user of said method. 
The method defined in claim 14 wherein said success measure 
includes previous confidence values associated with ASR interpretations for said 

each user. 
The method defined in claim 14 wherein said method further includes 
comparing said success measure to a user dependent threshold. 
A method of automatic speech recognition comprising the steps of 
   generating at least first and second interpretations of a user's utterance 

and respective first and second confidence values for said interpretations, 
and 

   in response to the relative values of said first and second confidence 
values, prompting said user to verify said first interpretation prior to accepting said 

first interpretation as an accurate representation of said utterance. 
The method defined in claim 18 wherein said method further includes 
prompting said user with information including said first interpretation. 
A method for performing automatic speech recognition system 
comprising the steps of 

   generating an interpretation of a user's utterance and a confidence value 
for said interpretation, and

 
   adapting the operation of a user interface in response to the magnitude 

of said confidence value, by (a) requesting said user to verify said interpretation prior 
to accepting said interpretation as an accurate representation of said utterance, (b) 

accepting said interpretation as an accurate representation of said utterance without 
verification, or (c) rejecting said interpretation and requesting said user to provide a 

new utterance. 
The method defined in claim 20 wherein said method further includes 
the steps of storing information indicative of the previous success of said system in 

interpreting utterances of said user, and 
   adapting said user interface in response to said stored information. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
