<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0512852</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cylindrical optical record medium and driving apparatus thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M526	B41M526	G11B700	G11B700	G11B70025	G11B7005	G11B724	G11B724	G11B7244	G11B2500	G11B2502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M5	B41M5	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B25	G11B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cylindrical optical record medium 110 and its driving 
apparatus which can simplify the constitution of the optical record 

medium driving apparatus is disclosed. For this, the cylindrical 
optical record medium has a photoresist layer whose circumferential 

surface can be removed by an optical beam, thereby storing 
information. The apparatus for driving the cylindrical optical 

record medium comprises a constant speed motor 109 for rotating the 
cylindrical optical record medium at a constant speed, a pick-up 107 

for recording and reading out the information on the circumferential 
surface of cylindrical optical record medium, and an information 

processing circuit 101,102,103 for supplying the information to be 
recorded to the pick-up and processing the information read out by 

the pick-up. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLD STAR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLD STAR CO. LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE SUNG CHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, SUNG CHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optical record medium which 
records information by an optical signal, and more particularly 
to a cylindrical optical record medium which can simplify the 
constitution of the apparatus for driving the optical record 
medium, and the driving apparatus of the cylindrical optical 
record medium. The conventional optical record medium such as a laser disc, 
a compact disc, a compact video disc, etc. has a circular shape, 
and a photoresist layer which is removable by an optical beam is 
deposited on its own circular plane. Since the outer circumference 
of the circular optical record medium is longer than the medium inner 
circumference, the medium speed should be faster when the optical 
beam is in the outer circurference than when the optical beam is in 
the inner circurference, so as to uniformly store an information 
having the constant transmission speed. Because of this, the 
conventional circular optical disc has a problem in that the 
constitution of the driving apparatus is overly complicated. By way of illustration, the conventional master link for 
recording information on the circular optical record radium at 
a constant transmission speed and the conventional disc player for 
reproducing the information recorded on the circular optical 
record medium at a constant transmission speed comprise a 
device for detecting the position of the opticl beam on the 
circular optical record medium and another device for controlling 
the rotational speed of the optical record medium according to the  
 
position of the optical beam, so as to control the speed of the 
optical record medium according to the position of the optical beam. 
The conventional master link and disc player will be described in 
detail with reference to Figs. 1 to 3. With reference to Fig. 1, it is illustrated a conventional 
master link comprising an information source 9 and a sub-coding 
signal generator 10. The information source 9 generates digital 
audio or video signal and supplies the generated signal to a CD 
signal generator 5. The sub-coding signal generator 10 generates 
a sub-code including coded information indicating the type of the 
information source and the CD track and supplies the sub-code to the 
CD signal generator 5. The CD signal generator 5 then adds the 
sub-code supplied from the sub-coding signal generator 10 to the 
audio or video signal supplied from the information source 9 in 
order to generate a mixed signal. The CD signal generator 5 then 
eight-to-fourteen
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical record medium comprising: 
   a cylindrical structure; and 

   a photoresist layer deposited on the circumferential surface 
of said structure, for storing information transmitted by an 

optical signal. 
A process for manufacturing the optical record medium as 
described in claim 1 comprising the steps of: 

   manufacturing a cylinder of plastic material and a photoresist 
ribbon; and 

   pressing said photoresist ribbon on the outer circumferential 
surface of said plastic cylinder formed in said manufacturing step 

by a pair of pressing rollers. 
A process as described in claim 2, further comprising 
a step of heating a contact portion between said photoresist ribbon 

and said plastic cylinder when the photoresist ribbon and the 
plastic cylinder are pressed by said pair of pressing rollers, 
A master link for recording information in a cylindrical 
optical record medium comprising: 

   an information source for generating digital data having 
video and audio information; 

   a sub-coding signal generator for generating a sub-code 
having information indicating a type of said information source 

and indicating an information track of the cylindrical optical 
record medium; 

   a recording signal generator for adding the sub-code 
supplied from said sub-coding signal generator into the digital 

 
data supplied from said information source and modulating said 

added data, thereby generating an RF signal adaptive to be recorded 

on said cylindrical optical record medium; 
   an optical signal generator for generating a recording 

optical signal; 
   an optical modulator for adjusting the intensity of the 

optical signal supplied from said optical signal generator 
depending on the RF signal supplied form said recording signal 

generator, to irradiate the adjusted optical signal on said 
cylindrical optical record medium; 

   optical focusing means being installed between said optical 
modulator and said cylindrical optical record medium for focusing 

the optical signal supplied from said optical modulator; and 
   a constant speed motor for rotating said optical modulator 

at a constant speed. 
A master link as claimed in claim 4, wherein said 
optical signal generator is a helium-cadmium laser. 
A master link as claimed in claim 4, wherein said 
optical signal generator is an argon laser. 
A cylindrical optical record medium player for 
reproducing information recorded on a cylindrical optical 

record medium comprising: 
   a constant speed motor for rotating said cylindrical 

optical record medium at a constant speed; 
   an optical pick-up for reading out the information recorded 

on said cylindrical optical record medium; 
   a digital signal processor for demodulating the information 

 
read out by said optical pick-up and separating video and audio 

information and a sub-code having information on the type of 
information source and the track; 

   a D/A converter for converting information supplied from 
said digital signal processor into an analog signal; and 

   a tracking servo for controlling said pick-up according to 
the sub-code supplied from said digital signal processor so that 

said pick-up tracks the information track formed on said cylindrical 
optical record medium. 
A cylindrical optical record medium player as claimed 
in claim 7, further comprising an analog waveform shaping portion 

being connected between said optical pick-up and said digital signal 
processor for waveform-shaping the information read out by said 

optical pick-up. 
A cylindrical optical record medium player as claimed 
in claim 7, further comprising supporting means for supporting 

said cylindrical optical record medium so that said cylindrical 
optical record medium is rotated by said constant speed motor. 
A cylindrical optical record medium player as claimed 
in claim 9, wherein said supporting means comprises: 

   a first star grip being fixed on the rotation axis of said 
constatn speed motor for supporting rotatably the lower portion 

of said cylindrical optical record medium; and 
   a second star grip for supporting rotatably the upper portion 

of said cylindrical optical record medium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
