<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644863</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF MAKING MOISTURE RESISTANT ALUMINUM NITRIDE POWDER AND POWDER PRODUCED THEREBY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B4187	C08K902	C01B21082	C01B2100	C01B21072	C04B4187	C08K906	C08K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C08K	C01B	C01B	C01B	C04B	C08K	C08K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B41	C08K9	C01B21	C01B21	C01B21	C04B41	C08K9	C08K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BISKUPSKI SCOTT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARROLL DANIEL F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWARD KEVIN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BISKUPSKI, SCOTT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARROLL, DANIEL, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWARD, KEVIN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for treating 
aluminum nitride-containing powder to form a protective 
layer on its surface and the treated powder produced 
thereby. Aluminum nitride (AlN) powder is an excellent filler 
material for thermally-conductive polymer composites used 
as heat sink materials in the electronics industry. 
However, using virgin aluminum nitride powder in polymer 
composites is not without its problems. Polymer composites 
exhibit some water permeability, and, because aluminum 
nitride is sensitive to hydrolysis, some protection of the 
aluminum nitride powder from hydrolysis is desired. 
Additionally, when virgin aluminum nitride powder is 
stored, air-borne moisture attacks the aluminum nitride 
powder causing the powder to experience an increase in 
oxygen content and a concomitant weight gain. It is, therefore, desirable to provide a moisture-resistant 
aluminum nitride-containing powder and an easy 
method for its manufacture. A method for making a moisture-resistant aluminum 
nitride-containing powder is disclosed which comprises 
(a) coating a layer of a silicate onto the aluminum 
nitride-containing powder having aluminum nitride on at 
least a portion of its surface, the silicate having 
substituents thereon selected from alkyl and alkoxyalkyl 
radicals, and (b) heat-treating the coated aluminum nitride-containing 
powder at a temperature of from 350 to 1000 °C 
for a period of time sufficient to cause the silicate to 
react with the surface aluminum nitride thereby forming  
 
treated aluminum nitride-containing powder having a layer 
of Si-Al-O-N bonded to the surface aluminum nitride. In another embodiment of the invention, a method for 
making a moisture-resistant aluminum nitride powder is 
disclosed which comprises: 
(a) coating a layer of a silicate onto aluminum 
nitride powder by 
(i) dispersing the aluminum nitride powder in a first 
alkyl alcohol having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, inclusive, 
to form a dispersion, and (ii) dissolving into the dispersion, in the following 
order: 
(A) a solution of the silicate and a second alkyl 
alcohol having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, inclusive, the 
silicate having substituents thereon selected from alkyl 
and alkoxyalkyl radicals, the silicate being employed in an 
amount of from 1 to 150 weight percent based on the weight 
of the aluminum nitride powder, the first and second alkyl 
alcohols being employed in an amount of from 50 to 300 
volume percent based on the volume of the aluminum nitride 
powder, 
(B) water being
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for making a moisture-resistant aluminum 
nitride-containing powder, comprising: 


(a) coating a layer of a silicate onto aluminum 
nitride-containing powder having aluminum nitride on 

at least a portion of its surface, the silicate having 
substituents thereon selected from the group 

consisting of alkyl and alkoxyalkyl radicals, and 
(b) heat-treating the coated aluminum nitride-containing 
powder at a temperature of from 350 to 

1000°C for a period of time sufficient to cause the 
silicate to react with the surface aluminum nitride 

thereby forming treated aluminum nitride-containing 
powder having a layer of Si-Al-O-N bonded to the 

surface aluminum nitride. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the 
silicate has the following general structure: 


RO({RO}₂SiO)
n
Si(OR)₃
 
wherein each R is independently selected from alkyl 

and alkoxyalkyl radicals, the alkyl and alkoxyalkyl 
radicals having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms, inclusive, 

and n is a number from zero to 2, inclusive. 
A method as claimed Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein 
the heat-treating step is performed at a temperature of 

from 500 to 700°C. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the heat-treating step is performed for a 

period from 1 hour to 2 hours.  
 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the coating step is performed by applying a 

solution of the silicate and a solvent onto the aluminum 
nitride-containing powder, and the method further comprises 

removing the solvent from the coating and exposing the 
powder to a temperature in the range of 75°C to 200°C 

before heat-treating the coated aluminum nitride-containing 
powder. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the 
powder is exposed to a temperature in the range of 100°C to 

150°C before heat-treating the coated aluminum 
nitride-containing powder. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, further comprising: 


(c) coating a layer of a second silicate onto heat-treated 
aluminum nitride-containing powder, the second 

silicate having substituents thereon selected from 
alkyl and alkoxyalkyl radicals, and 
(d) heat-treating the coated heat-treated aluminum 
nitride-containing powder at a temperature of from 350 

to 1000°C for a period of time sufficient to cause the 
second silicate to form an amorphous layer containing 

Si and O on the treated aluminum nitride-containing 
powder. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 7, 
wherein the aluminum nitride-containing powder is oxidized 

by contact with an oxygen containing atmosphere at elevated 
temperatures prior to the coating step. 
A method as claimed in Claim 8, wherein said 
elevated temperatures are from 800 to 1000°C and the oxygen 

content of the powder increases by 1 to 10 weight percent.  
 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the coating step is performed by 


(a) dispersing the aluminum nitride-containing powder 
in an alkyl alcohol having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, 

inclusive, to form a dispersion, and 
(b) dissolving into the dispersion, in the following 
order: 


(i) the silicate and 
(ii) water. 
A method as claimed in Claim 10, wherein a 
hydrolysis catalyst is dissolved into the dispersion after 

the water. 
A method as claimed in Claim 10 or Claim 11, 
wherein, in the coating solution, 


the alkyl alcohol is employed in an amount from 50 to 
300 volume percent based on the volume of the aluminum 

nitride-containing powder, 
the silicate is employed in an amount from 1 to 150 
weight percent based on the weight of the aluminum 

nitride-containing powder, 
the water is employed in an amount from 100 to 400 
weight percent based on the weight of the silicate, 

and 
the hydrolysis catalyst, if present, is employed in an 
amount from 10 to 75 weight percent based on the 

weight of the water. 
A method as claimed in Claim 12, wherein: 

(i) the silicate is added as a solution in an alkyl 
alcohol having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, inclusive, 

the alkyl alcohols being employed in an amount from 50 
to 300 volume percent based on the volume of the 

aluminum nitride powder, 
(ii) the hydrolysis catalyst, if present, is selected 
from acetic acid, formic acid, propionic acid, 

hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, sodium hydroxide, 
potassium hydroxide, and ammonium hydroxide, 
(iii) the aluminum nitride powder is allowed to 
contact the remaining components in the 

dispersion-solution (comprising the aluminum nitride 
powder, the alkyl alcohols, the silicate, the water, 

and the optional hydrolysis catalyst) for at least 5 
minutes, 
(iv) the dispersion-solution is dried at a temperature 
in the range of 75 to 200°C to form coated aluminum 

nitride powder before heat-treating the coated 
aluminum nitride powder. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the silicate is employed in an amount from 

5 to 50 weight percent based on the weight of the aluminum 
nitride-containing powder. 
A moisture-resistant aluminum nitride-containing 
powder, which comprises aluminum nitride-containing powder 

having a layer of Si-Al-O-N reaction-bonded to at least a 
portion of its surface.  

 
A moisture-resistant aluminum nitride-containing 
powder as claimed in Claim 15, wherein the aluminum 

nitride-containing powder is formed substantially of 
aluminum nitride and the Si-Al-O-N layer is from 2 to 10 nm 

(20 to 100 Angstroms) thick. 
A moisture-resistant aluminum nitride-containing 
powder as claimed in Claim 15, further comprising an 

amorphous layer containing Si and O on the outside surface 
of the moisture-resistant aluminum nitride-containing 

powder about the Si-Al-O-N layer. 
A moisture-resistant aluminum nitride-containing 
powder as claimed in Claim 17, wherein said amorphous layer 

is 6 to 25 nm (60 to 250 Angstroms) thick. 
A moisture-resistant aluminum nitride-containing 
powder as claimed in Claim 15, wherein the aluminum 

nitride-containing powder has been oxidized in an oxygen-containing 
atmosphere to increase its oxygen content by 1 

to 10 weight percent and the Si-Al-O-N layer is 4 to 40 nm 
(40 to 400 Angstroms) thick. 
A moisture-resistant aluminum nitride-containing 
powder as claimed in Claim 15 obtained by a method as 

defined in any one of Claims 1 to 14. 
A method of preparing a ceramic article by 
sintering a greenware article prepared by drying and 

compacting an aqueous slurry of a powder, characterised in 
that said powder is a moisture-resistant aluminum nitride-containing 

powder as defined in any one of Claims 15 to 20. 
A heat sink material for use in the 
microelectronics industry comprising a ceramic filler in a 

polymer composite, characterized in that said ceramic 
filler is a moisture-resistant aluminum-containing powder 

as defined in any one of Claims 15 to 20. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
