<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628742</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus of vehicle transmission control by assured minimum pulse width
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H6100	F16D4806	F16D4800	F16H6128	G05D1702	F16D4328	F16H6128	F16H6102	B60T1368	G05D1700	B60K2302	B60K2300	B60T1368	F16D4802	F16H6102	F16H6100	F16D4300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16D	F16D	F16H	G05D	F16D	F16H	F16H	B60T	G05D	B60K	B60K	B60T	F16D	F16H	F16H	F16D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H61	F16D48	F16D48	F16H61	G05D17	F16D43	F16H61	F16H61	B60T13	G05D17	B60K23	B60K23	B60T13	F16D48	F16H61	F16H61	F16D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Pulse frequency modulation is used to control 
brakes and clutches 10 which are operated by fluid pressure 

actuators 22 controlled by electrically actuated solenoid 
valves 28. Short pulse periods for all duty cycles are 

generated by feedback from the solenoid valve 28 or from 
the actuator 22. In one circuit an electrical control 30 

triggers a flip-flop 38 which starts solenoid current. 
Solenoid movement results in back-emf and its effects on 

the solenoid flux field or current is detected and used as 
a feedback signal to reset the flip-flop 38 to thereby turn 

off the current as soon as the valve 28 is operated. In 
another circuit, a computer control 30' emits a command for 

a certain pulse period. Actuator pressure or position is 
monitored to produce a feedback signal to the computer. If 

the signal is not received, the pulse period is increased 
for the next pulse command so that a sufficient pulse 

period will be found. If the magnitude of the actuator 
response exceeds a threshold, the pulse period is decreased 

for the next pulse command. Pulse width modulation may 
also be improved by the same technique for minimizing the 

pulse period at the lowest duty cycles and yet assuring 
actuation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLICKER JAMES MELVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLICKER, JAMES MELVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the control of torque 
transmitting devices in automotive vehicles and 
particularly to a method and apparatus for such control 
through electrically operated fluid actuators. In recent years there has been a growing interest 
in increased automation in the control of the drive train 
of motor vehicles, and most especially in control of the 
drive train of large trucks. The use of automatic 
transmissions in passenger automobiles and light trucks is 
well known. The typical automatic transmission in such a 
vehicle employs a fluid torque converter and a gear train 
with hydraulically actuated clutches and brakes for 
selecting the final drive ratio between the engine shaft 
and the drive wheels. This gear selection is based upon 
engine speed, vehicle speed and the like. Another type of 
transmission, which is for heavy trucks, employs an 
automatic friction clutch instead of a fluid torque 
converter. Such a transmission and its clutch control is 
further described in United States patent applications S.N. 
772,204, filed October 7, 1991 and entitled "Closed Loop 
Launch and Creep Control for Automatic Clutch", and S.N. 
772,778, filed October 7, 1991 and entitled "Closed Loop 
Launch and Creep Control for Automatic Clutch with Robust 
Algorithm", which are assigned to the assignee of this 
invention. The usual technique for controlling the various 
brakes and clutches in the transmissions as disclosed in 
EP-A-0.512.690 has been through 
a fluid actuator, usually hydraulic but which can be 
pneumatic, which is supplied from a source of fluid 
pressure through a solenoid valve operated by an electronic 
control. Such controls determine the rate of actuation to 
achieve smooth and efficient torque transfer during the 
transition between engaged and disengaged states. In  
 
particular, such controls use pulse width modulation to determine the rate of actuation; 
pulses are emitted at a fixed frequency and the pulse width is varied in proportion to the 
desired duty cycle. Rapid actuation is thus afforded by a large pulse width. A result of 
that mode of control is that each large pulse width results in a large increment of actuator 
movement so that fine resolution or smooth movement is not possible where a moderate or 
a large actuation rate is required. Further, slow actuation requires a minimum pulse width. 
If an initial minimum width is preset to be large enough to surely cause actuation, it will be 
larger than the minimum required width. Otherwise it is necessary to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A torque transmitting device (10) for transmitting torque from an engine 
(12) to wheels (16) of a vehicle, the torque transmitting device (10) actuated by fluid 

pressure under electronic control, and including a source of fluid (26) under pressure, 
actuator means (22) responsive to fluid pressure for actuating a torque transmission 

device, solenoid valve means (28) subject to an electrical input signal for coupling fluid 
from the source to the actuator means, and control means characterized by: 


electrical means (30, 30') coupled to the solenoid valve means for generating a 
pulse frequency modulated signal, the signal having an on pulse for actuating the valve 

means for minimum valve opening time, whereby the fluid is admitted to the actuator 
means in small increments; and 
the electrical means includes means (48-54) for verifying valve actuation for each 
pulse. 
A device according to claim 1 wherein:
 
   the electrical means includes a circuit (38, 48-54) for sustaining the on pulse until 

valve actuation is verified. 
A device according to claim 1 wherein the means for verifying valve 
actuation comprises means (48) responsive to valve movement. 
A device according to claim 1 wherein the on pulses are substantially equal 
in period and the period is just long enough to effect valve actuation, and wherein
 
   the electrical means includes a frequency control of the pulses to effect a desired 

valve actuation duty cycle.  
 
A device according to claim 1 wherein valve actuation is initiated by the on 
pulse and wherein the solenoid valve means produces a back-emf signal 66 upon valve 

actuation,
 
   the means for verifying valve actuation comprises a circuit (38, 56-62) responsive 

to the back-emf signal for terminating valve actuation. 
A device according to claim 1 wherein the electrical means includes: 

an electrical controller (30') for supplying pulses of predetermined frequency 
sufficient to cause increments in the actuator response; 
the means for verifying valve actuation comprises feedback means (70 or 72) for 
sensing an actuator parameter responsive to the admission of fluid and generating a 

feedback signal; and 
the controller is coupled to the feedback means and includes means (78-90) for 
increasing the frequency of supplied pulses upon failure to receive a feedback signal. 
A device according to claim 6 wherein the feedback means includes a 
position sensor (70) coupled to the actuator for generating the feedback signal in response 

to actuator movement. 
A device according to claim 6 wherein the feedback means includes a 
pressure sensor (72) coupled to the actuator for generating the feedback signal in response 

to change in actuator pressure. 
An apparatus for transmitting torque from an engine (12) to wheels (16) of 
a vehicle having a torque transmitting device (10) actuated by fluid pressure under 

electronic control, a control comprising a source of fluid (26) under pressure, actuator 
means (22) responsive to fluid pressure for actuating a torque transmission device, 

solenoid valve means (28) subject to an electrical input signal for coupling fluid from the 
source to the actuator means;  

 

electrical means (30) coupled to the solenoid valve means for generating a pulse 
width modulated signal wherein each pulse provides valve actuation force, and an 

electronic control characterized by: 
the signal having an on pulse for actuating the valve means for minimum valve 
opening time; and 
the electrical means including means (48-54) for verifying valve actuation for each 
pulse. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 9 wherein the electrical means includes a 
circuit (38, 48-54) for sustaining valve actuation force until valve actuation is vertified. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 9 wherein the electrical means (38, 96-98) 
for sustaining valve actuation at least until termination of the on pulse. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 9 wherein the on pulse has a width which 
is dependent on the desired valve actuation duty cycle, and wherein
 
   the electrical means includes a width control (96) of the pulses to effect a desired 

valve actuation duty cycle. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 9 wherein the electrical means includes: 
a computer-based controller (30') for supplying pulses of minimum width sufficient to 

cause increments in the actuator response; 

the means for verifying valve actuation comprises feedback means (70 or 72) for 
sensing an actuator parameter responsive to the admission of fluid and generating a 

feedback signal; and 
the computer-based controller is coupled to the feedback means and includes 
means (78-90) for increasing the width of supplied pulses upon failure to receive a 

feedback signal. 
A transmission for transmitting torque from an engine (12) to wheels (16) 
of a vehicle, the transmission having control means for controlling actuation of the 

transmission through fluid pressure; and including: 

a source of fluid (26) under pressure; 
actuator means (22) responsive to fluid pressure for actuating a transmission 
function; 
solenoid valve means (28) subject to an electrical input signal for coupling fluid 
from the source to the actuator means; 
 
the control means being characterized in that it further comprises:
 
   an electrical circuit (30) including a pulse generator for producing a pulse 

frequency modulated signal, an actuating circuit (38-40) responsive to the signal for 
supplying actuating current to the solenoid valve means, and reset means (48-54) coupled 

to the actuating circuit and responsive to back-emf generated due to solenoid movement 
for terminating the actuating current. 
A transmission according to claim 14 wherein the actuating circuit includes 
means (40) responsive to each pulse of the signal for supplying actuation current to the 

solenoid valve means. 
A transmission according to claim 14 wherein the actuating circuit includes 
a flip-flop circuit (38) which is set to an on state in response to the signal and which has a 

reset function; and
 
   the reset means is coupled to the flip-flop circuit for producing a reset signal for 

resetting the flip-flop to an off state. 
A transmission according to claim 16 wherein the reset means comprises a 
coil (48) coupled to the solenoi
d valve means for detecting back-emf and producing a reset 
signal.  

 
A transmission according to claim 16 wherein the reset means comprises a 
current sensor circuit (56-62) subject to the actuating current and responsive to the effects 

of back-emf for producing a reset signal. 
A method of controlling a torque transmitting device by means of a fluid 
actuator (22) wherein the actuator is coupled to a pressurized fluid source (26) by a 

solenoid valve (28), the method including applying a pulse modulated signal having an on 
pulse period to the solenoid valve for pulsed valve actuation and characterized by the steps 

of: 

developing a feedback signal (48) upon each valve actuation; 
controlling the on pulse period (38) to minimize the on period; and 
verifying via the feedback signal (36) that each on pulse period is sufficient for 
valve actuation. 
A method according to claim 19 wherein the step of developing a feedback 
signal comprises sensing back-emf developed in the solenoid valve due to valve movement. 
A method according to claim 20 wherein the signal is pulse frequency 
modulated and the step of controlling the pulse period comprises terminating the pulse 

upon receipt of the feedback signal. 
A method according to claim 19 wherein the signal is pulse width 
modulated and the step of controlling the pulse period comprises initiating the pulse by a 

width-controlled command signal and terminating the pulse upon receipt of the feedback 
signal and termination of the command signal. 
A method according to claim 19 wherein the step of controlling the pulse 
period comprises at least initially producing a minimum period pulse and, if valve actuation 

is not verified by the feedback signal, increasing the pulse period for subsequent pulses.  
 
A method according to claim 23 wherein the step of developing a feedback 
signal comprises sensing movement of the fluid actuator resulting from valve actuation. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein the step of developing a feedback 
signal comprises sensing pressure change in the fluid actuator resulting from valve 

actuation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
