<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620802</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SQUEEZE BOTTLE PACKAGE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B1100	B05B1100	B05B1104	B05B1104	B65D4704	B65D4720	B65D8300	B65D8300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B11	B05B11	B05B11	B05B11	B65D47	B65D47	B65D83	B65D83	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A squeeze bottle package (20) for dispensing a product contained therein. The package includes a resilient outer container having a squeezable wall (24) and an opening (26a). An inner deformable wall (50) with memory is spaced from the squeezable wall (24) and supported within the outer container. The inner wall (50) has a discharge opening (38) in alignment with the opening (26a) of the outer container. A flexible bag (80) having an open top (84) is sealingly coupled to the inner wall about the open top. The flexible bag and inner wall area retain the product therein to be dispensed or discharged through the discharge opening upon squeezing of the outer container.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIDLER DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIDLER, DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEIDLER DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEIDLER, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 i-SQUEEZE BOTTLE PACKAGEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention is directly generally to a squeeze bottle package and, in particular, to a squeeze bottle package with an improved construction which is most desirable for the dispensing of viscous products such as toothpaste or the like.While various types of dispensing containers for liquids, creams, pastes and other viscous products have been provided over the years, dispensing containers for viscous products such as toothpaste or the like present unique problems due to the viscosity of the product to be dispensed thereby. In a conventional and well-known manner, toothpaste is generally provided in collapsible tubes having a removable screw cap. Recently, flip-top type caps have been provided for such collapsible tubes. However, such collapsible tubes have proven less than completely satisfactory in that they are often messy, sometimes break, through continued squeezing and rolling, and generally provide an unsightly appearance when left on the sink or vanity.Recently, upstanding push button pump dispensers for dispensing toothpaste have been proposed and used. Due to the viscous nature of the toothpaste product, however, such push button pump dispensers require relatively intricate piston systems for causing the ejection of the toothpaste through the pump opening, and have proven expensive to manufacture and less than completely satisfactory.Most recently, a squeezable container for toothpaste and like viscous products has been introduced. Such squeeze packages are generally oval in shape and stand upright on the counter The container generally includes a screw off cap which, when removed, permits the user to squeeze toothpaste directly out of the container, whereafter the container returns to its original shape after squeezing. No extra packaging is required for such units, except for perhaps a safety seal about the cap to prevent tampering.U.S. Patent No. 4,842,165 issued on June 27, 1989 to Van Coney and entitled Resilient Squeeze Bottle Package for 

 Dispensing Viscous Products without Belching describes and depicts such a squeeze bottle package of the type which has recently been introduced to the market. The Van Coney construction includes an outer resilient squeeze bottle having an inner flexible bag in which the toothpaste is contained. The flexible bag is secured to the interior of the squeeze bottle at its top and approximately at its mid-point to facilitate emptying of the inner flexible bag and improve suckback characteristics.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A squeeze bottle package for dispensing a product contained therein, comprising a resilient outer container having a squeezable wall and an opening, a deformable inner wall spaced from said squeezable wall and supported within said outer container, said inner wall having a discharge opening in alignment with said opening of said outer container, a flexible bag having an opening at a first end thereof, said flexible bag being sealingly coupled to said inner wall about said opening at the
*
 first end of said flexible bag, said flexible bag retaining said product therein to be dispensed for discharge through said discharge opening when said outer container is squeezed.
2. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1, wherein said deformable inner wall has memory to return essentially to its original shape after squeezing of said outer container.
3. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1, wherein squeezing of said outer container causes said inner wall to be releaseably deformed.
4. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 3, wherein said deformable inner wall and said squeezable wall have memory to return essentially to their original shape after squeezing of said outer container.
5. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1, wherein said outer container includes a first shoulder portion, said inner wall having a second shoulder portion which lies adjacent said first shoulder portion.
6. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 5, wherein said second shoulder portion includes a throat having said discharge opening therethrough, said throat extending through said opening in said outer container. 


 7. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1, wherein said discharge opening in said inner wall includes restriction means for restricting the flow of product therethrough.
8. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1 , wherein said restriction means is a reverse tapered surface defining said discharge opening.
9. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 7, wherein said restriction means are spaced, step projections extending into said discharge opening.
10. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim
I, further comprising valve means in said discharge opening.
11. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 10, wherein said valve means includes a butterfly valve supported in said discharge opening.
12. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim
II, wherein said butterfly valve includes a support engaged in said discharge opening having at least a first displaceable wing hingedly secured thereto for selectively opening and closing said discharge opening.
13. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1, wherein said outer container includes a base, said base including at least one opening therein and air intake valve means selectively covering said opening for regulating the flow of air through said opening in said base.
14. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1, wherein said resilient outer container includes a base, a shoulder portion and a neck portion, said neck portion having said opening therein, said squeezable wall extending intermediate said base and said neck portion, said deformable inner wall having a shoulder portion adjacent said shoulder portion of said outer container, a throat having said discharge opening therein extending through said opening in said container and a deformable sidewall spaced inwardly from said squeezable wall of said outer container, the first end of said flexible bag being sealingly secured to said sidewall, and intake valve means in said base of said outer container for 


 regulating the flow of air into and out of said outer container.
15. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim
14, wherein said throat includes restriction means for restricting the discharge of product through said discharge opening.
16. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim
15, wherein said restriction means includes a tapered wall in said throat.
17. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 15, wherein said restriction means includes projections on said throat extending into said discharge opening.
18. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 15, further comprising valve means in said throat for regulating the flow of product and air through said discharge opening.
19. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1, further comprising cover means for removably covering said discharge opening.
20. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 14, further comprising cover means for removably covering said throat.
21. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 1, wherein said inner wall defines an inner wall area, said product being partially retained in said inner wall area.
22. A refillable squeeze bottle package for dispensing a product contained therein, comprising a resilient outer container having a squeezable wall, a first opening and a second opening, a mounting structure releaseably supported about said first opening in said outer container, said mounting structure having a deformable wall and a flexible bag retaining said product to be dispensed sealingly secured to said deformable wall, said mounting structure further having a discharge throat in alignment with said first opening, and coupling means for releasably supporting said mounting structure in said squeezable container. 


 23. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 22, further comprising cover means for releaseably covering said second opening in said outer container.
24. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 23, wherein said cover means includes air intake valve means for regulating the flow of air into and out of said outer container.
25. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 24, wherein said mounting structure is removable through said second opening after said cover means has been released therefrom.
26. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 22, wherein said discharge throat extends through said first opening, said coupling means including a coupling nut for removably holding said discharge throat in said first opening.
27. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 26, wherein said discharge throat includes at least a first set of threads on the outer surface thereof, said coupling nut including internal threads for threadingly engaging said first set of threads.
28. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 27, further comprising cap means for removably covering said discharge throat.
29. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 22, further comprising a refill cartridge having a second mounting structure and second flexible bag filled with said product, said second mounting structure replacing said mounting structure when said mounting structure is removed from said outer container.
30. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 22, wherein said squeezable wall and deformable wall have memory to return essentially to their original shape after squeezing.
31. The refillable squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 22, wherein said deformable wall defines an inner wall area, said product being partially retained in said inner wall area. 


 32. A refill cartridge for a refillable squeeze bottle package for retaining product to be dispensed by said package, comprising a frame having a shoulder portion with discharge opening and a downwardly extending deformable side wall, a flexible bag sealingly secured to said side wall which retains said product, and a disposable housing removably supported on said frame to releaseably cover said flexible bag.
33. A refill cartridge for the refillable squeeze bottle package of claim 22, for retaining product to be dispensed by said package, comprising a* frame having a shoulder portion with discharge opening and a downwardly extending deformable side wall, a flexible bag sealingly secured to said side wall which retains said product, and a disposable housing removably supported on said frame to releaseably cover said flexible bag.
34. The refill cartridge as claimed in claim 32, wherein said frame includes a discharge throat extending from said shoulder portion with said discharge opening therein.
35. The refill cartridge as claimed in claim 34, wherein said discharge throat includes thread means on the outer surface thereof, and cap means for removably covering said discharge opening.
36. The refill cartridge as claimed in claim 33, wherein said deformable side wall defines an inner wall area, said product being partially retained in said inner wall area.
37. A squeeze bottle package for dispensing a product contained therein, comprising a resilient outer container having a squeezable wall and a discharge opening, a collar supported about said discharge opening in said outer container having a flexible bag sealingly secured thereto, said flexible bag retaining said product therein, and a post extending from said collar into said flexible bag.
38. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 37, wherein said post has a cross shape in cross-section.
39. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 37, wherein said outer container includes a shroud coupled to said squeezable wall and having said discharge opening therein. 


 40. The squeeze bottle package as claimed in claim 39, wherein said shroud includes a first mounting structure, said collar including an upper mounting portion supported by said first mounting structure, said post extending downwardly from said upper mounting portion into said flexible bag. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
