<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645752</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fast drawings of 256-color character output with a VGA-type adapter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G502	G09G502	G09G536	G09G539	G09G5393	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An approach to outputting 256-color character pixel data more 
quickly than conventional systems is provided. In this 

approach, a word of data encoding a color bit map for up to 
eight character pixels may be stored in a system buffer and then written 

to a video adapter. The video adapter is configured such that 
background and foreground color codes for multiple pixels may be 

simultaneously written 
into the planes of the display memory of the adapter. As a 

result, 256-color pixel data may be more quickly drawn on a 
video display than in conventional systems. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABRASH MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABRASH, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to data 
processing systems and, more particularly, to video 
adapters. The original video graphics array (VGA) type 
adapters were designed primarily to operate in a 16-color 
mode wherein each pixel could assume one of sixteen 
different colors. The original VGA architecture also 
included one 256-color mode wherein each pixel could 
assume any one of 256 available colors. One difficulty 
with the 256-color mode was that it was very slow relative 
to the 16-color mode. The original VGA architecture has 
been extended to Super VGAs (SVGAs). The original 256-color 
mode of VGAs has been extended in SVGAs to higher 
resolutions. In addition, the SVGAs allow one word of 
data (i.e., two bytes) to be simultaneously written to the 
display memory of an adapter rather than the one byte of 
data maximum permitted in the original VGA architecture. 
However, due to the higher resolution, the 256-color modes 
of the SVGA operate slower than the 16-color modes. The difficulties of the conventional systems are 
overcome by the present invention. In accordance with a 
first aspect of the present invention, a method is 
practiced in a system having a video display, a central 
processing unit (CPU) and a VGA-type adapter. The VGA-type 
adapter includes a display memory. In this method, a 
bit map for multiple pixels are gathered into a system 
buffer. The bit map specifies the colors of the pixels.  
 
At least a portion of the bit map is forwarded under CPU 
control from the system buffer to the adapter. 256-color 
codes for the colors that the pixels specified by the bit 
map are written simultaneously to the display memory to 
display the pixels on the video display. In accordance with another aspect of the present 
invention, a method is practiced in a system having a 
video display, a central processing unit, and a VGA-type 
adapter. The VGA-type adapter includes a bit mask 
register, a display memory that is divided into multiple 
planes, and a latch for each plane. A bit map for 
multiple pixels to be displayed on the video display are 
gathered in a system buffer. The bit map specifies 
whether each pixel is to assume a background color or a 
foreground color. The adapter is configured by placing 
the adapter in write mode 2, disabling chain 4 mode, and 
enabling write access to all planes of the display memory. 
The latches are loaded with a 256-color code for the 
background color. A result of an exclusive OR of the 256-color 
code for the background color with a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a system having a video display, a central 
processing unit (CPU) and a VGA-type adapter with a display 

memory, a method comprising the steps of: 
   gathering a bit map in a system buffer for multiple 

pixels to be displayed on the video display, said bit map 
specifying colors of the pixels; 

   under CPU control, forwarding at least a portion of 
the bit map for multiple pixels from the system buffer to the 

adapter; and 
   simultaneously writing 256-color codes for the 

colors of the pixels specified by the portion of the bit map 
to the display memory to display to pixels on the video 

display. 
The method of claim 1, further comprising the 
step of configuring the adapter to store 256-color codes for 

pixels. 
The method of claim 2 wherein the step of 
configuring the adapter to store 256-color codes for pixels 

further comprises the step of putting the adapter in write 
mode 2. 
The method of claim 2 wherein the step of 
configuring the adapter to store 256-color codes for pixels 

further comprises the step of disabling chain 4 mode. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the bit map 
specifies colors of four pixels and wherein the step of 

simultaneously writing 256-color codes for the colors of the 
pixels specified by the portion of the bit map to the display 

memory to display the pixels on the video display further 
comprises the step of simultaneously writing 256-color codes 

for the colors of the four pixels specified by the portion of 
 

the bit map to the display memory to display the pixels on the 
video display. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the bit map 
specifies colors of eight pixels and wherein the step of 

simultaneously writing 256-color codes for the colors of the 
pixels specified by the portion of the bit map to the display 

memory to display the pixels on the video display further 
comprises the step of simultaneously writing 256-color codes 

for the colors of the eight pixels specified by the portion of 
the bit map to the display memory to display the pixels on the 

video display. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the bit map 
specifies colors of the pixels for opaque text. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the adapter is a 
Super VGA-type adapter. 
In a system having a video display, a central 
processing unit and a VGA-type adapter with a bit mask 

register, a display memory divided into multiple planes and a 
latch for each plane, a method comprising the steps of: 

   gathering in a system buffer a bit map for multiple 
pixels to be displayed on the video display, said bit map 

specifying whether each pixel is to assume a background color 
or a foreground color; 

   configuring the adapter by: 

(i) placing the adapter in write mode 2; 
(ii) disabling chain 4 mode; 
(iii) enabling write access to all planes 
of the display memory; 
 
loading the latches with a 256-color code for the 

background color; 
   loading a result of an exclusive OR of the 256-color 

code for the background color with a 256-color code for the 
foreground color into the bit mask register; and

 
   forwarding the bit map to the adapter from the 

system buffer so that 256-color codes for the colors specified 
by the bit map for the pixels are written to the display 

memory to display the pixels on the video display. 
The method of claim 9 wherein the adapter is a 
Super VGA-type adapter. 
In a system having a video display and a VGA-type 
video adapter with a display memory, a method comprising 

the steps of: 
   forwarding a word of data to the adapter, said word 

of data including a bit map for multiple pixels and said bit 
map specifying a color of each of the multiple pixels; and 

   simultaneously writing 256-color codes for the 
colors specified by the forwarded bit map for the pixels to 

the display memory of the adapter to display the pixels on the 
video display. 
The method of claim 11, further comprising the 
step of storing the word of data in a system buffer prior to 

forwarding the word of data to the adapter. 
The method of claim 11 wherein the bit map 
specifies colors for up to eight pixels. 
The method of claim 11, further comprising the 
step of configuring the adapter to store 256-color codes for 

pixels. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the step of 
configuring the adapter further comprises the step of placing 

the adapter in write mode 2. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the step of 
configuring the adapter further comprises the step of 

disabling chain mode 4. 
The method of claim 11 wherein the adapter is a 
Supe
r VGA-type adapter. 
The method of claim 11 wherein the bit map 
specifies color of the pixels for opaque text. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
