<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656643</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for determining the minority carrier surface recombination lifetime constant(ts) of a specimen of semiconductor material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3126	G01R31265	G01R3126	H01L2166	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is provided for determining the minority carrier surface recombination 
lifetime constant (t
s
) of a specimen of semiconductor material. The specimen is 
positioned between a pair of electrodes, the specimen being disposed on one of the 

electrodes and being spaced form the other electrode. A signal is provided 
corresponding to the capacitance between the specimen and the electrode spaced from 

the specimen. A region of the surface of the specimen is illuminated with a beam of light 
of predetermined wavelengths and which is intensity modulated at a predetermined 

frequency and varying in intensity over a predetermined range. A fixed bias voltage V
g
 
is applied between the pair of electrodes, the fixed bias voltage being of a value such 

that the semiconductor surface is in a state of depletion or inversion. A signal is 
provided representing the ac photocurrent induced at the region of the specimen 

illuminated by the light beam. The intensity of the light beam and frequency of 
modulation of the light beam are selected such that the ac photocurrent is nearly 

proportional to the intensity of the light beam and reciprocally proportional to the 
frequency of modulation of the light beam. A signal is provided corresponding to the 

illumination intensity of the beam of light. The surface minority carrier recombination 
time constant (t
s
) is then determined using the ac photocurrent capacitance and 
illumination intensity information. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMITEST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMITEST, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDFARB WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDFARB, WILLIAM C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for determining the minority carrier
surface recombination lifetime constant (ts) of a specimen of semiconductor material.Metals such as iron and copper are common problems in manufacturing silicon
devices. Small quantities of these element which find their way into product wafers
during processing cause lowered voltage breakdown values and reduced device yield.
The value of the minority carrier surface recombination lifetime constant (ts) is well
known to be sensitive to semiconductor metallic contamination. The (ts) value is also
known to be sensitive to damage of crystalline order of the silicon-silicon
oxide interface
boundary.A number of methods are known for measuring (ts). These include
photoconductivity decay (PCD), CV pulse, surface photovoltage (SPV) using various
wavelengths of light, short-circuit current open-circuit voltage decay, photoluminescence
decay and electron beam induced current decay.In U.S. Patent No. 4,827,212 to E. Kamieniecki
there is described a method and apparatus for characterizing a
semiconductor using the surface photovoltage (SPV) effect. A region of the surface of
a semiconductor is illuminated with an intensity modulated beam of light, the wavelength
of the light being shorter than that corresponding to the energy gap of the 
semiconductor. The surface photovoltage (SPV) induced in the semiconductor is
measured under varying bias voltage conditions. The intensity of the light beam and the
frequency of modulation are selected such that the surface photovoltage (SPV) is directly
proportional to the intensity and reciprocally proportional to the frequency of modulation.
The apparatus includes a pair of electrodes, a light source, a modulated power supply,
a dc bias voltage source, an amplifier, a phase sensitive detector, an A/D converter and
a computer. Using the surface photovoltage (SPV) and the bias voltage (Vg)
measurements, the charge induced in the semiconductor space charge region (Qse) and
the charge induced in the semiconductor (Qind) are determined. This information is used
to determine certain specified parameters of the semiconductor such as surface state
density and oxide/insulator charge doping type and doping concentration. The technique
is designed especially for use in characterizing semiconductor wafers, coated or
uncoated, but may, if desired, also be used in characterizing MIS or MOS type
semiconductor devices.In U.S. Patent No. 4,891,584 to E. Kamieniecki et al there is described an
apparatus for making ac
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of determining the minority carrier surface
recombination lifetime constant, t
s
, of a specimen (11) of semiconductor
material, the specimen having a surface (15) arranged for illumination, the

method comprising :

a. providing a pair of electrodes,
b. positioning the specimen between the pair of electrodes
(19, 27), said specimen being disposed on one (19) of said electrodes and

spaced from said other electrode (27),
c. measuring the capacitance, Cp, between the specimen and the
electrode spaced from the specimen,
d. illuminating a region of said surface of the specimen
with a beam of light of wavelengths shorter than that of the

energy gap of the semiconductor, the beam of light being intensity
modulated at a predetermined frequency and varying in intensity over a

predetermined range of values,
e. applying a fixed bias voltage, V
g
, between the pair of
electrodes, the fixed bias voltage being of a value such that the

semiconductor surface is in a state of depletion or inversion,
f. measuring the ac photocurrent or photovoltage, V
ac
, at the
region of the specimen illuminated by the light beam,
g. causing the intensity of the light beam and frequency of
modulation of the light beam to be such that the ac photocurrent, i_ac, or

photovoltage, V
ac
, is nearly proportional to the intensity, Φ, of the light
beam and reciprocally proportional to the frequency, ω, of modulation of

the light beam;
h. measuring the illumination intensity, Φ, of the beam of light,
and then,
i. determining the surface minority carrier recombination time
constant, t
s
, using said ac photocurrent or photovoltage capacitance and
illumination intensity information, using the equation : 



if photocurrent is measured

or


if photovoltage is measured

where:

q: Electron charge,
E
s
: Dielectric constant of the semiconductor,
W
d0
: Inversion state surface depletion width, undisturbed, that is, dark
conditions,
ψ
0
: Semiconductor surface potential in inversion and dark
conditions.
The method of claim 1, wherein, step C comprises applying an ac
potential to the electrode on which the specimen is positioned and then

measuring the capacitive signal on the other electrode.
A method of determining the minority carrier surface recombination
lifetime constant, t
s
, of a specimen (11) of semiconductor material, the
specimen having a surface (15) arranged for illumination, the method

comprising:

a. providing a pair of electrodes,
b. positioning the specimen between the pair of electrodes, said
specimen being disposed on one (19) of said electrodes and spaced from said

other electrode (17),
c. measuring the capacitance, Cp, between the specimen and the
electrode spaced from the specimen, 
d. illuminating a region of said surface of the specimen
with a beam of light of wavelengths shorter than that of the

energy gap of the semiconductor, the beam of light varying in intensity
over a predetermined range,
e. applying a fixed bias voltage, V
g
, between the pair of
electrodes, the fixed bias voltage being of a value such that the

semiconductor surface is in a state of depletion or inversion,
f. establishing the intensity range of the light beam to be such that
the capacitance between the two electrodes is measurably changed as

the light intensity changes,
g. measuring the doping
concentration,
h. measuring the illumination intensity of the beam of light, and
then
i. determining the surface minority carrier recombination time
constant (t
s
) on the basis of said capacitance, illumination intensity and doping concentration measurements, using the equation

d
dΦ
1
C
p
 = 
t
s
a
·
q
ε
s
2
·
W
d0
2
2·Ψ
0

where :

q : Electron charge,
a : measurement area,
ε
s
 : Dielectric constant of the semiconductor,
Wd0 : Inversion state surface depletion width, undisturbed, that
is, dark conditions,
Ψ0 : Semiconductor surface potential in inversion and dark
conditions.
The method of claim 1, wherein the fixed bias voltage, V
g
, to
obtain inversion is determined using the equation :


Q
induced
 = V
g
 * C
p
,

where Q
induced
 is the induced charge, required to put said surface
into inversion condition. 
The method of claim 4, wherein the step of determining the value
of Q
induced
 includes illuminating the specimen (11) with ac modulated light
of fixed intensity, stepping said bias voltage over a range and

measuring the capacitance, Cp, between the specimen and the electrode
spaced from the specimen and the ac photovoltage signal at each bias

value.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
