<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0555962</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ion chromatography system using electrochemical suppression and detector effluent recycle
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3084	G01N3060	G01N2726	G01N3064	G01N3002	G01N2708	G01N3096	G01N2726	G01N3000	G01N2706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N30	G01N30	G01N27	G01N30	G01N30	G01N27	G01N30	G01N27	G01N30	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of streamlining and lowering the cost of operation 
of ion chromatography as well as improving detection limits 

is disclosed. The apparatus includes chromatographic 
separating means (10) through which a sample is eluted in an 

eluent solution including an electrolyte. The apparatus 
includes a sandwich suppressor (11) having a chromatography effluent 

compartment separated from a detector effluent 
compartment by an ion exchange membrane (17,32,34,36), forming a 

chromatography effluent flow channel and a detector effluent 
channel, respectively. Electrode means (42,44) are disposed in 

communication with both flow channels for passing an 
electric current transverse to the solution that is passing 

through them. The chromatography effluent flows through the 
chromatography effluent flow channel of the suppressor and 

through detector (12) which detects resolved ionic species 
therein. The effluent from the detector is then 

recycled through the detector effluent flow channel and 
forms a sump for electrolyte ions passing across the 

chromatography effluent as well as supplying the water for 
the electrolysis reaction generating acid (or base) for 

suppression. 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIONEX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIONEX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARRETO VICTOR M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDMAN KEITH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RABIN STEVEN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STILLIAN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOOFAN MAHMOOD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARRETO,VICTOR M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDMAN, KEITH A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RABIN, STEVEN B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STILLIAN, JOHN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOOFAN, MAHMOOD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to method and apparatus
using electrochemical suppression of eluents for the
analysis of anions or cations in ion chromatography.Ion chromatography is a known technique for the analysis
of ions which typically includes a chromatographic
separation stage using an eluent containing an
electrolyte, and an eluent suppression stage, followed
by detection, typically by an electrical conductivity
detector. In the chromatographic separation stage, ions
of an injected sample are eluted through a separation
column using an electrolyte as the eluent. In the
suppression stage, electrical conductivity of the
electrolyte is suppressed but not that of the separated
ions so that the latter may be determined by a
conductivity cell. This technique is described in
detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,897,213, 3,920,397, 3,925,019
and 3,956,559.Suppression or stripping of the electrolyte is described
in the above prior art references by an ion exchange
resin bed. A different form of suppressor column is
described and published in U.S. Pat No. 4,474,664, in
which a charged ion exchange membrane in the form of a
fiber or sheet is used in place of the resin bed. The 
sample and eluent are passed on one side of the membrane
with a flowing regenerant on the other side, the
membrane partitioning the regenerant from the effluent
of chromatographic separation. The membrane passes ions
of the same charge as the exchangeable ions of the
membrane to convert the electrolyte of the eluent to
weakly ionized form, followed by detection of the ions.Another membrane suppressor device is disclosed in U.S.
Pat. No. 4,751,004. There, a hollow fiber suppressor
is packed with polymer beads to reduce band spreading.
There is a suggestion that such packing may be used with
other membrane forms. Furthermore, there is a
suggestion that the function of the fiber suppressor is
improved by using ion exchange packing beads. No theory
is set forth as to why such particles would function in
an improved manner.Another suppression system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No.
4,459,357. There, the effluent from a chromatographic
column is passed through an open flow channel defined
by flat membranes on both sides of the channel. On the
opposite sides of both membranes are open channels
through which regenerant solution is passed. As with the
fiber suppressor, the flat membranes pass ions of the
same charge as the exchangeable ions of the membranae.
An electric field is passed between electrodes on
opposite sides of the effluent channel to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for ion analysis comprising

(a) an eluent source (14),
(b) chromatographic separating means (10) in
communication with said eluent reservoir (14) for

receiving eluent therefrom, said chromatographic
separating means (10) comprising a chromatographic

separating medium adapted to separate ionic species of
a sample eluted therethrough using eluent solution

comprising an electrolyte including transmembrane
electrolyte ions of opposite charge to said ionic

species,
(c) suppressor means (11) for treating effluent
eluted from said chromatographic separating means

(10), said suppressor means (11) including

(1) at least one chromatography effluent
compartment means having an inlet (70) end and an

outlet (69) end,
(2) at least one detector effluent
compartment means having an inlet (54,62) end and an

outlet (56,64) end,
(3) at least one ion exchange membrane
(34,36) partitioning said chromatography eluent

compartment means and detector effluent compartment

means and defining therewith a chromatography effluent
flow channel and at least one detector effluent flow

channel, respectively, said ion exchange membrane
(34,36) being preferentially permeable to ions of one

charge only, positive or negative, of the same charge
as said transmembrane electrolyte ions, and including

exchangeable ions of said one charge,
(d) detector means (12) suitable for detecting
separated ionic species having an inlet end and an

outlet end, said detector means inlet end
communicating with said chromatography effluent

compartment means outlet (69) end to receive treated
chromatography effluent therefrom, and said detector

means outlet end communicating with said detector
effluent compartment means inlet (54,62) end to permit

flow of post-detection treated effluent thereto, and
(e) first and second electrode means (42,44) in
electrical communication with said chromatography

effluent flow channel and said one detector effluent
flow channel, respectively.
The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said ion
exchange membrane (34,36) is in the form of a flat

sheet and said first electrode means (42,44) is an
electrode extending along and flush against the ion

exchange membrane (34,36), said flat electrode (42,44)
defining spaced openings for contact of solution in

said chromatography effluent flow channel with the
adjacent ion exchange membrane (36,34).
The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said suppressor
means (11) further comprises

   (4) flow-through ion exchange means (17)
disposed in said one detector effluent compartment

means and having ion exchange sites with exchangeable
ions of the same charge as the exchangeable ions of

said one ion exchange membrane (34,36).
The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said
suppressor means (11) further comprises
 
   (4) flow-through ion exchange means (17)

disposed in said chromatography effluent compartment
means and having ion exchange sites with exchangeable

ions of the same charge as the exchangeable ions of
said one ion exchange membrane (34,36).
The apparatus of Claims 3 or 4 in which said ion
exchange means (17) comprises a screen.
The apparatus of Claims 3 or 4 in which said ion
exchange means (17) comprises ion exchange particles.
The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said
suppressor means (11) further comprises


(4) a second ion exchange membrane of the
same type and charge as said one ion exchange

membrane, said one ion exchange membrane and second
ion exchange membrane defining therebetween said

chromatography effluent flow channel, and
(5) a second detector effluent compartment
means, including a wall (48) opposed to and extending

coextensively with said second ion exchange membrane
and defining therewith a second detector effluent flow

channel disposed on the opposite side of said ion
exchange membrane from said chromatography effluent

flow channel, said first electrode means being
disposed in said one detector effluent flow channel

and said second electrode being disposed in said
second detector effluent flow channel.
The apparatus of Claims 1, 3 or 4 in which said
ion exchange membrane (34,36) is in the form of a

cylinder and the detector effluent and chromatographic
effluent flow 

channels are either of circular or annular cross-section.
A method of anion or cation analysis comprising

(a) eluting a sample containing ionic species to
be detected in a water containing eluent solution

comprising electrolyte, including transmembrane
electrolyte ions of opposite charge to said ionic

species, through chromatographic separating means (10)
in which said ionic species are separated,
(b) flowing the chromatography effluent from
said chromatographic separating means (10) through a

chromatography effluent flow channel of suppressor
means (11) in which said chromatography effluent flow

channel is separated by at least one ion exchange
membrane (34,36)with exchangeable ions, of the same

charge as said transmembrane electrolyte ions, from at
least one detector effluent flow channel,
(c) flowing the treated effluent from said
chromatography effluent flow channel through detection

means (12) in which said separated ionic species are
detected,
(d) directing at least one portion of the
detector effluent from said detection means (12)

through said one detector effluent flow channel so
that transmembrane electrolyte ions from the

chromatography effluent flowing through said
chromatography effluent flow channel are diffused

through said ion exchange membrane (34,36) into said
detector effluent flow channel, and converting said

electrolyte in said chromatography effluent flow
channel to weakly dissociated form, and 
(e) passing an electrical potential between said
chromatography effluent flow channel and said one

detector effluent flow channel transverse to liquid
flow through said chromatography effluent flow channel

to assist diffusion of said transmembrane electrolyte
ions through said one ion exchange membrane, said one

detector effluent flow channel being of opposite
charge to said transmembrane electrolyte ions.
The method of Claim 9 in which flow-through ion
exchange means (17) is disposed in said one detector

effluent compartment means, said ion exchange means
(17) having ion exchange sites with exchangeable ions

of the same charge as the exchangeable ions of said
ion exchange membrane (34,36).
The method of Claim 9 in which flow-through ion
exchange means (17) is disposed in said chromatography

effluent compartment means, said ion exchange means
(17) having ion exchange sites with exchangeable ions

of the same charge as the exchangeable ions of said
ion exchange membrane (34,36).
The method of Claim 9 in which the detector
effluent is the sole source of liquid flowing through

said detector effluent flow channel.
The method of Claim 9 in which the ionic species
are anions and in step (e) water in said

chromatography effluent flow channel is electrolyzed
to generate hydronium ions which assist suppression.
The method of Claim 9 in which the ionic species
are cations and in step (e) water in said

chromatography effluent flow channel is electrolyzed
to generate hydroxide ions which assist suppression. 
The method of Claim 9 in which said
chromatography effluent flow channel is separated by a

second ion exchange membrane, with exchangeable ions
of the same charge as said transmembrane electrolyte

ions, from a second detector effluent flow channel,
whereby said one and second ion exchange membranes

(34,36) define said chromatography effluent flow
channel, said method further comprising directing

another portion of the detector effluent from said
detector means (12) through said second detection

effluent flow channel, and in which said electrical
potential is passed between said one detection

effluent flow channel and said second detection
effluent flow channel through said chromatography

effluent flow channel, to electrolyze water in said
second detection effluent flow channel to assist

suppression by generating hydronium ions for anion
analysis or hydroxide ions for cation analysis.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
