<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623503</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for applying film to articles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C6302	B29C6302	B29C6550	B29C6550	B29C6578	B29C6578	B44C117	B44C117	B62D6500	B62D6500	C09J500	C09J500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B44C	B44C	B62D	B62D	C09J	C09J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C63	B29C63	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B44C1	B44C1	B62D65	B62D65	C09J5	C09J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (10) for applying a piece of pressure 
sensitive adhesive backed film (54) to a surface of a vehicle 

body member (56) including an application frame (32) having a 
resilient, porous member (40) mounted thereon. A vacuum 

source (30) is coupled to a vacuum chamber (38) of the application 
frame (32). The vacuum source (30) draws air through the 

resilient member (40) and into the vacuum chamber (38) to create 
vacuum pressure at an exterior surface (58) of the resilient 

member (40). The vacuum pressure is sufficient to hold the 
film adhesive side (73) exposed to the resilient member (40) 

during manipulation of the application frame (32), but is 
insufficient once the adhesive side (73) of the film (54) contacts 

the surface of the vehicle body member (56) and film (54) is 
applied to the body member (56). Once the film (54) is applied, 

the film (54) is buffed using a plurality of rollers (83,85) that 
contact surface portions of the film (54) to insure uniform 

contact between the film (54) and the body member (56). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITCHELL JAMES G C O MINNESOTA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITCHELL, JAMES G., C/O MINNESOTA MINING AND MAN.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to an 
apparatus and method for evenly applying a strip or web 
of material such as film to a surface of an object 
whether the surface is flat, contoured, otherwise 
irregular or a combination thereof. In particular, the 
present invention is an apparatus and method for 
applying a strip of protective pressure sensitive 
adhesive backed film to vehicle body panels, and 
specifically to a top edge of a pickup truck tailgate. Typically, to apply a pressure sensitive adhesive 
backed film in the form of accent striping, simulated 
wood paneling, clear protective striping, etc. to a 
vehicle body is a labor intensive, time consuming 
process. The process is largely hand work, usually 
requiring more than one person to prepare the film and 
apply it to a vehicle body member in the correct 
orientation. To prepare the piece of film to be 
applied, the film is either held by one or more people 
or is placed on a suitable support surface adhesive side 
exposed. Moreover, it is known to apply an alcohol and 
water based fluid medium to the exposed adhesive side of 
the film in order to temporarily reduce the adhesive 
attraction of the pressure sensitive adhesive. This 
makes the film easier to handle since the adherent 
property of the pressure sensitive adhesive is less 
susceptible to being adversely affected due to unwanted 
contact with people or objects. The alcohol and water 
based fluid medium may also be applied to the surface of 
the vehicle body member to which the film is to be  
 
applied. The alcohol and water based fluid medium is 
applied using a suitable spray system. After the alcohol and water based fluid medium is 
applied to the film and to the vehicle body member, one 
or more people (depending upon the size and awkwardness 
of the piece of film) manually apply the film on the 
vehicle body member with the pressure sensitive adhesive 
side of the film in contact with the surface of the body 
member. Due to the hand work nature of applying the 
piece of film on the surface of the body member, 
initially, the film is usually only in the approximate 
desired location and orientation on the body member. 
The alcohol and water based fluid medium that was 
previously applied on the adhesive side of the film and 
the surface of the body member allows some degree of 
adjustment of the film relative to the body member to 
achieve the desired location and orientation of the 
piece of film on the body member. With the film now 
applied to the surface of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for applying a strip of material to a 
surface of an object, comprising: 


an application frame, 
a resilient member mounted on the application 
frame, the resilient member being configured to 

support a strip of material to be applied to a 
surface of an object, and 
means for holding the strip of material on an 
exterior surface of the resilient member, and 

for permitting the application of the strip of 
material to the surface of the object from the 

resilient member upon the strip of material 
contacting the surface of the object. 
The application apparatus according to claim 1 
characterized in that the application frame includes 

a vacuum chamber, an inlet portion and an 
outlet portion, the inlet and outlet portions being 

in air flow communication with the vacuum chamber. 
The application apparatus according to claim 2 
characterized in that the resilient member is a 

resilient, porous member mounted on the application 
frame over the inlet portion to the vacuum chamber. 
The application apparatus according to claim 3 
characterized in that the holding means includes a 

vacuum source coupled to the outlet portion to the 
vacuum chamber, the vacuum source drawing a flow of 

air through the resilient, porous member and into 
the vacuum chamber to create vacuum pressure at an 

exterior surface of the resilient, porous member, 
the vacuum pressure being sufficient to hold the 

 
strip of material to the resilient, porous member, 

but insufficient to hold the strip of material to 
the resilient, porous member upon the strip of 

material contacting the surface of an object such 
that the strip of material is applied to the surface 

of the object from the resilient, porous 
member. 
The application apparatus according to claim 4 
characterized in that the resilient porous member 

is a piece of open cell foam. 
The application apparatus according to claim 4 or 5 
characterized in that the exterior surface of the 

resilient, porous member is of a curved contoured 
shape. 
The application apparatus according to claim 6 
characterized in that the curved contoured shape is 

convex such that the strip of material is gradually 
applied to the surface of an object from an initial 

line of contact that spreads outward in either 
direction from the contact line so as to prevent 

air from being trapped between the surface of the 
object and the strip of material. 
The application apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 7 characterized by means connected to 

the application frame for distributing a fluid 
medium to an exposed surface of the strip material 

adapted to contact the surface of an object prior 
to the strip of material contacting the object. 
The application apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 8 characterized in that the application 

frame further includes: 
means for dispensing a fluid medium to the 
surface of an object prior to the strip of 

material contacting the object. 
The application apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 9 characterized in that the application 

frame further includes: 

means for aligning the strip of material relative 
to the resilient member such that upon the 

strip of material contacting the surface of an 
object, the strip of material is applied in a 

desired orientation. 
The application apparatus according to claim 10 
characterized in that the alignment means includes 

a plurality of spaced, alignment pins configured to 
contact a peripheral edge of the strip of material 

to align the strip of material relative to the 
resilient member. 
The application apparatus according to claim 11 
characterized in that each of the alignment pins 

includes: 

a retracting mechanism for moving the respective 
alignment pin between an extended state wherein 

the alignment pin extends above the exterior 
surface of the resilient member to align the 

strip of material relative to the resilient 
member, and a retracted state wherein the alignment 

pin is retracted beneath the exterior 
surface of the resilient member. 
The application apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 12 characterized in that the application 

frame further includes: 
means for buffing the strip of material subsequent 
to the strip of material having been 

applied to the surface of an object via the 
resilient member, the buffing means contacting 

the strip of material to insure uniform contact 
between the strip of material and the surface of 

the object. 
The application apparatus according to claim 13 
characterized in that the buffing means includes: 


at least one buffing mechanism including a 
plurality of rollers configured to roll along a 

surface portion of the strip of material to 
press the surface portion of the strip of material 

against the surface of an object to insure 
uniform contact between the strip of material 

and the surface of the object. 
The application apparatus according to claim 13 or 
14 characterized in that the buffing means includes: 


at least one buffing mechanism including: 

first and second roller assemblies, each 
roller assembly having a pair of spaced 

support arms pivotally attached at first ends 
to the application frame and a roller rotatably 

mounted between second ends of the pair 
of spaced support arms, each roller being 

configured to roll along a surface portion of 
the strip of material to press the surface 

portion of the strip of material against the 
surface of an object to insure uniform contact 

between the strip of material and the 
surface of the object. 
The application apparatus according to any one of 
claims 9 to 15 as far as depending on claim 8 

characterized in that the strip of material is a 
piece of pressure sensitive adhesive backed film, 

wherein the exposed surface is that surface of the 
film having pressure sensitive adhesive thereon, 

and wherein the fluid medium distribution means 
includes: 


a plurality of spray nozzles adapted to distribute 
a quantity of an alcohol and water based 

fluid medium on the pressure sensitive adhesive 
surface of the film, the alcohol and water based 

fluid medium acting to temporarily reduce the 
adhesive attraction of the pressure sensitive 

adhesive as the film is applied to the surface 

of the object from the resilient, porous member. 
The application apparatus according to claim 16 
characterized in that the object is a tailgate of a 

pickup truck and the surface is a top edge of the 
tailgate, and wherein the application frame further 

includes: 

a plurality of spray nozzles adapted to distribute 
a water and alcohol based fluid medium to 

the top edge of the tailgate prior to the film 
contacting the tailgate. 
The application apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 17 characterized by a support assembly 

and a means on the support assembly for rotatably 
supporting the application frame. 
A method of applying a strip of material to a 
surface of an object comprises the steps of: 


loading a strip of material onto a resilient 
member mounted on an application frame, 
actuating a means for holding the strip of 
material to the resilient member, and 
effecting contact between the strip of material 
held on the resilient member and a surface of an 

object such that the strip of material is 
applied to and transferred to the surface of the 

object from the resilient member. 
The method according to claim 19 characterized in 
that the resilient member is porous and the 

actuating step includes the step of 

actuating a vacuum source to draw a flow of air 
through the resilient, porous member to create a 

vacuum pressure at an exterior surface of the 
resilient, porous member sufficient to hold the 

strip of material to the resilient, porous 
member. 
The method according to claim 19 or 20 characterized 
in that the loading step includes the step 

of 

aligning the strip of material on the exterior 
surface of the resilient member using retractable 

alignment pins of the application 
frame as a guide. 
The method according to any one of claims 19 to 21 
characterized by the step of 


distributing a quantity of alcohol and water 
based fluid medium on an exposed surface of the 

strip of material subsequent to the actuating 
step. 
The method according to claim 22 characterized by 
the step of 
dispensing a quantity of alcohol and water based 
fluid medium on the surface of the object subsequent 

to the distributing step. 
The method according to claim 23 characterized by 
the step of 


buffing the strip of material with rollers to 
insure uniform contact between the strip of 

material and the surface of the object. 
The method according to any one of claims 18 to 25 
as far as depending on claim 19 characterized by 

the step of 

defining the strip of material as a piece of 
pressure sensitive adhesive backed film, and 

defining the object as a vehicle body member. 
The method according to any one of claims 18 to 25 
as far as depending on claim 19 characterized by 

the step of 

defining exterior surface of the resilient, 
porous member as a convex shape such that the 

strip of material is gradually applied to the 
surface of the object from an initial line of 

contact that spreads outward in either direction 
from the contact line so as to prevent air from 

being trapped between the surface of the object 
and the strip of material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
