<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651883</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PEPTIDES USEFUL AS INTERNAL STANDARDS FOR MICROSEQUENCING AND METHODS FOR THEIR USE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K1400	C07K100	C07K1400	G01N3368	C07K112	G01N3368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C07K	G01N	C07K	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C07K1	C07K14	G01N33	C07K1	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a novel internal standard for amino acid sequencing which contains a peptide consisting of unnatural amino acid residues, such as ornithine, norvaline, norleucine and (alpha)-aminobutyric acid, that is capable of being sequenced simultaneously with an unknown peptide or protein without interfering with the analysis. The internal standard peptide has an amino acid sequence containing at least two different unnatural amino acid residues having retention times distinct from the corresponding retention times for natural amino acid residues. Information derived from the sequencing of the internal standard allows determination of repetitive yield, lag, N-terminal blockage and discrimination between blank cycles caused by missed injection and blank cycles caused by faulty delivery of chemicals during the sequencer reactions. The present invention further provides novel synthetic control peptides containing from about 3 to 100 natural amino acid residues that are designed for use in monitoring the proper operation of amino acid sequencers and to monitor peptide or protein cleavage reactions. The control peptide, or mixture of control peptides, are designed to obtain data for many or all common, uncommon and difficult to measure amino acids within 15 sequencer cycles and to provide cleavage sites for at least 4 different amino acide cleavage reactants.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US HEALTH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARMELEE DAVID C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SECHI SALVATORE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARMELEE, DAVID, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SECHI, SALVATORE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to novel peptides useful in the amino 
acid sequencing context and methods of their use. In particular, this invention 
relates to an internal standard for amino acid sequencing comprising unnatural 
amino acid residues that is capable of being sequenced simultaneously with an 
unknown peptide or protein without interfering with the analysis. Further, this 
invention relates to synthetic control peptides comprising natural amino acid 
residues that are designed for use in monitoring the proper operation of amino 
acid sequencers and for confirming that the system properly identifies all the 
common amino acid residues. These synthetic control peptides can also be used 
as controls in a wide variety of chemical and enzymatic reactions to monitor 
cleavage and modification reactions. Amino acid sequencers typically degrade a protein or peptide 
selectively and sequentially into amino acid residues, or derivatives of these 
residues, that are capable of being qualitatively and quantitatively identified. 
For instance, the commonly used Edman sequential degradation involves the 
organic base catalyzed selective coupling of a peptide's N-terminal amino acid 
with phenylisothiocyanate. The derivatized amino acid is then cleaved from the 
peptide by treatment with a strong organic acid, typically as an 
anilinothiazolinone (ATZ) derivative. Repetitive coupling/cleavage cycles at the 
newly-formed N-terminal amino acid left by the previous cycle provide for 
sequential separation of the amino acid residues that form the primary structure 
of the peptide. To determine the identity of the separated derivatives, the ATZ 
derivative is typically converted to a more stable phenylthiohydantoin (PTH) 
derivative prior to analysis. These PTH derivatives can then be identified by a 
variety of analytical procedures, such as by HPLC. The coupling/cleavage cycles, 
the PTH derivatization procedures and the injection of the PTH derivatives onto 
an HPLC can be accomplished manually or, more commonly, by fully automated 
amino acid sequencers as described, for instance, in Applied Biosystems User 
Bulletin Issue No. 14 (November 18, 1985).  
 Current internal standards available for use in an amino acid 
sequencer suffer from various disadvantages. For instance, addition of a 
synthetic PTH amino acid derivative, such as PTH-norleucine, to one of the 
sequencer solvents is known. This type of internal standard, however, is capable 
of indicating only that the sample was injected properly onto
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An internal standard for amino-acid sequencing, 
comprising a peptide consisting essentially of unnatural 

amino-acid residues joined by amide linkages and having an 
amino-acid sequence containing at least two different 

unnatural amino-acid residues, wherein each unnatural 
amino-acid residue reacts with an amino-acid sequencer to 

yield a stable derivative with a retention time distinct 
from the corresponding retention times for natural amino-acid 

residues, and wherein two consecutive occurrences of 
at least one unnatural amino-acid residue in the amino-acid 

sequence are separated by at least one differing unnatural 
amino-acid residue. 
An internal standard for amino-acid sequencing, 
comprising a peptide having at least five consecutive 

unnatural amino-acids joined by amide linkages, wherein the 
unnatural amino-acids contain at least two different 

residues and each unnatural amino-acid residue reacts 
within an amino-acid sequencer to yield a stable derivative 

with a retention time distinct from the corresponding 
retention times for natural amino-acid residues, and 

wherein two consecutive occurrences of each unnatural 
amino-acid residue in the peptide are separated by at least 

one differing amino-acid residue. 
The internal standard of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein 
the stable derivative is a phenylthiohydantoin derivative. 
An internal standard for amino-acid sequencing, 
comprising a peptide consisting essentially of unnatural 

amino-acid residues joined by amide linkages and having an 
amino-acid sequence containing at least two different 

unnatural amino-acid residues, wherein each unnatural 
amino-acid residue reacts with an amino-acid sequencer to 

yield a stable derivative with a retention time distinct 
from the corresponding retention times for natural amino-acid 

residues, and wherein at least 70% of the unnatural 
amino-acid residues are positioned in the amino-acid  

 
sequence so as to be separated by at least one differing 

amino-acid residue. 
An internal standard for amino-acid sequencing, 
comprising a peptide having at least five consecutive 

unnatural amino-acids joined by amide linkages, wherein the 
unnatural amino-acids contain at least two different 

residues and each unnatural amino-acid residue reacts 
within an amino-acid sequencer to yield a stable derivative 

with a retention time distinct from the corresponding 
retention times for natural amino-acid residues, and 

wherein at least approximately 70% of the unnatural amino-acid 
residues are positioned in the peptide so as to be 

separated by at least one differing amino-acid residue. 
The internal standard of any preceding claim, wherein 
the unnatural amino-acid residues are selected from 

ornithine, norvaline, norleucine and α-aminobutyric acid. 
The internal standard of any preceding claim, wherein 
the amino-acid sequence comprises 2 to 100 amino-acid 

residues in a single peptide chain. 
The internal standard of any preceding claim, further 
comprising a charged substrate or a solid support attached 

at or near the C-terminus of the amino-acid sequence, 
wherein the charged substrate or solid support minimises 

wash-out of the internal standard from the amino-acid 
sequencer. 
The internal standard of claim 8, wherein the charged 
substrate is selected from a peptide comprising at least 

one charged unnatural amino-acid residue, a peptide 
comprising at least one charged natural amino-acid residue, 

a peptide comprising a mixture of charged unnatural and 
charged natural amino-acid residues and a multiple 

antigenic peptide resin. 
An internal standard for amino-acid sequencing 
which has the amino-acid sequence of SEQ ID 

NO:1 or SEQ ID NO:2. 
A method for monitoring the performance of an amino-acid 
sequencer during the sequencing of an unknown peptide  

 
or protein that is capable of distinguishing between a 

missed injection sequencer error and an error caused by 
faulty delivery of chemicals during the sequencer 

reactions, comprising the steps of: 

(1) simultaneously sequencing the internal standard 
of any preceding claim and the unknown peptide or protein 

in the amino-acid sequencer to produce a chromatogram, 
wherein the retention times corresponding to the unnatural 

amino-acid residues of the internal standard are resolved 
from the retention times corresponding to natural amino-acids; 

and 
(2) comparing the retention times corresponding to 
the residues of the internal standard with predetermined 

information relating to the internal standard. 
The method of claim 11, wherein two consecutive 
occurrences of at least one unnatural amino-acid residue in 

the amino-acid sequence of the internal standard are 
separated by at least one differing amino-acid residue, 

further comprising the step of determining the repetitive 
yield of the two consecutive occurrences. 
The method of claim 11, wherein approximately 70% of 
the unnatural amino-acid residues in the internal standard 

are positioned in the amino-acid sequence so as to be 
separated by at least one differing amino-acid residue, 

further comprising the step of determining the lag 
corresponding to each separated unnatural amino-acid 

residue. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
