<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641932</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical circuitry of a fuel rail assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02D4100	F02D4100	F02M5100	F02M5100	F02M5102	F02M5102	F02M5502	F02M5502	F02M6946	F02M6946	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02D	F02D	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02D41	F02D41	F02M51	F02M51	F02M51	F02M51	F02M55	F02M55	F02M69	F02M69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fuel rail assembly comprising a walled fuel tube (24) within which 
is disposed a carrier (22) containing a plurality of electrically 

operated fuel injectors (20), an inlet (79) through which fuel is 
supplied to the fuel tube (24), the injectors (20) having nozzles (68) 

that are disposed in and peripherally sealed to through-holes (91) in a 
first semi-circumference of the wall, a keeper (100) that is disposed 

within tube (24) between carrier (22) and a second semi-circumference of 
the wall opposite the semi-circumference that contains holes (91) for 

keeping the fuel injectors nozzles (68) in holes (91) by preventing the 
carrier (22) from being displaced toward the second semi-circumference, 

an electrical connector (78) that is accessible on the exterior of the 
fuel rail assembly to provide for connection of the injectors (20) to a 

source of control for operating the injectors (20), and circuit means 
(80) providing electrical connection of the injectors (20) to the 

connector (78), at least a portion of the circuit means (80) being 
disposed on the keeper (100) and this portion (81) including a flexible 

circuit (81) containing multiple conductors. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AUTOMOTIVE LP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AUTOMOTIVE L.P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALY PAUL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCARTHUR ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALY, PAUL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCARTHUR, ROBERT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electrical coupling of fuel injectors of a fuel 
rail assembly to an external electrical connector of the fuel rail assembly. Commonly assigned US 5,178,114 and 5,178,115 disclose fuel rail 
assemblies having electrical circuitry. Modifications of the fuel injectors 
that are illustrated in those two patents are described in detail in US 
5,226,628. The present invention relates to improvements in the electrical 
circuitry of fuel rails like those disclosed in US 5,178,114 and US 
5,178,115. Several embodiments are disclosed herein. They have various 
electrical circuit arrangements that are intended to improve the fuel rail 
assembly in one or more of the following aspects: lower cost, easier 
fabrication and/or assembly, greater flexibility, technical improvement. These several embodiments will be described in detail with 
reference to the accompanying drawings which include a presently 
preferred embodiment. Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a fuel injector. Fig. 2 is a perspective view, partly exploded, of a first embodiment 
of fuel rail assembly.  Fig. 3 is a transverse cross section view through the fuel rail 
assembly of Fig. 2 illustrating one step in a process of fabricating the 
assembly. Fig. 4 is a transverse cross section view through the fuel rail 
assembly of Fig. 2 illustrating an alternate step. Fig. 5 is a perspective view, partly exploded, of a second 
embodiment of fuel rail assembly. Fig. 6 is a perspective view, partly exploded, of a third embodiment 
of fuel rail assembly. Fig. 7 is a fragmentary enlarged view of a portion of Fig. 6 further 
exploded. A fuel injector 20 that is well suited for use in a fuel rail assembly of 
the present invention is shown in Fig. 1. It will now be described briefly 
although a detailed description appears in US 5,178,114. In each of the fuel rail assemblies of Figs. 2-7, there are three fuel 
injectors 20 disposed on a carrier assembly 22 that is disposed within a 
circular cylindrical walled fuel tube 24. For each injector 20, carrier assembly 22 comprises a somewhat 
rectangular-shaped well 26 which has a sidewall and a bottom wall. Each 
injector comprises a seat member 32 that has a frustoconical seat that 
funnels to an outlet hole. The seat and outlet hole share a co-axis which 
is perpendicular to the bottom wall of well 26, and the bottom wall has a 
suitably-shaped hole allowing seat member 32 to fit therein. A sphere 40 
is seated on the seat, and is shown concentric with the co-axis in closure  
 
of the outlet
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fuel rail assembly comprising a walled fuel tube within 
which is disposed a carrier containing a plurality of electrically operated 

fuel injectors at various locations along the carrier, an inlet through which 
fuel is supplied to said fuel tube, said fuel injectors having nozzles that are 

disposed in and peripherally sealed to through-holes in a first semi-circumference 
of said wall for injecting fuel from the fuel rail assembly at 

various locations along the fuel rail assembly, a keeper that is disposed 
within said fuel tube between said carrier and a second semi-circumference 

of said wall opposite the semi-circumference that contains 
said holes for keeping said fuel injectors' nozzles in said holes by 

preventing the carrier from being displaced toward said second semi-circumference 
sufficiently to remove said fuel injectors' nozzles from said 

through-holes, an electrical connector that is accessible on the exterior of 
the fuel rail assembly to provide for connection of said fuel injectors to a 

source of control for operating said fuel injectors, and circuit means 
providing electrical connection of said fuel injectors to said electrical 

connector, at least a portion of said circuit means being disposed on said 
keeper. 
A fuel rail assembly as set forth in claim 1 in which that 
portion of said circuit means that is disposed on said keeper includes a 

flexible circuit containing multiple individual conductors. 
A fuel rail assembly as set forth in claim 2 in which said 
keeper acts to force individual conductors of said flexible circuit into 

electrical contact with other conductors on said carrier that lead to said 
fuel injectors. 
A fuel rail assembly comprising a walled fuel tube within 
which is disposed a carrier containing a plurality of electrically operated 

fuel injectors at various locations along the carrier, an inlet through which 
fuel is supplied to said fuel tube, said fuel injectors having nozzles that are 

disposed in and peripherally sealed to through-holes in said wall for 
injecting fuel from the fuel rail assembly at various locations along the fuel 

rail assembly, an electrical connector that is accessible on the exterior of 
the fuel rail assembly to provide for connection of said fuel injectors to a 

source of control for operating said fuel injectors, and circuit means 
providing electrical connection of said fuel injectors to said electrical 

connector, said circuit means comprising a flexible circuit containing 
multiple individual conductors, said flexible circuit having a transverse 

dimension that requires that it be folded along a line that is parallel to said 
fuel tube in order to fit inside said fuel tube. 
A fuel rail assembly as set forth in claim 4 in which a margin 
of said flexible circuit that extends parallel to said fuel rail tube is folded so 

as to be disposed between said carrier and a semi-circumference of the 
wall of said fuel tube containing said through-holes. 
A fuel rail assembly as set forth in claim 4 in which a margin 
of said flexible circuit that extends parallel to said fuel rail tube is folded so 

as to be disposed between said carrier and a semi-circumference of the 
wall of said fuel tube. 
A fuel rail assembly as set forth in claim 6 in which said 
carrier contains a recess for receiving that portion of said flexible circuit 

that is disposed between said carrier and said semi-circumference. 
A fuel rail assembly comprising a walled fuel tube within 
which is disposed a carrier containing a plurality of electrically operated 

fuel injectors at various locations along the carrier, an inlet through which 
fuel is supplied to said fuel tube, said fuel injectors having nozzles that are 

disposed in and peripherally sealed to through-holes in said wall for 
injecting fuel from the fuel rail assembly at various locations along the fuel 

rail assembly, an electrical connector that is accessible on the exterior of 
the fuel rail assembly to provide for connection of said fuel injectors to a 

source of control for operating said fuel injectors, and circuit means 
providing electrical connection of said fuel injectors to said electrical 

connector, said circuit means comprising an electronic circuit board 
assembly and conductors extending from said circuit board assembly to 

said fuel injectors, and wherein said circuit board assembly and said 
conductors comprise separably mated connections between them. 
A fuel rail assembly as set forth in claim 8 in which said 
separably mated connections comprise an edge connector on said circuit 

board assembly. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
