<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658673</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Locking elements and assemblies thereof for drawer units and drawer units embodying same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B6544	E05B6546	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B65	E05B65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A drawer unit (1) having a plurality of drawers 
(2) is provided in which a locking arrangement is 

provided to prevent a second drawer from being 
opened whilst another drawer is still open. The 

locking arrangement comprises a single locking rod 
(8) or bar, preferably rotatable in operation and 

conveniently centrally located at the rear (7) of 
the drawers. The locking rod or bar has locking 

elements (11) thereon which co-operate with 
formations, preferably in the form of pins (17), 

fixed to each drawer to achieve the desired 
objective in consequence of rotation of the rod or 

bar. The invention also extends to special 
locking elements for inclusion in a locking 

arrangement of this type. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENDERSON PIETER MARTIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENDERSON, PIETER MARTIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDERSON PIETER MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDERSON, PIETER MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
THIS INVENTION relates to locking elements and 
assemblies thereof for drawer units, and more 
particularly, drawer units embodying a plurality of 
superjacent drawers each of which is individually 
mounted to be pulled outwardly, as and when 
required, to provide access to the drawer. The 
invention also relates to drawer units embodying 
such locking elements and assemblies thereof,  
 
whether the drawer unit forms a separate article of 
furniture, or is embodied in an article of 
furniture having other uses. In many cases where drawer units have a plurality 
of superjacent drawers, and the drawers are adapted 
to hold heavy material, such as paper for example, 
it is desirable that only one such drawer be 
permitted to be open at any one time. If two 
drawers containing a considerable weight of 
material therein are open at the same time, there 
is a danger that the unit can fall forwardly with 
consequent serious risk of damage to property and 
personal injury. The only mechanism of which applicant is aware for 
preventing the opening of a second drawer, once a 
first one has been opened, is a mechanism in which 
each drawer is provided, at each forward side 
thereof, with a fitting, usually an injection 
moulded plastics fitting. Each such fitting 
co-operates with a longitudinally movable vertical  
 
locking bar associated with the sidewalls of the 
drawer unit so as to move the locking bars upon 
movement of a first drawer to open same. Each 
locking bar has inwardly directed pins which 
co-operate with the fittings to achieve said 
longitudinal movement and which have the added 
purpose of co-operating with formations associated 
with each of the other drawers to lock them in the 
closed position. When the first drawer is closed 
once more the fittings move the locking bars back 
to their unlocked position. In addition, the locking bars are generally 
interconnected by a suitable mechanism at their 
upper ends so that both operate in unison. A key 
operated lock, usually of the push / pull or rotary 
type, is used to selectively lock all of the 
drawers in a closed condition. This whole mechanism has the serious disadvantage 
in that it is complex and costly. There are two 
sets of each component (other than the key operated 
lock) and the interconnection of the locking bars 
so as to be operable by means of a single key  
 
operated lock, is relatively complex. Also, if 
perchance two drawers are opened simultaneously, 
and one is then closed, the locking mechanism is 
returned to its
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A drawer unit (1) comprising a plurality of 
superjacent drawers (2), movable into and out 

of a housing (3) therefor, and wherein a 
single locking rod assembly is positioned at 

the rear (4) of the drawers, the locking rod 
(8) having locking elements (11) associated 

therewith for co-operation with formations 
(17) on each drawer, and wherein the elements 

and formations are adapted to move the locking 
rod, when a first drawer is opened, to a 

position in which the locking elements and 
formations on the other drawers co-operate to 

lock the other drawers in the closed position, 
and to reverse the movement of the locking rod 

when said first drawer is closed. 
A drawer unit as claimed in claim 1 in which 
the locking rod is located centrally across 

the width of the drawers at the rear thereof. 
A drawer unit as claimed in either of the 
preceding claims in which the locking rod is 

held captive by means of fittings (9) secured 
to a rear wall (7) or frame member of the 

drawer unit. 
A drawer unit as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the locking rod is 

rotatable to effect movement of the locking 
elements. 
A drawer unit as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the locking rod has 

a key operated locking means (23,24) 
associated therewith for selectively locking 

all the drawers in a closed position by 
movement of the operating rod. 
A drawer unit as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the formation 

associated with each drawer is a pin (17) or 
rod extending transversely to the direction of 

movement of the drawers. 
A drawer unit as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which each formation 

co-operates with cam surfaces (18,21) provided 
in its co-operant locking element to effect 

required movement of the operating rod. 
A drawer unit as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which each locking element 

has means (12) for enabling it to be mounted 
to a rotatable operating rod to extend in a 

generally radial direction therefrom, and such 
that the locking element has an axis of 

rotation adapted to be operatively coincident 
with that of the operating rod; a slot (14) 

or groove extending in a generally radial but 
sinuous direction relative to the axis of 

rotation, the slot or groove having an access 
opening (16) at its end radially remote from 

the axis of rotation and communicating at its 
inner end with a transverse locking notch 

(20), and wherein the slot or groove is 
adapted for co-operating with a locking 

formation (17) on a drawer movable towards and 
away from the axis of rotation such that 

movement of such formation away from the 
 

axis of rotation of the locking rod causes 
rotation of the locking element in a direction 

which causes the locking notch to move into 
registration with the initial position assumed 

by the formation so that the other drawers 
thereby become locked until the open drawer is 

closed. 
A drawer unit as claimed in claim 8 in which 
the locking element has a hole (12) of 

non-circular shape in cross-section for 

receiving a complimentarily shaped locking rod 
(8) passing therethrough. 
A drawer unit as claimed in either of claims 8 
or 9 in which the slot or groove in the 

locking element extends up the entire height 
of the locking element and extends in a 

roughly spiral direction in plan view defining 
cam faces (18,21) to the slot for co-operation 

with the elongate locking formation extending 
parallel to the axis of rotation of the 

element. 
A drawer unit as claimed in any one of claims 
8 to 10 in which the locking element has two 

basic angular positions, one in which the 
radially movable locking formation with which 

the slot or groove co-operates is located in 
the inner end of the slot (defining the 

unlocked position of the element) and one in 
which the locking notch is located on said 

radius (corresponding to the locked condition 
of the element). 
A drawer unit as claimed in any one of claims 
8 to 11 in which the locking element has a 

shaped outer surface (26) for co-operation 
with a spring loaded element to define click 

stops in the said two angular positions. 
A drawer unit as claimed in any one of claims 
8 to 12 in which the locking element has an 

additional face (22) to communicate with the 
outer access opening of the slot or groove for 

moving the element from its unlocked position 
to the locked position if a co-operating 

formation approaches the axis of rotation 
radially with that element in its unlocked 

position. 
A locking element (11) having means for 
enabling it to be mounted to a rotatable 

operating rod to extend in a generally radial 
direction therefrom, and such that the locking 

element has an axis of rotation adapted to be 
operatively coincident with that of an 

operating rod; a slot or groove extending in a 
generally radial but sinuous direction 

relative to the axis of rotation, the slot or 
groove having an access opening at its end 

radially remote from the axis of rotation and 
communicating at its inner end with a 

transverse locking notch, and wherein the slot 
or groove is adapted for co-operating with a 

locking formation movable towards and away 
from the axis of rotation such that movement 

of such formation away from the axis of 
rotation causes rotation of the locking 

element in a direction which causes the 
locking notch to move into registration with 

the initial position assumed by the formation. 
A locking element as claimed in claim 15 and 
embodying any one or more of the features 

defined in any one of claims 9 to 13. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
