<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650183</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods and apparatus for treating workpieces with plasmas
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05H146	H01L21302	H01J3732	H05H146	C23F400	H01L213065	C23F400	H01L21205	H01L2102	H01J3732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05H	H01L	H01J	H05H	C23F	H01L	C23F	H01L	H01L	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05H1	H01L21	H01J37	H05H1	C23F4	H01L21	C23F4	H01L21	H01L21	H01J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a plasma generator for 
the fabrication of integrated circuit devices (17). 

The generator (30) includes a separate plasma igniter 
electrode (31) to apply the electrical power to a gas 

within a treatment chamber (13) necessary to create a 
desired plasma. The plasma, once it is initiated, 

then is sustained by inductive coupling (36, 38). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANAWA HIROJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANAWA, HIROJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to semiconductor
fabrication and, more particularly, to a method of
treating a workpiece with a plasma according to the first part of claim 1 and to a processing
reactor according to the first part of claim 11 having a plasma igniter and an inductive coupler.Integrated circuit "chips" typically are fabricated
by subjecting a wafer of silicon or other semiconductive
material to various processes which develop the desired
circuitry in or on the wafer. Many of these processes
simply can be thought of as the patterned coating or
removal of materials from the wafer, or the implantation
of differing species into the wafer. A multiple number of
the desired circuits are typically provided on each wafer,
and the wafer is then diced to provide the individual
integrated circuit chips. Many of the processes and much
of the technology developed for the fabrication of
integrated circuitry find other uses, such as to form flat
panel displays, etc. Some of the processes mentioned above require the
formation of a plasma of ions for treating one or more
semiconductor wafers. Etching of a wafer for cleaning
before physical vapor deposition (PVD) on such wafer is
such a treatment process. A cleaning plasma typically is
formed from a nonreactive gas, that is, a gas that is
chemically inert to a wafer. Such gas is introduced into
a chamber of the reactor having the wafer(s) to be
treated, and ions or other particles are accelerated from
the plasma to bombard the wafer surface. The wafers are
supported within the chamber on an electrically conductive
support to which RF energy is supplied to attract and
accelerate the plasma ions to the wafer surface.A problem associated with plasma treating is that it
typically takes a relatively high amount of energy to
create a plasma within the reactor chamber. Moreover, a
plasma tends to start within a reactor chamber at one
location and unevenly spread throughout the gas until it
is all ignited. The trend toward increasingly dense
integrated circuit geometries has resulted in integrated
circuit component and device designs of very small
geometry. Such small components and devices are
electrically sensitive and quite susceptible to damage.
It is therefore important to minimize the characteristics
of the electrical parameters, e.g., the power, voltage and
current, to which a wafer may be subjected during the
fabrication of integrated circuitry.Efforts have been made in the past to reduce the
possibility of damage. For example, in certain PVD
systems it is the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of treating a workpiece with a desired
plasma, comprising the steps of:

   creating a desired plasma from a gas, and
positioning an antenna to couple inductively energy

into said plasma to sustain such plasma once it has
been created;

   characterised in that an ignition electrode is
used to apply electrical power to the gas to create

said desired plasma, said ignition electrode being
positioned to apply power to said gas at a location

which is remote from the location at which said
workpiece is to be treated.
A method as claimed claim 1, further including
the step of discontinuing the application of

electrical power to said ignition electrode once said
plasma has been created.
A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised in
that said step of using an ignition electrode includes

locating said electrode physically separate from said
gas and applying a high frequency, high wattage signal

to said electrode to capacitively couple power to said
gas to create said desired plasma.
A method as claimed in claim 3, characterised in
that said frequency is about 13 Mhz and said wattage

is about 1 kW.
A method as claimed in claim 1, further including
the steps of:


(a) positioning said workpiece on an electrically
conductive support located to subject said workpiece

to said plasma; and 
(b) applying power to said support to attract
particles from said plasma to said workpiece.
A method as claimed in claim 5, characterised in
that said step of applying power to said support

includes applying an RF signal thereto.
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6,
wherein said gas is a nonreactive gas.
A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised in
that the gas exhibits a substantially higher pressure

within said chamber while said plasma is being ignited
than when said workpiece is being processed by said

maintained plasma.
A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised in
that said electrical power applied to said gas is

reduced after said plasma has been created.
A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised in
that an operative amount of RF power is applied to

said antenna only after said plasma has been created.
A processing apparatus for treating a workpiece
with a plasma, comprising:


(a) an antenna (36) positioned to couple
inductively energy into a desired plasma to sustain

such plasma within a reactor chamber (13) of said
apparatus;
(b) characterised in that an ignition electrode
(31) is provided to apply electrical power to a gas to

create said desired plasma to be sustained by
inductive coupling; and
(c) said ignition electrode (31) is positioned to
apply said power to said gas at a location (23) which 

is remote from a location (18) within said chamber at
which said workpiece is to be positioned.
A processing apparatus as claimed in claim 11,
further including a support (19) within said chamber

for said workpiece (17), which support is electrically
conductive for the application thereto of electrical

energy to generate an electrical field to attract
particles from said plasma to said workpiece.
A processing apparatus as claimed in claim 11,
further including a support (19) within said chamber

for said workpiece (17) and wherein said gas is within
said reactor chamber when said plasma is created, and

said ignition electrode (31) is positioned to apply
electrical power to said gas at a location (23) which

is opposed to the location (18) of said support within
said chamber.
A processing apparatus as claimed in claim 11,
characterised in that said electrode (31) is adapted

to be energised by an RF energy source (30) to apply
said electrical power to said gas.
A processing apparatus as claimed in claim 11,
characterised in that said workpiece (17) includes a

semiconductive material, and means (29) are provided
for supplying a gas which is nonreactive relative to

said semiconductive material, from a source of the
same for the creation of the desired plasma.
A processing apparatus as claimed in claim 11,
characterised in that said ignition electrode (31) is

positioned outside said chamber (13) to couple
capacitively couple said power to said gas when the

same is within said chamber. 
A processing apparatus as claimed in claim 11,
further including means (29) for supplying a gas to

said chamber for the creation of said plasma, from a
source of such gas.
A processing apparatus as claimed in claim 17,
characterised in that said source (29) is a source of

argon.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
