<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629892</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Waveguide-type optical device and impedance matching method thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F1035	G02F1225	H03H738	H03H738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	H03H7	H03H7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present relates to a waveguide-type optical 
device comprising an impedance matching means (8) for 

matching impedance of a side of a control signal source 
supplying a control signal to control propagation of 

light waves in an optical waveguide of the waveguide-type 
optical device and impedance of a side of a signal 

electrode (6) receiving the control signal, wherein this 
impedance matching means (8) is provided between the side of 

the control signal source and the side of the signal 
electrode (6). 
By a waveguide-type optical device of the present 
invention enables characteristics deterioration caused 

by un-matching of impedance. Additionally, the present 
invention can extend the degree of freedom for designing 

a waveguide-type optical device. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOYOHARA ATSUSHI C O NEC CORPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOYOHARA ATSUSHI C O NEC CORPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a waveguide-type 
optical device, for example, a waveguide-type optical 
device for light modulating or light switching using - 
optic effects. For a light modulator or a light switch, wide band, 
very high speed and low power operation is required. 
Accordingly, in theory, an electro-optic effect of which 
operation speed is high is used in many cases. This electro-optic effect is a phenomenon that 
refractive index of a material changes when the material is 
charged by electric field. This effect is used for 
developing various kinds of waveguide-type optical devices. Fig. 10 and Fig. 11 are figures showing configuration of 
a Mach-Zehnder light modulator as an example of a 
waveguide-type device using such electro-optic effects. Fig. 10 is a plan view of the Mach-Zehnder light 
modulator and Fig. 11 is a cross section view taken on line 
II-II' of Fig. 10. First, the configuration and operation of this light 
modulator are explained, referring to these pictures. The Mach-Zehnder light modulator comprises the base  
 
101 having an electro-optic effect, the light waveguide 
102 formed on this base 101, the buffer layer 103 formed 
on the base 101 and the signal electrode 104 formed on 
this buffer layer 103. Various kinds of material can be used for each 
component. For the base 101, for example, lithium 
niobate (LiNbO₃) is used frequently. In this case, the 
light waveguide 102 is formed by thermally diffusing 
titanium into the LiNbO₃ forming the base. Moreover, a film made of silicon dioxide (SiO₂) is 
used frequently for the buffer layer 103, also gold (Au) 
is used frequently for the signal electrode 104. 
The signal source for modulation 105 is connected with 
the signal electrode 104. Next the operation of this light modulator is 
explained. When the light from a semiconductor laser entries 
into light waveguide 102 from the light incident 
terminal 106, the incident laser light is divided into 
the light waveguides 102₁ and 102₂ at the light 
divergence section 107. Here, if charging modulation voltage on the light 
waveguide 102₁ using the signal source for modulation 
105, a phase difference between the light propagating in 
the light waveguide 102₁ and the light propagating in the  
 
light waveguide 102₂ is caused by an electro-optic 
effect. When these lights join at the light junction 
section 108, an interference corresponding to the phase 
difference arises. As the result, strength modulation 
corresponding to the modulation voltage is added to the 
lig
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A waveguide-type optical device comprising an 
impedance matching means for matching impedance of a 

side of a control signal source supplying a control 
signal to control propagation of light waves in an 

optical waveguide of said waveguide-type optical device 
and impedance of a side of a signal electrode receiving 

said control signal, wherein said impedance matching 
means is provided between said side of the control 

signal source and said side of the signal electrode. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 1, wherein 
said impedance matching means is an impedance conversion 

circuit comprising resistors connected in T network. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 1, wherein 
said impedance matching means is an impedance conversion 

circuit comprising resistors connected in π network. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 1, wherein 
said impedance matching means is formed on a base of 

said waveguide-type optical device. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 4, wherein 
said impedance matching means is an impedance conversion 

circuit comprising a pattern wiring of resistors formed 
on said base of the waveguide-type optical device. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 5, wherein 
the type of said pattern wiring is T network. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 5, wherein 
the type of said pattern wiring is π network. 
The waveguide-type optical device of any of claims 1 to 7, 
wherein 

said signal electrode is of a co-planar waveguide 
structure. 
The waveguide-type optical device of any of claims 1 to 6, 
wherein 

said waveguide-type optical device comprises: a base; an 
optical waveguide formed on said base; a buffer layer 

formed on said base; and a signal electrode formed on 
said buffer layer. 
The waveguide-type optical device of any of claims 1 to 9, 
wherein 

wherein said waveguide-type optical device is an optical 
modulator. 
A waveguide-type optical device comprising: 
   a base; 

   an optical waveguide formed on said base; 
   a buffer layer formed on said base; 

   a signal electrode formed on said buffer layer; 
   a connector for supplying a control signal 

controlling light waves propagating in said optical 
waveguide to said signal electrode; and 

   an impedance matching means for matching impedance 
of said connector and that of said signal electrode. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 11, 
wherein said signal electrode is of a co-planar 

 
waveguide structure. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 11 or 12, 
wherein said impedance matching means is an impedance 

conversion circuit comprising resistors connected in T 
network. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 11 or 12, 
wherein said impedance matching means is an impedance 

conversion circuit comprising resistors connected in π 
network. 
A waveguide-type optical device comprising: 
   a base; 

   an optical waveguide formed on said base; 
   a buffer layer formed on said base; 

   a signal electrode formed on said buffer layer; 
   a connector for supplying a control signal 

controlling light waves propagating in said optical 
waveguide to said signal electrode; and 

   an impedance matching means formed on said base for 
matching impedance of said connector and that of said 

signal electrode. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 15, 
wherein said signal electrode is of a co-planar 

waveguide structure. 
The waveguide-type optical device of Claim 15 or 16, 
wherein said impedance matching means is an impedance 

 
conversion circuit formed by configuring resistor 

patterns in T network on said base. 
The waveguide type optical device of Claim 15 or 16, 
wherein said impedance matching means is an impedance 

conversion circuit formed by configuring resistor 
patterns in π network on said base. 
An impedance matching method of a waveguide-type 
optical device comprising: 

   an impedance matching means provided between a side 
of a control signal source supplying a control signal to 

control propagation of light waves, in an optical 
waveguide of said waveguide-type optical device and a 

side of a signal electrode being supplied said control 
signal, wherein 

   said impedance matching means matches impedance of 
said side of the control signal source and that of said 

side of the signal electrode. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
