<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650583</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL TEMPERATURE PROBE ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J508	G01J508	G01J558	G01J558	G01K1100	G01K1120	G02B600	G02B600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01K	G01K	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01K11	G01K11	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A temperature probe (10) includes a sensor material (14) optically communicating with a waveguide (16), and a sheath having a sheath coefficient of thermal expansion substantially matched to a thermal expansion coefficient of the waveguide. The waveguide (16) has first and second ends (16a, 16b) secured proximate corresponding sheath ends. In another aspect of the invention, waveguide ends are secured near the sheath ends, the sheath (18) is bent at one or more locations so that it is noncylindrical, and a midsection of the waveguide is loosely held within the bent sheath (18). In still another aspect of the invention, a metallic tube (64) with the sensor material (14) disposed therein is secured to the waveguide (16) by direct attachment to a metallic coating on the waveguide (16).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROSEMOUNT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROSEMOUNT INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS, RICHARD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OPTICAL TEMPERATURE PROBE ASSEMBLYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to temperature probes for measuring temperature, and in particular to those probes employing optical methods of measuring temperature. BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn one aspect of the present invention, a temperature probe comprises a quantity of sensor material in optical communication with a waveguide, and a sheath having a sheath coefficient of thermal expansion substantially matched to a thermal expansion coefficient of the waveguide. The waveguide has first and second ends secured proximate first and second sheath ends, respectively. The temperature probe is operable with means for detecting a thermally responsive characteristic of the sensor material and for providing an output indicative of the characteristic, thereby being indicative of a temperature at the sensor material. Preferably, the waveguide comprises silica and the sheath comprises a low expansion metal alloy such as Invar.In another aspect of the invention the temperature probe includes a metallic tube, with the sensor material disposed therein, held to the waveguide by attachment to a metallic coating on an outside surface of the waveguide. Preferably, attachment is by a braze joint. In still another aspect of the invention, the temperature probe comprises a noncylindrical, or bent, sheath. First and second waveguide ends of a waveguide are secured proximate first and second sheath ends, respectively, and a waveguide midsection is held loosely within the sheath.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG. 1 is a cross-sectional view of a temperature probe in accordance with the invention;FIG. 2 is an elevational view of the temperature probe of FIG. 1; FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of a midportion of the temperature probe of FIG. 2; 

 FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view of a temperature probe subassembly in accordance with the invention; andFIG. 5 is a cross-sectional view of another embodiment of a temperature probe subassembly in accordance with the invention. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTSIn FIG. 1, temperature probe 10 has probe ends 10a, 10b and measures a temperature of a region generally indicated at 12, proximate probe end 10a. Sensor material 14 thermally communicates with region 12, and has a detectable characteristic which changes as a function of a temperature of material 14, which material temperature is closely related to the temperature of region 12.Preferably, material 14 comprises luminescent material having a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A temperature probe operable with means for detecting a thermally responsive characteristic and providing an output as a function thereof, the temperature probe comprising: a sheath having a first and second end, and further having a sheath coefficient of thermal expansion; a waveguide having a first waveguide end secured proximate the first sheath end and a second waveguide end secured proximate the second sheath end, the waveguide having a waveguide coefficient of thermal expansion; and a sensor material having the thermally responsive characteristic, and in optical communication with the second waveguide end; wherein the sheath coefficient is substantially matched to the waveguide coefficient. 2. The temperature probe as recited in claim 1, wherein the waveguide includes a light-guiding core comprising silica, the waveguide coefficient is substantially equal to a thermal expansion coefficient of silica and the sheath comprises a material selected from the group consisting of platinum, platinum- rhodium alloy, and iron-nickel alloy. 3. The temperature probe as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a metallic tube held at the second waveguide end and containing the sensor material; wherein the metallic tube attaches to the sheath.
4. The temperature probe as recited in claim 1 , wherein the sheath is adapted to malleably bend into a noncylindrical shape.
5. The temperature probe as recited in claim 4 further comprising: a buffer layer disposed between the waveguide and the sheath, wherein the buffer layer is porous.
6. A temperature probe operable with means for detecting a thermally responsive characteristic and for providing an output as a function thereof, the 


temperature probe comprising: a sensor material having the thermally responsive characteristics; a waveguide having an outside surface and a waveguide end which is in optical communication with the sensor material; a metallic coating covering at least a portion of the waveguide outside surface; and a metallic tube with the sensor material disposed therein, the metallic tube being held to the waveguide proximate the waveguide end; wherein the metallic tube attaches to the metallic coating. 7. The temperature probe as recited in claim 6, wherein the waveguide has a waveguide coefficient of thermal expansion, the metallic tube has a tube coefficient of thermal expansion, and the tube coefficient is substantially matched to the waveguide coefficient.
8. The temperature probe as recited in claim 7, wherein the waveguide includes a light-guiding core comprising silica, the waveguide coefficient is substantially equal to a thermal expansion coefficient of silica and the tube comprises a material selected from the group consisting of platinum, platinum- rhodium alloy, and iron-nickel alloy.
9. The temperature probe as recited in claim 6 wherein the sensor material is a luminescent material, the characteristic is a lifetime of luminescence and the sensor material is a powder and is tightly packed between the metallic tube and the waveguide.
10. The temperature probe as recited in claim 7 further comprising: a sheath in which the metallic coating, metallic tube, and waveguide are disposed, the sheath having a sheath coefficient of thermal expansion; wherein the sheath coefficient is substantially matched to the waveguide coefficient and the sheath is adapted to malleably bend into a noncylindrical shape. 11. The temperature probe as recited in claim 6 further comprising: 


 a metallic plating substantially covering the metallic coating and the metallic tube.
12. A temperature probe operable with means for detecting a thermally responsive characteristic and providing an output as a function thereof, the temperature probe comprising: a sheath having a first and second sheath end; a waveguide having a first waveguide end secured proximate the first sheath end, a second waveguide end secured proximate the second sheath end, and waveguide midsection; and a sensor material having the thermally responsive characteristic, and in optical communication with the second waveguide end; wherein the sheath has a noncylindrical shape, and the waveguide midsection is loosely held within the sheath.
13. The temperature probe as recited in claim 12 further comprising: a buffer layer disposed between the waveguide midsection and the sheath.
14. The temperature probe as recited in claim 13 wherein the buffer layer comprises braided silica sleeving. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
