<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622772</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for eliminating crosstalk in active matrix liquid crystal displays
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G336	G02F1133	G02F113	G09G336	G09G320	G09G320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G02F	G02F	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G02F1	G02F1	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The elimination of crosstalk between data lines and 
pixel cells in a thin film transistor/liquid crystal 

display is accomplished by applying a precharge voltage 
level for a given data signal level which also provides 

an equivalent to a compensation voltage for a prior 
scan line to a given data line for a time period less 

than the standard scan line period of the display, and 
applying the data signal to the given data line for the 

remainder of the scan line period. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is generally directed to a method and
apparatus for eliminating cross-talk in liquid crystal
display devices. More particularly, the present invention
is related to a display device in which means for preventing
cross-talk between data lines and pixels is provided.As explained in United States Patent No. 4,873,516 to
Castleberry, a proper understanding of the present
invention can only be had by understanding the operation of
a liquid crystal display device and the problems of
parasitic capacitance inherent in the structure of these
devices. In particular, a liquid crystal display device
typically includes a pair of substrates fixed a specified
distance apart. This distance is typically approximately 6
microns. A liquid crystal material is disposed between the
substrates. The substrates are selected so that at least
one of them is transparent. If back lighting is provided
as a means for providing or enhancing the display and
image, it is required that both substrates be substantially
transparent. On one of these substrates there is disposed
a transparent ground plane conductor typically comprising
material such as indium tin oxide (ITO). The opposing
substrate contains a rectangular array of individual
electrode elements, called pixel electrodes. A semiconductor
switch (preferably a thin film transistor) is associated
with each of these pixel electrodes and is typically 
disposed on the substrate containing these electrodes.
These transistor switches are usually based upon either
amorphous silicon or polycrystalline silicon technology.
At present, amorphous silicon technology is preferred
because of its lower process temperature requirements. In
effect, the aforementioned structure results in a rectangular
array of capacitor-like circuit elements in which
liquid crystal material acts as a dielectric. Application
of voltage to a pixel electrode results in an electro-optical
transformation of the liquid crystal material.
This transformation is the basis for the display of text or
graphical information seen on the device. It is noted that
the invention herein is particularly applicable to the
above-described display device in that each of the pixel
electrodes is associated with its own semiconductor switch
which may be turned on or off so that each individual pixel
element may be controlled by signals supplied to its associated
semiconductor switch. These semiconductor devices
essentially act as electron valves for the deposition of
charge on individual pixel electrodes.Each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a liquid crystal display including a plurality
of sequentially excited gate lines and a plurality of

data lines for exciting display elements of said liquid
crystal display, a method for eliminating crosstalk

between display elements comprising the steps of:

exciting each data line with a data signal (V
m
-V
i-1
) including a
compensation level for a first portion of a gate period

equal in amplitude to the previous data signal level (V
i-1
) applied during the previous gate period and
of a polarity opposite said previous data signal level;

and applying a final voltage equal to the current data signal voltage (V
i
) for the current gate signal period during a second
portion of said gate period.
The method of claim 1, wherein the data signal
has a first compensation level of a first polarity and a

second compensation level of a second polarity opposite
said first polarity
, said first compensation level and
said second compensation level being applied in

alternate gate periods.
The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein said first portion of
the gate period has a duration of substantially one half

the gate period.
The method of claim 1 to 3 comprising the further steps
of alternating the polarity of the data voltage supplied

to the data lines for every adjacent row.
A display comprised of a matrix (34) of thin film
transistor/liquid crystal display cells, each cell being

defined by the intersection of one of a first plurality
of data lines extending in a first direction and one of

a second plurality of gate lines extending in a second
direction which is at an angle to said first direction,

with a given cell being turned on in response to the
data line and the gate line that intersect at the cell 

having a data signal and a gating signal, respectively,
applied thereto, comprising:

gate signal means (24) for applying a gate signal to
successive ones of said gate lines for a gate signal

period; and data signal means (16) for applying to said data
lines a data signal equal to a crosstalk compensative

voltage (V
m
-V
i-1
) for a previous gate signal period including a compensation level equal in amplitude to the previous data signal level
during a first portion of a current gate signal period,

and for applying a final voltage equal to a current data
signal voltage (V
i
) for said current gate signal period to
said data lines for a remainder of said current gate

signal period.
The display of claim 5, wherein said data signal means
comprises:


first inverting means for inverting the data signal to
produce an inverted data signal; and
first alternating means for applying one of the
data signal and the inverted data signal alternately to

said data lines.
The display of claim 5 or 6, wherein said data signal
means further comprises:


a compensation signal source for supplying said
compensation signal.
The display of claim 5, 6 or 7, wherein said
compensation signal source comprises:


second inverting means for inverting said compensation
signal to produce an inverted compensation signal; and
second alternating means for applying one of the
compensation signal and the inverted compensation signal

to said data lines.
The display of claim 5, 6, 7 or 8 further comprising
summing means for summing an output of said first

alternating means and an output of said second
alternating means to produce said data signal applied to

said data lines.
The display of any one of claims 5 to 9, wherein
said compensation signal includes a first compensation

voltage of a first polarity and a second compensation
voltage of a second polarity opposite that of

said first polarity.
The display of any one of claims 5 to 10, wherein
said second compensation voltage and said first data

voltage level are of equal absolute value.
The display of any one of claims 5 to 11, wherein
said second compensation voltage and said first data

voltage level are of opposite polarity.
The display of any one of claims 5 to 12, wherein
said first portion of said current gate signal period

has a duration of substantially one half of that of said
current gate signal period.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
