<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620543</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Liquid crystal display apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F1133	G09G320	G09G320	G09G336	G09G336	H04N310	H04N312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	H04N3	H04N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Provided is a liquid crystal display apparatus of active matrix type, in 
which a large number of gray levels can be displayed. 
A drive circuit for driving a plurality of display panels comprises a 
plurality of sections each including a sample-and-hold circuit 22. The 

sample-and-hold circuit 22 has a plurality of switches Sw 1 through Sw 
4. To these switches are separately supplied different ramp signals Vr 

1 through Vr 4 from a ramp generator circuit 24 shared by all the 
sections. These ramp signals have waveforms which respectively assume a 

plurality of voltage levels and are shifted relative to each other by a 
predetermined level. A decoder 21 controls one of the switches Sw 1 

through Sw 4 so that a specific order of voltage level in one of the 
ramp signals Vr 1 through Vr 4 is selected depending on the gray scale 

data in the latch 20. The output of the sample-and-hold circuit is 
transmitted to the data line 7a via a buffer 23. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a liquid crystal display (LCD) 
apparatus of active matrix type that displays gray scale and more 
particularly to a drive apparatus for producing a drive voltage on data 
lines of a display panel. As a liquid crystal display (LCD) of active matrix type, a LCD having a 
construction schematically shown in Figure 1 is known. The LCD 
comprises a display panel 1, a scan circuit 2, a drive circuit 3, a data 
source 4 and a ramp generator 5. The display panel 1 is equipped with a 
plurality of gate lines 6a through 6m and a plurality of data lines 7a 
through 7n arranged in a matrix form. At each of crossing points of 
these gate lines and these data lines, a TFT device and a pixel 
electrode are mounted. The drive circuit 3 is a so-called 
digital-analog type circuit. The drive circuit 3 comprises a plurality 
of sections corresponding to the plurality of data lines. Each section 
receives gray scale data concerning one pixel from the data source 4. 
It also receives a ramp signal (staircase wave), which repetitively 
indicates a plurality of voltage levels corresponding to a plurality of 
gray scales, from the ramp generator 5. Each section selects a voltage 
level corresponding to the gray scale data and applies it to a 
corresponding data line. On the other hand, the scan circuit 2 
successively supplies the gate line 6a through 6m with a gate pulse that 
continues for a predetermined time in synchronization with the ramp 
signal. The TFT selected by the gate pulse applies the voltage level of 
the data line to the pixel electrode associated with it to charge the 
liquid crystal electrostatic capacitance, thereby providing a gray scale 
display. Each drive circuit section has a data latch 10, a decoder 11 and a 
sample hold circuit 12 and a buffer 13 as schematically shown in Figure 
2. The gray scale data for one pixel held in the data latch 10  
 
comprises bits in the number corresponding to the number of gray levels. 
In case of 16 gray scales, for example, the gray scale data comprises 4 
bits. Then the ramp signal Vr applied to the line 14 assumes 16 voltage 
levels. The decoder 11 generates a sampling pulse for selecting the 
ramp voltage level corresponding to the gray scale data under the 
control of a clock. The sample-and-hold circuit 12 causes the switch Sw 
to conduct electricity in accordance with the sampling pulse to hold the 
specific voltage level in the capacitor C. The voltage level sampled 
and held in this way is applied to the data line 7a via a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A liquid crystal display apparatus of active matrix type having a 
liquid crystal display panel (1) with a plurality of gate lines (6a - 

6m) and a plurality of data lines (7a - 7n) arranged in a matrix form, 
scan means (2) for successively producing scan signals on said plurality 

of gate lines, and drive means (3) for producing output signals for gray 
scale display on said plurality of data lines in synchronization with 

said scan signals; characterized in that said drive means comprises: 
a ramp generator (24) for generating a plurality of ramp signals (Vr1 to 

Vr4) in parallel, said ramp signals having waveforms which each 
respectively assume a plurality of voltage levels and which are 

successively shifted relative to each other by a predetermined voltage 
level (L) such that for each of the gray levels of said gray scale 

display one of said ramp signals assumes a corresponding voltage level; 
and 

selector means (22) connected to the ramp generator and responsive to 
gray scale data for individual pixels for selecting one of said voltage 

levels in one of said ramp signals and to provide a voltage level 
corresponding to said selected voltage level as an output signal on the 

corresponding data line for the particular pixel. 
A liquid crystal drive apparatus for generating output signals for 
gray scale display on a plurality of data lines (7a - 7n) of a liquid 

crystal display panel in a liquid crystal display apparatus of active 
matrix type, characterized by comprising: 

a ramp generator (24) for generating y ramp signals (Vr) in parallel on 
its y output lines (26), said y ramp signals having waveforms which 

respectively assume x voltage levels and which are successively shifted 
relative to each other by a predetermined voltage level (L), said y and 

x each representing an integer equal to or greater than 2; and 
a plurality of drive circuits connected commonly at their input sides to 

said y output lines of the ramp generator and connected separately at 
their output sides to said data lines;

 
wherein each of the drive circuits is responsive to gray scale data for 

a pixel for selecting one of said x voltage levels in one of said y ramp 
signals to provide a voltage level corresponding to said selected 

voltage level as an output signal on a corresponding data line. 
A liquid crystal drive apparatus according to claim 2 wherein each 
of said drive circuits comprises: 

a sample-and-hold circuit (22) having y switches separately connected to 
y output lines of said ramp generator on the input side, each of said 

switches having a control input line; 
a latch (20) for holding gray scale data; and 

a decoder (21) having an input line connected to said latch and a 
separate output line (25) connected to each of said y switches, said 

decoder producing on one of its own output lines a sampling pulse for 
operating one of said y switches as determined by said grey scale data 

at a timing determined by said gray scale data. 
A liquid crystal drive apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said 
x and y satisfy an equation of xy=z where z represents the total number 

of gray levels of said gray scale display, and said y ramp signals 
provide z different voltage levels. 
A liquid crystal drive apparatus according to claim 3 or claim 4 
wherein said gray scale data concerned with each pixel comprises a 

plurality of bits, a predetermined number of upper bits out of said 
plurality of bits representing one of said y
 ramp signals, and the 
remaining bits representing the order of x voltage levels in one ramp 

signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
