<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640222</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING OPTICAL COMPONENTS WITH PERIODIC OR QUASI-PERIODIC OPTICAL PROPERTIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B518	G02B518	G02B602	G02B602	G02B6124	G02B6124	G03H102	G03H102	G03H104	G03H104	G03H300	G03H300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	G03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H1	G03H3	G03H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for manufacturing optical components having a periodic or quasi-periodic structure such as diffraction gratings, volume holograms or distributed feedback mirrors in optical fibres. An optical medium is subjected to acoustic waves which induce periodic or quasi-periodic changes in the optical properties of the medium, the changes being at least partially retained on removal of the waves. The changes may result from stress associated with the antinodes of an acoustic standing wave, alternatively the stress distribution associated with a travelling acoustic wave in an electro-viscous liquid may be semi-permanently retained by the solidification of the material resulting from the application of an electric field.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SECR DEFENCE BRIT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEFENCE IN HER BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINDLAY EWAN D UNIVERSITY OF S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAITLAND ARTHUR UNIVERSITY OF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUTTON PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINDLAY, EWAN D, UNIVERSITY OF ST. ANDREWS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAITLAND, ARTHUR, UNIVERSITY OF ST. ANDREWS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUTTON, PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MeihΩd CΩ-E Manufacturing Optical Components with Periodic oχQuasi-Periodic Optical Properties.The invention relates to the creation of optical components such as permanent diffraction gratings, volume holographs and distributed feedback mirrors in optical fibres where such components have a periodicity or quasi-periodicity in an optical property. The invention, in its various embodiments, can rely on periodic or quasi-periodic phase and/or amplitude effects to provide for example both phase gratings and amplitude gratings and phase holographs and amplitude holographs.At present, permanent diffraction gratings and holographs are created using techniques which are based on machining, etching or photographic processes. In current practice, non-permanent, ephemeral diffraction gratings are generated in transparent media using acoustic waves to produce cycles of compression and rarefaction which are accompanied by changes in refractive index. Cells in which acousto-optic diffraction gratings are created are known as "Bragg cells". All Bragg cells require a constant acoustic input from a suitable transducer to maintain the diffraction grating within the acoustic-optic medium.Temporary diffraction gratings may be formed using acoustic waves by means of a suitable transducer which creates an acoustic standing wave in a chosen medium.The acousto-optic grating created within a Bragg cell may be the result of a standing wave system produced by the acoustic transducer according to the boundary conditions within the cell or the acousto-optic grating 

may be the result of a travelling wave system. In the one case the grating nodes and antinodes are spatially stationary while, in the other, their location is time-dependent.Present methods for creating distributed feedback mirrors (DFB) mirrors are centred around semiconductor lasers [H Kogelnik and C V Shank, "Coupled-Wave Theory of Distributed Feedback Lasers", J. Appl. Phys. 43(5) 327 (1972)3, photodetectors [K Kishino et al. IEEE J. of Quantum Electronics, QE27(8) 2025 (1991)] and multilayer laser mirrors deposited on glass or a crystal substrate [E Hecht "Optics" (2nd Ed.) Wiley International (I987)]. There is no known method at present for creating a DFB mirror within a continuous length of optical waveguide or fibre.The object of the present invention is to provide apparatus and methods for utilising the changes produced in media by acoustic or electric waves and "freezing* these changes such that gratings, volume holographs and distributed feedback (DBF)
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method for manufacturing optical components having a periodic or quasi-periodic structure such diffraction gratings, volume holographs or distributed feedback mirrors in optical fibres characterised in that: a. an optical medium is subjected to energy from a source of acoustic or electrical waves to produce acoustic waves in the medium; and b. the medium is treated such that the structure of the medium is altered in regions stressed by the presence of antinodes of the waves and the altered structure is at least partially retained on removal of the waves.
2. A method for manufacturing optical components having a periodic or quasi-periodic structure such diffraction gratings, volume holographs or distributed feedback mirrors in optical fibres characterised in that: a. an optical medium is selected such that it can be structurally altered in regions of high stress produced by an acoustic or electrical wave in the medium; and a. the medium is subjected to energy from a source of acoustic or electrical waves to produce acoustic or electrical waves in the medium such that the structure of the medium is altered in regions of the medium stressed by the presence of antinodes of the waves and the altered structure is at least partially retained on removal of the waves.
3. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that a second material is injected into the medium such that it alters the optical properties of 


 the medium at the positions of the antinodes of the waves.
4. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim 3 characterised in that the second material forms a heterogeneous mixture/solution with the first medium so as to produce concentration gradients resulting in spatial refractive index variations which follow the wave distributions.
5. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim 3 or 4 characterised in that injection of the second material results in an accumulation of light scattering particles in the regions of nodes of the wave pattern in a medium seeded with suitable particles.
6. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim 1 or 2 characterised in that a reaction mixture is made of components of a matrix medium, a standing wave is then generated in the mixture while the matrix medium forms such that stress variations caused by the standing wave periodically aid and inhibit matrix formation and finally the wave is removed to leave a periodic grating structure.
7. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim 6 characterised in that there is included the further step of adding a further chemical component after application of the acoustic standing wave to promote setting of the matrix material.
8. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs 


 as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the material is selectively treated by a dopant.
9- A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim 8 characterised in that a standing wave is first set up in a setting gel and then the dopant material is applied in contact with the gel such that the dopant diffuses selectively into (or away from) the high stressed regions of the antinodes of the standing wave.
10. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim wherin the material is selected to be glass, the glass is first heated above its transformation temperature and then an acoustic standing wave is applied while the glass is cooled below the transformation temperature such that the glass becomes birefringent at the locations of the antinodes of the acoustic standing wave.
11. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim 10 characterised in that the frequency of the acoustic wave is varied in dependence on the glass temperature in order that the spacing between antinodes should be constant as the temperature of the glass varies.
12. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 characterised in that the waves are standing waves.
13. A method for manufacturing surface diffraction gratings as claimed 


 in claim 1 characterised in that there are included the steps of selecting a suitable optical substrate, placing a surface of the substrate in contact with a fluid etching agent and then establishing a longitudinal acoustic wave in the etching agent such that the etching agent preferentially acts on the surface of the substrate at the positions of the antinodes of the longitudinal acoustic wave.
14. A method for manufacturing surface diffraction gratings as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that there are included the steps of selecting a suitable optical substrate, placing a surface of the substrate in contact with a fluid etching agent and then establishing a transverse surface acoustic wave in surface of the substrate such that the etching agent preferentially acts on the surface of the substrate at the positions of the antinodes of the transverse acoustic wave.
15. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 characterised in that the acoustic waves are travelling waves.
16. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in claim 15 characterised in that a semi-permanent grating or holograph is produced according to the following steps: an electro-viscous medium is selected and a travelling acoustic wave is applied to this medium, an electric field is then applied to the medium to cause a change of phase of the electro-viscous material from liquid to solid in such a way as to retain the essential features of the stress distribution and the associated refractive index distribution. 


17. A method for manufacturing diffraction gratings or volume holographs as claimed in any one preceding claim characterised in that more than one acoustic source is used to establish complex two and three dimensional patterns.
18. A method for manufacturing an optical fibre distributed feedback mirror comprising an optical fibre for transmission of laser light characterised in that the refractive index has a periodic variation along a predetermined length of the fibre thereby providing a mirror integral with the fibre comprising the steps of:
a) heating a section of an optical fibre above the transformation temperature of the fibre core at a location where a distributed mirror is required; b) transmitting an acoustic wave along the optical fibre so as to generate an acoustic standing wave in the heated section of the fibre; and c) cooling the heated section below the transformation temperature while maintaining the acoustic wave.
19. A method for manufacture of a permanent distributed feedback mirror in an optical fibre as claimed in claim 18 characterised in that a temperature controlled oven is provided for heating the optical fibre and the acoustic energy and the frequency thereof transmitted through the heated section of the optical fibre is monitored so as to stabilise the location of the acoustic standing wave in the heated section. 


20. A method for manufacture of a permanent distributed feedback mirror in an optical fibre as claimed in claim 18 or 19 characterised in that the acoustic wave is selected to have a frequency in the range of 1-lOGHz.
21. An optical component made in accordance with a method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 20. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
