<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0809402</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
External security module for a television signal decoder
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N7167	H04N7167	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A decoder comprises a fixed security element (719), or replaceable security module, which 
includes a processor (713). The processor processes a once-encrypted key based 

on a key (SSN
0
) to generate a working key (KOM1) and processes scrambled program data 
based on the working key to generate decoder control information. The decoder is 

useable for descrambling scrambled signals. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENTIFIC ATLANTA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENTIFIC-ATLANTA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAMMIE KEITH BEVERLY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAMMIE, KEITH BEVERLY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field of scrambling
systems and more specifically, to an external security module
for a television signal decoder of a broadcast, satellite, or cable television
transmission system. The present invention has particular
application for B-type Multiplexed Analog Component (B-MAC) satellite
transmission, but may also be used for NTSC (National Television
Standards Committee), PAL, SECAM, or proposed high definition television
formats. In addition, the scrambling system of the present
invention can be used in applications in related fields such as electronic
banking networks, telephone switching systems, cellular telephone
networks, computer networks, etc. The system has particular
application to so-called "conditional-access" multichannel television
systems, where the viewer may have access to several "basic" channels,
one or more "premium" or extra-cost channels as well as "pay-per-view"
programs.In a pay television system, a pay television service provider
typically protects the signal from unauthorized subscribers and
pirates through scrambling.For the purposes of the following discussion and this invention,
the term "subscriber" means one who is paying for the television service.
The "subscriber" could thus be an individual consumer with a
decoder in his own home, or could be a system operator such as a local
cable TV operator, or a small network operator such as a Hotel/Motel
operator with a central decoder for all televisions in the Hotel or 
Motel. In addition, the "subscriber" could be an industrial user, as
described in U.S. Patent 4,866,770 assigned to the same assignee as
the present application.For the purposes of this invention, a network is defined as a
program source, (such as a pay television provider), an encoder,
(sometimes called a "head end"), a transmission means (satellite,
cable, radio wave, etc.) and a series of decoders used by the subscribers
as described above. A system is defined as a program source, an
encoder, a transmission means, and a single receiving decoder. The
system model is used to describe how an individual decoder in a network
interacts with the encoder.The scrambling process is accomplished via a key which may
itself be encrypted. Each subscriber wishing to receive the signal is
provided with a decoder having an identification number which is
unique to the decoder. The decoder may be individually authorized
with a key to descramble the scrambled signal, provided appropriate
payments are made for service. Authorization
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A decoder comprising a fixed security element (719), the fixed security element
including a processor (713) to process a once-encrypted key (1061) based on a key (SSN
0
)
to generate a working key (KOM1) and to process scrambled program data (1062) based on

the working key to generate decoder control information (1058) useable for descrambling
scrambled signals, the decoder further comprising a replaceable security module removably

attachable to the decoder, the replaceable security module including a processor to process
a twice-encrypted key based on a second key (SSN
1
) to generate a partially-decrypted key,
the processor of the fixed security element processing the partially-decrypted key as the

once-encrypted key so that the working key is recovered from the twice-encrypted key.
A decoder according to claim 1, wherein the processor of the fixed security element
comprises a secure processor with an internal memory to store the working key and

configured so that the working key is unobservable.
A decoder according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the processor of the fixed
security element comprises a secure processor with an internal memory to store the first

key (SSN
0
) and configured so that the first key is unobservable.
A decoder according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the processor of the fixed security
element is configured to generate successive decoder control information from successively

processed scrambled program data while the working key remains unchanged.
A decoder according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the processor of the
replaceable security module comprises a secure processor with an internal memory to store

the second key (SSN
1
) and configured so that the second key is unobservable.
A decoder according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the decoder is a first decoder
of a cable system, the cable system including at least one other decoder, each decoder of

said at least one other decoder including an associated fixed security element, the
replaceable security module of the first decoder being incapable of generating a 

once-encrypted key that can be processed by the fixed security element of any decoder of
said at least one other decoder to generate the working key.
A decoder comprising a replaceable security module (1014), the replaceable
security module including a processor (1051) to process a once-encrypted key (1061) based

on a first key (SSN
0
) to generate a working key (KOM1) and to process scrambled program
data (1062) based on the working key to generate decoder control information (1058)

useable for descrambling scrambled signals, the decoder further comprising a fixed security
element, the fixed security element including a processor to process a twice-encrypted key

based on a second key (SSN
1
) to generate a partially-decrypted key, the processor of the
replaceable security module processing the partially-decrypted key as the once-encrypted

key so that the working key is recovered from the twice-encrypted key.
A decoder according to claim 7, wherein the processor of the replaceable security
module comprises a secure processor with an internal memory to store the working key and

configured so that the working key is unobservable.
A decoder according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the processor of the replaceable

security module comprises a secure processor with an internal memory to store the first key
(SSN
0
) and configured so that the first key is unobservable.
A decoder according to claim 7, 8 or 9, wherein the processor of the replaceable
security module is configured to generate successive decoder control information from

successively processed scrambled program data while the working key remains unchanged.
A decoder according to any of claims 7 to 10, wherein the processor of the fixed
security element comprises a secure processor with an internal memory to store the second

key (SSN
1
) and configured so that the second key is unobservable.
A decoder according to any of claims 7 to 11, wherein the decoder is a first decoder
of a cable system, the cable system including at least one other decoder, each decoder of 

said at least one other decoder including an associated replaceable security module, the
fixed security element of the first decoder being incapable of generating a once-encrypted

key that can be processed by the replaceable security module of any decoder of said at least
one decoder to generate the working key.
A decoding method in a decoder comprising steps of:

processing a twice-encrypted key in a processor of a removably attachable
replaceable security module based on a first key (SSN
1
) to generate a partially-decrypted
key;
processing of the partially-decrypted key in a processor of a fixed security element
as a once-encrypted key (1061) based on a second key (SSN
0
) to generate a working key
(KOM1); and
processing scrambled program data (1062) based on the working key to generate
decoder control information (1058) useable for descrambling scrambled signals.
The decoding method of claim 13, further comprising a step of storing the working
key in an internal memory of the processor of the fixed security element so that the

working key is unobservable.
The decoding method of claim 13 or claim 14, further comprising a step of storing
the second key (SSN
0
) in an internal memory of the processor of the fixed security element
so that the second key is unobservable.
The decoding method of any of claims 13 to 15, further comprising a step of storing
the first key (SSN
1
) in an internal memory of the processor of the replaceable security
module so that the first key is unobservable.
The decoding method of any of claims 13 to 16, further comprising a step of storing
the second key (SSN
0
) in an internal memory of the processor of the fixed security element
so that the second key is unobservable. 
The decoding method of any of claims 13 to 17, wherein:

the fixed security element is a first fixed security element of a cable system, the
cable system including at least one other fixed security element; and
the step of processing a twice-encrypted key generates the partially-decrypted key
so that the partially-decrypted key cannot be processed as the once-encrypted key by any

fixed security element of the at least one other fixed security element to generate the
working key.
A decoding method in a decoder comprising steps of:

processing a twice-encrypted key in a processor of a fixed security element based
on a first key (SSN
1
) to generate a partially-decrypted key;
processing the partially-decrypted key in a processor of a removably attachable
replaceable security module as a once-encrypted key (1061) based on a second key (SSN
0
)
to generate a working key (KOM1); and
processing scrambled program data (1062) based on the working key to generate
decoder control information (1058) useable for descrambling scrambled signals.
The decoding method of claim 19, further comprising a step of storing the working
key in an internal memory of the processor of the replaceable security module so that the

working key is unobservable.
The decoding method of claim 19 or claim 20, further comprising a step of storing
the second key (SSN
0
) in an internal memory of the processor of the replaceable security
module so that the second key is unobservable.
The decoding method of any of claims 19 to 21, further comprising a step of storing
the first key (SSN
1
) in an internal memory of the processor of the fixed security element so
that the first key is unobservable. 
The decoding method of any of claims 19 to 22, further comprising a step of storing
the second key (SSN
0
) in an internal memory of the processor of the replaceable security
module so that the second key is unobservable.
The decoding method of any of claims 19 to 23, wherein:

the replaceable security module is a first replaceable security module of a cable
system, the cable system including at least one other replaceable security module; and
the step of processing the twice-encrypted key generates the partially-decrypted key
so that the partially-decrypted key cannot be processed as the once-encrypted key by any

replaceable security module of the at least one other replaceable security module to
generate the working key.
The decoding method of any of claims 13 to 24, further comprising a step of
repeating the step of processing scrambled program data to generate successive decoder

control information from successively processed scrambled program data while the
working key remains unchanged.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
