<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652543</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A system for the cooperative driving of two or more vehicles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05D100	B62D128	B62D1200	B62D100	G05D100	G05D102	B62D1202	G05D102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05D	B62D	B62D	B62D	G05D	G05D	B62D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05D1	B62D1	B62D12	B62D1	G05D1	G05D1	B62D12	G05D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for the cooperative driving of a lead vehicle and one 
or more trail vehicles which are non-mechanically connected. The 

system comprises means for communicating between vehicles the 
performance characteristics of each of said vehicles, and means for 

automatically driving the or each trail vehicles in response to the 
driving of the lead vehicle by a driver. The driving characteristics 

of the lead vehicle are modified in accordance with the communicated 
performance characteristics of the or each trail vehicles. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUKONICK JOSEF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUKONICK, JOSEF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUKONICK JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUKONICK, JOSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a new system for traffic
mitigation. More specifically, it relates to a system
for the cooperative driving between vehicles whereby
the flow of automobiles on freeways and city streets at
peak hours is substantially increased.Heavy rush hour traffic is considered an urgent
unsolved problem in all major metropolitan areas of the
United States. For example, planners in Santa Clara
County, California, 50 miles south of San Francisco,
have declared traffic congestion to be the region's
number one public problem. The final bits and pieces
of the freeway systems planned and begun in the 50's
and 60's are now being completed. Major new highway
construction is dubious since the public mood does not
support it. Each mile and each interchange is fought
by no-growth proponents. Public transit systems are
recognized to have only marginal value in areas of low
population density, such as Santa Clara County. Even
the staunchest advocates of public transit do not think
it can replace the private automobile in low density
areas.With major freeway expansions and the replacement
of the car by public transit being unlikely, traffic
congestion grows worse every year. As a result, there
have been several attempts to make the automobile more
efficient in heavy traffic thereby allowing already
existing freeways and city streets to handle rush hour
traffic more easily.One such attempt is the idea of automatically
guided vehicles, which has spawned numerous studies and
approaches. Research has proceeded as far as a working
prototype of a test track with suitable vehicles for an 
"automated highway". Typically such vehicles have
onboard the following:
1) longitudinal control means for acceleration,
speed maintenance, and braking,2) lateral control means for steering, and3) communications sensor and logic means for
receiving collision-avoidance information from
onboard or remote sensors, e.g., radar;
positioning information from a remote source,
e.g., a wire conductor buried in the roadway as a
guide; and operating information from a remote
computer or remote human operator, e.g., radio-control.
The information received and interpreted by the
communications sensor and logic means is operatively
connected to the lateral and longitudinal control means
so that the vehicle safely and effectively moves along
the roadway. In other words, the car goes, stops and
steers in response to the data received. Numerous
articles have been published on such automated highway
systems and many patents have been issued on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vehicle driving control system in which a lead vehicle is controlled by a
driver of the lead vehicle and at least one trailing vehicle is controllable by a control

signal transmitted from the lead vehicle, the or each trailing vehicle comprising a
driving control means which is engageable to establish control of the trailing vehicle

by the control signal, characterised in that the driving control means controls the
acceleration and steering of the trailing vehicle in response to the control signal to

cause the vehicle to follow the lead vehicle, and the driving control means comprises
disengaging means activatable by a driver of the trailing vehicle to disengage the

driving control means and thereby to discontinue control of the trailing vehicle in
response to the control signal and enable the driver of the trailing vehicle to assume

control.
A system according to claim 1, wherein the disengaging means when activated

by a driver of one of the trailing vehicles separates the activating driver's vehicle to a
predetermined separation distance from the vehicle directly in front of it.
A system according to claim 2, wherein activation of the disengaging means
by a driver of one trailing vehicle causes activation of the disengaging means of any

trailing vehicle trailing the activating driver's vehicle, so that each of the trailing
vehicles in which the disengaging means is activated is separated from the vehicle

directly ahead of it by a predetermined separation distance.
A system according to claim 3, wherein activation of the disengaging means
by a driver requires a response indicating agreement from the driver of any trailing

vehicle trailing the activating driver's vehicle.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the disengaging means
may be activated by any of the drivers when the vehicles are stationary. 
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein activation of the
disengaging means by a driver of a trailing vehicle further activates warning means to

warn the driver of any trailing vehicle trailing the activating driver's vehicle of
activation of the disengaging means.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein activation of the
disengaging means by a driver of a trailing vehicle terminates control by the lead

vehicle of any trailing vehicle trailing the activating driver's vehicle.
A system according to claim 7, wherein the activating driver's vehicle becomes
a lead vehicle for any vehicles trailing it.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein activation of the
disengaging means by a driver of a trailing vehicle following another trailing vehicle

does not terminate control by the lead vehicle of any trailing vehicle followed by the
activating driver's vehicle.
A system according to any preceding claim, further comprising warning means
to warn the driver of the lead vehicle of activation of the disengaging means of a

trailing vehicle.
A system according to any preceding claim, comprising communication means
for communicating between the lead and the or each trailing vehicle the performance

characteristics of at least the or each trailing vehicle, and means for modifying the
driving characteristics of the lead vehicle in accordance with the communicated

performance characteristics of the or each trailing vehicle. 
A system according to claim 11, wherein the modifying means modifies the
driving characteristics of the lead vehicle and the trailing vehicles in accordance with

the communicated performance characteristics of each of the vehicles.
A system according to claim 11 or 12, further comprising means for warning
the driver of the lead vehicle of modification of the driving characteristics of the lead

vehicle by the modifying means.
A system according to claim 11, 12 or 13, wherein the communicated
performance characteristics include mechanical lags of each of the vehicles.
A system according to claim 11, 12, 13 or 14, further comprising judging
means for judging whether the performance characteristics of the lead vehicle are

compatible with the performance characteristics of the or each trailing vehicle.
A system according to claim 15, wherein the judging means judges the
compatibility of the lead vehicle and the or each trailing vehicle in accordance with

pre-established compatibility factors.
A system according to claim 15 or 16, further comprising display means for
displaying a compatibility determination made by the judging means.
A system according to any one of claims 11 to 17, further comprising means
for updating the performance characteristics of each of the vehicles.
A system according to any one of claims 11 to 18, wherein the communication
means further communicates a vehicle identification code.
A system according to any preceding claim, comprising relative position
determination means for ascertaining the relative position between each of the 

vehicles, means for ascertaining operator driving responses, and communication
means for establishing a communications link between the lead vehicle and the or

each trailing vehicle, the driving control means being responsive to relative positional
information and operator driving response information of the lead vehicle

communicated by the communication means.
A system according to claim 20, wherein the relative position determination
means further comprises judging means for determining whether the vehicles are

safely positioned relative to each other.
A system according to claim 20 or 21, wherein the driving control means is
responsive to the relative position ascertaining means to automatically drive the or

each trailing vehicle so that it achieves a predetermined relative position with respect
to the vehicle directly in front of it.
A system according to claim 22, wherein the predetermined relative position is
within one car's length.
A system according to any preceding claim, further comprising automatic
means for terminating control by the lead vehicle.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the automatic means for
terminating control is operable at a predetermined speed.
A system according to claim 24 or 25, wherein the automatic means for
terminating control further comprises warning means to warn the operators of each of

the vehicles.
A system as claimed in claim 25, wherein the automatic terminating control
means is engageable when the vehicles are stopped and the automatic terminating 

control means is operable when the vehicles have accelerated to a predetermined
speed.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein each of the leading and
trailing vehicles is similarly equipped, whereby each car is operable as either a lead

vehicle or a trailing vehicle.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
