<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610393</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERMALLY STABLE OIL-BASE DRILLING FLUID.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K802	C09K832	C09K836	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	C09K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K8	C09K8	C09K8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An oil-base drilling fluid capable of being held at temperatures in excess of 400  DEG F while maintaining its yield point comprises (i) oil, (ii) a surfactant, (iii) an organophilic clay, (iv) a polymeric fluid loss control agent selected from the group consisting of polystyrene, polybutadiene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene, polyisoprene, natural rubber, butyl rubber, polymers consisting of at least two monomers selected from the group consisting of styrene, butadiene, isoprene, and vinyl carboxylic acid, and mixtures thereof, and (v) a sulfonated elastomer polymeric viscosifier.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNION OIL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNION OIL COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPADA LONNIE T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEINWAND PAUL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN SLYKE DONALD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPADA, LONNIE, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEINWAND, PAUL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN SLYKE, DONALD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THERMALLY STABLE OIL-BASE DRILLING FLUIDBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to oil-base drilling fluids and systems and processes for drilling a borehole in a subterranean formation.Oil-base drilling muds and techniques for drilling boreholes in subterranean formations to recover hydrocarbons (e.g., oil and gas) are well known to those skilled in the art. While tripping a drillstring, running logs, performing fishing operations, or conducting other procedures during a drilling operation, the drilling fluid or mud in the borehole remains stagnant and its temperature can reach, and remain at, the bottomhole temperature for several days.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAccording to one aspect of the invention, there is provided an oil-base drilling fluid comprising oil, a surfactant, a fluid loss control agent, and a viscosifier, characterized in that the fluid loss control agent is selected from the group consisting of polystyrene, polybutadiene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene, polyisoprene, natural rubber, butyl rubber, polymers consisting of at least two monomers selected from the group consisting of styrene, butadiene, isoprene, and vinyl carboxylic acid, and mixtures thereof and the viscosifier is a sulfonated elastomer polymer.According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided an oil-base drilling fluid weighing about 7.5 to about 20 pounds per gallon and comprising: (a) about 25 to about 85 volume percent oil based on the total volume of the fluid; (b) about 1 to about 20 pounds per barrel (ppb) surfactant; (c) up to about 45 volume percent water based on the total volume of the fluid; (d) up to about 600 ppb weighting agent; (e) about 0.5 to about 30 ppb organophilic clay; (f) up to about 30 ppb auxiliary fluid loss control agent; (g) about 3 to about 12 ppb polymeric fluid loss 

 control agent selected from the group consisting of polystyrene, polybutadiene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene, polyisoprene, natural rubber, butyl rubber, polymers consisting of at least two monomers selected from the group consisting of styrene, butadiene, isoprene, and vinyl carboxylic acid, and mixtures thereof; (h) about 0.02 to about 2 weight percent sulfonated elastomer polymeric viscosifier; (i) up to about 60 ppb shale inhibiting salt; and (j) up to about 30 ppb lime. According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a drilling system comprising: (a) at least one subterranean formation; (b) a borehole penetrating a portion of at least one of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I S
1. An oil-base drilling fluid comprising oil, a surfactant, a fluid loss control agent, and a viscosifier, characterized in that the fluid loss control agent is selected from the group consisting of polystyrene, polybutadiene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene, polyisoprene, natural rubber, butyl rubber, polymers consisting of at least two monomers selected from the group consisting of styrene, butadiene, isoprene, and vinyl carboxylic acid, and mixtures thereof and the viscosifier is a sulfonated elastomer polymer.
2. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 wherein the sulfonated elastomer polymer is a neutralized sulfonated elastomer polymer having about 5 to about 100 milliequivalents of sulfonate groups per 100 grams of sulfonated polymer.
3. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 wherein the sulfonated elastomer polymer is derived from an elastomer polymer selected from the group consisting of ethylene- propylene-diene monomer (EPDM) terpolymers, copolymers of isoprene and styrene sulfonate salt, copolymers of chloroprene and styrene sulfonate salt, copolymers of isoprene and butadiene, copolymers of styrene and styrene sulfonate salt, copolymers of butadiene and styrene sulfonate salt, copolymers of butadiene and styrene, terpolymers of isoprene, styrene, and styrene sulfonate salt, terpolymers of butadiene, styrene, and styrene sulfonate salt, butyl rubber, partially hydrogenated polyisoprenes, partially hydrogenated polybutylene, partiallyhydrogenated natural rubber, partially hydrogenated buna rubber, partially hydrogenated polybutadienes, and Neoprene.
4. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 wherein the fluid loss control agent is a styrene-butadiene copolymer.
5. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 comprising about 3 to about 12 pounds per barrel (ppb) of the 


 fluid loss control agent and about 0.02 to about 2 ppb of the sulfonated elastomer polymer.
6. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 comprising about 5 to about 10 pounds per barrel (ppb) of the fluid loss control agent and about 0.5 to about 1.5 ppb of the sulfonated elastomer polymer.
7. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 6 comprising about 6 to about 9 ppb of the fluid loss control agent.
8. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 wherein the weight ratio of (a) the fluid loss control agent to (b) the sulfonated elastomer polymer is about 1.5:1 to about 50:1.
9. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 wherein the weight ratio of (a) the fluid loss control agent to (b) the sulfonated elastomer polymer is about 3:1 to about 20:1.
10. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 wherein the weight ratio of (a) the fluid loss control agent to (b) the sulfonated elastomer polymer is about 5:1 to about 10:1.
11. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 further comprising water.
12. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 further comprising lime.
13. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 further comprising a weighting agent.
14. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1 further comprising a shale inhibiting salt.
15. An oil-base drilling fluid weighing about 7.5 to about 20 pounds per gallon and comprising: 


 (a) about 25 to about 85 volume percent oil based on the total volume of the fluid;
(b) about 1 to about 20 pounds per barrel (ppb) surfactant; (c) up to about 45 volume percent water based on the total volume of the fluid;
(d) up to about 600 ppb weighting agent;
(e) about 0.5 to about 30 ppb organophilic clay; (f) up to about 30 ppb auxiliary fluid loss control agent;
(g) about 3 to about 12 ppb polymeric fluid loss control agent selected from the group consisting of polystyrene, polybutadiene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene, polyisoprene, natural rubber, butyl rubber, polymers consisting of at least two monomers selected from the group consisting of styrene, butadiene, isoprene, and vinyl carboxylic acid, and mixtures thereof;
(h) about 0.02 to about 2 weight percent sulfonated elastomer polymeric viscosifier;
(i) up to about 60 ppb shale inhibiting salt; and
(j) up to about 30 ppb lime.
16. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 15 weighing about 9 to about 16 pounds per gallon and comprising:
(a) about 50 to about 60 volume percent oil based on the total volume of the fluid;
(b) about 1 to about 10 ppb surfactant;
(c) about 10 to about 20 volume percent water based on the total volume of the fluid;
(d) about 150 to about 400 ppb weighting agent;
(e) about 1 to about 10 ppb organophilic clay;
(f) about 2 to about 15 ppb auxiliary fluid control agent; (g) about 5 to about 10 ppb polymeric fluid control agent;
(h) about 0.5 to about 1.5 weight percent sulfonated elastomer polymeric viscosifier; 


 (i) about 20 to about 30 ppb shale inhibiting salt; and (j) about 1 to about 10 ppb lime.
17. The oil-base drilling fluid of claim 15 wherein the auxiliary fluid control loss agent is selected form the group consisting of amine-treated lignite, gilsonite, asphaltics, and mixtures thereof.
18. A drilling system comprising:
(a) at least one subterranean formation; (b) a borehole penetrating a portion of at least one of the subterranean formations;
(c) a drill bit suspended in the borehole; and
(d) a drilling fluid located in the borehole and proximate the drill bit, wherein the drilling fluid is the oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1.
19. A drilling system comprising:
(a) at least one subterranean formation;
(b) a borehole penetrating a portion of at least one of the subterranean formations;
(c) a drill bit suspended in the borehole; and
(d) a drilling fluid located in the borehole and proximate the drill bit, wherein the drilling fluid is the oil-base drilling fluid of claim 15.
20. A method for drilling a borehole in a subterranean formation, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) rotating a drill bit at the bottom of the borehole and (b) introducing a drilling fluid into the borehole (i) to pick up drill cuttings and (ii) to carry at least a portion of the drilling cuttings out of the borehole, wherein the drilling fluid is the oil-base drilling fluid of claim 1. 


 21. A method for drilling a borehole in a subterranean formation, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) rotating a drill bit at the bottom of the borehole and (b) introducing a drilling fluid into the borehole (i) to pick up drill cuttings and (ii) to carry at least a portion of the drilling cuttings out of the borehole, wherein the drilling fluid is the oil-base drilling fluid of claim 15. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
