<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622603</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Launching tube with multi-stage missile propulsion.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F41A100	F41A102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F41A	F41A	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F41A1	F41A1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tube launched rocket system which uses a plurality of small 
propellant charges located within the tube 20 to propel the 

projectile 40. The charges 30 form part of the outer wall of 
a travelling propulsion chamber. The chamber is substantially 

defined by a propulsion housing 50, which includes a forward 
plate 60 that abuts the projectile, and an aft nozzle 62 for 

venting gases from the interior 56 of the chamber. The system 
can include baffles for directing the flow of combustion gases, 

and can employ an electronic ignition system for igniting the 
propellant charges in sequence. As charges adjoining the 

propulsion chamber are ignited, the resulting combustion gases 
thrust into the interior of the chamber, forcing the housing 

forward as they flow backwards through the nozzle. As the 
propulsion housing travels through the tube, additional 

propellant charges are ignited as they effectively become part 
of the outer wall of the propulsion chamber. The housing 

pushes the projectile ahead of it through the tube. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THIOKOL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THIOKOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLDREDGE RICHARD LANCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISKELLY HERMAN LEROY JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLDREDGE, RICHARD LANCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MISKELLY, HERMAN LEROY, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus for accelerating a 
projectile in a tube, such as might be used in a tube launched 
rocket system which includes a plurality of small propellant 
charges located within the tube which propel the rocket by 
thrusting gases into a travelling propulsion chamber. One staple of modern military operations is the tube launched 
weapon system such as conventional anti-aircraft and anti-tank 
weaponry. These systems generally involve the firing of a 
projectile which utilizes a rocket motor for propulsion. The 
rocket propelled projectile is launched from an open tube. As 
a result, these devices are classified as open breech devices, 
as opposed to rifles, howitzers and the like which launch a 
projectile from a tube having one closed end. Tube launched weapon systems are very important in modern 
military operations. A foot soldier using these systems can 
deliver much larger quantities of explosive force than was 
possible using conventional closed breech infantry weapons. 
For example, anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles can be 
launched using a tube system supported by a man's shoulder. 
Because the aft end of the tube is open, recoil from the rocket 
motor is manageable, and there is no need to construct massive 
recoil absorption systems such as those found on a howitzer. Tube launched weapon systems face several significant design 
problems. For example, in previously disclosed systems the 
projectile launched by the system includes a rocket motor for 
propulsion. It is critical that the motor completely burn out 
before it leaves the tube; if the rocket motor is still burning 
when it exits the tube, the hot exhaust may severely injure the 
system's user. Thus, the propellant in the rocket motor must 
burn extremely rapidly but still provide maximal forward 
thrust.  In addition, the propellant must be designed to perform 
properly under a wide range of ambient conditions. For 
example, it is preferable that the propellant function equally 
well at sea level and at high altitudes, in extreme heat and 
extreme cold, in jungle humidity and in arid desert air. It 
will be appreciated, however, that designing the propellant to 
burn out before exit under such extreme conditions results in 
a rocket motor that provides less than optimal performance 
under most circumstances. Another serious concern is the noise produced by operation of 
the system. Since the propellant must be consumed while the 
projectile is in the launch tube, it must burn with almost 
explosive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for accelerating a projectile in a tube, the 
projectile having a forward and an aft end, the tube having a 

forward end, an aft end and an interior, the apparatus 
comprising: 


(a) a plurality of propellant charges disposed along 
the interior of the tube and configured such that when 

ignited, combustion products from the charges enter the 
interior of the tube; 
(b) means for igniting the propellant charges in 
sequence, commencing with a charge near the aft end of 

the tube and proceeding with successive charges 
approaching the forward end of the tube; and 
(c) a propulsion housing located at the aft end of the 
projectile and movable within the tube, the housing 

having a forward end, an aft end having an opening, and 
an interior located between the forward end and the aft 

end, the interior being in fluid communication with at 
least one of the charges, such that when the propellant 

charges are ignited while adjacent to the propulsion 
housing, combustion gases from the charges flow into the 

interior of the propulsion housing and out the opening of 
the aft end. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which the propellant 
charges are generally toroidal in shape. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, in which a 
portion of at least one propellant charge has a groove adjacent 

to the interior of the tube for providing a larger combustible 
surface area, to enhance the volume of combustion gases 

produced on ignition of the charge. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, in 
which the propellant charges comprise a metal azide. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, which 
includes a charge casing located between at least one of the 

propellant charges and the interior of the tube, the casing 
having a port permitting fluid communication between the charge 

and the interior of the tube. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, in 
which the means for igniting the propellant charges in sequence 

comprises an electronic ignition system configured such that 
propellant charges are ignited in sequence in response to an 

initial electronic ignition signal and following electronic 
ignition signals, the initial electronic ignition signal 

emanating from a portion of the electronic ignition system in 
response to a command signal from a user of the apparatus, and 

the following electronic ignition signals emanating from a portion 
of the electronic ignition system in a predetermined
 
sequence at predetermined intervals of time. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, in which the electronic 
ignition system comprises: 


(a) an electronic ignition power supply; 
(b) an electronic ignition controller; and 
(c) a plurality of wires, each wire electrically 
connecting the electronic ignition power supply and a 

propellant charge. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, in 
which the means for igniting the propellant charges in sequence 

comprises a plurality of proximity sensors, each of the 
propellant charges adjoining at least one proximity sensor such 

that propellant charges are ignited in sequence in response to 
 

proximity of the propulsion housing to the charge as the 
propulsion housing moves through the tube. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, in 
which the means for igniting the propellant charges in sequence 

comprises a plurality of igniters, each propellant charge 
adjoining at least one of the igniters, for igniting the 

propellant charges. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, in 
which the propulsion housing comprises: 


(a) a forward plate located at the forward end of the 
propulsion housing; and 
(b) a nozzle having a throat, the nozzle being located 
at the aft end of the propulsion housing. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, which includes a 
restraining member securing the nozzle to the forward plate. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, in which the restraining 
member has slots placing the interior of the propulsion 

housing in fluid communication with at least one of the 
charges, such that when the propellant charges are ignited 

while adjacent to the propulsion housing, combustion gases from 
the charges flow into the interior of the propulsion housing 

and out the opening of the aft end. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, in which the interior 
of the propulsion housing has a central longitudinal axis, 

further comprising a baffle attached to the restraining member, 
the baffle being generally planar in shape and disposed 

generally in a plane containing the central longitudinal axis 
of the housing, for directing the flow of combustion gases 

produced by the propellant charges. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, in which the interior 
of the propulsion housing has a central longitudinal axis, 

further comprising a baffle attached to the restraining member, 
the baffle being disposed in helical fashion about the central 

longitudinal axis of the housing, for directing the flow of 
combustion gases produced by the propellant charges and 

imparting to the housing a spin about the central longitudinal 
axis. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, in 
which the propulsion housing is secured to the aft end of the 

projectile. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, which 
includes a seal located near the forward end of the propulsion 

housing between the propulsion housing and a propellant charge 
for reducing fluid communication between the interior of the 

propulsion housing and the interior of the tube forward of the 
propulsion housing. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16, which 
includes an extension mechanism for extending the length of the 

tube by attaching a second tube, the second tube having a 
forward end, an aft end, an interior, and at least one 

propellant charge disposed in the interior of the second tube, 
the extension mechanism having a forward portion and an aft 

portion, the aft portion being located at the forward end of 
the tube and the forward portion being located at the aft end 

of the second tube. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17, which 
includes a closable breech door located at the aft end of the 

tube. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
