<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610083</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A display apparatus having a two-terminal device including a zinc sulfide layer and a method for producing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L4902	G02F113	H01L4902	G02F1136	H01L2712	G02F11365	H01L4500	H01L2184	H01L4500	H01L2170	H01L2712	H01L2177	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	G02F	H01L	G02F	H01L	G02F	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L49	G02F1	H01L49	G02F1	H01L27	G02F1	H01L45	H01L21	H01L45	H01L21	H01L27	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display apparatus including a plurality of pixel 
electrodes arranged in a matrix on a first substrate (1); 

a scanning line (2) for sending a signal to the plurality 
of pixel electrodes (5) for driving the plurality of 

pixel electrodes (5); a switching device for receiving 
the signal from the scanning line (2) and switching each 

of the plurality of pixel electrodes (5) into one of a 
conductive state and a non-conductive state in accordance 

with the signal; a counter electrode on a second 
substrate opposed to the first substrate (1); and a 

display medium layer (10) sandwiched between the first 
substrate and the second substrate. The switching device 

includes a two-terminal element (14) having a first 
electrode (4) which is a part of the scanning line; a 

zinc sulfide layer (3) on the first electrode, said zinc 
sulfide layer (3) having an I-V characteristic expressed 

by a continuous curve; and a second electrode (8) located 
on the zinc sulfide layer (3) and electrically connected 

to the pixel electrode. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADACHI MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAISE YASUYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORIMOTO HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAUE SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSHIDA MASARU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADACHI, MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAISE, YASUYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORIMOTO, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAUE, SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSHIDA, MASARU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a display 
apparatus using a two-terminal device as a switching 
device and a method for producing the same. A representative display apparatus replacing 
CRTs which have been used for a long time is a liquid 
crystal display apparatus (hereinafter, referred to as 
the "LCD apparatus"). LCD apparatuses use a liquid 
crystal layer including liquid crystal molecules as a 
display medium. Letters and images are displayed by 
applying a voltage to the liquid crystal layer in order 
to cause changes in the electrooptic properties of the 
liquid crystal molecules. In order to display high 
quality images by providing pixels at a high density, 
each pixel is supplied with nonlinear active element 
(switching device) for driving the LCD apparatus. This 
system of driving is referred to as the "active matrix 
driving system". The switching devices are mainly 
available in two types: two-terminal devices such as 
MIM (metal insulator metal) elements, diodes, and 
varistors; and three-terminal devices such as TFTs 
(thin film transistors) and MOS-FETs (metal oxide 
semiconductor field effect transistors). The three-terminal devices have functions as 
switching devices and are suitable for displaying an 
image having various tones, for which different pixels 
are used for each of the different tones. However, the 
three-terminal devices have some inconveniences in that  
 
the complicated production process including repetition 
of exposure to light can easily cause defects in the 
obtained devices, thus resulting in low production 
yields. The two-terminal devices, which have a simpler 
structure than that of the three-terminal devices, are 
produced by a simpler method due, for example, to fewer 
steps of masking required. Accordingly, the production 
yield of the two-terminal devices is higher than that 
of the three-terminal devices. For this reason, methods 
for driving pixels using the two-terminal devices, 
especially by utilizing a nonlinear part of the operating 
characteristics of the two-terminal devices, have 
been actively researched and developed. There are mainly two methods to use the two-terminal 
devices in a display apparatus. One is to 
utilize the nonlinearity of the capacitance of the 
two-terminal devices, and the other is to utilize the 
nonlinearity of the electric resistance of the two-terminal 
devices. Methods to utilize the nonlinearity of the 
capacitance of the two-terminal devices for an LCD 
apparatus are described by Grabmair et al. in 
Mol. Cryst.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display apparatus (20; 30; 31; 32; 33; 34; 35; 36; 37; 38) using an MIM element as a thin film switching device, comprising: 

a first substrate (1); 
a pixel electrode (5) formed on the first substrate; 
a scanning line (2) for supplying a signal to the pixel electrode (5) for driving 
the pixel electrode; 
an MIM switching device (14) for receiving the signal from the scanning line and either 
electrically connecting the pixel electrode with the scanning line or insulating the pixel 

electrode from the scanning line in accordance with the signal; 
a second substrate (12) opposed to the first substrate; 
a counter electrode (13) on the second substrate; and 
a display medium layer (10) sandwiched between the first substrate and the 
second substrate, 
 
   wherein the switching device includes an MIM two-terminal element having: 


a first electrode (4) which is a part of the scanning line; 
an insulating layer provided on the first electrode (4); and 
a second electrode (8; 15) located on the insulating layer and electrically 
connected to the pixel electrode; 
 
   characterised in that the insulating layer is a zinc sulphide layer (3) having an I-V 

characteristic expressed by a continuous curve. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the zinc sulphide layer has a 
thickness of at least 10
 nm. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the zinc sulphide layer has a 
thickness of less than 1 µm. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the zinc sulphide layer is on 
an entire surface of the first substrate, covering the scanning line.  

 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the zinc sulphide layer is 
formed on a specified area of the first electrode excluding an edge portion of the first 

electrode. 
A display apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising a second insulation 
layer (16) sandwiched between the pixel electrode and the first substrate except for the 

specified area on which the zinc sulphide layer is located. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a second insulation 
layer (21) sandwiched between the first electrode (4) and the zinc sulphide layer (3). 
A display apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the second insulation layer 
(21) is obtained by anodising the first electrode. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1 or 7, further comprising a third 
insulation layer (22) sandwiched between the zinc sulphide layer (3) and the second 

electrode (8). 
A display apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the third insulation layer (22) 
has a hole (23), through which the second electrode (8) and the zinc sulphide layer (3) 

are electrically connected with each other. 
A display apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the hole has an opening 
having an area of 10 µm
2
 to 1,000 µm
2
 inclusive. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the zinc sulphide layer 
includes an impurity. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the zinc sulphide layer is 
formed so as to have a composition ratio expressed by 1
>
x
>
0.5 where the zinc sulphide 
layer has a composition expressed by Zn
x
S
(1-x)
.  
 
A display apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the second insulation layer is 
formed of a substance selected from the group consisting of nitrogen compounds and 

silicon oxide. 
A display apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the third insulation layer is 
formed of a substance selected from the group consisting of nitrogen compounds and 

silicon oxide. 
A display apparatus according to claim 14 or 15, wherein at least one of the 
pixel electrodes, the first electrode and the second electrode is formed of a transparent 

conductive layer. 
A display apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the second insulation layer 
includes a plurality of insulation layers formed of different substances. 
A display apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the third insulation layer 
includes a plurality of insulation layers formed of different substances. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the display medium is a 
liquid crystal. 
A display apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of 
insulation layers on the first substrate for supplying the first substrate with an insulating 

property. 
A method of producing a display apparatus using an MIM element as a thin film switching device including a two-terminal element, 
the method comprising: 


step (a) of forming a conductive layer on an insulating substrate; 
step (b) of patterning the conductive layer into a specified pattern so as to form a 
scanning layer having a first electrode;  

 
step (c) of forming an insulation layer entirely on the substrate to cover the 
scanning line; 
step (d) of forming a second electrode on the insulation layer, the second 
electrode being superimposed over at least a portion of the first electrode; 
step (e) of forming a pixel electrode on the insulation layer in such a pattern as 
to be electrically connected to the second electrode, 
 
   wherein the two-terminal MIM element includes the first electrode, the insulation 

layer, and the second electrode; characterised in that the insulation layer is a zinc 
sulphide layer having a thickness such that the layer has an I-V characteristic expressed 

by a continuous curve. 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21 wherein steps (d) and (e) are performed simultaneously, and the 

second electrode and the pixel electrode are formed by patterning another second 
conductive layer. 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21 further comprising at least one of: 


step (f) of forming a second insulation layer on the substrate between step (b) 
and step (c); and 
step (g) of forming a third insulation layer on the substrate between step (c) and 
step (d). 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 23 wherein step (g) including step (h) of forming a hole for 

electrically connecting the second electrode and the zinc sulphide layer in the third 
insulation layer, the hole being formed by a photolithographic method, by which light is 

radiated toward the substrate from the side of a surface thereof having no scanning lines 
and using the scanning line as a mask.  

 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21 wherein the zinc sulphide layer is heated between step (c) and 

step (d) at a temperature which is higher than the temperature of the substrate for 
forming the zinc sulphide layer in step (c). 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21 wherein the zinc sulphide layer is heated after step (d) at a 

temperature which is higher than the temperature of the substrate for forming the zinc 
sulphide layer in step (c). 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 23 wherein the zinc sulphide layer is heated between step (c) and 

step (g) at a temperature which is higher than the temperature of the substrate for 
forming the zinc sulphide layer in step (c). 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 25 or 26 wherein the zinc sulphide layer is heated in an atmosphere 

selected from the group consisting of a vacuum atmosphere and a sulphur atmosphere. 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21, wherein an impurity is implanted into the zinc sulphide layer in 

step (c). 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21, wherein the zinc sulphide layer is formed to have a composition 

ratio expressed by 1
>
x
>
 0.5 where the zinc sulphide layer has a composition expressed 

by Zn
x
S
(1-x)
. 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21, wherein at least one of the pixel electrodes, the first electrode 

and the second electrode is formed of a transparent conductive layer.  
 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21, wherein the zinc sulphide layer has a thickness of at least 10 nm. 
A method for producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element 
according to claim 21 wherein the zinc sulphide layer has a thickness of less than 1 µm. 
A method for producing a display apparatus as claimed in claim 21 and further 
comprising: 


step (f) of forming another insulation layer entirely on the substrate to cover the 
scanning line; 
step (g) of forming a hole reaching the first electrode at a specified position of 
the other insulation layer in a specified shape by a photolithographic method; 
 
   wherein step (c) comprises forming the zinc sulphide layer on the first electrode 

in the hole;
 
   wherein the second electrode is a pixel electrode; and
 
   wherein the two-terminal element includes the first electrode, the zinc sulphide 

layer and a part of the pixel electrode located on an area corresponding to the zinc 
sulphide layer; and wherein steps (f) and (g) are carried out after step (b). 
A method of producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element, as 
claimed in claim 21, the method further comprising: 


step (f) of forming another insulation layer entirely on the substrate to cover the 
scanning line; 
step (g) of forming a photoresist on the other insulation layer and performing 
exposure and development using a mask for regulating a predetermined position and 

shape for formation of the zinc sulphide layer; 
step (h) of etching the other insulation layer using the photoresist as a mask so 
as to form a hole reaching the first electrode in the other insulation layer; 
  
 

   wherein step (c) comprises forming the zinc sulphide layer on the first electrode 
in the hole; and wherein the method further comprises:- 


step (i) of forming a second conductive layer on the zinc sulphide layer; and 
step (j) of removing the photoresist, a part of the zinc sulphide layer 
corresponding to the photoresist, and a part of the second conductive layer 

corresponding to the photoresist by a lift-off method to keep the zinc sulphide layer at 
the position regulated by the mask and to form a second electrode from the second 

conductive layer. 
A method of producing a display apparatus including a two-terminal element as 
claimed in claim 21 and further comprising: 


step (f) of forming a photoresist on the zinc sulphide layer and removing a part 
of the zinc sulphide layer and a part of the photoresist corresponding to an area other 

than a specified area on the first electrode; 
step (g) of forming another insulation layer entirely on the substrate to cover the 
photoresist and the zinc sulphide layer; 
step (h) of removing the photoresist and a part of the other insulation layer on 
the photoresist by a lift-off method; 
 
   wherein the two-terminal element includes the first electrode, the zinc sulphide 

layer and a part of the pixel electrode on the specified area; and wherein steps (f), (g) 
and (h) are carried out after step (c) and before step (d). 
A method of producing a display apparatus as claimed in claim 21 and further 
comprising: 


step (f) of forming a second conductive layer on the zinc sulphide layer; 
step (g) of forming a photoresist on the second conductive layer and performing 
exposure and development using a mask for regulating a predetermined position and 

shape for formation of a zinc sulphide layer; 
step (h) of forming an other insulation layer entirely on the substrate in order to 
cover the photoresist used as the etching mask;  

 
step (i) of removing the photoresist and a part of the other insulation layer on 
the photoresist by a lift-off method so as to expose the second electrode 
 
   wherein step (f) is carried out after step (c); wherein step (d) comprises etching 

the zinc sulphide layer and the second conductive layer using the photoresist as an 
etching mask to form the zinc sulphide layer at the position regulated by the mask and 

to form a second electrode from the second conductive layer;
 
   and step (i) is carried out before step (e). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
