<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617643</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLASSIFYING OR SORTING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07C5342	G01N2165	G01N2187	G01N2163	G01N2187	B07C5342	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07C	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	B07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07C5	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	B07C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GERSAN ETS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GERSAN ESTABLISHMENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH MARTIN PHILLIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH ROBIN WYNCLIFFE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, MARTIN, PHILLIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, ROBIN, WYNCLIFFE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to classifying or sorting 
objects, for instance for sorting ore from associated 
mineral material or sorting diamonds from gangue in the 
diamond mining industry. Diamonds can be mined from deposits in rock and in this 
process it is necessary to crush the rock and then sort 
the diamonds from the gangue or unwanted material. A 
process for achieving a primary sort of gangue from 
diamonds is disclosed in European Patent Application No. 
EP-A-0 345 949 filed by the Applicants. In this process 
mixed diamonds and gangue are fed on a broad belt 
feeder, a narrow transverse strip of which is irradiated 
by X-rays or visible radiation, the fluorescence or 
Raman emission of diamond being detected to give a 
signal and locate the diamond. This signal actuates 
means for selecting diamonds from the stream of mixed 
material and directing them to a bin to give a diamond 
rich concentrate. However, other non-diamond mineral 
particles also fluoresce under the X-ray irradiation or  
 
exhibit broad band luminescence stimulated by the 
excitation source, e.g. a laser operating in the 
UV/visible portion of the spectrum. This laser excited 
broad band luminescence covers the region that is 
specifically examined for detecting the characteristic 
Raman shift for diamond. This broad band laser induced 
luminescence is falsely identified as a Raman shifted 
response and thus other mineral particles can be falsely 
identified and selected as diamond. Additionally, as 
this primary sorter is a high-mass sorter, the diamond 
and gangue mixture is fed on a wide belt and the diamond 
selecting means may select the particles sitting next to 
the fluorescing particle on the belt as well. Thus the 
machine can only produce a diamond/luminescing 
mineral/gangue concentrate. Traditionally this 
concentrate is hand sorted which is laborious, and as 
some of the minerals are fairly similar in appearance to 
the diamonds, can be difficult and unreliable. In addition to the primary sort achieved by this type of 
machine, it is necessary to provide a machine for 
achieving a more accurate sort on the concentrate 
produced by the process, and remove the other 
non-diamond material collected in the primary process. Methods of classifying diamonds by studying them with 
radiation are generally known (for example EP-A-0345949  
 
as above) but it is desirable to provide a method of 
classifying diamonds and other objects using radiation 
in which the problem of the varying trajectories 
obtained with objects of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of classifying an object (1) comprising: 

feeding the object (1) in a free trajectory (6) 
which is not substantially vertical and which lies in a 

substantially vertical plane; 
irradiating the object (1) with radiation in an 
irradiation zone (5) which lies substantially in said 

substantially vertical plane, the trajectory (6) passing 
through the irradiation zone (5), 
and examining the radiation emitted by the object 
(1), and thus deriving the class of the object (1), 

characterized in that the irradiation zone (5) has a 
length in said substantially vertical plane 

substantially greater than its width in said 
substantially vertical plane. 
The method of Claim 1, wherein the irradiation zone 
(5) is substantially linear. 
The method of Claim 1, wherein the ratio of the 
length of the irradiation zone (5) in said substantially 

vertical plane to its width in said substantially 
vertical plane is greater than abou
t 5:1, and is 
preferably between about 10:1 and 30:1. 
The method of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the 
irradiating radiation is focussed onto the irradiation 

zone (5).  
 
The method of Claim 3, wherein the length of the 
irradiation zone (5) extends in a direction at an angle 

of 60° - 90° to the trajectory (6). 
The method of any of the preceding claims 
for detecting diamonds in a plurality of objects, 

wherein: 

the objects (1) are irradiated with infra-red 
radiation and radiation emitted by the objects (1) is 

examined by passing it through a narrow band pass filter 
(22, 23) which passes radiation of a frequency different 

from that of the infra-red irradiating radiation by an 
amount corresponding to a Raman shift for diamond, 
sensing the intensity of radiation having such a 
Raman shift passing through the filter (22,23), 

correcting the sensed intensity of radiation having such 
a Raman shift using a signal dependent upon the size of 

the respective object (1); and identifying objects (1) 
which emit radiation having such a Raman shift, wherein 

the objects (1) are sorted between different corrected 
Raman signal levels. 
The method of any of the preceding claims 
in 

combination with 
a method of processing diamondiferous ore in 

which ore is passed through at least one object size 
reduction means, in which diamonds in the ore are detected 

before the ore is fed into said at least one object size 
reduction means, wherein the detecting step comprises 

irradiating  
 

the objects (1) with infra-red radiation, passing 
radiation emitted by the objects (1) through a narrow 

band pass filter (22,23) which passes radiation of a 
frequency different from that of the infra-red 

irradiating radiation by an amount corresponding to a 
Raman shift of diamond, sensing the intensity of 

radiation passing through the filter (22,23), and 
identifying objects (1) which emit radiation having such 

a shift. 
The method of Claim 6 or 7, wherein background 
radiation is subtracted. 
The method of Claim 6, 7 or 8, wherein the objects 
(1) are pre-sorted into size fractions. 
The method of any of Claims 6 to 9, wherein any said 
objects (1) which emit radiation having such a Raman 

shift over a threshold value are identified. 
Apparatus for classifying an object (1), comprising; 

means (4) for feeding the object (1) along a free 
trajectory (6) which is not substantially vertical and 

which lies in a substantially vertical plane; 
means (10,14,16,17) for irradiating the object (1) 
with radiation in an irradiation zone (5) through which 

the trajectory (6) passes, the irradiation zone (5) 
lying substantially in said substantially vertical  

 
plane, and means (9) for giving a signal dependent on 

the radiation emitted by the object, and thus deriving 
the class of the object,
 
   characterized in that the irradiation zone (5) has a 

length in said substantially vertical plane 
substantially greater than its width in said 

substantially vertical plane. 
The apparatus of Claim 11, wherein the ratio of said 
length to said width is greater than about 5:1, and is 

preferably between about 10:1 and about 30:1. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 or 12, wherein the 
irradiation zone (5) is substantially linear. 
The apparatus of any of Claims 11 to 13, wherein the 
irradiating radiation is focussed onto the irradiation 

zone (5). 
The apparatus of any of Claims 11 to 14, wherein the 
irradiating radiation is focussed onto a line focus (5). 
The apparatus of Claim 15, wherein the irradiating 
radiation is produced by a laser (10), the laser beam 

being focussed by a first cylindrical lens (14) whose 
axis of curvature is parallel to the axis of the line 

focus (5) into which the beam is to be focussed.  
 
The apparatus of Claim 13, 15 or 16, wherein the 
length of the linear irradiation zone (5) extends in a 

direction at an angle of 60° - 90° to said trajectory 
(6). 
The apparatus of any of Claims 11 to 17, for 
detecting diamonds in a plurality of objects, wherein: 


the irradiating means (10) is for irradiating the 
objects (1) with infra-red radiation; 
the signal giving means (9) comprising means for 
passing radiation emitted by the objects (1) through a 

first narrow band pass filter (22) which passes 
radiation having a frequency different from that of the 

infra-red irradiating radiation by an amount 
corresponding to a Raman shift for diamond; 
means (18) for providing a signal dependent upon the 
intensity of radiation passing through the first filter 

(22); 
means for correcting the intensity signal using a 
signal dependent upon the size of the respective object 

(1); and 
means for identifying objects (1) which emit 
radiation passing through the first filter, wherein the 

objects (1) are sorted between different corrected Raman 
signal levels. 
Apparatus for processing diamondiferous ore,  
 

comprising means according to any of claims 11 to 17 for 
detecting diamonds in the ore; and at least one object 

size reduction means for receiving objects (1) from the 
detecting means;
 
wherein the detecting means comprises: 


means (10) for irradiating the objects (1) with 
infra-red radiation; 
means for passing radiation emitted by the objects (1) 
through a narrow band pass filter (22) which passes 

radiation having a frequency different from that of the 
infra-red irradiating radiation by an amount 

corresponding to a Raman shift for diamond; 
means (18) for sensing radiation passing through the 
filter; and 
means for identifying objects (1) which emit radiation 
passing through the filter. 
The apparatus of Claim 18 or 19, further comprising 
size detection means (8) for giving a signal dependent 

upon the size of the respective object (1).  
 
The apparatus of Claim 18, 19 or 20, further 
comprising a second narrow band pass filter (23) which 

passes radiation of a frequency different to that passed 
by the first narrow band pass filter (22); 


means (21) for providing a second signal dependent 
upon the intensity of radiation passing through the 

second filter (23); and 
means for correcting the signal dependent upon the 
intensity of radiation passing through the first filter 

(22) using the second signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
