<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622303</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and blank for the production of a package, and a package obtained through this method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D574	B65D574	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the production of a package (2) from a 
blank (1) of sheet material, in which suitable 

folding and cutting lines define the front and back 
wall panels (3,4) and the side wall panels (5,6), 

provides for detaching from the blank (1) a shaped 
flap (16) joint to lid-forming flaps (8a,9a) extending 

from the ends of the front and back wall panels 
(3,4). The shaped flap (16) forms a kind of bridge 

between the lid-forming panels (8a,9a). 
The flap (16) is then attached to the surface designed 
to be turned towards the inside of the package 

(2) of a tear flap (12) delimited by a cutting 
line (14) and by perforated lines (15) on a side 

wall panel (5), so that the flap (16) extends with a 
couple of wings (20) beside the front and back 

panels (3,4). The front and back panels (3,4) and 
the side wall panels (5,6) of are folded to obtain a 

tubular element (100), thus folding also the wings 
(20) with respect to a central part (18) of the flap 

(16) attached to the side wall panel (5). 
The wings (20) extending beside the front and back 
panels (3,4), form the side walls of an outwardly 

tipping spout (200) that is formed in its front part 
by the tear flap (12). 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
I.M.A. INDUSTRIA MACCHINE AUTOMATICHE S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORENO FIORINI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORENO, FIORINI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the technical field 
concerning the production of packages from blanks of 
sheet material, such as cardboard and the like. It is known that packages are obtained from blanks 
of cardboard for packaging various types of products, 
in particular bulk products, such as food 
stuff, detergents and the like. Each blank is obtained from a sheet of cardboard in 
which suitable folding and cutting lines delimit 
rectangular front and back panels and side wall 
panels that form opposite package walls. In order to open the package, to take out the product 
contained therein, there are provided special 
breaking lines, usually on one of the side walls, in 
the upper part of the package. Such breaking lines extend e.g. along an arc of 
circumference adjacent to a folding line, often 
coincidental with the upper corner of the package 
side. By pressing the part delimited by the breaking line 
in a suitable way, the cardboard is cut along the 
breaking line and, consequently, a mouth is opened 
on the side of the package, through which the goods 
can be poured out. Such a method for obtaining the opening of the 
package is often unsatisfactory, since it does not  
 
allow for a precise good drawing without spreading 
it out, for instance while pouring it into smaller 
packages, batchers and the like. Another disadvantage lies in the fact that it is 
impossible to suitably close the open package, so 
the product can accidentally be poured out. Also 
hygiene and integrity problems for the same product 
are not to be neglected. In order to facilitate the drawing of the product, 
there is sometime provided a kind of spout, obtained 
in correspondence with the opening mouth, defined by 
the above mentioned breaking line, by folding the 
cardboard along a creasing, e.g. median, line on the 
side of the package. Anyway, there still remains the problem of closing 
the package after having opened the mouth for the 
product withdrawal. A more elaborate solution provides a kind of a chute 
made of aluminium, joined to the package in correspondence 
with a tipping part defined by a suitable 
breaking line. In this case when the above mentioned breaking line 
is cut a mouth can be opened on the side of the 
package and, in correspondence with it, the folding 
part that carries the chute attached thereto is 
released. Such a chute is tipped outwards, by folding the 
above mentioned part of the package along a suitable 
creasing line, in order to pour out the product;  
 
when the product is to be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for the production of packages from blanks of 
sheet material, in which special folding and cutting 

lines define front and back panels (3,4) and side wall 
panels (5,6) that form the opposite walls of a package 

(2), and lid- and bottom-forming flaps (8a,8b;9a,9b) 
that extend from the opposite ends of said front and 

back panels (3,4) for the closure of the same package 
(2), characterised in that it includes: 

detaching a shaped flap (16) joined to said lid-forming 
flaps (8a,9a) by perforated lines (17) and 

forming a kind of a bridge between the same flaps 
(8a,9a), astride of one of said side wall panels 

(5); 
attaching said flap (16) to the surface of said 

blank (1) that is designed to be turned inside the 
said package (2), in correspondence with a tear flap 

(12) defined by a cutting line (14) and by perforated 
lines (15) on said side wall panel (5), so that 

the same flap (16) has a couple of wings (20) spread 
very close to said front and back panels (3,4) of 

the blank (1); 
folding said front and back panels (3,4) and said side 

walls panels (5,6) of the blank on planes reciprocally 
orthogonal, in order to obtain a tubular element (100), 

causing also folding of said wings (20) with respect of 
a central part (18) of said flap (16) connected with 

said side wall panel (5), said wings (20) extending 
besides said front and back panels (3,4) so as to form 

side walls of a spout (200) that can be tipped outwards 
and that is frontally defined by said tear flap (12). 
Package obtained from a blank of sheet material, in 
which folding and cutting lines define front and back 

 
panels (3,4) and side wall panels (5,6) forming the 

opposite walls, and lid- and bottom-forming flaps 
(8a,8b;9a,9b) that extend from the opposite ends of said 

front and back panels (3,4) in order to close the same 
package, the said package being characterised in that it 

provides, on one of said side wall panels (5), a spout 
(200) that can be tipped outwards, formed by a tear flap 

(12) defined by a cutting line (14) and by perforated 
lines (15), said tear flap (12) being delimited by a 

creasing line (13) transversal to the same side wall 
panel (5) and having attached at the back a shaped flap 

(16) provided with a couple of lateral wings (20), 
spread besides said front and back panels (3,4) so as to 

form the side walls of said spout (200). 
Package according to claim 2, characterised in that 
said shaped flap (16) has a central part (18) that 

extends onto the said side wall panel (5) and projects 
upwardly in a strip (21), delimited by a breaking line 

(22), said strip being attached to the part of said side 
wall panel (5) over said tear flap (12), so as to form a 

support for the top of the same tear flap (12), in the 
closing position of said spout (200). 
Package according to claim 2 characterised in that 
said wings (20) are shaped outside so as to have, beginning 

from a region connected to a central part (18) of 
said flap (16), an arcuate convergent part (20a) followed 

by a rectilinear divergent part (20b), thus forming 
dovetail-like wings. 
Package according to claim 2, characterised in that 
said cutting line (14) is made transversally to said 

side wall panel (5) according to a profile defining a 
kind of cusp of said tear flap (12), the same cutting 

 
line (14) having a kind of a semi-circular cut-out (14a) 

on the said side wall panel (5) in correspondence with 

said cusp of the tear flap (12). 
Package according to claim 5, characterised in that 
in correspondence with said cusp, said tear flap (12) 

follows the profile of the said semi-circular cut-out 
(14a) with a rounded part (12a). 
Package according to claim 2, characterised in that 
said perforated lines (15) extend from said creasing 

line (13), transversal to said side wall panel (5), and 
match with the lateral corners of the same side wall 

panel (5), until they join said cutting line (14). 
Blank for the production of packages made from sheet 
material, in which special folding and cutting lines 

define the front and back panels (3,4) and the side wall 
panels (5,6) that form the opposite walls of a package 

(2), and the lid- and bottom-forming flaps (8a,8b;9a,9b) 
that extend from the opposite ends of said front and 

back panels (3,4) for the closure of the same package 
(2), the said blank being characterised in that it 

includes a shaped flap (16) joined to a pair of lid-forming 
flaps (8a,9a), in correspondence with perforated 

lines (17), so as to form a kind of a bridge between the 
same flaps (8a,9a); 

said flap (16) being destined to be separated from the 
same lid-forming flaps (8a,9a) and to be attached to 

the surface of the blank that is to be turned inside 
said package (2), in correspondence with a tear flap 

(12), defined by cutting line (14) and by perforated 
lines (15) made on said side wall panel (5), so that 

the same flap (16) has a couple of wings (20) spread 
beside said panels (3,4). 
Blank, according to claim 1, characterised in that 
said shaped flap (16) has a central rectangular part 

(18) that extends in correspondence with said side wall 
panel (5) and is laterally delimited by a couple of 

creasing lines (19) with respect to said opposite wings 
(20), said wings (20) being respectively connected with 

said lid-forming flaps (8a,9a) along said perforated 
lines (17). 
Blank, according to claim 1, characterised in that 
said wings (20) are shaped outside so as to have, starting 

from the region connected to a central part (18) of 
said flap (16), an arcuate convergent part (20a) followed 

by a rectilinear divergent part (20b), thus forming 
dovetail-like wings. 
Blank, according to claim 1, characterised in that 
said shaped flap (16) has a central part (18) that 

extends in correspondence with said side wall panel (5) 
and projects upwardly in a strip (21), delimited by a 

breaking line (22), said strip being destined to be 
attached to the part of said side wall panel (5) over 

said tear flap (12). 
Blank, according to claim 1, characterised in that 
said cutting line (14) is made transversally to the said 

side wall panel (5) according to a profile defining a 
kind of cusp of said tear flap (12), the same cutting 

line (14) forming a semi-circular cut-out (14a) on the 
said side wall panel (5) in correspondence of said cusp 

of the tear flap (12). 
Blank, according to claim 5, characterised in that 
in correspondence with said cusp, said tear flap (12) 

 
follows the profile of the said semi-circular cut-out 

(14a) with a rounded part (12a). 
Blank, according to claim 1, characterised in that 
said perforated lines (15) extend from a creasing line 

(13), transversal to said side wall panel (5), and match 
with the lateral corners of the same side wall panel 

(5), until they join said cutting line (14). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
