<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618773</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROTECTIVE HELMET AND METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MOLDING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A42B304	A42B304	A42B306	A42B312	A42C200	A42C200	A63B7108	A63B7110	B29C3300	B29C3300	B29C3344	B29C3344	B29C3346	B29C3346	B29C3700	B29C3700	B29C4400	B29C4400	B29C4434	B29C4444	B29K2300	B29K10504	B29L3148	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42C	A42C	A63B	A63B	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29K	B29L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A42B3	A42B3	A42B3	A42B3	A42C2	A42C2	A63B71	A63B71	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C37	B29C37	B29C44	B29C44	B29C44	B29C44	B29K23	B29K105	B29L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATHLETIC HELMET INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATHLETIC HELMET INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALSTEAD P DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PONZER DONALD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIBLEY KENT V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALSTEAD P DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PONZER DONALD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIBLEY KENT V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROTECTIVE HELMET AND METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MOLDING SAMEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to an improved protec¬ tive helmet and a method and apparatus for making such a helmet. More particularly, the present invention relates to a helmet, and method and apparatus for making the same, having an undercut portion and perpendicularly directed holes which may be formed with a molding process.Although protective helmets have long been essential equipment in contact sports such as baseball and football, they are finding more favor in non-contact sports such as bicycling, skateboarding and skating. In many of these principally non-contact sports, a potential impact to the wearer of the helmet occurs when the wearer falls down, striking his head on the ground or other object. Thus, helmets used in such non-contact sports are ideally designed to protect as much of the wearer's head as is possible.A popular design for such a helmet is a com¬ pound curved surface having a generally elliptical hemi¬ spherical shell shape. Because of manufacturing con¬ straints discussed below, most such helmets do not exceed 180 degrees of curvature in any single direction.Even though such hemispherically shaped helmets cover a major portion of the skull, in use they can lack effectiveness. A helmet having the general shape of a hemispherical shell, with only 180 degrees of curvature, will sit on the top of the wearer's head. A retention system, usually in the form of a chin strap, must be employed to keep the helmet attached to the head in the 

 event of a fall. Without a retention system, the helmet is only held on the wearer's head by the force of gravity.However, the motion of the wearer's body during a fall which results in any substantial impact to the head is typically quite turbulent. With any significant turbulence of the body, the retention system may be incapable of preventing the helmet from shifting either down over the forehead, thereby leaving the back of the head exposed, or shifting rearwardly, leaving the fore¬ head exposed. In either situation, a portion of the head which would otherwise be covered by the helmet is left exposed.Even with an adequate retention system, properly adjusted by the wearer of the helmet, a helmet whose compound curved surface does not extend beyond 180 degrees still leaves portions of the head exposed. These include the portion of the skull inferior to the occipital lobe, including particularly the mastoid bone — the area of the cranial cavity where a basil skull
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WE CLAIM:
1. A protective helmet comprising a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer, said element comprising a generally hemispherical shell portion having an inside surface corresponding generally in shape to the top of a human head, said shell portion having an edge along said inside surface defining a maximum perimeter; and an undercut portion extending from at least part of the edge of said shell portion, said undercut portion having an inside surface extending towards the center of said maximum perimeter such than an opening for the head of a wearer of the helmet is formed within said polymeric element.
2. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said inside surface of said undercut portion is curved about a radius located generally at the center of said maximum perimeter.
3. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said maximum perimeter of said generally hemi¬ spherical shell portion is generally elliptical in shape.
4. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said helmet has a front and a back and said undercut portion is in the back of the helmet.
5. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said undercut portion includes a first extension on one side of the helmet and a second extension, substantially symmetrical to said first extension, located on the opposite side of the helmet, said first and second extensions configured to cover the area 


 inferior to the occipital lobe of the wearer of the helmet.
6. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said undercut portion includes a first extension on one side of the helmet and a second extension, substantially symmetrical to said first extension, located on the opposite side of the helmet, said first and second extensions configured to cover the ears of the wearer of the helmet.
7. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said undercut portion includes a irst extension on one side of the helmet and a second extension, substantially symmetrical to said first extension, located on the opposite side of the helmet, said first and second extensions configured to cover the temporal area of the head of the wearer of the helmet.
8. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, further comprising a covering for said expanded polymeric element.
9. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said generally hemispherical shell portion is configured with strap holes integrally molded into said polymeric element in a direction substantially perpendicular to a line tangent the hemispherical shell portion at said strap hole, thereby permitting a helmet retention system to be attached to said polymeric element.
10. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said generally hemispherical shell portion is configured with vent holes integrally molded into said polymeric element in a direction substantially 


perpendicular to a line tangent the hemispherical shell portion at said strap hole.
11. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said resilient polymer is polypropylene.
12. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said resilient polymer is polyethylene.
13. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said resilient polymer is polybutylene.
14. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said resilient polymer is a copolymer.
15. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer for use in a protective helmet, comprising: a cavity element; and a core element capable of mating engagement and disengagement with said cavity element, said core element including • a generally hemispherical surface corres¬ ponding generally in shape to the top of a human head, said hemispherical surface having a maximum perimeter and an undercut surface extending from at least part of said hemispherical surface, said undercut surface angled towards the center of said maximum perimeter, said mold configured such that a predetermined amount of space exists between said core element and said cavity element when said core element is in mating engagement with said cavity element thereby defining the thickness of the polymeric element produced in the mold. 


 15. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 15, wherein said cavity element comprises a generally hemispherical surface corresponding to said hemispherical surface of said core element and an undercut surface corresponding to said undercut surface of said core element.
16. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 16, wherein said hemispherical surface of said cavity element is separate from said undercut surface of said cavity element and remains in its spaced relationship with said core element when said core element in a disengaged position with said cavity element.
17. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 16, further comprising an edge element at the base of said core element defining an edge of the polymeric element.
18. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 15, wherein said mold has a front and a rear, corresponding to the front and rear of the polymeric element being molded, and wherein said undercut surface extends from at least a portion of said hemispherical surface on the rear of said mold.
19. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 15, wherein said mold has a front and a rear, corresponding to the front and rear of the polymeric element being molded, and wherein said undercut surface extends from at least a portion of said hemispherical surface on the front of said mold. 


 20. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element for use in a protective helmet, comprising: a cavity element having a generally hemispheri¬ cal surface, said surface configured with at least one cavity projection extending inwardly from said surface of said hemispherical surface, said cavity projection extending generally perpendicular to a line tangent said hemispherical surface at said cavity projection; and a core element capable of mating engagement and disengagement with said cavity element, said core element having a generally hemispherical surface corresponding generally in shape to the top of a human head, said surface configured with at least one core projection extending outwardly from said surface of said core element, said core projection extending generally perpendicular to a line tangent said hemispherical surface of said core element at said core projection, said mold further configured such that the space between said cavity element and said cavity element when said core element is in mating engagement with said cavity element defines the shape of the polymer element produced in the mold.
21. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 21, said mold having a front half and a rear half corresponding to a front and rear of said polymer element produced in the mold and wherein said at least one cavity projection includes a cavity projection located in said rear half of said mold and wherein said at least one core projection includes a core projection located in said front half of said mold. 


 22. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 22, wherein said at least one cavity projection includes a pair of symmetrically spaced vent projections for molding air vents into the rear of said polymer element and said at least one core projection includes a pair of symmetrically spaced vent projections for molding air vents into the front of said polymer element.
23. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 23, wherein said at least one cavity projection further includes a pair of symmetrically spaced strap projections for molding strap holes into the rear of said polymer element, said mold further comprising at least one front strap projection configured into one of said core element and said cavity element at said front of said mold.
24. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 24, wherein said at least one front. strap projection extends outwardly from said surface of said core element, said front strap projection extending generally perpendicular to a line tangent said hemispherical surface of said core element at said front strap projection.
25. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 24, wherein said at least one front strap projection extends outwardly from said surface of said cavity element, said front strap projection extending generally perpendicular to a line tangent said hemispherical surface of said cavity element at said front strap projection.
26. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 22, wherein 


said at least one cavity projection further includes a cavity projection located in the front half of said mold.
27. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element for use in a protective helmet, comprising: a cavity element having a generally hemispheri¬ cal surface; a core element capable of mating engagement and disengagement with said cavity element along a line of retraction, said core element having a generally hemispherical surface corresponding generally in shape to the top of a human head; at least one first projection for forming a void in the polymer element, said first projection configured on one of said cavity element and said core element and extending between said core element and said cavity element when said core element and said cavity element are in mating engagement, said first projection positioned at an angle to said line of retraction, said mold further configured such that the space between said cavity element and said core element when said cavity element is in mating engagement with said core element defines the shape of the polymer element produced in the mold.
28. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 28, further comprising at least one second projection for forming a void in the polymer element, said second projection configured one of said cavity element and said core element and extending between said core element and said cavity element when said core element and said cavity element are in mating engagement, said second projection positioned at an angle to said line of retraction. 


 29. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 29, wherein said at least one first projection is configured on said cavity element and said at least one second projection is configured on said core element.
30. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 29, wherein said at least one first projection is configured on the same element, of said cavity element and said core element, as said second element.
31. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 28, wherein said at least one first projection is configured on said cavity element and is positioned substantially perpendicular to said line of retraction.
32. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet, comprising the steps of: introducing compressed, resilient polymeric beads into a pressurized mold having a cavity element and a core element, the core element having a generally hemispherical surface and an undercut surface, the undercut surface extending from at least part of the hemispherical surface and angled towards the center of the maximum perimeter of the hemispherical surface; venting the mold to cause expansion of the polymeric beads; applying steam to the polymeric beads thereby causing the polymeric beads to fuse to each other; permitting the mold to cool; separating the mold; and removing the liner from the core of the mold. 


 33. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said introducing step is preceded by compressing the resilient, polymeric beads in a bead hopper by pressurizing the bead hopper.
34. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said separating step includes separating the mold along a parting line corresponding generally to the maximum perimeter of the hemispherical surface.
35. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said removing step includes applying a blast of air to the liner from within the core element.
36. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said removing step includes applying a force to the liner with an ejector pin from within the core element.
37. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said introducing step includes employing a cavity element having at least one first projection for forming a void in the liner on a first side and a core element having at least one second projection for forming a void in the liner on a second, opposite side and wherein said separating step includes retracting the cavity element a first distance such that the first projection engages the first side of the liner and removes the first side of the liner from the core element, 


 continuing to retract the cavity element through a second distance such that the liner is disengaged from the first projection, and fully retracting the cavity element.
38. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 38, wherein said removing step includes permitting the force of gravity to disengage the liner completely from the core and fall from the mold.
39. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet, comprising the steps of: introducing compressed, resilient polymeric beads into a pressurized mold having a cavity element and a core element capable of mating engagement and disengagement along a line of retraction, the cavity element having a generally hemispherical surface and at least one first projection configured at an angle to the line of retraction for forming a void in the liner on a first side and the core element having a generally hemispherical surface corresponding generally in shape to the top of a human head and at least one second projection for forming a void in the liner on a second, opposite side said first projection positioned at an angle to said line of retraction; venting the mold to cause expansion of the polymeric beads; applying steam to the polymeric beads thereby causing the polymeric beads to fuse to each other; permitting the mold to cool; separating the mold; and removing the liner from the core of the mold. 


 40. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 40, wherein said separating step includes retracting the cavity element a first distance such that the first projection engages the first side of the liner and removes the first side of the liner from the core element, continuing to retract the cavity element through a second distance such that the liner is disengaged from the first projection, and fully retracting the cavity element.
41. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 41, wherein said removing step includes permitting the force of gravity to disengage the liner completely from the core and fall from the mold. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 15 March 1993 (15.03.93); original claims 1-41 replaced by amended claims 1-42 (11 pages)]
1. A protective helmet comprising a one- piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer, said element comprising a generally hemispherical shell portion having an inside surface corresponding generally in shape to the top of a human head, said shell portion having an edge along said inside surface defining a maximum perimeter; and an undercut portion extending from at least part of the edge of said shell portion, said undercut portion having an inside surface extending towards the center of said maximum perimeter such that an opening for the head of a wearer of the helmet is formed within said polymeric element.
2. A-protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said inside surface of said undercut portion is curved about a radius located generally at the center of said maximum perimeter.
3. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said maximum perimeter of said generally hemispherical shell portion is generally elliptical in shape.
4. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said helmet has a front and a back and said undercut portion is in the back of the helmet.
5. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, said undercut portion includes a first exten¬ sion on one side of the helmet and a second extension, substantially symmetrical to said first extension, located on the opposite side of the helmet, said first and second extensions configured to cover the area 


substantially perpendicular to a line tangent the hemi¬ spherical shell portion at said strap hole.
11. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said resilient polymer is polypropylene.
12. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said resilient polymer is polyethylene.
13. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said resilient polymer is polybutylene.
14. A protective helmet as defined in claim 1, wherein said resilient polymer is a copolymer.
15. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer for use in a protective helmet, comprising: a cavity element; and a core element capable of mating engagement and disengagement with said cavity element, said core element including a generally hemispherical surface corre¬ sponding generally in shape to the top of a human head, said hemispherical surface having a maximum perimeter and an undercut surface extending from at least part of said hemispherical surface, said undercut surface angled towards the center of said maximum perimeter, said mold configured such that a pre¬ determined amount of space exists between said core element and said cavity element when said core element is in mating engagement with said 


 cavity element thereby defining the thickness of the polymeric element produced in the mold.
16. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 15, herein said cavity element comprises a generally hemispherical surface corresponding to said hemispherical surface of said core element and an undercut surface corresponding to said undercut, surface of said core element.
17. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 16, herein said hemispherical surface of said cavity element is separate from said undercut surface of said cavity element and remains in its spaced relationship with said core element when said core element in a disengaged position with said cavity element.
18. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 16, further comprising an edge element at the base of said core element defining an edge of the polymeric element.
19. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 15, herein said mold has a front and a rear, corresponding to the front and rear of the polymeric element being molded, and wherein said undercut surface extends from at least a portion of said hemispherical surface on the rear of said mold.
20. A mold for producing a one-piece element of an expanded, resilient polymer as defined in claim 15, herein said mold has a front and a rear, corresponding to the front and rear of the polymeric 


element being molded, and wherein said undercut surface extends from at least a portion of said hemispherical surface on the front of said mold.
21. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element for use in a protective helmet, comprising: a cavity element having a generally hemi¬ spherical surface, said surface configured with at least one cavity projection extending inwardly from said surface of said hemispherical surface, said cavity projection extending generally perpendicular to a line tangent said hemispherical surface at said cavity projection; and a core element capable of mating engagement and disengagement with said cavity element, said core element having a generally hemispherical surface corresponding generally in shape to the top of a human head, said surface configured with at least one core projection extending outwardly from said surface of said core element, said core projection extending generally perpendicular to a line tangent said hemispherical surface of said core element at said core projection, said mold further configured such that the space between said cavity element and said cavity element when said core element is in mating engagement with said cavity element defines the shape of the polymer element produced in the mold.
22. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 21, said mold having a front half and a rear half corresponding to a front and rear of said polymer element produced in the mold and wherein said at least one cavity projection includes a cavity projection located in said rear half of said mold and wherein said at least one 


 core projection includes a core projection located in said front half of said mold.
23. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 22, wherein said at least one cavity projection includes a pair of symmetrically spaced vent projections for molding air vents into the rear of said polymer element and said at least one core projection includes a pair of symmetrically spaced vent projections for molding air vents into the front of said polymer element.
24. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 23, wherein said at least one cavity projection further includes a pair of symmetrically spaced strap projections for molding strap holes into the rear of said polymer element, said mold further comprising at least one front strap projection configured into one of said core element and said cavity element at said front of said mold.
25. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 24, wherein said at least one front strap projection extends outwardly from said surface of said core element, said front strap projection extending generally perpendicular to a line tangent said hemispherical surface of said core element at said front strap projection.
26. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 24, wherein said at least one front strap projection extends outwardly from said surface of said cavity element, said front strap projection extending generally perpendicular to a line tangent said 


hemispherical surface of said cavity element at said front strap projection.
27. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 22, wherein said at least one cavity projection further includes a cavity projection located in the front half of said mold.
28. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element for use in a protective helmet, comprising: a cavity element having a generally hemispherical surface; a core element capable of mating engagement and disengagement with said cavity element along a line of retraction, said core element having a generally hemispherical surface corresponding generally in shape to the top of a human head; at least one first projection for forming a void in the polymer element, said first projection configured on one of said cavity element and said core element and extending between said core element and said cavity element when said core element and said cavity element are in mating engagement, said first projection positioned at an angle to said line of retraction, said mold further configured such that the space between said cavity element and said core element when said cavity element is in mating engagement with said core element defines the shape of the polymer element produced in the mold.
29. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 28, further comprising at least one second projection for forming a void in the polymer element, said second 



 projection configured one of said cavity element and said core element and extending between said core element and said cavity element when said core element and said cavity element are in mating engagement, said second projection positioned at an angle to said line of retraction.
30. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 29, wherein said at least one first projection is configured on said cavity element and said at least one second projection is configured on said core element.
31. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 29, wherein said at least one first projection is configured on the same element, of said cavity element and said core element, as said second element.
32. A mold for producing an expanded, resilient polymer element as defined in claim 28, wherein said at least one first projection is configured on said cavity element and is positioned substantially perpendicular to said line of retraction.
33. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet, comprising the steps of: introducing compressed, resilient polymeric beads into a pressurized mold having a cavity element and a core element, the core element having a generally hemispherical surface and an undercut surface, the undercut surface extending from at least part of the hemispherical surface and angled towards the center of the maximum perimeter of the hemispherical surface; 


 venting the mold to cause expansion of the polymeric beads; applying steam to the polymeric beads thereby causing the polymeric beads to fuse to each other to form a one-piece element; permitting the mold to cool; separating the cavity element from the core element; and removing the one-piece element from the core of the mold.
34. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said introducing step is preceded by compressing the resilient, polymeric beads in a bead hopper by pressurizing the bead hopper.
35. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said separating step includes separating the mold along a parting line corresponding generally to the maximum perimeter of the hemispherical surface.
36. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said removing step includes applying a blast of air to the one-piece element from within the core element.
37. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said removing step includes applying a force to the one-piece element with an ejector pin from within the core element. 


 38. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 33, wherein said introducing step includes employing a cavity element having at least one first projection for forming a void in the one-piece element on a first side and a core element having at least one second projection for forming a void in the one-piece element on a second, opposite side and wherein said separating step includes retracting the cavity element a first distance such that the first projection engages the first side of the one-piece element and removes the first side of the one-piece element from the core element, continuing to retract the cavity element through a second distance such that the one-piece element is disengaged from the first projection, and fully retracting the cavity element.
39. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 38, wherein said removing step includes per¬ mitting the force of gravity to disengage the one-piece element completely from the core and fall from the mold.
40. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet, comprising the steps of: introducing compressed, resilient polymeric beads into a pressurized mold to form a one-piece element, the mold having a cavity element and a core element capable of mating engagement and disengagement along a line of retraction, the cavity element having a generally hemispherical surface and at least one first projection 


 configured at a angle to the line of retraction for forming a void in the one-piece element on a first side and the core element having a generally hemispherical surface corresponding generally in shape to the top of a human head and at least one second projection for forming a void in the one- piece element on a second, opposite side said first projection positioned at an angle to said line of retraction; venting the mold to cause expansion of the polymeric beads; applying steam to the polymeric beads thereby causing the polymeric beads to fuse to each other; permitting the mold to cool; separating the cavity element and the core element; and removing the one-piece element from the core of the mold.
41. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 40, wherein said separating step includes retracting the cavity element a first distance such that the first projection engages the first side of the one-piece element and removes the first side of the one-piece element from the core element, continuing to retract the cavity element through a second distance such that the one-piece element is disengaged from the first projection, and fully retracting the cavity element.
42. A process for producing a one-piece element for use in a protective helmet as defined in claim 41, wherein said removing step includes per¬ mitting the force of gravity to disengage the one-piece 


element completely from the core and fall from the mold. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
