<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0783873</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bifurcated stent assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F200	A61M2512	A61F284	A61F282	A61F282	A61M2510	A61F200	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61M	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61M	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61M25	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61M25	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a bifurcated stent assembly having 
an assembly bifurcation for use with an angiological 

bifurcation of a blood vessel into two branched vessels, 
said bifurcated stent assembly comprising: 


a first stent (10;50;70;91) comprising a proximal 
stent portion (12;62;72;92), a first distal stent 

portion adapted to extend across the angiological 
bifurcation into one of the branched vessels, and 

an intermediate stent portion (14,18;58,60;78;95) 
extending distally relative to said assembly 

bifurcation; and 
a second stent (40;86) joined to said intermediate 
stent portion (14,18;58,60;78;95) of said first 

stent (10;50;70;91) and adapted to allow blood to 
flow from the proximal stent portion of said first 

stent into one of said branched vessels. 
 
Typically said proximal stent portion and first distal 

stent portion may be integral with one another. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a bifurcated endoluminal prosthesis for
use in a bifurcated blood vessel such, for example, as the infrarenal portion of
a mammalian aortic artery where it bifurcates to the common iliac arteries.A stent is used to provide a prosthetic intraluminal wall e.g. in the case
of a stenosis to provide an unobstructed conduit for blood in the area of the
stenosis. An endoluminal prosthesis comprises a stent which carries a
prosthetic graft layer of fabric and is used e.g. to treat an aneurysm by
removing the pressure on a weakened part of an artery so as to reduce the risk
of embolism, or of the natural artery wall bursting. Typically, a stent or
endoluminal prosthesis is implanted in a blood vessel at the site of a stenosis or
aneurysm by so-called "minimally invasive techniques" in which the stent is
compressed radially inwards and is delivered by a catheter to the site where it
is required through the patient's skin or by a "cut down" technique in which the
blood vessel concerned is exposed by minor surgical means. When the stent is
positioned at the correct location, the catheter is withdrawn and the stent is
caused or allowed to re-expand to a predetermined diameter in the vessel.US-A-4 994 071 specifies a
prosthesis for use at an angeological bifurcation of a blood vessel into two
branched vessels, characterised by:
a first prosthesis member
including a stent and adapted to be
retained in said blood vessel, said first prosthesis member being bifurcated and
including a proximal portion
adapted to be positioned in service
in juxtaposition with the angeological bifurcation, and two distal portions
adapted to extend across the angeological
bifurcation and into each of the branched vessels.FR-A-2 678 508 specifies a
prosthesis for use at an angeological bifurcation of a blood vessel into two
branched vessels, characterised by:
a first prosthesis member
including a stent and adapted to be
retained in said blood vessel, said first prosthesis member
including a proximal portion
adapted to be positioned in service
in juxtaposition with the angeological bifurcation, and one distal portion
and a second prosthesis member also including a stent and
adapted to be
joined in situ with said one distal portion of said first prosthesis member, said
second prosthesis member being adapted to extend across the angeological
bifurcation and into one of the branched vessels.U.S. Patent 4,886,062 discloses a vascular stent which comprises a
length of sinuous or "zig-zag" wire formed into a helix;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A prosthesis for use at an angeological bifurcation of a blood vessel into two
branched vessels, characterised by:


a first prosthesis member (10;50;70;91) including a stent and adapted to be
retained in said blood vessel, said first prosthesis member being bifurcated and

including a proximal portion (12;52;72;92) adapted to be positioned in service
in juxtaposition with the angeological bifurcation, and two distal portions

(16,18;58,60;78,80;94,95), one of which distal portions comprises a female co-operating
portion adapted to engage a male engaging portion of another

prosthesis member; and
a second prosthesis member (40;86) also including a stent and including a male
engaging portion by which said second prosthesis member is adapted to be

joined in situ with said one distal portion of said first prosthesis member, said
second prosthesis member being adapted to extend across the angeological

bifurcation and into one of the branched vessels.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said distal portions
comprises a female co-operating portion adapted to engage a male engaging 

portion of another prosthesis member.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein one of said distal portions
of said first prosthesis member is adapted to extend across the bifurcation into

the other of said branched vessels.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of said distal portions is
adapted to be joined to said second prosthesis member, and the other distal

portion is adapted to extend across the angeological bifurcation to allow blood
flow into the other of the branched vessels.
A prosthesis as claimed in any preceding claim wherein at least one of said
distal portions comprises a distal stent portion.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 5, wherein said first bifurcated prosthesis
member comprises a proximal stent portion.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 6, wherein said proximal stent portion is
formed integrally with said distal stent portion.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 6, wherein said proximal stent portion is 
formed separately from said distal stent portion.
A prosthesis as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the stent of the first
and/or second prosthesis members comprises sinuous wire formed into a

tubular configuration comprising a plurality of hoops.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 9, wherein said wire has an helical
configuration.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 9, wherein the plane of the circumference
of each hoop is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the

tubular configuration.
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 9-11 wherein the wire is a shape
memory nickel/titanium wire having a tubular configuration, and said

stent has a diameter greater than the diameter of the blood vessel or branched
vessel in which the prosthesis is intended to be used.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 11 wherein the plane of the circumference
of the hoop at each longitudinal end of the stent is square to the longitudinal

axis of the stent. 
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 9-13 further comprising securing
means for securing adjacent hoops.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 14 wherein said securing means comprise
a loop element.
A prosthesis as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said male engaging
portion (42;88) comprises a frustoconical wall which flares outwardly towards

its longitudinal extremity.
A prosthesis as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said female

cooperating portion comprises a frustoconical wall which tapers radially
inwardly towards its longitudinal extremity.
A prosthesis as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said first bifurcated
prosthesis member comprises a proximal end (54;82;96) that is flared radially

outwardly towards its extremity to engage the endoluminal surface of the blood
vessel, thereby to resist longitudinal movement of the first bifurcated prosthesis

member in service.
A prosthesis as claimed in any preceding claim wherein each of said first 
and second prosthesis members comprises a graft layer.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 19 wherein said graft layer is disposed
internally of a stent.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 19 wherein said graft layer is disposed
externally of a stent.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 19, claim 20 or claim 21 wherein said
graft layer covers the entire length of a stent.
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 19-22 wherein said first bifurcated
prosthesis member and/or said second prosthesis member includes a portion at

which said graft layer is not supported by a stent.
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 19-23 wherein:

a first graft layer is disposed internally of at least one of said distal portions
which is a female cooperating portion; and
a second graft layer is disposed externally of said second prothesis member.
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 19-23 wherein:

a first graft layer is disposed externally of said female cooperation portion and
folds over the distal extremity of said female cooperating portion to form an

inner sleeve; and
a second graft layer is disposed externally of said male engaging portion and
contacts said inner sleeve to form a substantially blood-tight seal.
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 19-25 wherein said prosthesis
includes a portion having a graft layer disposed internally and externally of a

stent.
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 19-26 wherein the graft layer
composes a bio-compatible fabric selected from the group consisting of

polyester fabric and polytetrafluoroethylene fabric.
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 19-26 wherein the graft layer
comprises a fabric selected from the group consisting of woven polyester fabric

and a warp knitted polyester fabric. 
A prosthesis as claimed in any preceding claim further comprising barbs to
secure said prosthesis to said blood vessel.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
