<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616702</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AQUEOUS-PROCESSABLE TONABLE IMAGING ELEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F310	G03F7004	G03F728	G03F310	G03F728	G03F7004	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F3	G03F7	G03F7	G03F3	G03F7	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tonable, aqueous-processable, photosensitive element and process for forming a colored image from said element is described. The element comprises a support and a tonable, aqueous-processable photosensitive layer, said photosensitive layer consisting essentially of (a) an aqueous-processable, photoinsolubilizable photosensitive composition comprising a photosensitive material, and (b) a water-soluble plasticizer, wherein said photosensitive material is present in sufficient amount to insolubilize said photosensitive layer on exposure to actinic radiation, said photosensitive composition is present in sufficient amount to form a layer when said photosensitive layer is coated, and said plasticizer is present in sufficient amount to make said photosensitive layer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BODAGER GREGORY ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONROE BRUCE MALCOLM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BODAGER, GREGORY ALLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONROE, BRUCE MALCOLM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to photosensitive elements
and a process for image reproduction. More particularly
it relates to aqueous-processable, tonable,
photosensitive elements comprising a support and a
photosensitive layer provided thereon.Photosensitive elements are used in image-reproduction
processes and are well-known in the graphic
arts industry. These elements are usually exposed to
actinic radiation through an image-bearing transparency,
such as a color separation transparency, to produce an
image which is either a positive or negative with
respect to the transparency used. Positive-working
photosensitive elements are described in Chu and Cohen,
U.S. Patent No. 3,649,268 and negative-working
photosensitive elements are described in Chu and Fan,
U.S. Patent Nos. 4,174,216 and 4,191,572. Negative-working
elements produce an image that is the reverse of
the transparency through which they are exposed. That
is, the colored regions of the transparency are
uncolored in the imaged element and the uncolored
regions in the transparency are colored in the imaged
element. Positive-working elements produce an image
which is a duplicate of the transparency through which
they are exposed. That is, the colored regions of the
transparency are also colored in the imaged element and 
the uncolored regions in the transparency are uncolored
in the image element. After imagewise exposure, the
photosensitive elements may be developed by (a) washout
of soluble image areas, (b) peeling apart, (c) toning
with a colorant, or (d) combinations of these
techniques.Photosensitive elements are widely used in off-press
color proofing to simulate the images produced by
printing. Off-press color proofs include overlay
systems and surprint, or single sheet systems. In an
overlay proof, each colored image is on a separate
transparent support sheet. The individual films are
assembled in register and viewed as a composite against
an appropriate background, e.g., an opaque reflective
white sheet. In an overlay system, the individual
colored images remain separable and can be combined
separately. In a surprint proof, all of the colored
images are superposed by, for example, multiple
exposure, lamination, or transfer, on a single support.
The colored images can not be separated and viewed
individually.Many conventional proofing films are precolored by
their manufacturers. Thus, in the preparation of images
from precolored proofing films, the operator is limited
to those colors provided by the manufacturer. In
addition, the cost of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tonable, aqueous-processable photosensitive element
comprising:


(1) a support, and
(2) a tonable, aqueous-processable photosensitive layer
consisting essentially of an aqueous-processable, photoinsolubilizable,

photosensitive composition comprising

(a) a photosensitive material,
(b) a water soluble plasticizer, and
(c) optionally a binder,

wherein the photoinsolubilizable composition consists essentially
of


(i) 30-80 % by weight photosensitive material and up to 70 %
plasticizer, if no binder is present; or
(ii) 30-70 % by weight binder, 1-15 % by weight photosensitive
material and 30-70 % plasticizer.
The element of claim 1 wherein the binder is selected from
polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene oxide, poly (2-ethyl-2-oxazoline) ,

and polyvinyl pyrrolidone.
The element of claim 1 wherein the plasticizer is selected
from polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, and poly(vinyl

methyl ether). 
The element of claim 1 wherein the
photosensitive material is selected from

   (a) photosensitive, aqueous-processable
polymeric diazo resins; (b) photosensitive, aqueous-processable

bis-azides; and (c) photosensitive, aqueous-processable
derivatives of polyvinyl alcohol wherein

said polyvinyl alcohol derivative comprise
photocrosslinkable groups.
The element of claim 4 wherein the
photosensitive material is selected from

   (a) the zinc chloride complex of the 4-(phenylamino)-benzenediazonium
sulfate (1:1)

formaldehyde polymer, the zinc chloride complex of the
4- (phenylamino)-benzenediazonium phosphate (1:1)

formaldehyde polymer, the cobalt chloride complex of the
4-(phenylamino)-benzenediazonium (1:1) formaldehyde

polymer, the uncomplexed 4-(phenylamino)-benzenediazonium
phosphate (1:1) formaldehyde polymer,

and the uncomplexed 4-(phenylamino)-benzenediazonium
sulfate (1:1) formaldehyde polymer, (b) sodium 4,4'-diazidostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate,

sodium 4,4'-diazidobenzalacetophenone-2-sulfonate,
and sodium 4,4'-diazidostilbene-alpha-carboxylate,

and (c) polyvinyl
alcohol derivatives wherein said photocrosslinkable

groups are selected from the group consisting of N-alkyl
styrylpyridinium or N-alkyl styrylquinolinium.
The element of claim 5 wherein the
photosensitive material is selected from

   (a) the uncomplexed 4-(phenylamino)-benzenediazonium
phosphate (1:1) formaldehyde polymer,

and the uncomplexed 4-(phenylamino)-benzenediazonium
sulfate (1:1) formaldehyde polymer; (b) sodium 4,4'-diazidostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate; 

and (c) polyvinyl
alcohol derivatives wherein said photocrosslinkable

groups are N-alkyl styrylpyridinium.
The element of claim 1 wherein an adhesive
layer rests below or above the photosensitive layer.
A process for forming a colored image comprising the
steps of:


(A) imagewise exposing a tonable photosensitive element
as defined in any of claims 1 to 6;
(B) washing out the unexposed regions of the
photosensitive layer with an aqueous solvent; and
(C) applying a colorant to the photosensitive layer.
The process of claim 8 wherein step (C) is carried out
after step (A) and before step (B).
The process of claim 8 or 9 further comprising the
steps of:


(D) laminating an additional photosensitive element to
the first colored image formed in steps (A)-(C), said

element comprising, in order (a) a support, (b) a
photosensitive layer, and (c) an adhesive layer;
(E) removing said support from said additional
photosensitive element;
(F) imagewise exposing said additional
photosensitive element;
(G) washing out the unexposed regions of the
photosensitive layer of said additional

photosensitive element with an aqueous
solvent;
(H) coloring the photosensitive layer of said
additional photosensitive element by

adding a colorant;
 
wherein (1) step (F) is carried out before step (G); (2)

step (E) is carried out before steps (G) and (H), (3)
the support of the additional photosensitive element is

removable and transparent to actinic radiation if step
(E) is carried out after step (F) ; and (4) steps (D)-(H)

are carried out one or more times to produce a
multicolored image.
The process of claim 10 wherein step (H) is carried out
after step (F) and before step (G).
The process of claim 8 or 9 further comprising the
steps of:


(D) laminating the first colored image formed on a
support in steps (A)-(C) to a temporary receptor;
(E) removing the support from said first
colored image to produce a colored image

on said temporary receptor;
(F) carrying out steps (A)-(C) to produce an
additional colored image;
(G) laminating in register said additional
colored image to said previously formed

colored image on said temporary receptor;
(H) removing the support from said additional
colored image to produce a colored image

on said temporary receptor;
(I) carrying out steps (F) - (H) one or more
times to produce a multicolored image on

said temporary receptor; and
(J) laminating said multicolored image to a
permanent receptor;
 
wherein (1) step (D)

is carried out before step (E), (2) step (F) is carried
out before step (G), (3) steps (D)-(E) are carried out

before step (G) , (4) step (G) is carried out before step
(H), and (5) step (J) is carried out last.
The process of claim 12 wherein one or more of
the photosensitive elements comprise, in order, (a) said

support, (b) an adhesive layer, and (c) said
photosensitive layer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
