<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640102</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ACTIVATION-STATE-SPECIFIC PHOSPHOPROTEIN IMMUNODETECTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33573	C12P2108	G01N33577	C07K1640	C07K1640	C07K1628	C12P2108	C07K1618	C07K1600	G01N33577	C07K1632	G01N33573	G01N33574	C07K1600	G01N33574	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	C12P	G01N	C07K	C07K	C07K	C12P	C07K	C07K	G01N	C07K	G01N	G01N	C07K	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	C12P21	G01N33	C07K16	C07K16	C07K16	C12P21	C07K16	C07K16	G01N33	C07K16	G01N33	G01N33	C07K16	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Activation-state-specific and protein-specific antiphosphoprotein antibodies and methods for their production are disclosed. Also disclosed are methods for evaluating the prognosis and therapeutic outcome for patients using the antiphosphoprotein antibodies and methods for characterizing the activation state of a reversibly phosphorylated protein, kits including the antibodies for use in characterizing the activation state of a protein, and methods for evaluating the agonist or antagonist activity of pharmaceutically useful compounds towards the conversion of a specific protein from its inactive to its active state.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA FARBER CANCER INST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRUKER BRIAN J M D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EPSTEIN RICHARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STILES CHARLES D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRUKER, BRIAN J., M.D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EPSTEIN, RICHARD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STILES, CHARLES, D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the production of isoform specific antibodies. As will be explained below, particular antibodies produced in accordance with this invention may be used to distinguish differentially activated proteins including tyrosine kinases and proto-oncogene gene products.Treatment decisions for individual breast cancer patients are frequently based on the number of axillary lymph nodes involved with disease, estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor status, size of the primary tumor, and stage of disease at diagnosis (Tandon et al., J. clin. Oncol. 7:1120-1128 (1989)). However, even with this variety of factors, it is not possible to predict accurately the course of disease for all breast cancer patients. There is clearly a need to identify new markers in order to separate patients with good prognosis, who will need no further therapy, from those whose cancer is more likely to recur and who might benefit from more intensive adjuvant treatments.Some of the more promising candidates for new prognostic factors include proto-oncogenes which may be amplified, overexpressed, mutated or otherwise activated in malignant cells. Alterations of proto-oncogenes have been found in many forms of human tumors (Bishop, Science 235:305-311 (1987) ; Klein et al., Nature 315:190-195 (1985); Varmus, Ann. Rev. Genet., 18:553-612 (1984)). For one of these potentially transforming genes, the c-erbB-2 (HER-2, neu) gene, amplification was shown to be a strong prognostic factor in primary human breast cancers; patients with amplified c-erbB-2 had shorter disease-free and overall survival than patients with no amplification (Slamon et al., Science 235:177-182 (1987); Varley et al., Oncogene 1:423-439 (1987)).Expression of the c-erbB-2 oncogene protein itself has also been examined for its prognostic potential in both node-positive and node-negative breast cancer. In node-positive patients already known to be at high risk of recurrence, overexpression of c-erbB-2 at the protein level has been consistently associated with shorter disease-free and overall survival. In node-negative patients, however, where improved prognostic prediction has far greater therapeutic implications, c-erbB-2 receptor expression has failed to predict disease outcome in numerous studies (Slamon et al., Science 235:177-182 (1987); Borg et al., Cancer Res. 50:4332-4337 (1990); Paterson et al., Cancer Res. 51:556-567 (1991)). Hence, a more accurate method for characterizing the biological significance of receptor overexpression in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for producing an antibody that specifically binds to one of the two isoforms of a reversibly phosphorylated protein and does not bind to the other isoform of said protein nor to proteins other than said protein, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a peptide of at least three amino acids comprising a reversible phosphorylated site of said protein, a phosphorylatable amino acid in said reversible phosphorylation site being in the phosphorylation state of one of the two isoforms of said protein; b) raising antibodies against said peptide; c) isolating a population of antibodies reactive with said peptide; d) screening said population for antibodies not reactive with said peptide, wherein said step includes the step of contacting said population with said peptide that is in the phosphorylation state of the other isoform of said protein to remove antibodies from said population that bind to said peptide in said other isoform; and e) collecting antibodies not removed from said population in step (d).
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said screening step further includes the step of contacting said population with the amino acid of said phosphorylation site, whereby to remove from said population non-site specific antibodies.
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said collecting step includes the step of contacting said population with said peptide that is of the same isoform as the protein for which the desired antibody is specific.
A method for producing a desired antibody that specifically binds to one of the two isoforms of a reversibly phosphorylated protein and does not bind to the other isoform of said protein nor to proteins other than said protein, said method comprising the steps of: providing a peptide of at least three amino acids consisting essentially of a reversible phosphorylation site of said protein, a phosphorylatable amino acid in said reversible phosphorylation site being in the phosphorylation state of one of the two
 isoforms of said protein; raising antibodies against said peptide; isolating a population of antibodies reactive with said peptide; screening said antibodies against a first peptide that is in the phosphorylation state of one isoform of the protein and against a second peptide that is in the phosphorylation state of the other isoform of the protein; and isolating the desired antibody resulting from conducting said screening.
A method for producing a desired antibody that specifically binds to one of the two isoforms of a reversibly phosphorylated protein and does not bind to the other isoform of said protein nor to proteins other than said protein, said method comprising the steps of (a) providing a peptide of at least three amino acids comprising a reversible phosphorylation site of said protein, a phosphorylatable amino acid in said reversible phosphorylation site being in the phosphorylation state of one of the two isoforms of said protein; (b) raising antibodies against said peptide; (c) isolating a population of hybridoma clones producing antibodies reactive with said peptide; (d) screening said population for antibodies not reactive against a second peptide that is in the phosphorylation state of the other isoform of said protein; (e) isolating the hybridoma clones producing the desired antibody; and (f) collecting the desired antibody resulting from conducting said screening.
A method according to Claims 1, 4 or 5, wherein said two isoforms represent functionally divergent forms of said protein.
A method according to Claims 1, 4 or 5, wherein said two isoforms represent active and inactive forms of said protein.
A method according to Claim 7, wherein said protein is active in the phosphorylated state.
A method according to Claim 7, wherein said protein is inactive in the phosphorylated state.
A method according to Claims 1, 4 or 5, wherein the protein is phosphorylated on a tyrosine residue.
A method according to Claims 1, 4 or 5, wherein the protein is phosphorylated on a serine and/or threonine residue.
A method according to Claims 1, 4 or 5, wherein the protein is a tyrosine kinase.
A method according to Claims 1, 4 or 5, wherein the protein is a serine or threonine kinase.
A method according to Claims 1, 4 or 5, wherein the protein is a receptor.
A method according to Claim 14, wherein said receptor is a hormone receptor.
A method according to Claim 14, wherein said receptor is a growth factor receptor.
A method according to Claim 14, wherein said receptor is the c-erbB-2 receptor.
A method according to Claim 1, additionally including the step of testing antibodies collected in step (e) to verify that the antibodies specifically bind to one of the two isoforms of said reversibly phosphorylated protein and not to the other isoform of said protein or to proteins other than said protein.
A method according to Claim 18, wherein the said testing step comprises reacting said antibodies, with a whole-cell lysate.
Antibody that specifically binds to a reversible tyrosine phosphorylation site of a reversibly phosphorylated protein in its phosphorylated isoform and does not bind to the non-phosphorylated isoform of said protein, nor to proteins other than said protein.
Antibody that specifically binds to a reversible tyrosine phosphorylation site of a reversibly phosphorylated protein in its non-phosphorylated isoform and does not bind to the phosphorylated isoform of said protein, nor to proteins other than said protein.
Antibody that specifically binds to a reversible phosphorylation site of the c-erbB-2 receptor in its active form and does not bind to the inactive form of said c-erbB-2 receptor, nor to proteins other than said c-erbB-2 receptor.
A method for use in the screening for metastatic potential of tumours in patients with node-negative breast cancer, the method comprising the steps of: reacting an antibody according to Claim 22 with tumour tissue from a said patient; and detecting the extent of binding of said antibody to said tissue, the detected extent of binding of said antibody giving a correlation with metastatic potential.
A kit for use in identifying the activation state of a reversibly phosphorylated protein in a sample by determining whether said protein is in its active or inactive isoform, said kit comprising components required for extraction of said sample, and components necessary for use in a binding assay, said binding assay components comprising antibody according to Claims 20, 21 or 22.
A kit according to Claim 24, wherein said antibody is a monoclonal antibody.
A kit according to Claims 24 or 25, wherein said components necessary for use in a binding assay further comprise a second indicator antibody linked to an indicator reagent.
A kit according to Claim 26, wherein said indicator reagent is selected from fluorescent, colorimetric, immunoperoxidase and isotopic raegents.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
