<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617793</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL SAMPLING OF INDIVIDUAL PULSES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R1334	G01J1100	G01R1322	G01J1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01J	G01R	G01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R13	G01J11	G01R13	G01J11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device and a process for enabling an incident wide bandwidth (greater than about 1GHz) short duration (less than about 10 microseconds) individual pulse of electromagnetic radiation to be digitally sampled at a sampling rate that is achievable by available digital sampling circuits. The incident pulse is modulated onto an optical signal to form a modulated optical signal and the whole, or successive or randomly selected parts, of the modulated optical signal are replicated using optical time delay means. The resulting plurality of modulated optical signal representations of the whole or parts of the incident pulse can then be digitally sampled at a sampling rate which is reduced in proportion to the number of replications to obtain a complete digital representation of the incident pulse.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SECR DEFENCE BRIT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEFENCE IN HER BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S GVMNT. OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN 
&
 NORTHERN IRELAND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS MEIRION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS, MEIRION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a device for converting incident wide bandwidth
short duration individual pulses of electro-magnetic radiation, in
particular individual pulses with bandwidths greater than 1GHz and
durations of an order of or less than 10 microseconds, into forms that can
be more readily digitally sampled.Digital sampling of an analogue signal usually employs analogue-to-digital
convertors (ADCs) and is performed to obtain a digital record of the
signal, in a form suitable for storage, analysis, manipulation by computer
or display on a digital oscilloscope, etc. For an analogue signal of
bandwidth B to be sampled sufficiently, ie. so that the analogue signal
can be reproduced from the digital record without distortion, the sampling
rate should be equal to or exceed the Nyquist sampling rate of 2B. For
signals of low bandwidth, for example, audio signals it is not difficult
to sample a waveform continuously at the required rate, which is of the
order of 10kHz. The ADCs used for such tasks may be of the "successive
approximation" type, which provide great accuracy at low sampling rates.
For wider bandwidth signals, which require higher sampling rates, it
becomes necessary to use the more complicated and expensive "flash
convertor" technology in which the incoming signal is compared with many
reference voltages in parallel. For pulses whose bandwidth is greater
than around 1GHz there are no ADCs available at the present time which can
operate at the required sampling rate.For repetitive pulses with bandwidths greater than 1GHz it is possible to
obtain a digital record of a single pulse by taking successive or
quasi-random samples on successive pulses at a sampling rate lower than
2B in order to eventually build up a replica of the repeated pulse. This
is a procedure which is commonly used in commercial measurement equipment,
for example, digital oscilloscopes. However, this does not solve the
problem of sampling an individual, short duration pulse with a bandwidth
greater than 1GHz which must be digitised in a single acquisition cycle. The developers of digital oscilloscopes have attempted to tackle this problem by conducting
research to produce faster sampling methods, i.e. faster ADCs. However, this approach incurs
large development costs and leads to state of the art hardware being used which naturally is
very expensive. This research has enabled (at the present time) sampling rates of up to around
one gigasample per second to be achieved, but at an accuracy of only a few bits. A sampling
rate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for converting wide bandwidth, short duration individual pulses of electro-magnetic
radiation into a form that can be more readily digitally sampled comprising a

source of optical radiation (2), a modulating means (4) which modulates the optical
radiation with the pulse to form a modulated optical signal, an optical time delay means

(18a...e) for time delaying at least parts of the modulated optical signal by a plurality of
incremental time delays, to produce outputs from the optical time delay means (18a...e)

which comprise a plurality of modulated optical signals delayed in time with respect to
one another and each substantially identical in profile to at least part of the individual

pulse and a converting means (22a...e) for converting the modulated optical signals
output from the optical time delay means (18a...e) into electrical signals, characterised

in that it further comprises,

a receiving means (6) for receiving a wide bandwidth, short duration pulse of
electro-magnetic radiation and relaying it to the modulating means (4),
and a digital sampling means (23) for digitally sampling the electrical signals
output from the converting means (22a...e).
A device according to claim 1 characterised in that the differences between successive
incremental time delays are greater than the duration of the incident individual pulse.
A device according to claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the optical time delay
means comprises a plurality of optical fibres of different incremental lengths (18a...e)

and a coupling means for directing the modulated optical signal into the input ends of
every fibre (18a...e) so that they are all illuminated by the modulated optical signal. 
A device according to claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the optical time delay
means comprises two or more pluralities of optical fibres (28, 38) arranged in series, a

first coupling means (34) for directing the modulated optical signal into every input end
of the first plurality of optical fibres (28) and further coupling means (36) for directing

into every input end of successive pluralities of optical fibres (38) the pulses from every
output end of a preceding plurality of optical fibres.
A device according to claim 2 characterised in that the optical time delay means
comprises a recirculating loop of optical fibre (50), and optical coupling means (44, 46)

are provided to couple the modulated optical signal into the recirculating loop and to
couple at least a portion of the modulated optical signal out of the recirculating loop.
A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the
differences between successive incremental time delays are constant.
A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the device
additionally comprises a triggering means (8, 10, 12, 14, 16) for causing an impulse to

be modulated onto the optical radiation at a pre-determined time before the
beginning of the modulated optical signal.
A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the light
source (2) is a substantially coherent light source.
A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the light
source is a semiconductor laser (2).
A device according to claim 9 characterised in that the output of the semiconductor
laser (2) is internally modulated with the pulse. 
A device according to any of claims 1 to 9 characterised in that the output of the light
source (2) is externally modulated with the pulse.
A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the
converting means comprises one wide band photo-diode (20).
A device according to any of the claims 1 to 11 characterised in that the converting
means comprises a plurality of wide bandwidth photo-diodes (20a...e).
A device according to claim 13 characterised in that the electrical signals from the wide
bandwidth photo-diodes (20a...e) are combined.
A device according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the digital
sampling means comprises a digital sampling circuit.
A device according to any of the claims 1 to 14 characterised in that the digital
sampling means comprises a plurality of digital sampling circuits (125a...e).
A device according to claim 16 characterised in that the electrical signals from the
converting means are split and the resulting electrical signals are input into separate

digital sampling circuits.
A device according to claim 16 or claim 17 characterised in that the digital sampling
means comprises a pulse generator for generating trigger pulses (210), a plurality of

digital sampling circuits (204, 214, 224) and a corresponding number of delay means
(206, 216, 226) for transmitting the trigger pulse to respective digital sampling circuits

in such a way that each digital sampling circuit is triggered by a trigger pulse at a
different time. 
A device according to claim 18 characterised in that the digital sampling means
comprises an optical pulse generator (210) for generating optical pulses, a plurality of

digital sampling circuits (204, 214, 224) and a corresponding plurality of optical fibre
delay lines of different lengths (206, 216, 226) for transmitting the optical pulses to

respective digital sampling circuits to trigger said circuits.
A process for converting wide bandwidth short duration individual pulses of electro-magnetic
radiation into a form that can be more readily digitally sampled, comprising

the steps of;

a) producing optical radiation,
b) receiving a wide bandwidth short duration individual pulse of electro-magnetic
radiation,
c) modulating the optical radiation with the pulse to form a modulated optical signal,
d) time-delaying at least parts of the modulated optical signal by a plurality of
incremental time delays, to produce a plurality of modulated optical signals delayed in

time with respect to one another and each having a profile identical to at least part of
that of the incident individual pulse,
e) converting the modulated optical signals output from the time delay means into
electrical signals, and
f) digitally sampling the electrical signals.
A process according to claim 20 characterised in that the differences between
successive incremental time delays are greater than the duration of the incident

individual pulse.
A process according to claim 20 or claim 21 characterised in that the differences

between successive time delays are constant.
A process according to any one of claims 20 to 22 which additionally includes
modulating an impulse onto the optical radiation at a predetermined time before the

beginning of the modulated optical signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
