<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650793</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Keyless drill Chuck.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B3110	B23B31107	B23B3112	B23B3122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	B23B	B23B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B31	B23B31	B23B31	B23B31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A keyless drill (10) chuck apparatus includes a tubular body having 
a longitudinal bore (21) that can 

include first and second bore sections (12,14) 
The first bore section (12) is of a smaller diameter and is closer to the 

proximal end portion of the drill, that end portion is connected to a 
tool driver, motor or the like. The second bore section (14) is larger 

diameter portion that is opened ended. A pair of bearing supports 
are positioned at the two bore sections. Each of the bearing holders 

carriers a plurality of conically-shaped bearing members. During 
use, a drill bit can be placed in either of the bore sections and into 

engagement with one of the selected sets of bearing. During use, 
different diameter drill bits can thus be placed as desired in the 

smaller of larger bore sections and into engagement with the first or 
second set of bearing. Scalloped portions of the tool body adjacent 

each of the bores are provided in a corresponding number to the 
number of bearings. Each of the bearings registers in one of the 

scalloped portions. During use, rotational energy is transmitted 
between the tool body and the drill bit via the conical bearing. Each 

bearing bites into a scalloped portion and into the drill bit. Because 
the scalloped portion provides a dished surface, the bite is greater as 

the drill attempts to rotate relative to the tool body. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW RICHARDS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW RICHARDS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARIK GREGORY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERSON RAYMOND H JNR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARIK, GREGORY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERSON, RAYMOND H., JNR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to drill devices and more 
particularly to an improved keyless drill chuck than can hold drill bits 
of different diameters. More particularly, the present invention 
relates to an improved drill chuck apparatus that can support 
cylindrically shaped drill bits of different diameters using a tubular 
support member having different internal diameters defining two bore 
sections for holding smaller and larger drill bits respectively and 
wherein a plurality of conically shaped members registers against the 
drill bit and against scalloped or dished portions of the tubular 
member wall to cam the drill when rotational energy is applied, 
thereby holding the drill securely with respect to the tubular member. During surgical procedures, rotary drills are often used, and 
most frequently in the orthopaedic surgical field. Power and hand 
drills desirably work with conventional cylindrically shaped drill bits 
rather than with some specialised drill bit that has external 
projections or non-typical configurations. One of the problems with commercially available electric drills, 
hand drills and the like in the orthopaedic surgical industry is that of 
lost time. During surgical operations, a large number of personnel 
are often involved in the procedure. The expense of surgical 
operations can be measured in the expense per minute, which can 
be staggering. It is extremely important to utilize the operating room 
time as effectively as possible. This is especially important when 
considering limited tourniquet time in many surgical operations, not 
to mention extreme cost of the operating room on a minute by minute 
basis. Therefore, it is important to eliminate lost time associated with 
changing surgical instruments, modifying instruments or selecting 
instruments. During orthopaedic surgical procedures, it is common to use 
"trial" members before selecting a particular prosthesis, support 
member, bone plate, drill bit or the like. It is common for a surgeon 
to select a number of drill bits for a particular procedure before 
deciding upon a final diameter drill bit in a given situation. Selection  
 
of an appropriate drill bit for a given surgical procedure is a problem 
that has long plagued the art. The connecting and disconnecting of drills and reamers to 
motor drives, electrical drills, hand drills and the like is a major time 
consuming exercise during actual surgery. Therefore, there is a 
need for a drill apparatus that will allow the surgeon to quickly 
connect
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A keyless chuck apparatus (10) for holding cylindrically 
shaped tool bits of different diameters comprising: 

   a tool housing (10) that has proximal and distal end portions 
(12,14) and a tool body (11) having a tool body wall with an inner 

surface (26) that defines a central longitudinal bore (21) that extends 
from a position adjacent the proximal end of the tool body toward the 

distal end thereof, the bore (21) having a central longitudinal axis 
(75) characterised in that 

   at least one bearing holder (30,40) registers in the bore (21), 
the bearing holder (30,40) carrying at least one bearing (39), the tool 

body wall carrying cam surface means (22,23,24) at the inner 
surface for moving the bearing (39) to grip a tool bit (68) when the 

tool body (11) is torqued relative to the tool bit (68), wherein means 
(53,54,55) for preloading the interface between the bearing (39) and 

the tool bit (68) enable the bearing (39) to be biased against the tool 
bit (68) and the inner wall of the tool body (11) at the cam surface 

means (39,40,49). 
A keyless chuck apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
bore (21) includes a smaller diameter section (12) near the distal end 

and a larger diameter section (14) adjacent the proximal end, a first 
small bearing holder (30) registers the smaller diameter section (12) 

of the bore (21) and a second large bearing holder (40) registers the 
larger diameter section (14) of the bore (21) wherein smaller 

diameter tool bits are gripped by bearings of the small bearing holder 
(30) and larger diameter tool bits are gripped by bearings of the large 

bearing holder (40) during use. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2 wherein the bearing holders 
(30,40) have central openings (37) for receiving a tool. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the bearing 
holder openings (37) are axially aligned. 
The apparatus of any of claims 2 to 4 wherein the larger 
bearing holder (40) has at least one circumferentially located recess 

(44), each sized and shaped to hold a bearing during use. 
The apparatus of any of claims 2 to 5 wherein the smaller 
bearing holder (30) has at least one circumferentially located recess 

(36), each sized and shaped to hold a bearing during use. 
The apparatus of claims 2 to 6 wherein the smaller and larger 
bore sections (30, 40) are each generally cylindrically shaped. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 7 wherein the camming 
means (22, 23, 24) comprises in part at least one circumferentially 

located recess (22) positioned about the inner wall (11) of the tool 
body, each recess having a transverse surface (23) and a dished 

surface (24). 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein each dished surface (24) 
includes a portion that is inclined relative to the central longitudinal 

axis of the tool body (11). 
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein each of the bearings (39) is 
frustroconically shaped (47, 48, 49), and each of the dished surfaces 

(24) has a curved surface, and the curvature of each dished surface 
is greater than the curvature of the adjacent bearing (39). 
The apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims 
wherein each of the bearings (39) is frustroconically shaped (47, 48, 

49). 
The apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims 

wherein one of the bearing holders (30, 40) and the tool body (11) 
each have a transverse slot (28, 29, 32, 33)therethrough, and further 

comprising a transverse peg member (65)for insertion through the 
slots (28, 29, 32, 33) to hold the bearing member in a fixed position 

relative to the tool body end portions. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the peg member (65) 
engages the smaller bearing holder (39) during use. 
The apparatus of claim 12 or 13 wherein the peg member (65) 
has an opening (66) for allowing a tool bit (68) to extend through the 

peg (65). 
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims further 
comprising release means (53, 54) for releasing a tool that is being 

gripped by the bearings. 
The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the release means (53, 54, 
55) is manually operable. 
The apparatus of claim 15 or 16 wherein the release means 
comprises a member (55) movably supported at the proximal end of 

the tool body (11) between gripping and releasing positions. 
The apparatus of any of claims 15 to 17 wherein the release 
means (55) is urged into the gripping position (54) by the spring 

means (53). 
The apparatus of any of claims 15 to 18 wherein the release 
means is an annular member having a curved surface (60) and a 

transverse surface (59). 
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the transverse surface (59) 
has an opening (58) that registers with the tool bit (68) being held. 
A keyless chuck apparatus for holding cylindrically shaped drill 
bits of different diameters, comprising: 


a) a tool housing that has proximal and distal end 
portions; 
b) the tool body having a tool body wall with an inner 
surface that defines a central longitudinal bore that extends from a 

position adjacent the proximal end of the tool body toward the distal 
end thereof, the bore including a smaller diameter section near said 

distal end and a larger diameter adjacent said proximal end; 
c) a first smaller bearing holder that registers the smaller 
diameter section of the bore; 
d) a second layer bearing holder that registers the larger 
diameter section of the bore; 
e) at least one bearing carried in the first and second 
bearing holders; 
f) cam means carried by the tool body wall at the inner 
surface for moving each of the bearings to grip the tool bit when the 

tool body is torqued relative to the tool bit; 
g) means for pre-loading the interface between each 
bearing and the tool bit; 
h) wherein smaller diameter tool bits are gripped by 
bearings of the smaller bearing holder and larger diameter tool bits 

are gripped by bearings of the larger bearing holder during use. 
A keyless chuck apparatus for holding cylindrically shaped 
tool bits of different diameters, comprising: 


a) a tool housing that has proximal and distal end 
portions; 
b) a tool body having a tool body wall with an inner 
surface that defines a central longitudinal bore that extends from a 

position adjacent the proximal end of the tool body toward the distal 
end thereof, the bore having a central longitudinal axis; 
c) at least one bearing holder that registers in the bore, 
said holder comprising an annular member with a central opening 

that coincides with the central longitudinal axis of the tool body bore 
during use; 
d) at least one bearing carried in the bearing holder; 
e) cam surface means carried by the tool body wall at the 
inner surface for moving the bearing to grip the tool bit; 
f) means for pre-loading the interface between the 
bearing and the tool bit, so that the bearing is biased to bear against 

the tool bit and the inner wall of the tool body at the cam surface 
means; 
g) release means for disengaging the spring means so 
that a drill bit can be inserted into the tool body bore or removed 

therefrom. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
