<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628222</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMOTIVE POWER DISTRIBUTION AND SWITCHING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M220	H01M220	H01M234	H01M1042	H01M1042	H01M1044	H02J700	H02J700	H02J716	H02J716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M2	H01M2	H01M2	H01M10	H01M10	H01M10	H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automotive battery switching and distribution system which includes a battery system in combination with an integrated power switching system, for providing protection for the battery system by synchronizing the battery system's discharge rate with the electrochemical reactions of the battery system. The battery system has at least two discharge characteristics, one capable of short high current discharge of electric power for cranking an internal combustion engine, and the other for providing a lower rate of current discharge as required for vehicle auxiliary power. The power switching system acts in response to increased voltage or current levels to connect or disconnect the battery with related loads or power sources as necessary for optimum battery protection and system operation. Each portion of the battery system is separately connected to the electrical system of the automobile so that draining one portion of the battery system will not affect the electrical system that is connected to the other portion of the battery system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WITEHIRA PITA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WITEHIRA PITA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITEHIRA PITA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITEHIRA PITA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
AUTOMOTIVE POWER DISTRIBUTION AND SWITCHING SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to Automobile Electrical Power Distribution and Switching Systems.PACKQRQW APThe prior art discloses conventional automobiles utilizing internal combustion engines started by electric starter motors. The starter motor cranks the engine and an electrical ignition system. Power for cranking and ignition is provided by a lead acid storage battery commonly referred to as a Starting, Lighting and Ignition (SLI) Battery. After the engine starts, the vehicle's battery is recharged by a power generator driven by the internal combustion engine. The power generator in modern vehicles utilizes alternating current for efficiency. The alternating current is "rectified" to provide direct current to most electrical consumers throughout the vehicle. The direct current also is used to re¬ charge the battery. The charging unit of a modern vehicle is commonly referred to as the Alternator.The alternator usually provides sufficient current to run the electrical consumers when the engine is operating. The battery acts as a "load levelling" device to ensure smooth and constant direct current throughout the vehicle's electrical network.When the vehicle's engine is not operating, power to the various electrical consumers must be provided by the SLI battery. For safety and other reasons, the SLI battery should provide a minimum amount of reserve power to operate the headlights, ignition and window wipers. For example, if the alternator of the vehicle should fail at night, while it is raining, the vehicle's SLI battery should provide a minimum amount of power to operate the vehicle's lights, wipers, and ignition system for a specified period of time. Preferably, the user should be able to drive the vehicle for between 30 and 100 minutes with a failed alternator.Worldwide standards have been established to measure an SLI battery's "reserve capacity" for supplying electrical power to important consumers when the alternator system fails. Generally, the vehicle manufacturer chooses a particular SLI battery based upon established standards applied to a particular vehicle's full specifications and electrical load requirements. 

An important safety consideration regarding the vehicle's battery capacity is the amount of power provided by the battery during times of emergency. In times of emergency, the vehicle user will normally activate park lights or hazard lights as a warning to oncoming traffic. The vehicle's engine may not be operable at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1. An electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle comprising: a first power source configured to provide rapid, high current discharge power to a first load; a second power source configured to provide slow, deep cycle discharge power to a second load; a first switch for electrically connecting the first power source to the second power source; and means, responsive to a first selected condition detected in the vehicle switching system, for placing the first switch in a first configuration which electrically separates the first power source from the second power source.
2. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 1, wherein the means for placing the first switch in a first configuration comprises an electrical circuit for detecting at least one of the selected conditions in the vehicle switching system.
3. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 1, wherein the first selected condition comprises a battery system temperature above a specified threshold.
4. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 1, wherein the first selected condition comprises an alternator voltage below a specified threshold.
5. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 1, further comprising: means, responsive to a second selected condition detected in the vehicle switching system, for placing the first switch in a second configuration which electrically connects the first power source to the second power source.
6. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 5, wherein the means for placing the first switch in a second configuration comprises an electrical circuit for detecting the second selected condition in the vehicle switching system.
17 


7. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 5, wherein the second selected condition comprises a battery system temperature below a specified threshold.
8. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 5, wherein the second selected condition comprises an alternator voltage above a specified threshold.
9. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 5, wherein the second selected condition comprises positioning of a key switch in a starting position to electrically connect the first power source and second power source to a starter motor.
10. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 1, further comprising: a second switch for electrically connecting the second power source to the second load; and means, responsive to selected conditions detected in the vehicle switching system, for placing the second switch in a first configuration which electrically separates the second power source from the second load.
11. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 10, wherein the means for placing the second switch in a first configuration comprises an electrical circuit for detecting a third selected condition in the vehicle switching system.
12. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 10, wherein the third selected condition comprises a second power source voltage level below a specified threshold.
13. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 1, further comprising: a third switch for electrically connecting the second power source to the second load; and means, responsive to commands initiated by a vehicle user, for placing the third switch in a second configuration which electrically connects the second power source to the second load.
14. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 13, wherein the means for placing the third switch in a second configuration comprises:
18 


 a sensor for detecting an external stimulus provided by the vehicle user, a means for generating a control signal responsive to the external stimulus; a decoder electrically connected to the third switch; and a signalling bus electrically connected to the decoder for transmitting the control signal to the decoder.
15. A vehicle electric power distribution and switching system, including a battery system, comprising: means for measuring the electrochemical reactions of the battery system; means, responsive to the measuring means, for shedding loads from the battery system when the battery system produces a voltage below a specified level; means for providing an alternating current to charge the battery system; means for rectifying the alternating current; means for independently charging the positive terminals of the battery system based on the temperature of the battery system and based on the voltage associated with the rectified alternating current; and means responsive to an external stimulus for electrically connecting the first positive terminal to the second positive terminal during a time period defined by the presence of the external stimulus, so as to carry power from both the first and second positive terminals to an electrical load connected to the first positive terminal during said time period.
16. The vehicle electric power distribution and switching system defined in Claim 15, further comprising: means for regulating a voltage created by the alternating current producing means based on the temperature of the battery system, said voltage regulating means being positioned proximate to the battery system so as to achieve a more accurate reading of the battery system temperature.
17. The vehicle electric power distribution and switching system defined in Claim 15, further comprising:
19 


 means, responsive to commands initiated by a vehicle user, for electrically connecting a selected load to the battery system.
18. The vehicle electric power distribution and switching system defined in Claim 17, wherein the means for connecting the selected load comprises: means for detecting a vehicle user request that the selected load be connected to the battery system; means for generating a control signal in response to the detected user request; means associated with the load for decoding the control signal; means for distributing the control signal to the decoding means; means associated with the decoding means and responsive to the decoded control signal for electrically connecting the battery system to the selected load.
19. An electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle having an alternator and a plurality of electrical loads comprising: a battery system having at least two positive terminals, wherein a first positive terminal is connected to a series of cells optimized for rapid, high current discharge power, and wherein a second positive terminal is connected to a series of cells optimized for slow, deep cycle discharge power, at least one sensor for detecting selected conditions in the power distribution and switching system; a plurality of switches, positioned in the battery system so as to selectively, electrically connect the battery system to the loads, said switches being responsive to the detection of selected conditions in the power distribution and switching system, for controlling the connection of selected loads to the battery system and for controlling the charging of the battery system by the alternator in response to detection of said selected conditions.
20. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim
19, further comprising a rectifier, and wherein the alternator provides an alternating current to charge the battery system and the alternator is connected to the rectifier for rectifying the alternating current provided by the alternator.
21. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim
20, further comprising a voltage regulator for regulating the voltage associated with the alternating current
20 


22. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 21, wherein the voltage regulator is positioned proximate the battery system.
23. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 21, wherein the voltage regulator regulates the voltage provided by the alternator to the battery system based upon the temperature and chemical conditions of the battery system.
24. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, wherein the first positive terminal provides a high level current sufficient for supply of power to a conventional vehicle starter motor, during cranking of the motor when starting an associated engine.
25. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, wherein the second positive terminal provides a current sufficient for supply of power to conventional vehicle electronic auxiliary loads.
26. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, wherein at least one of the plurality of switches disables the charging of the first positive terminal of the battery system when the alternator produces a voltage below a specified level or when the temperature of the battery system is above a specified level.
27. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, wherein at least one of the plurality of switches enables the charging of both the positive terminals when the alternator is producing a voltage above a specified level and the temperature of the battery system is below a specified level.
28. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, wherein at least one of the plurality of switches enables the charging of the first positive terminal when the alternator is producing a voltage above a specified level.
29. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, wherein at least one of the plurality of switches electrically connects the second positive terminal to a starter motor of a conventional vehicle when the voltage of the battery system at the first positive terminal drops below a specified level.
30. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 21, wherein the voltage regulator further comprises a Zener diode and a temperature sensitive resistor.
31. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, wherein at least one of the plurality of switches electrically separates the loads from
21 


 the battery system when the voltage of the battery system at the second positive terminal drops below a specified level.
32. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 31, wherein the switch further comprises a conducting coil of specified resistance providing gradual reduction of electromagnetic force on the switch in synchronization with the voltage at the second positive terminal.
33. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, wherein at least one of the plurality of switches comprises a key switch capable of alternatively electrically connecting the positive terminals to at least one auxiliary load, an ignition system, and a starter motor of a conventional vehicle.
34. The electrical power distribution and switching system for a vehicle as defined in Claim 19, further comprising a plurality of low current loads permanently electrically connected to the second positive terminal.
22 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
