<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658083</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF DECONTAMINATION OF FOOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23B918	A23L334	A23L33409	A23L33454	A23B7157	A23B7144	A23B714	A23B7144	A23L3358	A23B900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23B	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23B	A23B	A23B	A23B	A23L	A23B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23B9	A23L3	A23L3	A23L3	A23B7	A23B7	A23B7	A23B7	A23L3	A23B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system of decontaminating the surface of food products including seeds, grains, nuts, spices, fruits and dried and dehydrated food with hydrogen peroxide vapor is provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN STERILIZER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN STERILIZER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALMASSO JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIELNIK THADDEUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALMASSO, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIELNIK, THADDEUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the 
fumigation and decontamination of the surface of 
food products, including seeds, nuts, grains, 
fruits, spices, dried and dehydrated food products.  
 Decontamination food products such as 
seeds, grains, nuts, spices, dried and dehydrated 
foods and fruits of yeast, molds, fungi, bacteria 
(and other microorganism), insect larvae and eggs, 
insects and mycotoxins produced by certain fungi, 
including species of Penicillium and Aspergillus, is 
an important concern for food growers, packagers, 
processors and consumers. How best to treat such 
foods products without damaging the appearance, 
texture, taste or other organoleptic properties of 
the food and without imposing environmental or 
health risks, e.g. depositing carcinogenic or 
mutagenic chemicals onto the foods or releasing such 
chemicals into the environment, because of such 
treatments has long been an area of investigation. 
Currently, propylene oxide is commonly used to 
decontaminate food products. Unfortunately, 
propylene oxide treatment poses undesirable 
environment and carcinogenic risks. Other 
decontamination treatments involve the use of 
ethanol, methyl bromide, chloropicrin, and 
hypochlorite. For purposes of this invention, the word 
decontamination is used to indicate that the food 
products have been rid of the undesirable organisms 
to enhance the shelf life and processing attributes 
of the food, including meeting the Federal Food and 
Drug Administration guidelines and food processor 
specifications. The word is meant to include the 
concepts of disinfestation and fumigation as well. Current decontamination techniques do not 
decontaminate foods of all bacteria, molds, yeast or 
decompose mycotoxins found on food products. For  
 
example, Tilletia controversa, the causal agent of 
dwarf bunt of wheat, a disease occurring primarily 
in winter wheat growing in regions having prolonged 
snow cover is particularly difficult to kill. In 
fact, because there is no known occurrence of 
Tilletia controversa in the Peoples Republic of 
China (PRC), the PRC requires that imported wheat be 
free of T. controversa teliospores. Accordingly, 
wheat from the United States is often not imported 
into the PRC. An economically feasible method to 
decontaminate wheat containing T. controversa is a 
solution to this problem. The present invention overcomes the above 
described disadvantages of current decontaminate 
methods by decontaminating food products by exposing 
the food products to vapor phase
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of decontamination the surface of food products, 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) generating hydrogen peroxide vapor from a 
multi-component liquid solution such that the ratio of 

the hydrogen peroxide in the vapor is substantially the 
same weight percent composition as the liquid solution 

from which the vapor is generated; and 
(b) exposing the surface of the food product to 
said hydrogen peroxide vapor for an effective amount of 

time to kill bacteria, molds, or yeast and to oxidize 
any mycotoxins on the surface of the food product. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of exposing the 
surface of the food products further includes the step 

of using a multi-component liquid solution in the concentration 
of between 25-70% hydrogen peroxide. 
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the step of exposing 
the surface of food products further includes the 

step of exposing the food products to the hydrogen peroxide 
vapor for a time period of from 1-96 minutes. 
The method of one of the claims 1 to 3, wherein the 
step of exposing the surface of the food product to hydrogen 

peroxide vapor further comprises removing any 
hydrogen peroxide residue remaining after the exposure. 
A method of one of the claims 1 to 3, comprising further 
the steps of: 


(b-1) preheating said food product to avoid condensation; 
(b-2) exposing the food product to a first treatment 
of hydrogen peroxide vapor using a deep vacuum in 

a hydrogen peroxide treatment chamber;  
 
(b-3) exposing the food product to a second 
treatment of hydrogen peroxide vapor using a shallow 

vacuum in said hydrogen peroxide treatment chamber; and 
(b-4) removing any hydrogen peroxide vapor residue 
remaining on the food product after exposure in 

steps (b-2) and (b-3). 
A method of one of the claims 1 to 3, comprising further 
the steps of: 


(a-1) dehumidifying the treatment chamber; 
(b-1) exposing the food product in the treatment 
chamber to a vapor consisting essentially of hydrogen 

peroxide vapor and water vapor under a first vacuum, 
wherein the exposure is maintained for an amount of 

time effective to decontaminate the food product; and 
(b-2) removing substantially all hydrogen peroxide 
vapor residue from the food product after the exposure 

to the vapor; wherein the food product is selected 
from the group consisting of dried foods, dehydrated 

foods, and mixtures thereof. 
The method according to claim 6, wherein the first vacuum 
is about 5066.3 Pa (38 mmHg). 
The method according to claim 6, 
wherein the first vacuum is about 7327 

Pa (580 mmHg). 
The method according to one of the claim 6 and 7, which 
further comprises the step of exposing the food product 

to the vapor using a second vacuum, wherein the second 
vacuum is different than the first vacuum. 
The method according to claim 9, wherein the second 
vacuum is lower than the first vacuum.  

 
The method according to claim 10, wherein the first 
vacuum is about 38 mmHg and the second vacuum is about 

53329 - 77327 Pa (400-580 mmHg). 
The method according to one of the claims 5 to 11, 
which further comprises the step of heating the treatment 

chamber to between about 45-50 degrees C during 
the step of exposing the food product. 
The method according to one of the claims 3 to 12, 
wherein the food product is exposed to the vapor for a 

time period of from about 3 to 30 minutes. 
The method of one of the claims 1 to 13, wherein the 
step of exposing the surface of the food product to hydrogen 

peroxide further comprises confining the product 
to a chamber. 
The method of one of the claims 1 to 14, wherein the 
step of exposing the surface of the food product to hydrogen 

peroxide vapor further comprising the steps of: 

(1) placing the food product on a conduit means 
to convey the food product to an exposure chamber; 
(2) conveying the food product through a chamber 
containing the hydrogen peroxide vapor; and 
(3) conveying the food product out of the exposure 
chamber. 
The method according to one of the claims 1 to 15, 
wherein the food product is selected from the group 

consisting of seeds, spices, nuts, grains, and mixtures 
thereof. 
A system for decontaminating food products, comprising: 

(a) a container means for receiving hydrogen peroxide 
vapor; said container means being designed as an  

 
exposure chamber (15) for exposing food to hydrogen 

peroxide vapor; 
(b) an introducing means for introducing the hydrogen 
peroxide vapor into the container means; and 
(c) a hydrogen peroxide vapor generating means 
(12) suitable for generating hydrogen peroxide vapor 

from a multi-component liquid solution in such a way 
that the ratio of the hydrogen peroxide in the vapor is 

substantially the same weight percent composition as 
the liquid from which the vapor is generated; 
(d) wherein a preheater (16) is provided in order 
to preheat said food products. 
A system according to claim 17, comprising a conduit 
means for transporting said food products into and out 

of said exposure chamber (15), wherein said preheater 
(16) is located before or within said exposure chamber 

(15). 
A system according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the system 
further comprises a residue removing means (14) for 

removing any hydrogen peroxide vapor or residue from 
the food product; and a conduit means (10) for transporting 

the food product from the exposure chamber to 
residue removing means. 
A system according to claim 19, wherein the residue removing 
means (14) is a heat source for heating the atmosphere 

and atmosphere around the food product to 
drive off any hydrogen peroxide vapor residue. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
