<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644502</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Laser plotter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F104	B23K2608	B23K2608	G03F104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	B23K	B23K	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F1	B23K26	B23K26	G03F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser plotter having the ability to cut registration holes while 
the medium is in a plotting location within the laser plotter. The plotter 

includes laser plotting apparatus (11) and laser cutting apparatus (13) whose 
axes of rotation (32) are identical. The laser plotting and laser cutting 

apparatus can utilize the same or different optical paths. The laser plotting 
apparatus can perform raster and vector scanning motions. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORPORATION LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEN-DAVID ILAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEN-DAVID, ILAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to hole punch systems for
laser plotters generally and to laser hole cutting systems for
such plotters in particular.In the printing world, after artwork has been plotted
onto a film, the artwork is transferred to a printing plate
typically via a contact process. The printing plate is later to
be placed on a printing press. In order to ensure that the
artwork is registered properly on the material to be printed, the
film must be properly registered on the printing plate.In order to properly register the film on the printing
plate, registration holes, corresponding to registration pins on
the printing press and located outside of the area of the
artwork, are punched out of the film prior to placing it on the
printing plate.A film which it is desired to cut is illustrated in
Fig. 1 to which reference is now made. The page has artwork 8
around which are round holes 10 and oval holes 12 on the outer
edges of the film, a line 13 indicating where the film should be
cut to create two separate films and round holes 14 next to the
line 13 for providing holes on the "inner" edges of the two
separate films.The punching can occur before or after placing the film
into the plotter, or while the film is within the plotter.For punching after the film has exitted the plotter,
a separate punch and die unit is typically utilized. Such units
register the holes 10 or 12 with respect to the artwork 8 thereon
either manually or via a cross-haired vision system.If the holes are punched prior to plotting, the film,
which has registration holes, is registered on the plotting
surface (a drum or a flat surface) with registration pins which
match the registration holes. The plotting of the artwork is 
then designed to be registered to the locations of the
registration pins. However, there exist many types of films with
many different types of holes and each plotter has a fixed and
limited number of hole types to which it conforms.Plotters which have hole punching units within them are
also known. One such plotter, a punch and die unit formed within
an external drum plotter, is described in Canadian Patent
Publication A1-2,063,479 to Ben-David et al.
Prior to plotting, the punch and die units are
placed in desired locations and thereafter, the artwork 8 is
formed on the film in precise registration with the location of
the punch and die unit. Punching can occur at any appropriate
time, before or after plotting.The Background of '479 describes many other types of
hole cutting systems which, therefore,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser plotter comprising:

a laser plotting means for plotting artwork onto a plotting medium, said laser
plotting means comprising plotting beam scanning apparatus having a first axis of

rotation, characterised by laser cutting means for cutting holes in said plotting medium in registration
with said artwork

said laser cutting means comprising cutting beam scanning

apparatus having a second axis of rotation, in that said first and second axes of
rotation are the same axis (32), in that said laser plotting means and said laser cutting

means have a common laser source (100) and have common dual mode beam
scanning apparatus (104) for selectively scanning said cutting beam and said plotting

beam, and in that said dual mode beam scanning apparatus (104) comprises:
a scanning element (44);
a first motor (132) for use during cutting;
a second motor (130) for use during plotting having an axle (136);
said axle (136) being attached to said scanning element (44); and
a coupling (134) for coupling said first motor (132) to said axle (138) during
cutting.
A laser plotter according to claim 1 and wherein said laser source (100) is a
master oscillator/power amplifier (MOPA) laser diode.
A laser plotter according to claim 1 and comprising a beam processing unit
(102, 158) for selectively providing a cutting beam and a plotting beam from the

output of said laser source (100). 
A laser plotter according to claim 3 and characterized in that said laser cutting
and laser plotting means direct said cutting and plotting beams along generally the

same optical path.
A laser plotter according to claim 3 and wherein said beam processing unit
(150) comprises a beam frequency changer (152) for selectively producing a plotting

beam having a different frequency than an input cutting beam.
A laser plotter according to claim 5 and wherein said beam frequency changer
comprises a crystal (152) for producing said plotting beam.
A laser plotter according to claim 6 and wherein said crystal (152) provides on
output one of the second and third harmonics of the input cutting beam.
A laser plotter according to claim 3 and wherein said beam processing unit
(102) comprises a beam spot size changer for selectively producing a plotting beam

having a large spot size and a cutting beam having a small spot size.
A laser plotter according to claim 8 and wherein said plotting medium is heat
sensitive.
A laser plotter according to claim 1 and including a translation apparatus (32),
wherein said first motor (132) and said translation apparatus (30) provide vector

motion and said second motor (130) and said translation apparatus (30) provide raster
motion.
A laser plotter according to claim 1 having a plotting and cutting area and
comprising waste removal means (60) located away from said plotting and cutting

area. 
A laser plotter according to claim 11 and wherein said waste removal means
(76) comprises a cutting edge.
A laser plotter according to claim 1 and wherein said laser cutting means is
also operative to cut straight lines.
A laser plotter comprising:

laser plotting means for directing a plotting beam to plot artwork onto a
plotting medium and having a laser source (100); characterised in that said laser source (100) is a MOPA laser diode;
by laser cutting means for directing a cutting beam to cut holes in said plotting medium in registration with
said artwork;
in that said laser plotting and laser cutting means are combined and said
cutting and plotting beams follow a single optical path;
by a beam processing unit (150) for selectively providing a cutting beam and a
plotting beam from the output of said single laser source (100);
by a dual mode beam scanning apparatus (104) for selectively scanning said
cutting beam and said plotting beam;
and in that said dual mode beam scanning apparatus (104) comprises:
a scanning element (44);
a first motor (132) for use during cutting;
a second motor (130) for use during plotting having an axle (136), 
said axle (136) being attached to said scanning element (44); and
a coupling (134) for coupling said first motor (132) to said axle (138) during
cutting.
A laser plotter according to claim 14 and wherein said beam processing unit
(150) comprises a beam frequency changer (152) for selectively producing a plotting

beam having a smaller frequency than an input cutting beam.
A laser plotter according to claim 15 and wherein said beam frequency
changer comprises a crystal (152) for producing said plotting beam.
A laser plotter according to claim 14 wherein said laser cutting means is also
operative to cut straight lines.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
