<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644532</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Artifact, arm, method and apparatus for measuring position of the read/write arms of computer memory disks during servo-track writing.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1100	G01B1100	G01B1126	G01B1126	G01D526	G01D538	G11B5596	G11B5596	G11B2108	G11B2108	G11B2110	G11B2110	G11B2300	G11B2300	G11B2338	G11B2342	G11B2719	G11B2724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01D	G01D	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B11	G01B11	G01B11	G01B11	G01D5	G01D5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B21	G11B21	G11B21	G11B21	G11B23	G11B23	G11B23	G11B23	G11B27	G11B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An artifact (2) is used in the positioning of the read/write 
arm (4) during servo-writing (32) of a computer memory disk. 

A method for positioning the arm (4) using the artifact (2), 
and an apparatus incorporating the method is also included. 

The artifact (2), when applied to a moveable read/write arm 
84), wh
ich traverses the surface (6) of a computer memory 
disk can be read without the presence of the housing, or 

through a permeable window in the housing of the disk, and 
which is read by an external laser beam (14; 84, 85) and 

thence processed by interference laser metrology techniques 
to produce an electrical signal which provides a representation 

of the displacement of the arm (4) from the center of 
the disk. 
Winchester drives provided with one or more optical windows 
to view the artifact-containing arm are especially adaptable 

to use of this artifact (2), apparatus, and method of this 
invention. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERCHER MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PURMAL GERALD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERCHER, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PURMAL, GERALD W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This is an invention to facilitate the writing of 
servo-tracks on magnetic hard disks used as mass storage 
devices in computers. The servo-track writing process 
consists of positioning of the read-write head at the 
desired radial position on the hard disk, and then writing 
the servo track information on the hard disk. This servo 
track information contains information to allow radial 
alignment of the head on the hard disk surface, and also 
contains encoded data to identify the angular position of 
the head on the surface. An artifact, in the form of a scale, or coarse 
diffraction grating, is used in the servo-track writing of a 
computer memory disk. The artifact, when applied to a moveable read/write arm 
which traverses the surface of a computer memory disk, is 
illuminated, either directly, or through a permeable window 
in the housing of the disk by an external laser beam. The 
resulting interference pattern is then processed by  
 
interference laser metrology techniques to produce an 
electrical signal which provides a representation of the 
displacement of the arm from the center of the disk. Winchester disk drives provided with optical windows to 
view the sensor-containing arm are especially adaptable to 
use of these artifacts, this apparatus, and the method of 
this invention. The invention described herein allows the servo writing 
and sector mark generation to be performed without contact 
of the measuring system with the artifact. By using ports or 
windows in the housing of the computer memories which are 
transparent to the radiation used to create the interference 
pattern, the current invention allows the servo writing and 
sector mark generation to be performed after the housing has 
been sealed, and without the need to reopen the housing. An essential element of the modern computer, including 
the personal computer, is a mass-storage device. Unlike the random access memory (RAM) which holds the 
data which is being immediately accessed by the computer, 
the mass-storage device holds data not currently being used, 
as well as programs not currently needed. One of the most widely-used mass-storage devices used 
today is the so-called hard disk drive (HDD). The heart of 
this device is a disk, or platter, coated, often on both  
 
sides, with a magnetic surface, upon which information may 
be repeatedly written and read. Such disk drives may contain a single platter having a 
diameter of two inches or less, with storage capacities of 
20 megabytes (twenty million bytes, each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for positioning the read/write arms (4) of computer 
memory disk systems, where a computer memory disk 

is contained within a memory disk enclosure, where the 
computer memory disk system contains at least one disk 

having at least one surface (6), where the computer memory 
disk system contains an arm assembly consisting of 

at least one arm (4) carrying at least one read/write 
head (8) traversing over each such disk surface (6), 

where the method comprises: 
providing an artifact (2) in the form of a coarse 

diffraction grating on the arm assembly; 
illuminating the artifact (2) by electromagnetic radiation 

(14; 84, 85) and diffracting said electromagnetic 
radiation thereby; 

directing the diffracted electromagnetic radiation (16, 
18) onto a detector (24; 92) and 

processing the output of the detector, thus producing a 
signal which is a function of the displacement of the 

arm assembly. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the directing of the 
diffracted electromagnetic radiation (16, 18) onto a detector 

is done by an optical directing sub-system (20). 
The method of claim 2, wherein the method is used for 
the writing of servo tracks (32) o
n a magnetic disk memory, 
and further comprising producing an electrical 

signal which is a function of the displacement of the 
arm assembly relative to the center of the disk. 
The method of claim 3, wherein the diffracted electromagnetic 
radiation (16, 18) is a result of reflection off 

the artifact (2). 
The method of claim 4, further comprising: 
providing a single-frequency laser beam (14) as the 

source of electromagnetic radiation; and 
selecting of two beams (16,18) from die radiation reflected 

and diffracted by the artifact (2); 
combining the two reflected beams (16, 18) by an optical 

combining subsystem, producing an interference pattern 
having a phase thereby; and 

detecting the interference pattern by an array of detectors 
(24), thereby producing the electrical signal which 

is a function of the displacement of the arm assembly 
relative to the center of the disk. 
The method of claim 5, wherein the selecting of the two 
reflected beams is accomplished by applying a spatial 

filter (22) to the electromagnetic radiation diffracted 
and reflected from the artifact (2). 
The method of claim 5, further comprising: 
detecting the interference pattern such that at least 

three interferometric electric signals which differ only 
in their phases are generated; 

calculating the accumulated phase of the detected interference 
pattern over a period of time; and 

calculating the precise radial displacement of the arm 
assembly relative to the center of the disk from the 

accumulated phase. 
The method of claim 4, further comprising: 
providing a dual-frequency laser beam (80), consisting 

of two superimposed beams of slightly different frequencies, 
as the source of electromagnetic radiation; and 

directing the two beams (84, 85) onto the artifact by 
optical directing means (82, 88), whereby each beam impinges 

upon the artifact (2) at a different angle, and 
where the angle formed by each beam, as measured from a 

normal to the artifact (2), is equal in magnitude and 
opposite in sense to the other such angle; so that the 

two beams (84, 85) are combined, by an optical combining 
sub-system, in the plane of the artifact to create an 

interference pattern, which is then directed onto the 
detector. 
The method of claim 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8, further 
comprising: 

packaging the source of electromagnetic radiation, optical 
combining sub-system (20), optical directing sub-system 

(20), and detector into a single modular package 
(10) located outside of the memory disk enclosure. 
The method of one of the preceding claims 1 to 9, wherein 
the computer memory disk system forms an assembly 

within a sealed housing containing a window transparent 
to electromagnetic radiation. 
An apparatus for positioning the read/write arms (4) of 
computer memory disk systems, where a computer memory 

disk is contained within a memory disk enclosure, where 
the computer disk system contains at least one disk having 

at least one surface (6), where the computer memory 
disk system contains an arm assembly consisting of at 

least one arm (4) carrying at least one read/write head 
 

(8) traversing over each such disk surface (6), where 
the apparatus comprises: 

a source of electromagnetic radiation (14, 80); 
an artifact (2) in the form of a coarse diffraction grating, 

which diffracts the electromagnetic radiation, and 
which is provided on the arm assembly; 

a detector (24; 92), which produces an electrical signal 
proportional to the electromagnetic radiation (16, 18) 

diffracted by the artifact (2); and 
an electronic processing sub-system which processes the 

output of the detector, thus producing an electrical 
signal which is a function of the displacement of the 

arm assembly. 
The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising an optical 
directing sub-system (20) which directs the diffracted 

electromagnetic radiation onto the detector (24; 92). 
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the apparatus is used 
for the writing of servo tracks (32) on a magnetic disk 

memory, and wherein the electronic processing sub-system 
produces an electrical signal which is a function of the 

displacement of the arm assembly relative to the center 
of the disk. 
The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the diffracted electromagnetic 
radiation (16, 18) is a result of reflection 

off the artifact (2). 
The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising: 
a single-frequency laser beam (14) as the source of 

electromagnetic radiation;
 

an optical selecting sub-system which selects of two 
beams from the electronic radiation diffracted by the 

artifact; 
an optical combining subsystem (20) which combines the 

two diffracted beams, producing an interference pattern 
having a phase thereby; and 

an array of detectors (24) which detects the interference 
pattern, thereby producing an electrical signal 

which is a function of the displacement of the arm 
assembly relative to the center of the disk. 
The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a spatial 
filter (22) which performs the selecting of the two reflected 

beams. 
The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising: 
a multi-phase detector which detects the interference 

pattern such that at least three interferometric electric 
signals which differ only in their phases are generated; 

a phase-calculating subsystem which calculates the accumulated 
phase of the detected interference pattern over 

a period of time; and 
a displacement-calculating subsystem which calculates 

the precise radial displacement of the arm assembly relative 
to the center of the disk from the accumulated 

phase. 
The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: 
a dual-frequency laser beam (80), consisting of two superimposed 

beams of slightly different frequencies, as 
the sourve of electromagnetic radiation; and

 
an optical directing subsystem (82, 88) which directs 

the two beams onto the artifact (2), whereby each beam 
impinges upon the artifact (2) at a different angle, and 

where the angle formed by each beam, as measured from a 
normal to the artifact (2) is equal in magnitude and 

opposite in sense to the other such angle, so that the 
two beams are combined in the plane of the artifact to 

create an interference pattern, which is then directed 
onto the detector (92). 
The apparatus of claim 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, or 18, 
further comprising: 

a modular package (10) containing the source of electromagnetic 
radiation, optical combining sub-system (20), 

optical directing sub-system (82, 88), spatial filter 
(22), and detector, which is located outside of the memory 

disk enclosure. 
The apparatus of one of the preceding claims 11 to 19, 
wherein the computer memory disk system form an assembly 

within a sealed housing. 
The apparatus of claims 11 to 20, wherein 
the electrical output of the detector is processed by 

metrology techniques. 
The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the diffraction grating 
further comprises a repeating pattern of lines in 

the form of ridges, wherein the distance between the 
high and low points of the ridges is an odd integer multiple 

of one quarter of the wavelength of the electromagnetic 
radiation (14; 84, 85) being diffracted and reflected 

from the artifact. 
The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the diffraction grating 

 
further comprises an alternating pattern of lines 

of different optical reflectivity. 
The apparatus of claims 21 to 23, wherein the diffraction 
grating is in the form of a ring, and wherein the 

lines are aligned radially to the center of the ring. 
The apparatus of claims 21 to 23, wherein the diffraction 
grating is in the form of a sector of a ring, and 

wherein the lines are aligned radially to the center of 
the ring. 
The apparatus of claims 21 to 23, wherein the diffraction 
grating is in the form of a rectangle, and wherein 

the lines are parallel to one another. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
