<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631833</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bar loaders for automatic lathes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B1300	B23B1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B13	B23B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A loading device comprises a pusher for feeding a bar 
along a guide towards a lathe spindle. The pusher 

comprises a first thrust part (16, 116) which is 
constrained to traversing means (14) along said path. Said 

first part comprises a constraint element (18, 118) for 
coupling with a complementary constraint element (19, 119) 

located on a second and removable pusher part (17, 117) 
which constitutes the axial extension of the first part 

along the guides. The two elements (18, 118, 19, 119) 
extend axially between the first and second parts and have 

their transverse dimension within the transverse dimension 
of the guide to run therein. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CUCCHI PIETRO SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PIETRO CUCCHI S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CUCCHI PIETRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CUCCHI, PIETRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a loader for insertion of 
bars in automatic lathes. There are known loaders of bars into lathes comprising a 
pusher pushing axially a bar along running guides to 
introduce it progressively into the lathe spindle. A 
problem with said loaders is the space occupied. Indeed, 
the length of the loader must be theoretically equal to 
the sum of the length of the bar to be loaded plus the 
length of the pusher. The pusher must then be sufficiently 
long to push the bar completely into the lathe spindle. To seek to reduce the space occupied, in the known art 
there have peen proposed loaders having two pushers, one 
acting along the first part of the thrust path and one 
acting along the second part. In this manner the first 
pusher can be provided relatively short since it does not 
have to enter the spindle and the second pusher longer 
since it does not need to follow the bar except when the 
latter is already partially inside the spindle. The need 
to provide two separate kinematic mechanisms for movement 
of the two pushers involves however construction 
complications and relatively high costs. To reduce the costs and complications there have also been 
proposed loaders in which the two pushers use the same 
kinematic mechanism, selective constraint means permitting 
choice of which pusher is to be moved each time. The 
complication of said systems is however high.  
 
There have also been proposed loaders in which the longer 
pusher arranges itself ahead of the short pusher. The 
constraint means between the pushers are however always 
outside the space occupied by the pusher and interfere 
with the bar guides, causing construction complications. 
The pusher with the extension is not assimilable as to 
behaviour with an individual pusher but produces 
vibrations and operating defects. The purpose of the present invention is to obviate the 
above mentioned shortcomings by supplying bar loaders in 
which the pusher is provided in two separable parts with 
the two parts behaving upon connection as a single pusher 
which passes without problems into the bar guides. In view of said purpose it has been sought to provide in 
accordance with the present invention a loading device 
comprising a pusher for feeding a bar along a guide 
towards a lathe spindle and comprising a first thrust part 
which is constrained to traversing means along said path 
and said first part comprising a constraint element for 
coupling with a complementary constraint element located 
on a second and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Loading device comprising a pusher for feeding a bar 
along a guide towards a lathe spindle, the pusher 

comprising a first thrust part (16, 116) which is 
constrained to traversing means (14) along said path, said 

first part comprising a constraint element (18, 118) for 
coupling with a complementary constraint element (19, 119) 

located on a second and removable pusher part (17, 117) 
which constitutes the axial extension of the first part 

along the guides and characterised in that the two 
elements (18, 118, 19, 119) extend axially between the 

first and second parts and have their transverse dimension 
within the transverse dimension of the guide to run 

therein. 
Device in accordance with claim 1 characterised in that 
it comprises means (20, 44) for gripping and radially 

moving of the second part of the pusher to move it between 
a first extension position aligned with said first part 

and a second rest position far from said first part. 
Device in accordance with claim 2 characterised in that 
the gripping and moving means comprise means (22, 44) for 

keeping the axial orientation between a first and a second 
part at least near the extension position. 
Device in accordance with claim 2 characterised in that 
the gripping means comprise gripping clamps (22, 44) which 

can be tightened on the second part of the pusher. 
Device in accordance with claim 4 characterised in that 
 

the clamps comprise gripping jaws (22) on one side of the 
second part, pushing said second part against elements 

providing a longitudinal half of the guide opposite said 
second pusher part and said elements traversing with the 

second pusher part towards a rest position. 
Device in accordance with claim 4 characterised in that 
the clamps (44) are supported on an arm support (45) 

pivoted at one end to move between a first and a second 
position along a trajectory having the form of an arc of a 

circle. 
Device in accordance with claim 4 characterised in that 
the clamps (44) have pairs of gripping jaws and all the 

jaws on one side are supported on a common axle (48, 49) 
and the two axles (48, 49) thus provided bearing keyed 

gears (50, 51) connected together and one of said common 
axles being powered for the closing rotation of the 

respective jaws and the other axle moving through the 
geared coupling in the opposite direction for 

complementary closing movement of the respective jaws. 
Device in accordance with claim 1 characterised in that 
the guides are a plurality of parallel guides (43) 

rotating around a common axle to move in sequence into a 
position of bar feeding therein. 
Device in accordance with claim 1 characterised in that 
for mutual coupling one of said two elements comprises an 

connection seat (28, 53) for an connection end (29, 35) of 
the other element. 
Device in accordance with claim 9 characterised in 
 

that the seat (28) is open radially to receive from the 
radial direction the complementary connection end (29) of 

the other element arranged axially and the seat and 
connection end defining mutual striking surfaces at least 

in the axial running direction to prevent said running 
between the first and second parts upon radial insertion 

of the end in the seat. 
Device in accordance with claim 10 characterised in 
that the complementary connection end comprises an 

intermediate zone (30) radially narrow to engage in a 
complementary narrow part (31) of the seat. 
Device in accordance with claim 11 characterised in 
that at least one part of the seat comprises means for 

preventing mutual axial rotation between the two 
constraint elements. 
Device in accordance with claim 12 characterised in 
that the means for preventing mutual axial rotation 

comprise a narrow zone (31) of the seat which is shaped, 
around an axial direction, not as a rotating figure. 
Device in accordance with claim 13 characterised in 
that said zone of the seat is shaped transversely like the 

letter U. 
Device in accordance with claims 11 and 13 
characterised in that the seat zone shaped not like a 

rotation figure is the narrow part (31) of the seat. 
Device in accordance with claim 10 characterised in 
that 
in the seat (28) faces, in a manner running axially 
against the effect of a spring, a cursor (32) with its end 

 
in the elastic connection seat with a complementary axial 

seat (34) on the connection end (29). 
Device in accordance with claim 9 characterised in 
that the complementary seat (53) is arranged axially to 

receive a complementary axial tang (35) forming the 
connection end of the other element and upon insertion in 

the seat the tang pushing axially a pusher (36) in the 
seat to free movement passages for balls (38) towards the 

interior of the seat to be partially received in 
peripheral grooves (39) in the tang to block the tang in 

the seat and a ring-nut (40) being pushed by a spring to 
be running outside the seat to block the balls in the 

position of partial reception in the groove (39) and 
traversing means (27) commanding axial traversing of the 

ringnut (40) to move it into the initial position of 
release of the balls and to permit disconnection of the 

tang and the seat. 
Device in accordance with claim 9 characterised in 
that the constraint element comprising the seat is that 

connected to the second, extension, part of the pusher. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
