<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616432</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SENSE AMPLIFIER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F3343	H03F3347	H03K190185	H03K190185	H03K19177	H03K19177	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F3	H03F3	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sense amplifier for implementing a wide or 
multiple input NOR gate for receiving a product term of 

a group of array cells in a programmable logic device 
(PLD) . Array cells signals which are all normally 

received by the sense amplifier in a single product term 
input are instead connected to the sense amplifier in 

smaller groups of sub-product terms. Each smaller group 
of sub-product terms is then connected through a 

transistor cascode amplifier in the sense amplifier to 
form the single product term enabling a reduction of 

capacitance and an increase of output speed of the sense 
amplifier. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHARPE-GIESLER BRADLEY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHARPE-GIESLER, BRADLEY A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to sense amplifiers such as are 
used in a programmable logic device (PLD) to implement 
wide or multiple input NOR gates which operate at high 
speeds. Preferably, the present invention 
relates to the product term, or connection, of array 
cells in the PLD to the sense amplifiers. Fig. 1 shows an array structure for a typical prior 
art programmable array logic (PAL) device, a type of 
PLD. The PAL of Fig. 1 has six inputs I₀₋₅ and four 
outputs 0₀₋₃. The PAL device further has an AND array 100 
followed by a fixed OR array 102. An input such as I₀ to 
the PAL has a true output 104 and a complement output 
106 forming rows connected to array cells 108 containing 
individual cells, such as 110. An array cell, such as 
cell 110, may be programmed to be connected or 
disconnected to an AND gate in the AND array 100. A 
group of array cells which may be connected to an AND 
gate as shown at 112 is called a product term. Although connections from the array cells 108 to the 
fixed OR array 102 are shown as fixed, they may be 
programmable. Additional programmable features may also 
be added, such an output macro cell 114 which is 
programmable to allow an output to be either registered 
or combinatorial. The output macro cell 114 is utilized 
on the AmPALCE22V10 manufactured by Advanced Micro 
Devices, Inc.  Although shown as an AND array 110, in reality the 
AND array 110 has AND gates implemented using NOR gates 
with true and complement row connections to array cells 
108 reversed internally. To implement a multiple input NOR gate, also termed 
a wide NOR gate, and provide sufficient output voltage 
to the OR gate array 102, manufacturers utilize sense 
amplifiers. Sense amplifiers convert a small voltage 
change from the product term into a larger, rail to 
rail, voltage to supply to an OR gate at high speed. Fig. 2 shows a prior art sense amplifier 200 
connected to receive a single product term from array 
cells 202 in a PLD. This sense amplifier configuration 
was utilized in the AmPALCE16V8 manufactured by Advanced 
Micro Devices, Inc. to implement a wide NOR gate. As shown in Fig. 2, array cells 202 receive input 
signals from rows 1-3 and are connected to form a 
product term (PT) line connection to sense amplifier 
200. Further, the array cells have ground lines 
connected to form a product term ground (PTG) line 
connection to sense amplifier 200. In operation, the PT line will be high if all of the 
cells are off, or not conducting. The PT line will be 
low if one
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sense amplifier coupled to a plurality of 
array cells, the sense amplifier including an amplifier 

having an amplifier input and an amplifier output, and 
a current source coupled to the amplifier input, the 

sense amplifier further comprising: 
   a product term A line coupled to a first plurality 

of array cells in the plurality of array cells; 
   a product term B line coupled to a second plurality 

of array cells in the plurality of array cells; 
   a first cascode having a current path coupled on a 

first end to the current source and the amplifier input 
and coupled on a second end to the product term A line; 

and 
   a second cascode having a current path coupled on a 

first end to the current source and the amplifier input 
and coupled on a second end to the product term B line. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 1 wherein the first 
and second cascode have gain so that a voltage on the 

product term A line will be amplified to a greater 
magnitude on the amplifier input and a voltage on the 

product term B line will be amplified to a greater 
magnitude on the amplifier input. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 1 wherein a gate of 
the first cascode is supplied with a gate voltage to 

turn off the first cascode when a voltage on the product 
term A line is within a predetermined voltage range from 

a voltage on the amplifier input, and wherein a gate of 
the second cascode is supplied with the gate voltage to 

turn off the second cascode when voltage on the product 
term B line is within the predetermined voltage range 

from the voltage on the amplifier input. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 1 further 
comprising: 

   a first switching transistor having a gate coupled 
to the amplifier output and having a current path 

coupled on a first end to the product term A line; 
   a second switching transistor having a gate coupled 

to the amplifier output and having a current path 
coupled on a first end to the product term B line; 

   a first current sink coupled to a second end of the 
current path of the first switching transistor; and 

   a second current sink coupled to a second end of the 
current path of the second switching transistor. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 4 wherein the 
amplifier output turns off the first and second 

switching transistor a predetermined time after an array 
cell in the plurality of array cells switches on. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 4 further 
comprising: 

   two series inverters coupled between the amplifier 
output and the first and second switching transistors. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 1 further including 
a PTG current sink coupled to ground lines of the 

plurality of array cells, the sense amplifier further 
comprising: 

   a parallel PTG current sink transistor connected in 
parallel with the PTG current sink transistor, the 

parallel PTG current sink transistor having a gate 
coupled to the amplifier output. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 7 wherein the 
amplifier output turns off the parallel current sink 

 
transistor a predetermined time after an array cell in 

the plurality of array cells switches on. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 7 further 
comprising: 

   two series inverters coupled between the amplifier 
output and a gate of the parallel PTG switching 

transistor. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 1 further 
comprising: 

   a parallel current source transistor connected in 
parallel with the current source, the parallel current 

source having a gate coupled to the amplifier output. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 10 wherein the 
amplifier output turns on the parallel current source 

transistor a predetermined time after an array cell in 
the plurality of array cells switches on. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 10 further 
comprising: 

   two series inverters coupled between the amplifier 
output and a gate of the parallel current source 

transistor. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 1 further including 
a PTG current sink coupled to ground lines of the 

plurality of array cells, the sense amplifier further 
comprising: 

   a third cascode having a current path coupled on one 
end to the product term A line, and on a second end to 

the PTG current sink; and
 

   a fourth cascode having a current path coupled on 
one end to the product term B line, and on a second end 

to the PTG current sink. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 13 wherein a gate 
of the third cascode is supplied with a gate voltage to 

turn off the third cascode when a voltage on the product 
term A line is outside a predetermined voltage range 

from a voltage on the PTG current sink, and wherein a 

gate of the fourth cascode is supplied with the gate 
voltage to turn off the fourth cascode when voltage on 

the product term B line is outside the predetermined 
voltage range from the voltage on the PTG current sink. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 13 further 
comprising: 

   a parallel PTG current sink transistor connected in 
parallel with the PTG current sink, the parallel PTG 

current sink having a gate coupled to the amplifier 
output. 
The sense amplifier of Claim 13 further 
comprising: 

   two series inverters coupled between the amplifier 
output and a gate of the parallel PTG current sink 

transistor. 
A sense amplifier including an amplifier having 
an amplifier input and an amplifier output, a product 

term line coupling a plurality of array cells to the 
amplifier input, a PTG current sink coupled to ground 

lines of the plurality of array cells, and a current 
source coupled to the amplifier input, the sense 

amplifier further comprising:
 

   a switching transistor having a gate coupled to the 
amplifier output and having a current path connected on 

a first end to the product term line; and 
   a current sink connected to a second end of the 

current path of the switching transistor. 
A sense amplifier including an amplifier having 
an amplifier input and an amplifier output, a product 

term line coupling a plurality of array cells to the 
amplifier input, a PTG current sink coupled to ground 

lines of the plurality of array cells, and a current 
source coupled to the amplifier input, the sense 

amplifier further comprising: 
   a cascode having a current path coupled on one end 

to the product term line, and on a second end to the PTG 
current sink. 
A programmable array logic device comprising: 
   a plurality of programmable array cells; 

   a sense amplifier comprising: 
      an amplifier having an amplifier input and an 

amplifier output; 
      a current source coupled to the amplifier input; 

      a product term A line coupled to a first 
plurality of array cells in the plurality of array 

cells; 
      a product term B line coupled to a second 

plurality of array cells in the plurality of array 
cells; 

      a first cascode having a current path coupled on 
a first end to the current source and the amplifier 

input and coupled on a second end to the product term A 
line, wherein a gate of the first cascode is supplied 

with a gate voltage to turn off the first cascode when 
a voltage on the product term A line is within a 

predetermined voltage range from a voltage on the 
amplifier input; and 

      a second cascode having a current path coupled 
on a first end to the current source and the amplifier 

input and coupled on a second end to the product term B 
line, wherein a gate of the second cascode is supplied 

with a gate voltage to turn off the first cascode when 
a voltage on the product term B line is within a 

predetermined voltage range from a voltage on the 
amplifier input; and 

   an output logic macro cell coupled to receive an 
output signal from the sense amplifier, the output logic 

macro cell being programmable to select whether an 
output of the programmable logic device will be 

registered or combinatorial. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
