<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644793</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CENTRIFUGALLY SEPARATING A FLUID MIXTURE INTO ITS COMPONENT PARTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1702	B04B100	B04B110	B01D17038	B04B102	B01D1702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B04B	B04B	B01D	B04B	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D17	B04B1	B04B1	B01D17	B04B1	B01D17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for centrifugally separating a mixture of liquids comprises a central inlet shaft (12), a surrounding rotor (14), and a housing shell (16). The mixture is injected into the rotor through the inlet shaft and the rotor separates the mixture in a radially sloped separation space containing a first weir (54), discharges the lighter liquid into the housing through a channel (61) through the weir and wall (36) of the separation chamber, and discharges the heavier liquid into the housing over a second weir (60). The inlet shaft may be built up to provide for efficient sheer mixing and a sieve may be provided in the separation chamber. A two-stage separator may be constructed by providing a second separation chamber radially outward of the first after mixing of a separated liquid with a solvent and providing suitable discharge ports.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAGGART CHARLES W
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAGGART, CHARLES W.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGERS ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGERS, ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns separation
apparatuses and methods, and particularly those systems
that separate two or more mixed fluid components through
centrifugation.Centrifugal systems of separation use centrifugal
force generated through rotation to separate fluid
components of differing densities. In many fundamental
aspects, these systems are used as a substitute for and
improvement on gravitational separation techniques and
devices, since the gravitational force and the force
exerted on a fluid through rotation (centrifugal) are
identical in that they increase in magnitude as the
fluid increases in mass. Those fluids with lesser
density will be less influenced by the force and
therefore less inclined toward the source of the force,
the earth for gravitational, the outside of the rotating
container for centrifugal, than fluids with greater
density. The fluids will thus separate out and can be
directed to separate collection ports by using weirs or
other suitable separating structures. Centrifugal
separation is often more desirable than gravitational
because the force applied to the fluid can be controlled
through rotation speed and can be made to be many times
that of gravity.A common example of fluid separation is that of oil
from water. There are many situations in which
separation of these two elements is desired, such as oil 
spills on an ocean or lake, mixing of the two fluids in
ships' bilges, gasoline spills, etc. This process is
often important for maintenance of quality of life in a
particular geographic area. These two fluids are
susceptible to centrifugal separation because water is
denser than oil and thus will "sink" relative to the
other under application of centrifugal force. This can
easily be understood by the fact that oil floats on
water in a gravitational field. Other fluid separation
applications include wine clarification, waste-water
treatment, blood plasma separation, and the like.
Centrifugation is also used to separate solids out of
liquids through sedimentation.It is often desirable to separate dissolved
elements in solution or emulsion. Standard centrifugal
separation equipment alone cannot carry out such a
separation since the dissolved elements will move with
the solution. A solvent must therefore be introduced
into the fluid stream to extract the dissolved elements.
Such a process requires that the solvent be thoroughly
mixed with the fluid to extract all dissolved elements.
The solvent and fluid are then separated through
centrifugation. An example of this type of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A centrifugal separator (10) for separating into its component
parts a mixture of a first and a second immiscible liquid through

rotation about a central axis of rotation, the first liquid
having a density less than the density of the second liquid,

comprising:

a stationary housing shell (16) comprising a hollow stationary
shaft forming

an inlet duct (12) having a receiving end and a discharge
end (18), wherein the inlet duct (12) is positioned coaxially

with the axis of rotation;
a rotor (14) comprising a separation chamber (34) coaxially
mounted around the inlet duct (12) for rotation about the

axis of rotation, the separation chamber including

a first end,
a second end,
an outer wall (36),
an inlet passageway (30) positioned at the first
end of the separation chamber, the discharge end (18) of the

inlet duct (12) being in fluid communication with the inlet
passageway (30) and positioned radially inwardly of the outer

wall of the separation chamber,
a first liquid outlet passageway (58),
a second liquid outlet passageway (56), the first
and second liquid outlet passageways positioned at the second

end of the separation chamber;
a first weir (54) positioned in fluid communication
with the first liquid outlet passageway of the separation

chamber;
a second weir (60) positioned in fluid
communication with the second liquid outlet passageway of

the separation chamber; and
rotation means (22) for rotating the rotor (14) with
the separation

chamber (34) about the axis of rotation, the
rotatable rotor (14) having a radially

outwardly sloping centre wall (28) optionally provided
with an annular outer

edge surrounding the inlet duct (12),

and wherein the second end of the
separation chamber is axially opposed to the first end.
A separator (10) as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
first weir has a front face, a back face and a substantially 

sharp edge, the sharp edge extending substantially annularly
about the axis of rotation.
A separator as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
wherein the second weir has a front face, a back face and a

substantially sharp edge, a sharp edge extending
substantially annularly about the axis of rotation.
A separator as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein the separation chamber (34) is at least partially defined

by the annular elongate outer wall (36) surrounding the inlet
duct, one edge of the outer wall being rotatably connected to

and sealed against the inlet duct.
A separator as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, comprising a first (72) and a second liquid (78)

collection chamber, the first liquid collection chamber
positioned annularly about the axis of rotation and being in

fluid communication with the first weir such that liquid passing
over the first weir will enter the first fluid collection

chamber, the second liquid collection chamber positioned
annularly about the axis of rotation and being in fluid

communication with the second weir such that liquid passing over
the second weir will enter the second liquid collection chamber.
A separator as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising an air duct (66) conn
ecting the
first liquid outlet passageway and the second liquid outlet

passageway.
A separator as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising a plurality of radially disposed

plates (50) positioned within the separation chamber. 
A separator as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein at least a portion of the radially disposed

plates are made of a lipophilic material.
A separator as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising a mixing chamber (30) positioned to

receive liquid from the discharge end of the inlet duct and
transmit the liquid to the separator chamber, the mixing chamber

including an inner, stationary wall (32) and the outer wall (28)
mounted for rotation about the axis of rotation.
A separator as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the separation chamber includes the annular

inner wall (28) with a radially inward slope extending from the
fluid inlet passageway toward the fluid outlet passageways, the

separation chamber also including the annular outer wall (36)
with a radially outward slope extending from the inlet

passageway toward the fluid outlet passageways.
A separator as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the separator approximately satisfies the

following relationship when used to separate hydrocarbons
having specific gravities ranging from 0.82 to 0.92 from water:


r
w
 = .937
r
o
+.05
r
p
+.008
r
p
2
r
o

where: r
w
 is the radial distance from the axis of rotation to
the surface of the second liquid as it passes over the edge of

the second weir; r
o
 is the radial distance from the axis of
rotation to the surface of the first liquid as it passes over

the edge
of the first weir;

r
p
 is the radial distance from the axis of rotation
of the bent portion (54a) of the first weir.
A method of centrifugally separating a mixture 
having component parts of first and second immiscible liquids

comprising the steps of:

supplying the mixture through a
hollow stationary shaft forming an inlet duct (12) into

the approximate center of a rotatable rotor (14) having a
radially outwardly sloping center wall (28) optionally provided with an annular

outer edge surrounding the stationary shaft;
rotating the rotor, causing the mixture to move down the
slope of the center wall and flow over the edge thereof into a

separation chamber (34) formed by the center wall (28) and the
coaxial outer wall (36) having an opposite radial slope from

the center wall, and a first weir (54) disposed oppositely from
the center wall edge;
separating the mixture into its component parts in the
separation chamber;
discharging the first liquid from the separation chamber
through a first annular channel (59) between the center wall

(28) and the first weir (54) ;
channelling the first liquid to a first collection
chamber (72);
discharging the second liquid from the separation chamber
through a second annular channel (56) between the outer wall

(36) and the first weir (54); and
channelling the second liquid to and over a second weir
(60) and into a second collection chamber (78).
A method as claimed in claim 12, further comprising
the step of equalizing air pressure over the first and second

weirs.
A method as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13,
further comprising the step of engaging a groove formed in the

outer wall with a wall (84) formed between the first and second
collection chambers.
The method as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 14
further comprising the step of directing the mixture through a

plurality of closely spaced plates (50) in the separation 
chamber (34).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
