<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617452</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Charged particle analyser
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J3702	H01J4948	H01J4900	H01J3702	H01J37285	H01J3726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J37	H01J49	H01J49	H01J37	H01J37	H01J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A charged particle analyzer which irradiates a specimen 
(15) and analyzes charged particles emitted therefrom, 

for example a photo-electron spectrometer, having a 
flood-source (52,59) which emits charged particles to 

neutralize the charge which develops on a specimen (15). 
The analyzer is provided with electrostatic (18) and 

magnetic (11) lenses which may be used separately or in 
combination. The flood source (52,59) is provided 

within the lens column of the analyzer and is arranged 
such that when the electrostatic lens (18) is in use, 

the charged particles emitted by the flood source 
(52,59) pass around the outside of the objective 

electrostatic lens element, whereas when the magnetic 
lens is in use, or when both lenses are in use, they 

pass through that element. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMO INSTR SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMO INSTRUMENT SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COXON PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCINTOSH BRUCE JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COXON, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCINTOSH, BRUCE JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to charged-particle analysers and 
in particular to energy spectrometers and microscopes. 
Primarily, the invention provides a means for 
investigating the surface properties of a specimen 
having a low electrical conductivity. The invention relates also to a method of investigating a specimen. The use of charged-particle analysers for surface 
analysis is a well established practice and an 
introduction to this subject may be found in many texts, 
such as for example, 'Surface physics' by M.Prutton 
(Oxford University Press) and 'Modern techniques of 
surface science' by D.P.Woodruff and T.A.Delchar 
(Cambridge University Press). The charged particles 
emitted from the specimen surface may take the form of 
positive ions, negative ions or most commonly electrons. An energy spectrum of the sample may be obtained by 
means of a suitable energy analyser, typically of the 
electrostatic toriodal capacitor type. Alternatively, an 
image of the specimen may be formed by detecting the 
change in intensity of the emitted particles across the 
surface. Such techniques are commonly referred to as 
spectroscopy and microscopy respectively and provide 
complementary information relating to the specimen 
surface. Photoelectron spectroscopy is often used to study the 
surface of a specimen. In this technique, the specimen 
is irradiated by means of an x-ray or ultraviolet source 
which causes electrons in the energy range from zero to 
several thousand electron Volts (eV) to be emitted from 
the surface. It is usual because of differences in the 
photon source to refer to x-ray photoelectron  
 
spectroscopy (XPS) and ultraviolet photoelectron 
spectroscopy (UPS). The emitted electrons may be focused 
by an electron lens and separated in energy by an 
analysing device. Electrons of a particular energy may 
then be selected by an aperture and detected by means 
such as channel multiplier and electronically recorded. 
The success of XPS in determining the electronic 
structure of surfaces has led to the requirement for a 
small area analysis capability from electron 
spectrometers. This may be achieved in two ways, firstly 
by restricting the area of the sample irradiated by the 
x-ray source and secondly by detecting electrons emitted 
from only a part of the specimen surface. The developments in selected area XPS have led to a 
number of devices capable of use as both a photoelectron 
spectrometer and a photoelectron microscope. The device 
described in US patent no. US-A-4,255,656 provides a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A charged-particle analyser for investigating a 
specimen comprising:- 


(a) a specimen holder (16); 
(b) a source of radiation (24) placed so as to 
cause the emission of charged particles from a specimen 

placed on the specimen holder (16); 
(c) a magnetic lens (10) arranged such that at 
least some of the charged particles emitted from the 

specimen may be focused by means of a magnetic field and 
directed along an axis; 
(d) an electrostatic lens (18), comprising one or 
more electrodes having an aperture aligned with said 

axis through which charged particles emitted from a 
specimen may pass and arranged so that at least some of 

the charged particles emitted from a specimen placed on 
said specimen holder (16) may be focused by means of an 

electrostatic field and directed along said axis; 
(e) analysing means (41) for analysing the energy 
of the charged particles emitted from the specimen after 

they have been focused by said magnetic lens (10); and 
(f) one or more sources (52,59) of charged 
particles of the same polarity as those emitted by the 

specimen, the source(s) (52,59) being arranged such that 
when said magnetic lens is in use at least some of the 

charged particles emitted by them pass towards a 
specimen on said specimen holder (16) substantially 

along said axis and through said aperture(s) in said 
electrode(s). 
A charged-particle analyser as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein said source(s) (52,59) of charged particles are 

arranged such that when said magnetic lens (10) is not 
in use, at least some of the charged particles emitted 

by said source(s) (52,59) are directed towards a 
specimen on a path which does not pass through the  

 
aperture (s) in said electrode(s) (18). 
A charged-particle analyser as claimed in claim 1 
or 2, wherein one or more repeller electrodes (53,60) 

are provided to direct charged particles emitted by said 
source (s) (52,59) towards the specimen. 
A charged-particle analyser as claimed in claim 2 
or 3, having a lens column (17) disposed between said 

specimen holder and said analyzing means, wherein said 
charged-particle source(s) (52,59) and said 

electrostatic lens (18) are disposed in said lens column 
(17) so that when said magnetic lens (10) is not in use 

at least some of the charged particles emitted by said 
charged particle source(s) pass outside said 

electrostatic lens (18). 
A charged-particle analyser as claimed in claim 2, 
3 or 4, wherein said electrostatic lens (18) is located 

within a lens holder (55) and an annular opening is 
provided around the lens holder (55) through which 

charged particles emitted by the source(s) (52,59) may 
pass. 
A charged-particle analyser as claimed in claim 5, 
wherein one or more focus electrodes (56,61) are 

provided around the lens holder (55) for directing 
particles emitted from the source towards a specimen. 
A charged-particle analyser as claimed in any 
preceding claim, wherein the or each charged-particle 

source (52,59) comprises a thermionic particle emitter, 
a repeller electrode (53,60) and a further electrode 

(57,60) arranged to split a beam of charged particles 

into two approximately equal beams.  
 
A charged-particle analyser as claimed in any of 
claims 2 to 7, wherein an apertured diaphragm (33) is 

placed between the magnetic (10) and electrostatic (18) 
lenses and the analyzing means (41) to define an area of 

the specimen from which the charged particles are 
imaged. 
A method of investigating a specimen comprising the 
steps of: 


(a) irradiating a specimen (15) placed on a 
specimen holder (16) so as to cause the emission of 

charged particles therefrom; 
(b) providing a magnetic lens (10) capable of 
focusing and directing along an axis at least some of 

the charged particles emitted from the specimen (15) by 
means of a magnetic field; 
(c) providing an electrostatic lens (18) capable of 
focusing and directing along said axis at least some of 

the charged particles emitted from the specimen (15) by 
means of an electrostatic field, said electrostatic lens 

(18) comprising one or more electrodes having an 
aperture aligned with said axis through which charged 

particles emitted from a specimen (15) may pass; 
(d) analysing the energy of the charged particles 
emitted from the specimen (15) after they have been 

focused by said magnetic field and/or said electrostatic 
field; 
(e) providing one or more sources (52,59) of 
charged particles of the same polarity as those emitted 

by a specimen (15) and when the charged particles 
emitted from a specimen (15) are being focused by said 

magnetic field, directing at least some of the charged 
particles emitted by said source(s) (52,59) towards a 

specimen (15) substantially along said axis and through 
the aperture(s) in the electrodes of said electrostatic lens. 
A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein when the 
charged particles emitted by the specimen (15) are not  

 
being focused by said magnetic field, directing at least 

some of the charged particles emitted by said source(s) 
along a path towards said specimen (15) which does not 

pass through the aperture(s) in said electrode(s). 
A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein when the 
charged particles emitted by said source(s) (52,59) are 

not passing through the aperture(s) in said electrode(s) 
they are directed towards the specimen by one or more 

focus electrodes (56,61). 
A method as claimed in claim 10 or 11, wherein said 
electrostatic lens (18) is disposed within a lens holder 

(55) and an annular opening is provided around said lens 
holder through which charged particles emitted by said 

source (s) (52,59) may pass. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 10, 11 or 12, 
wherein the area of a specimen (15) from which the 

charged particles enter said analyzing means is defined 
by means of an apertured diaphragm (33) disposed between 

said magnetic (10) and electrostatic (18) lenses and the 
analysing means (41). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
