<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618563</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Color palette and clock combination.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G502	G09G502	G09G506	G09G506	G09G518	G09G518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A color palette and clock generator are combined on a single integrated circuit. 
At least one phase-locked loop and a loop filter can also be provided on the same 

integrated circuit. Although the phase-locked loop synthesizes a set of 
predetermined frequencies, each such loop can be programmed by a user to permit 

synthesizing of other frequencies. Despite the close proximity of the color 
palette and clock generator, the integrated circuit is designed to ensure that 

the resulting graphics display on a display unit is not adversely affected by 
jitter or noise. Power management means are included to reduce active and 

standby power levels for space-constrained and power-limited systems. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MUSIC SEMICONDUCTURS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MUSIC SEMICONDUCTURS, CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THREEWITT NORMAN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THREEWITT, NORMAN B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to a color palette and clock generator on the same integrated circuit, for 
use in a graphics system. A typical graphics system comprises five elements: a display unit (often a cathode ray tube), and 
four components located on a circuit board connected to the display unit. Those four 
components are a frame buffer, graphics controller, timing clock generator (clock), and color 
palette. The color palette comprises a RAM-based look-up table and a digital-to-analog converter 
(DAC). The display unit receives color information in analog form from the other components 
in the graphics system, allowing each picture element (pixel), or dot, on the screen of the display 
unit, to be provided with a set of primary colors in a range of intensities. For example, if three 
primary colors, blue, red, and green, are utilized, and six bits of information representing the  
 
intensity of each color are stored with respect to each pixel, then 2¹⁸ or 256K possible colors are 
available for each pixel after conversion to analog by the DAC of the color palette. The frame buffer is a high-speed random access memory (RAM) device. In bit-mapped graphics 
systems, a common type of graphics system, the frame buffer contains an address for every pixel 
on the screen. Stored at each such address is the color information for each pixel on the display 
unit. Thus, the size of the frame buffer depends on the number of pixels and number of colors 
for each pixel to be portrayed on the screen. For example, in one typical graphics system, a 
screen with 307,200 (300K) pixels, commonly arrayed as 480 lines of 640 pixels each, has the 
possibility of displaying each pixel with one of 256K possible color options, based on six bits 
of color information for each of three primary colors. Higher pixel resolution is possible, 
however, by increasing the number of pixels on the screen. The number of possible colors 
(color resolution) is exponentially proportional to the number of bits of color information stored 
in the frame buffer with respect to each pixel and, correspondingly, to the number of bits for 
each DAC in the color palette. In either case, such higher resolution requires significantly more 
memory for storage of color information in the frame buffer. The color palette significantly reduces the size of the memory required in the frame buffer, by 
providing an indirect addressing means. Rather than storing pixel colors directly, only the look-up 
table address need be stored in the frame buffer. The DACs
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A single integrated circuit for use in a graphics system including an analog 
color display unit, a frame buffer, and a controller, comprising: 


(a) a color palette for generating analog electrical signals for respective 
color inputs to the display unit in response to a succession of pixel values 

derived from the frame buffer storing pixel values for a scanning sequence, 
(b) a timing means for synthesizing a pixel frequency corresponding to that 
of the display unit and for generating timing control signals for synchronizing 

the generation of said analog signals at said pixel frequency, comprising at 
least one phase-locked loop means for synthesizing a predetermined set of one 

or more pixel or other clock frequencies, 
(c) control port means for sending control data to the integrated circuit 
and reading the control data back to the controller, and 
(d) pixel port means for sending pixel data information to the integrated 
circuit, 
(e) wherein said color palette, said timing means, said control port, and 
said pixel port are each located on said integrated circuit. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, further comprising: 
   a loop filter means for filtering electronic signals with a frequency above 

a predetermined threshold frequency. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, wherein said phase-locked 
loop means is programmable so that a plurality of frequencies other than the 

predetermined frequencies can be synthesized. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, wherein said control 
port means further comprises a single control port by which the color palette 

and the timing means receive control information. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, wherein said pixel port 
means further comprises a single pixel port capable of accepting eight bits of 

pixel information. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, wherein said pixel port 
means further comprises a single pixel port capable of accepting 16 bits of pixel 

information. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, wherein said pixel port 
means further comprises a single pixel port capable of accepting 24 bits of pixel 

information. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, wherein said pixel port 
means further comprises a single pixel port capable of accepting 32 bits of pixel 

information. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, wherein said pixel port 
means further comprises multiple pixel ports capable of accepting pixel 

information. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 1, further comprising 
power management means. 
A single integrated circuit as described in claim 10, wherein said power 
management means comprises a circuitry means wherein portions of the circuitry 

can be switched to a low stand-by power state to temporarily disable said 
portions of the circuitry. 
A method of combining a color palette and timing means on the same 
integrated circuit, for use in a graphics system including an analog color 

display unit, a frame buffer, and a controller, comprising: 

(a) placing a color palette for generating analog electrical signals for 
respective color inputs to the display unit in response to a succession of pixel 

values derived from the frame buffer storing pixel values for a scanning sequence 
on the integrated circuit, 
(b) placing on the integrated circuit a timing means for indicating a pixel 
frequency corresponding to that of the display unit and for generating timing 

control signals for synchronizing the generation of said analog signals at said 
pixel frequency, comprising at least one phase-locked loop means for synthesizing 

a predetermined pixel or other clock frequency, 
(c) providing a control port means for sending control data to the 
integrated circuit and reading the control data back to the controller, and 
(d) providing a pixel port means for sending pixel data information to the 

integrated circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
