<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642642</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONNECTION TO A GAS CYLINDER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F17C1304	F17C1300	A61M1610	F17C1304	F17C1302	A61M1610	F17C1300	A61M1618	B67D732	B67D734	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F17C	F17C	A61M	F17C	F17C	A61M	F17C	A61M	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F17C13	F17C13	A61M16	F17C13	F17C13	A61M16	F17C13	A61M16	B67D7	B67D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A connection between the yoke (1) of anaesthetic delivery apparatus and a gas cylinder is made using an adaptor block (7) which has formations corresponding to formations on a gas cylinder containing a particular gas to allow the block and the cylinder to be connected to one another, and machine readable indicia (18) by which the block (7) can be identified by the delivery apparatus when connected to a cylinder of gas. The adaptor block (7) may include a plurality of sets of formations and indicia (11), to allow connections to a number of cylinders, containing different gases, to be made.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to techniques for forming 
connections to gas cylinders, and to an adaptor or mounting 
block for use in forming such connections. Anaesthetic agents are commonly administered to a patient by 
means of vaporiser suspended in a carrier gas, which might be 
for example oxygen, nitrogen, nitrous oxide or a mixture of two 
or more gases. For adequate control of the administration of 
drug to a patient, it is essential that, not only the drug, but 
also the carrier gas be positively and accurately identified to 
ensure that, amongst other things, the rate of flow of carrier 
gas can be accurately controlled. It is known to provide the yoke on the anaesthetic delivery 
apparatus with formations specific to a particular gas which 
can mate with corresponding formations on a cylinder containing 
that gas. The formations on the yoke and the cylinder commonly 
take the form of cooperating pins and corresponding sockets or 
recesses respectively. The formations can prevent an incorrect 
cylinder from being fitted to the yoke. The use of a series of mating formations on the yoke and the 
cylinder to identify the gas contained within the cylinder has 
been found to provide the necessary ability to identify 
accurately the gas within the cylinder. However, in order for 
anaesthetic delivery apparatus to be capable of taking a range 
of gases from respective cylinders, it is necessary for the 
yokes on which the cylinders are mounted on the apparatus to 
have formations for mating with each different cylinder type. 
This can increase the space requirement of the yokes on the 
apparatus to an unacceptable level. Furthermore, it requires 
appropriate components to be provided, calibrated for each 
specific gas, to allow flow of a selected carrier gas from its 
respective yoke into the delivery apparatus for use. The present invention provides a technique for connecting a gas 
cylinder to anaesthetic delivery apparatus which makes use of  
 
machine readable indicia associated with the cylinder 
containing the gas to ensure that a correct cylinder is 
connected to the apparatus. Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention provides anaesthetic 
delivery apparatus which comprises: 
(a) a gas cylinder mounting yoke; (b) means for reading machine readable indicia; (c) a gas cylinder which bears formations according to 
the gas contained within the cylinder; and (d) an adaptor block which can be fitted to the yoke, 
which has formations corresponding to the formations on 
the gas cylinder to allow
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Anaesthetic delivery apparatus which comprises: 

(a) a gas cylinder mounting yoke (1); 
(b) means (15) for reading machine readable indicia; 
(c) a gas cylinder which bears formations according to 
the gas contained within the cylinder; 
(d) an adaptor block (7) which can be fitted to the yoke, 
which has formations corresponding to the formations on 

the gas cylinder to allow the block and the cylinder to 
be connected to one another; and 
(e) machine readable indicia (18) associated with one of the 
cylinder and the block, by which the gas cylinder with 

its associated block can be identified by the delivery 
apparatus when fitted to the yoke. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which the formations 
on the block and on the cylinder comprise mating pins (16, 17) and 

recesses. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, in which the 
machine readable indicia (18) are optically readable. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, in which the indicia (18) 

comprise regions of optically reflective and absorbing 
materials provided in a pre-arranged pattern. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, in 
which the block includes additional indicia for the operator of 

the anaesthetic delivery apparatus to identify visually the gas 
cylinder to which the block is or is to be connected.  

 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, which 
has at least one passageway extending through it for receiving 

a spigot on the yoke of the anaesthetic delivery apparatus. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, in 
which the machine readable indicia are provided on the adaptor 

block. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, which includes at least 
at least one additional set of formations and indicia for a 

cylinder of another gas, which can be used to form a 
connections between the yoke of anaesthetic delivery apparatus 

and a cylinder containing the said other gas. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, in which the formations 
on the block are in the form of one of a mating set of pins and 

recesses, and in which the cylinder bears formations 
corresponding to those on the block, by which it can be 

mateably connected to the block. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9, in which the 
block is movable between its positions for connection to the 

different cylinders containing the respective gases by removal 
from a spigot on the yoke of the apparatus, and replacement on 

the spigot in a different orientation. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10, in 
which the block is movable between its positions for connection 

to the different cylinders containing the respective gases by 
sliding. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, which 
includes means for measuring the flow rate of gas supplied from 

the gas cylinder. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
