<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649472</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FUSION PROTEINS COMPRISING EUKARYOTIC CYTOCHROME P450 FUSED TO A REDUCTASE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1570	C12N902	C12N902	C12N1570	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are methods and compositions for effecting bacterial expression of eukaryotic cytochrome P450 enzymes and fusion proteins comprising a eukaryotic P450 domain fused to a reductase enzyme domain in a biologically active form. Certain embodiments involve the expression of eukaryotic cytochrome P45017(alpha)- hydroxylase which is expressed in large amounts in an (E. coli) host in a biologically active form without the need for coexpression or admixture of a cytochrome P450 reductase. Methods and compositions are also disclosed for the construction of cytochrome P450 enzyme hybrids or fusion proteins, incorporating the N-terminal 9 amino acids from bovine 17(alpha)-hydroxylase, which will enable many eukaryotic cytochrome P450 enzymes or fusion proteins to be expressed in bacteria.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV TEXAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOARD OF REGENTS, THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNES HENRY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESTABROOK RONALD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHER CHARLES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARNES, HENRY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESTABROOK, RONALD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHER, CHARLES, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the functional
expression of eukaryotic cytochrome P450
fusion proteins comprising a
eukaryotic cytochrome P450 domain fused to a reductase
domain in bacterial cells, genetic constructs for
effecting such expression, and methods employing these
bacteria and/or the recombinant enzymes, P450
fusion proteins so produced, e.g., as
bioreactors for effecting the metabolism of cytochrome
P450 substrates.In particular the present invention relates to a DNA segment comprising a gene encoding
a fusion protein. The cytochrome P450 superfamily includes multiple
molecular forms of enzymes which catalyze monooxygenase
reactions of a wide variety of endogenous as well as
exogenous substrates (Lu, et al., 1980). Each form of
these hemoproteins exhibits a unique substrate
specificity. The cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes
participate, for example, in the metabolism of steroids
(Hall, 1980), eicosanoid, fatty acids (Kupfer, 1980), and
bile acids (Hansson and Wikvall, 1980), as well as
exogenous substrates such as drugs, insecticides, and
chemical carcinogens (Gelboin, 1980). Comparison of
several forms of cytochrome P450 whose primary structures 
have so far been reported indicates that they are
structurally related to one another and possibly derived
from a common ancestor (Gotoh, et al, 1983).Microsomal cytochrome P450s are integral membrane
hemoproteins which derive reducing equivalents from NADPH
by means of a membrane bound flavoprotein oxido-reductase
(NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase). These so-called
mixed-function oxidases activate molecular oxygen so as
to insert one atom into a lipophilic substrate and the
other atom into water. Cytochrome P450 and P450-like
enzymes are ubiquitous in nature, being found in a broad
range of eukaryotes as well as bacteria. In fact, many
of the bacterial enzymes are similar to a certain degree
to the P450 enzymes found in mammals. For example, in
certain soil bacteria (i.e., Pseudomonas putida), the
oxygenation of camphor involves an enzyme termed
cytochrome P450CAM which acts in concert with an FAD-containing
flavoprotein, putida redoxin reductase and an
iron sulfur protein putida redoxin. (Katagira, et al.,
1968). Interestingly, the bacterial electron transfer
system in P. putida is very similar to the one functional
in the mitochondria of higher organisms. However, the
electron transfer system of P. putida cannot support the
functional transfer of electrons to either mitochondrial
or microsomal P450s. Because of sequence similarities
between
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A DNA segment comprising a gene encoding a fusion protein, said DNA
segment being substantially free from total genomic DNA, the fusion protein

having a eukaryotic cytochrome P450 enzyme domain and a cytochrome P450
reductase domain, wherein said gene comprises, in order of transcription, a

promoter capable of effecting expression of the encoded fusion protein in a
compatible bacterial cell positioned in operable linkage with a DNA region

encoding the fusion protein, a ribosome binding site compatible with a bacterial
cell, the DNA encoding the fusion protein, and a transcription terminator, wherein

the encoded fusion protein domain comprises a cytochrome P450 enzyme hybrid
in which the first nine amino acid residues are derived from bovine cytochrome

P450 17α-hydroxylase and a linker region positioned between the encoded P450
domain and the encoded reductase domain, wherein said linker comprises only

one Asp, Lys, Glu, Asn or Ala residue and unlimited Pro residues to allow
bacterial expression of the fusion protein in a biologically active form within a

bacterial transformant of the 
Enterobacteriaceae
.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the encoded cytochrome P450 enzyme
domain is selected from the group of cytochrome P450 families consisting of the I,

II, III, IV, VI, XIA, XIB, XVII, XIX, XXI, and XXVI families.
The DNA segment of claim 2, wherein the encoded cytochrome P450 enzyme
domain is a domain capable of metabolizing a substrate selected from the group

consisting of the steroid, fatty acid, lipid, prostaglandin, leukotriene, vitamin, and
xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes.
The DNA segment of claim 3, wherein the encoded cytochrome P450 enzyme
domain comprises a 17α-hydroxylase. 
The DNA segment of claim 3, wherein the encoded cytochrome P450 enzyme
domain comprises 1A2, 3A4, 1A1 or 2C8.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the encoded cytochrome P450 enzyme
domain comprises a cytochrome P450 enzyme in which the sequence of the first

nine amino acid residues is Met Ala Leu Leu Leu Ala Val Phe Leu.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the sequence of codons encoding the first
nine amino acid residues of the cytochrome P450 enzyme hybrid is ATG GCT

CTG TTA TTA GCA GTT TTT CTG.
The DNA segment of claim 1 wherein the encoded cytochrome P450 enzyme
domain comprises a cytochrome P450 enzyme hybrid comprising 1A2, 3A4, 1A1,

or 2C8.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the encoded reductase domain comprises
a cytochrome P450 reductase.
The DNA segment of claim 9, wherein the encoded reductase domain comprises
a mammalian reductase.
The DNA segment of claim 9, wherein the encoded reductase domain comprises
rat liver reductase.
The DNA segment of claim 9, wherein the encoded reductase domain comprises
a human reductase.
The DNA segment of claim 9, wherein the encoded reductase domain comprises
the reductase domain of P450BM3.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the encoded linker region is further defined
as comprising about 1-300 amino acids. 
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the encoded linker region comprises Ser,
Thr and/or Gly.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the linker region comprises a SerThr
dipeptide linker.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the encoded linker region domain
comprises a restriction site.
The DNA segment of claim 17, wherein the encoded restriction site is a 
Sal
 1
restriction site.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the amino terminus of the reductase is
truncated.
The DNA segment of claim 19, wherein the amino terminus of the encoded
reductase domain is truncated such that the hydrophobic anchoring domain of the

carboxy terminus is removed.
The DNA segment of claim 19, wherein the encoded amino terminus of the
reductase domain is truncated immediately following a trypsin sensitive site.
DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the encoded reductase domain encodes rat
P450 reductase in which the amino terminus is truncated immediately following

the encoded trypsin sensitive site at Lys56.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the encoded carboxy-terminus of the P450
enzyme domain is fused to the encoded amino-terminus of the reductase domain.
DNA segment of claim 1, further defined as a plasmid.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the promoter comprises a tac, lac, lac UV5
tac, trc, λPL, T7 or T3 promoter. 
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the ribosome binding site comprises 
an E
.

coli
, λ, T7 or T3 ribosome binding site.
The DNA segment of claim 26, wherein the ribosome binding site comprises a T7
gene 10, or 
E. coli
 lac a, lac z, trp A, trp B, trp C, trp D, trp E, trp L, trp R, or trp S
ribosome binding site.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the ribosome binding site and spacer
region comprise 5' - 
AGGAGGT
CAT - 3'.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the terminator comprising a trp, rrn
B
 or T7
terminator.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the terminator comprises an RNase III
cleavage site.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the gene encoding the cytochrome P450
domain comprises a modification in the codon for the second amino acid.
The DNA segment of claim 31 wherein the codon encoding the second amino
acid of the encoded cytochrome P450 enzyme domain comprises GCT, AAA,

ACC, ACT, TAT, AAT, AAC, CAC, CAT, CGT, AGA, CGC, TTT, ATC, ATA, ATT,
GTA, TTG, CTT, CTC, TTA, GCC, GCA, GAA, AGC, or AGT.
The DNA segment of claim 32, wherein the codon encoding the second amino
acid of the encoded P450 enzyme domain comprises GCT.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the codon encoding the fourth or fifth
amino acid of the encoded cytochrome P450 enzyme domain comprises an AT

rich codon.
The DNA segment of claim 1, wherein the first 25 codons of the encoded
cytochrome P450 domain comprises not more than two rare codons. 
The DNA segment of claim 35 wherein the first 25 codons of the encoded
cytochrome P450 domain are devoid of rare codons.
The DNA segment of claim 36, wherein the first 25 codons of the encoded
cytochrome P450 domain are devoid of the codons AGA and AGG.
A purified fusion protein comprising a eukaryotic cytochrome P450 enzyme
domain and a cytochrome P450 reductase domain, said protein being free of

glycosylation.
A transformed bacterial cell comprising the DNA segment of claim 1.
The bacterial cell of claim 39, the cell being further defined as being capable of
expression of the DNA segment of claim 1.
The bacterial cell of claim 39 wherein the bacterial cell comprises a member of the
gram negative family 
Enterobacteriaceae
.
The bacterial cell of claim 41, wherein the bacterial cell comprises 
E. coli
.
A method for obtaining a DNA segment comprising a gene encoding a fusion
protein as claimed in claim 1, the method comprising:


(a) obtaining a DNA segment which comprises an encoded eukaryotic cytochrome
P450 enzyme domain;
(b) obtaining a DNA segment which comprises an encoded reductase domain;
(c) fusing the DNA segment comprising the encoded P450 enzyme domain to the
DNA segment comprising the encoded reductase domain, thereby creating a

segment comprising an encoded fusion protein; and
(d) modifying the DNA segment comprising an encoded fusion protein so as to
operatively combine the segment comprising the encoded fusion protein with a 

bacterially compatible ribosome binding site, transcription terminator and
promoter.
A method for the production of a fusion protein comprising preparing a bacterial
cell in accordance with claims 39-42 and culturing said cell under conditions

appropriate to effectuate expression of the fusion protein.
The method of claim 44, wherein the fusion protein produced is further defined as
being biologically active.
The method of claim 44, further comprising collecting the fusion protein so
produced.
A method for the metabolism of a cytochrome P450 substrate comprising
preparing a bacterial cell which expresses a biologically active fusion protein in

accordance with any one of claims 39-42, wherein said expressed fusion protein
is one that is capable of metabolizing said substrate, and subjecting said

substrate to the fusion protein produced under conditions effective to metabolize
said substrate.
The method of claim 47, wherein said fusion protein is at least partially purified,
from said bacterial cell prior to subjecting the substrate to the fusion protein.
The method of claim 47, wherein said cytochrome P450 substrate is subjected to
bacterial membrane fractions which comprise the fusion protein.
The method of claim 47, wherein said substrate comprises a steroid.
The method of claim 47, wherein said substrate comprises pregnenolone, 17a-hydroxypregnenolone,
progesterone, 17α-hydroxyprogesterone, ethoxyresorufin,

ethoxycoumarin, estradiol, nitrophenol, aniline, acetanilide, erythromycin, cortisol,
warfarin, cimetidine, testosterone, androstenedione, 17β-estradiol, quinidine,

benzo[a]pyrene, tolbutamide or phenytoin. 
A method for preparing a bacterial cell comprising a DNA segment encoding a
fusion protein, the method comprising the steps of:


(a) obtaining a DNA segment which comprises an encoded eukaryotic cytochrome
P450 enzyme domain;
(b) obtaining a DNA segment which comprises an encoded reductase domain gene;
(c) fusing the DNA segment comprising the encoded P450 enzyme domain to the
DNA segment comprising the encoded reductase domain thereby creating a

segment comprising an encoded fusion protein;
(d) transforming bacteria with the segment comprising an encoded fusion protein,
forming transformant colonies; and
(e) selecting a transformant colony with the segment comprising an encoded fusion
protein.
The method of claim 52, wherein the DNA segment encoding the fusion protein is
modified by combining it with a bacterial expression cassette.
A method for obtaining bacterial expression of any DNA segment claimed in claim
1, the method comprising:


(a) obtaining a DNA segment which comprises an encoded eukaryotic cytochrome
P450 enzyme domain;
(b) obtaining a DNA segment which comprises an encoded cytochrome P450
reductase domain;
(c) fusing the DNA segment comprising the encoded P450 enzyme domain to the
DNA segment comprising the encoded cytochrome P450 reductase domain,

thereby creating a segment comprising an encoded fusion protein; 
(d) modifying the DNA segment comprising the encoded fusion protein to form a
bacterial expression unit, said bacterial expression unit comprising, in order of

transcription, a promoter placed in operable linkage with the DNA region encoding

the fusion protein, said promoter capable of effecting expression of the encoded
fusion protein in a compatible bacterial cell, a ribosome binding site compatible

with a bacterial cell, the DNA region encoding the fusion protein, and a
transcription terminator, wherein the DNA region encoding an amino proximal

portion of the fusion protein has been modified to allow expression of the fusion
protein in a biologically active form within a bacterial transformant of the


Enterobacteriaceae;
(e) transforming a bacteria selected from the group 
Enterobacteriaceae
 with the
bacterial expression unit, forming transformant colonies;
(f) selecting a transformant colony which expresses the fusion protein encoded in the
bacterial expression unit in a biologically active manner, and
(g) culturing the selected transformant under conditions effective to express the
fusion protein.
A method for obtaining bacterial expression of any DNA segment claimed in claim
1, the method comprising the steps of:


(a) obtaining a DNA segment which comprises an encoded eukaryotic cytochrome
P450 enzyme domain;
(b) obtaining a DNA segment which comprises an encoded cytochrome P450
reductase domain;
(c) fusing the DNA segment comprising the encoded P450 enzyme domain to the
DNA segment comprising the encoded cytochrome P450 reductase domain,

thereby creating a DNA segment comprising an encoded fusion protein; 
(d) combining the DNA segment comprising the encoded fusion protein with a DNA
segment encoding the first nine amino acid residues from bovine cytochrome

P450 17α-hydroxylase, thereby modifying the DNA region encoding an amino
proximal portion of the fusion protein to allow expression of the fusion protein in a

biologically active form within a bacterial transformant of the 
Enterobacteriaceae
;
(e) modifying the combined DNA to form a bacterial expression unit, said bacterial
expression unit comprising, in order of transcription, a promoter placed in

operable linkage with the DNA region encoding the fusion protein, said promoter
capable of effecting transcription of the encoded fusion protein in a compatible

bacterial cell, a ribosome binding site compatible with a bacterial cell, the DNA
region encoding the fusion protein, and a transcription terminator;
(f) transforming a bacteria of the group 
Enterobacteriaceae
 with the bacterial
expression unit, forming transformant colonies;
(g) selecting a transformant colony which expresses the encoded fusion protein in a
biologically active manner, and
(h) culturing the selected transformant under conditions effective to express the
fusion protein.
The method of claim 55, wherein the cytochrome P450 enzyme utilized is a
cytochrome P450 enzyme hybrid comprising 1A2, 3A4, 1A1 or 2C8.
The method of claim 55, wherein the DNA encoding the fusion protein is modified
by combining it with a bacterial expression cassette.
A recombinant vector comprising the DNA segment of claim 1.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
