<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614582</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL DEMODULATOR FOR PREAMBLE-LESS BURST COMMUNICATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03D100	H03D100	H04L702	H04L702	H04L704	H04L704	H04L710	H04L710	H04L2700	H04L2700	H04L27233	H04L27233	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03D	H03D	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03D1	H03D1	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L7	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Digital demodulator processing (Fig. 5) is accomplished for the reception of burst transmission (401) without preamble overhead (Fig. 3b) for synchronization acquisition. It is assumed that the modulation technique is either binary phase-shift keying (BPSK) (250) or quarternary phase-shift keying (QPSK) (250). The required synchronization (506), filtering (504, 505) and detection (512) functions for the demodulator are performed sequentially by repeated digital processing of stored complex baseband samples (501) of the received transmission burst (401).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHODES SMITH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHODES, SMITH, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DIGITAL DEMODULATOR FOR PREAMBLE-LESS BURST COMMUNICATIONSFIELD OF INVENTIONThe present invention relates to digital demodulators used, for example, in burst communications applications. More specifically, the invention relates to such demodulators which perform demodulation without the use of a synchronization preamble attached to data bursts.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In the past, burst communications has usually required a synchronization preamble for the acquisition of carrier synchronization and symbol synchronization prior to synchronous, coherent detection of the modulation symbols in the data burst. As described in C. Heegard, J. Heller and A. Viterbi, "A Microprocessor-Based PSK Modem for Packet Transmission Over Satellite Channels," IEEE Transactions on Communications. Vol. COM-26, No. 5, May 1978, pp. 552-564, a preamble is ordinarily employed for burst communications even when a digital demodulator is used for reception.U.S. Patent No. 4,466,108 describes a preamble- less approach to digital satellite burst communications that uses either binary phase-shift keying (BPSK) or quaternary phase-shift keying (QPSK) modulation and time division multiple access (TDMA) by some N transmitting stations to share the same satellite transponder sequentially. In this preamble-' less approach, however, the carrier frequency is 

 assumed to be known with sufficient accuracy initially so that carrier frequency acquisition is not required.When the burst lengths are short, the overhead for synchronization preambles can result in a considerable loss of access efficiency. Also, methods for preamble-less burst reception that require accurate initial carrier frequency knowledge are not effective for low speed communications in. which the carrier frequency uncertainty can be significant relative to the modulation symbol rate.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide a preamble-less approach to burst communications demodulators which does not suffer from the disadvantages mentioned above with respect to conventional demodulators.Specifically, it is an object of the invention to significantly reduce the overhead that need be included in conventional burst communications systems, such overhead taking the form of synchronization preambles.It is a still further object of the invention to reduce overhead while, at the same time, providing for demodulation situations, such as low speed communication rates, where the initial carrier frequency uncertainty can be great.In burst
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of demodulating a received modulated signal burst, said signal burst having been transmitted without a synchronization preamble, said signal burst potentially having a carrier frequency uncertainty as wide in bandwidth as a symbol rate of said signal burst, said method including the steps of:
(a) calculating complex baseband samples of said - received modulated signal burst;
(b) storing said samples into a memory; and
(c) reading said samples out of said memory and performing digital signal processing on said samples so as to perform symbol synchronization and carrier synchronization.
2. A method of demodulating a received modulated signal burst containing a plurality of symbols and performing synchronous coherent detection of said symbols, said signal burst having been transmitted without a synchronization preamble, said method including the steps of:
(a) calculating complex baseband samples of said received modulated signal burst;
(b) storing said samples into a memory;
(c) acquiring a coarse frequency estimate of the carrier signal of said received modulated signal burst by reading out said samples from said memory, processing said samples, and correcting said samples; 


 (d) performing matched filtering on the resultant samples from step (c) so as to filter the signal burst to approximately its occupied bandwidth;
(e) performing symbol synchronization on the results of step (d) so as to determine the specific time location for each symbol of said signal burst that will maximize the symbol signal-to-noise ratio;
(f) performing sample interpolation for timing correction on the resultant samples from step (d) in accordance with the specific time location results of step (e) ;
(g) performing carrier synchronization on the results of step (f) so as to produce a fine estimate of said signal bursts carrier frequency and carrier phase;
(h) correcting the results of step (f) based on the results of step (g) ; and
(i) performing bit decision on the results of step (h) so as to perform synchronous coherent detection of said symbols of said signal burst.
3. A method according to claim 2, wherein a carrier frequency uncertainty of said received modulated signal burst is as wide in bandwidth as the symbol rate of said received modulated signal burst.
4. A method according to claim 2, wherein the performance of said step (c) also results in the detection of the presence of said signal burst. 


 5. A method according to claim 2, wherein said step (a) involves multiplying said signal burst by a nominal carrier frequency signal and multiplying said signal burst by said nominal carrier frequency signal shifted in phase by 90°.
6. An apparatus for demodulating a received modulated signal burst containing a plurality of symbols and for performing synchronous coherent detection of said symbols, said signal burst having been transmitted without a synchronization preamble, said apparatus comprising:
calculating means for calculating complex baseband samples of said signal burst;
storing means for storing said samples;
acquiring means for acquiring a coarse frequency estimate of the carrier signal of said signal burst by reading out said samples from said storing means and processing said samples;
first correcting means for correcting said samples based on said coarse frequency estimate;
first performing means for performing matched filtering on the resultant samples from said first correcting means so as to filter the signal burst to approximately its occupied bandwidth;
second performing means for performing symbol synchronization on an output of said first performing means so as to determine the specific time location 


 for each symbol of said signal burst that will maximize the symbol signal-to-noise ratio;
third performing means for performing sample interpolation for timing correction on the resultant samples from said first performing means in accordance with the specific time location results of said second performing means;
fourth performing means for performing carrier synchronization on an output of said third performing means so as to produce a fine estimate of said signal burst's carrier frequency and carrier phase;
second correcting means for correcting the output of said third performing means based on the output of said fourth performing means; and
fifth performing means for performing bit decisions on the output of said second correcting means so as to perform synchronous coherent detection of said symbols of said signal burst.
7. An apparatus for demodulating a received modulated signal burst, said signal burst having been transmitted without a synchronization preamble, said signal burst potentially having a carrier frequency uncertainty as wide in bandwidth as the symbol rate of said signal burst, said apparatus comprising:
calculating means for calculating complex baseband samples of said received modulated signal burst;
storing means for storing said samples; and 


 reading means for reading said samples out of said memory and performing digital signal processing on said samples so as to perform symbol synchronization and carrier synchronization. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
