<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613052</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Photolithography test structures
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L23544	H01L23544	H01L2166	G03F720	G03F720	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	G03F	G03F	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	H01L21	G03F7	G03F7	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A photolithography test structure (50) is provided for measuring 
the amount of notching associated with photolithography 

processing. The test structure includes a curved insulating 
structure (64) placed in close spaced proximity with a conductive, 

interconnect structure (56). A pair of conductive pads (54) are deposited 
at opposite ends of the interconnect structure for measuring the 

resistance through the interconnect. Depending upon the amount 
of notching associated with the interconnect, resistance readings 

will vary. Test areas (52) containing notched interconnect can be 
compared with controlled areas (62) specifically designed not to have 

notching in order to determine relative changes in resistance, 
and to correlate that resistance with notching magnitude. The 

insulating structure, interconnect structure and conductive pads 
are processed upon the same substrate material containing the 

resulting product requiring testing. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAPMAN WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOAD HOWARD S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILLIS MICHAEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUSSEY JAMES H JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRISTERS DERICK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAPMAN, WILLIAM C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOAD, HOWARD S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILLIS, MICHAEL A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUSSEY, JAMES H., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRISTERS, DERICK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to photolithography and more
particularly to a photolithography test structure for
electrically measuring the amount of notching associated with the
fabrication of a conductive component.Lithography, also referred to as photolithography, and
sometimes as pattern printing, is a processing methodology by
which a pattern is transferred to a target surface or substrate.
A pattern is transferred from a mask onto a substrate, which
involves the steps of coating, exposing and developing
photosensitive resist placed across the substrate. The substrate
is first prepared for patterning by removing foreign materials
from the substrate surface. An oxide such as, e.g., SiO2 is then
allowed to grow across the clean substrate. Photolithography
processing may begin by placing the photosensitive material,
often called "photoresist" or "resist", across the prepared
substrate surface. Spin coating a liquid photoresist across the
substrate is well known, and provides a suitable thin film of
protective covering upon the substrate area. The mask is then
placed in contact with the photoresist or in close proximity with
the photoresist. A light source is configured behind the mask
allowing radiation to pass through select portions of the mask
and onto the photoresist. Emitted radiation is preferably within
the ultraviolet (UV) region. A pattern of photoresist exposed to
the UV light is either polymerized or solubilized depending upon
the type of photoresist used. A polymerized pattern is one which
becomes hardened and substantially resistant to selective
removal. On the other hand, solubilized pattern is softened and 
easily dissolved by a solvent.Photoresist can be either positive or negative. Negative
resist includes resist which becomes polymerized at the locations
where UV light strikes the resist. Exposed negative resist
becomes polymerized and is considerably less soluble in the
developing solvent. Conversely, positive resist includes resist
which becomes solubilized at regions exposed to UV light.
Exposed positive photoresist becomes considerably more soluble in
the developing solvent. The formulation of photoresist (either
negative or positive) is well known. Oftentimes, photoresist
includes a resist polymer combined with a sensitizer. The
sensitizer makes the polymer light-sensitive. An adhesion
promoter can also be added to allow the resin to adhere to the
substrate material. A thinner may also be added to the viscous
resin to allow it to spread more uniformly over the substrate.
Numerous types
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A photolithography test structure (50) comprising:

a pair of conductive pads (54) deposited upon a substrate (78) and connected
at opposite ends of an interconnect structure (56);
characterised in that
 the test structure further comprises:

a first curved insulating structure (64) deposited on the substrate (78);
the insulating structure having a sloping sidewall (70) adjacent to said

interconnect structure, the distance between the sidewall (70) and
the interconnect structure (56) being such that, during fabrication of

said test structure, light reflected from a reflective surface (80) of
the sidewall (70) produces lithographic notching of the interconnect

structure (56).
The test structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first insulating structure
(64) is chemically bonded to said substrate in a serpentine configuration.
The test structure as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said first insulating
structure (64) comprises silicon dioxide.
The test structure as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said first
insulating structure (64) comprises a chemical selected from the group consisting of

tetraethoxysilane and phosphosilicate glass.
The test structure as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said interconnect
structure (56) comprises a metal.
The test structure as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said interconnect
structure (56) is chemically bonded to said substrate (78) in an elongate, substantially

straight configuration. 
The test structure as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the said distance
between the sloping sidewall (70) and the interconnect structure (56) is less than

1.0µm.
The test structure as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising a
second curved insulating structure (64) having a sloped sidewall (70) deposited upon

said substrate (78) a spaced distance from said interconnect structure, whereby said
interconnect structure (56) is configured between said first insulating structure and

said second insulating structure.
The test structure as claimed in claim 8, wherein said second insulating
structure (64) is chemically bonded to said substrate in a serpentine configuration.
A photolithography test structure (50) comprising:

a substrate (78);
a pair of conductive pads (54) deposited upon said substrate and connected at
opposite ends of an interconnect structure (56); and
means for producing current (I
1
, I
2
) between said pads and for measuring a
resulting voltage between said pads,
characterised in that
 the test structure further comprises:

a serpentine shaped first insulating structure (64) deposited upon said substrate,
said insulating structure having a sidewall (70) with a reflective surface

extending substantially perpendicular to said substrate;
means for reshaping said sidewall (70) to extend in a sloping path from a peak
of said insulating structure (64) to an outer periphery at a base (72) of

said insulating structure;
said interconnect structure (56) being deposited in a substantially straight line
upon said substrate a spaced distance less than 1.0 µm from the base

of a plurality of select portions of said insulating structure (64).
The test structure as claimed in claim 10, further comprising a serpentine shaped
second insulating structure (64) having a sloping sidewall (70) with a reflective

surface deposited upon said substrate within 1.0 µm from said interconnect structure
(56), whereby said interconnect structure is configured between said first insulating

structure and said second insulating structure.
The test structure as claimed in claim 11, wherein said serpentine shaped first
insulating structure (64) extends within a plane laterally about a central axis (66).
The test structure as claimed in claim 12, wherein said select portions of said
insulating structure comprise select portions of said sidewall (70) spaced at a distal

location from said central axis (66).
The test structure as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein said
spaced distance is less than .75 µm.
The test structure as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein said
spaced distance is less than .5 µm.
The test structure as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said reshaping
means comprises a heating chamber surrounding said first insulating structure (64) for

applying thermal energy to said structure.
The test structure as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said means for
producing current and for measuring a resulting voltage comprises a current source

(I
1
 , I
2
) and a voltage meter (V
1
, V
2
) coupled to said pads (54).
An integrated circuit photolithography test structure (50) comprising:

a silicon substrate (78);
a first insulating film (64) deposited across said substrate; 
means for selectively etching away said first insulating film to produce a first
surface topography,
a conductive film (80) deposited across said first topography to form a second
surface topography;
a photoresist (74) placed across said second surface topography;
a mask (76) placed proximate to said second surface topography;
a plurality of light beams comprising transmitted light beams and reflected
light beams;
means for solubilizing said photoresist in areas receiving transmitted and
reflected said light beams;
means for etching away said conductive film (80) in areas underlying the
solubilized resist to produce a third surface topography, wherein said

third topography includes an elongate interconnect structure
(56) having an interconnect central axis (68) along which said

interconnect extends;
means for producing current (I
1
, I
2
) through said interconnect along said
interconnect central axis;
means for measuring resistance (I
1
, I
2
, V
1
, V
2
) through said interconnect; and
characterised in that
said first topography includes a serpentine shaped first insulating structure (64)
extending laterally across said substrate about an insulating structure

central axis (66), said insulating structure including a plurality of sloped
sidewalls (70) spaced at a distal location from said insulating structure

central axis;

said transmitted light beams include light beams transmitted through
said mask and upon said second topography, said reflected light beams

including light beams reflected from said first topography;
said interconnect extends a spaced distance less than 1.0 µm from said plurality
of sloped sidewalls;
and in that said structure further includes 
means for correlating said resistance to an amount of said reflected light beams
extending from said first topography to a photoresist location above said

interconnect (56).
The test structure as claimed in claim 18, wherein said interconnect (56)
comprises a length, a thickness, and a width, said length extends parallel to said

second topography along said interconnect central axis (68), said thickness extends
perpendicular to said second topography to an upper surface of said interconnect, and

said width extends parallel to said second topography and perpendicular to said
thickness and length.
The test structure as claimed in claim 19, wherein said width decreases as a
result of an increase in reflected light beams extending from said first topography to

a photoresist location above said interconnect (56).
The test structure as claimed in claim 19, wherein an increase in resistance
through said interconnect (56) correlates with a decrease in said width.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
