<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655122</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROJECTILE DETECTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F41J5052	F41J504	F41J500	F41J300	F41J300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F41J	F41J	F41J	F41J	F41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F41J5	F41J5	F41J5	F41J3	F41J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dart head (101), its wire grid (102) and electrically conductive beds (103) are of conventional diameter of 340 mm (13 3/8"), with a 60 mm non-scoring circumferential bed (104), giving an overall of 460 mm (18"). The dart head is arranged in a casing (115) at an aperture (116), with a 540 mm internal diameter, in a plastics foam block (117). A circular aerial (105) is buried in the foam 20 mm from the edge of the aperture (116). Thus the aerial has a diameter of 580 mm compared with the 340 mm overall diameter of the scoring beds (103) of the dart head. Transmitting and reception equipment and a microprocessor unit for detecting and scoring the position of a dart thrown at the dart head are provided.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TARGET MARKETING LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TARGET MARKETING LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to detection of the 
position of a projectile with respect to a target, and in 
particular but not exclusively to detection of the position 
of a dart in a dart board. It is known to construct a dart board with each 
separately scoring section of the board being of 
electrically conductive material and being insulated from 
adjacent sections. In a prior detection arrangement, the 
sections are respectively sequentially connected to a radio 
transmitter and the wire grid delineating the sections is 
arranged as a receiving aerial. When a dart is embedded in 
and at the same time partially projects from one section - 
also known as a "dart bed" - the dart acts as an aerial and 
the signal received at the time appropriate to connection of 
that bed is received more strongly at the grid. Thus the 
particular bed in which the dart is partially embedded can 
be determined from the timing of the higher level of 
received signal. This arrangement suffers from the disadvantage that the 
received signal can vary greatly in accordance with the 
position of the dart in the bed. If the dart is in the 
middle of the bed, the signal is comparatively small; 
whereas if the dart is adjacent the grid, the signal is 
comparatively much larger. European Patent No. 121,550 describes a target apparatus according to preamble of claim 1 and claims: 
" A target apparatus comprising a target adapted to have 
a projectile thrown at it, and an associated automaticscoring arrangement, the target being divided into a 
plurality of separate beds each associated with a 
predetermined score that can be obtained by a player or 
sportsman causing a projectile to hit that bed, 
characterised in that the target is adapted to have a 
projectile at least partly made of electrically conductive 
material partially embedded therein with part of the 
projectile protruding from the target, each bed 
incorporating electrically conductive means for applying an 
electrical signal which is specific to that bed to a 
projectile embedded in said bed, the apparatus further 
including an aerial or antenna for receiving electromagnetic 
radiation radiating from part of a projectile protruding 
from a bed, and means responsive to a received signal for 
determining the score attributable to the projectile from 
which the radiation is emanating."It has been proposed that the arrangement of the beds 
as transmitters and the wire grid as receiver should be 
reversed with the beds being receivers and the grid being 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for detecting embedding of an at least 

partially conductive projectile in a target and identifying 
its embedded position in the target, the apparatus 

comprising; 

a target (1,101) having a plurality of electrically 
conductive beds (3,103) mutually insulated from each other 

and each having an identity, 
means (10) for determining the identity of any one of 
the beds having an at least partially conductive projectile 

embedded in and partially protruding from it, 
an aerial (5,105) associated with the target, 
transmitting and receiving equipment (7) connected to 
the beds (3,103) and the aerial (5,105); 
 
   characterised in that the aerial (5,105) is spaced from 

the beds by a separation (S) of the order of magnitude of 
the size (R) of the target (1,101). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aerial 
(5,105) is spaced outwardly of a non-scoring, 

circumferential bed (1,104) of the target (1,101). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the 
aerial (5,105) and the dart head (1,101) are generally 

co-planar. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
means (118') is provided for absorbing electromagnetic 

radiation direct from/to the aerial (105) to/from 
connections from the individual beds (103) to the 

receiving/transmitting equipment. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the aerial (5,105) is the transmitting aerial of the 

transmitting and receiving equipment (7). 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the peripheral aerial (5,105) is arranged symmetrically with 

respect to the target (1,101). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the aerial (5)  
 

extends on two sides only of the target (1). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the aerial 
(5,105) extends circumferentially around the target (1,101). 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein, 
for determining the orientation of the target, the aerial 

(5) has one element (5
t
') which is arranged closer to the 
target (1) than the other element(s) (5
l
,5
r
,5
b
) thereof, 
whereby a quiescent signal received in the bed nearest the 

one element (5
t
') will be the strongest signal and target 
detection logic of the apparatus will be able to determine 

that this bed is nearest to the one aerial element. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, 
wherein a separate, auxiliary aerial (5
t
") arranged so as to 
cause transmission from it to a particular one (6
20
) of the 
beds to be most strongly received in the bed is provided to 

identify that particular bed. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, 
wherein, for determining the orientation of the target, 

target detection logic of the apparatus is adapted to 
memorise any particular bed as having a pre-determined 

identity - and other beds as having identities in accordance 
with a predetermined pattern - on setting of the logic to a 

"board orientation mode" and inserting a projectile or dummy 
projectile into the particular bed. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the target has a non-scoring circumferential bed (4,104) 

which is electrically grounded. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the target has a wire grid (2,102) delimiting the 

differently scoring beds (3,103), the wire grid being 
electrically grounded. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
target detection logic of the apparatus is adapted to detect 

falling out of a projectile temporarily embedded in one of 
the beds.  

 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the bed identifying means is adapted and arranged to 

associate a respective score with each bed. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 as appendant to claim 
15, wherein the target detection logic is further adapted to 

ignore the score of the fallen out projectile. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
target detection logic of the apparatus is adapted to detect 

manual insertion and/or removal of a projectile in and/or 
from one of the beds of the target. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
target detection logic of the apparatus is adapted to detect 

close approach of a paramagnetic object to the target. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim as 
appendant to claim 16, wherein it includes a payment 

acceptor (123) and an audio alarm and wherein 
target detection logic of the apparatus is adapted to detect 

use of the target in having projectiles thrown at it and to 
sound an alarm when the apparatus is set to score the use 

and payment has not been received. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim as 
appendant to claim 15, wherein it includes a control panel 

(122) and a score display (121) and wherein target detection 
logic of the apparatus is adapted to accept instructions 

from the control panel for: 

i) correcting the score display in the event of a score 
being incorrectly detected and/or 
ii) selecting a level of skill for a game in which a player 
plays against the apparatus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
