<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629792</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cable seal.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16G1100	F16G1104	G09F303	G09F303	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16G	F16G	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16G11	F16G11	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stamped hardened sheet steel tapered ferrule (26) with 
cantilevered radially resilient fingers (50) is wedged by a spring (28) 

against a tapered bore (18) of a hardened steel housing (12). The 
fingers bend radially inwardly to grip a stranded steel cable (32) 

in the ferrule bore in response to the spring action. When the 
cable is slid in the ferrule in one direction, the ferrule (26) 

gripping the cable is further wedged against the tapered bore (18) 
and further grips the cable (32). The cable is released when it is 

slid in the opposite direction pulling the engaged ferrule away 
from the tapered bore of the housing. The cable has a flag (36) at 

one end which with the seal lock a hasp (38) therebetween limiting 
the relative motion of the cable in the opposite ferrule 

release direction. In a second embodiment, the ferrule is in 
interference fit with the cable and the spring is not used 

forcing the ferrule to always grip the cable. The ferrule in 
both embodiments grips the softer cable with higher rotational 

force than the ferrule friction force with the housing bore so 
that rotation or twisting of the cable relative to the housing 

rotates the ferrule therewith. The cable can not be threaded 
out of the ferrule by rotating the cable. A lubricant or 

reduced friction material coating can be used to enhance 
relative rotation between the ferrule and housing. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROOKS CO E J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.J. BROOKS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRAMMALL TERRENCE N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DREISBACH RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGOPOLOUS GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEVENSEN DAVID L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRAMMALL, TERRENCE N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DREISBACH, RICHARD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGOPOLOUS, GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEVENSEN, DAVID L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of application 
Serial No.08/065,471 filed May 21, 1993, abandoned. This invention relates to reusable seals for locking a 
cable thereto. Of interest is commonly owned copending U.S. patent 
application serial no. 106,428 entitled "Reusable Seal for use 
with Rod" filed August 13, 1993 in the name of Georgopoulos et 
al. Cable gripping devices are in wide use and comprise a 
self-adjusting cable gripping unit which automatically adapts 
itself to gripping a stranded cable. In seal use, a cable is 
formed with a swaged flag at one end to form an integral head 
member for the cable end. The other end of the cable is free. 
The cable free end is slipped or otherwise passed through an 
opening of a structure to be locked, for example, two hasps of 
a lock arrangement or other arrangement in doors, walls and the 
like for securing two elements together.  After the cable is slipped through the hasps or other lock 
arrangement, the cable gripping unit receives the free end of 
the cable and the cable is slid through the unit which has a 
bore therein including a cable gripping structure within the 
bore which slides over the cable as the unit is slid along the 
cable. When the unit reaches a desirable position adjacent to 
the hasp or other structure to which the cable is to be locked 
the unit is left in place at that location. Any attempt to 
remove the unit by sliding the unit in a reverse direction 
along the cable is precluded by a gripping structure within the 
unit bore. If the gripping structure is attempted to be slid 
in the reverse direction, it wedges against the cable and locks 
thereto. The gripping unit housing and the flag at opposing 
ends of the cable lock the cable and the hasp together. In U.S. Patent 3,852,850, a cable gripping unit is 
disclosed. This unit includes a helical spring, a cable 
receiving cup and a gripping member comprising a jaw retaining 
member and jaw segments. A shell formed of metal has a bore 
terminating in a cable accommodating opening and a cylindrical 
portion terminating in a reduced diameter opening proving an 
inwardly projecting annular shoulder. The gripping member and 
jaw segments are received in the bore. The gripping member is 
urged toward a reduced end of the opening of the gripping unit 
shell. The jaw retaining member is formed of an elastic 
material with the jaw segments held in slots in the retaining 
member. A spring urges the jaw segments in wedging engagement  
 
in the shell bore. This structure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for locking a twisted stranded cable thereto 
comprising: 

   a housing having a longitudinally extending bore 
therethrough for receiving said cable, said bore having a 

tapered portion forming a frustro-conical surface of revolution 
having a distal end and a relatively wider proximal end; 

   a hollow frustro-conical member having distal and proximal 
ends and dimensioned to be received in said tapered portion in 

a first direction toward said surface distal end for wedging 
against said frustro-conical surface, said member comprising a 

plurality of resilient fingers cantilevered from the member 
proximal end, the member proximal end being larger in diameter 

than the distal member end, said fingers bending radially 
inwardly in response to wedging of the member in said tapered 

bore in said first direction, said member for receiving said 
cable therethrough; and 

   means for causing the fingers to grip and lock to the 
cable in response to the cable being axially pulled through 

said bore in the first direction and release the cable in 
response to the cable being axially pulled in a direction 

opposite the first direction; 
   the housing and member including means arranged so that 

the member locks to the cable and rotates with the cable 
 

regardless twisting and rotation of the cable relative to the 
housing. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said cable has an outer 
diameter, said member comprising metal which is harder than 

said cable, said fingers at the distal end in a quiescent 
cable unengaged state defining an internal diameter smaller 

than the cable outer diameter. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the fingers have an internal 
cable gripping surface with circumferential grooves at least at 

said distal end. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the fingers have an internal 
knurled cable gripping surface at least at said distal end. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the fingers have an internal 
cable gripping surface with axially extending grooves at least 

at said distal end. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the member has a bore a 
portion of which is formed by said fingers and which receives 

said cable, said fingers in said bore portion each having a 
plurality of ridges adjacent to the distal end of the member. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the means arranged to lock 
the cable to the member includes means for providing a 

circumferential gripping force between the member and the cable 
higher than a concentric circumferential gripping force between 

the member and the housing. 
The device of claim 7 wherein the means arranged to lock 
the cable includes lubricant means for reducing the friction 

between the housing and said member. 
The device of claim 7 wherein the means arranged to lock 
the cable includes providing the interface of the housing bore 

and the member with reduced friction value relative to the 
value of the friction between the cable and the member. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the member is formed of heat 
treated steel. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said means for causing 
includes a spring in said bore for urging the member in said 

first direction against said surface. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the housing is hardened heat 
treated steel. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the member and housing are 
both hardened heat treated steel of about the same hardness. 
A device for locking a twisted stranded cable thereto 
comprising: 

   a housing having a longitudinally extending bore for 
axially receiving said cable therethrough, said bore having a 

tapered surface portion; 
   a hollow member having at least a frustro-conical portion 

dimensioned to mate with and be received in said tapered 
portion in a first direction toward said surface for wedging 

against surface, said member having a bore and comprising a 
plurality of resilient fingers cantilevered from one member end 

toward a second member end of smaller diameter than the one 
member end, said fingers bending radially inwardly in response 

to a radially inwardly directed force caused by wedging of the 
member in said taper
ed bore in said first direction, said 
member bore for receiving said cable therethrough, said member 

having a plurality of cable gripping ridges on said fingers; 
and 

   means arranged so that said fingers resiliently grip and 
lock the cable thereto in response to the cable being pulled 

through said housing bore in the first direction and 
resiliently release the cable in response to the cable being 

pulled in a direction opposite the first direction while 
simultaneously causing the member to rotate with the cable in 

 
said housing bore relative to said housing in response to 

rotation of said cable gripped by said member. 
The device of claim 14 wherein the means arranged include 
dimensioning the fingers to be in interference fit with said 

cable in said bore. 
The device of claim 14 wherein the housing bore has a 
longitudinal axis and wherein the means arranged comprises 

forming the housing, member and cable so that the forces 
between the housing and member is lower than the forces between 

the member and the cable in a rotational direction lying in a 
plane normal to said first direction. 
The device of claim 14 wherein the means arranged include 
a spring in said housing bore for urging the member in said 

first direction. 
The device of claim 14 wherein said means arranged 
comprises forming the second member end with an internal 

diameter smaller than the outer diameter of the cable. 
The device of claim 14 further including said cable locked 
to said member in said member bore. 
The device of claim 14 wherein the housing and member are 
both hardened heat treated steel of about the same hardness. 
A device for locking a twisted stranded cable thereto 
comprising: 

   a hardened steel housing having a longitudinally extending 
bore therethrough for receiving said cable, said bore having a 

tapered portion forming a frustro-conical surface of revolution 
having a distal end and a relatively wider proximal end; 

   a hardened steel hollow member having at least a frustro-conical 
portion and distal and proximal ends, said frustro-conical 

portion being dimensioned to be received in said 
tapered portion in a first direction toward said surface distal 

end for wedging the member distal end against said frustro-conical 
surface, said member comprising a plurality of 

resilient fingers cantilevered from the member proximal end 
toward the distal end and forming a bore, said fingers at their 

distal end bending radially inwardly in response to wedging of 
the member in said tapered bore, said member bore for receiving 

said cable therethrough; and 
   means for causing the fingers to grip and lock to the 

cable in response to the cable being axially pulled through 
said bore in the first direction and release the cable in 

response to the cable being axially pulled in a direction 
opposite the first direction and for causing the member to 

 
rotate with the cable when the cable is rotated relative to 

said housing. 
The device of claim 21 wherein said means for causing the 
fingers to grip and lock include dimensioning the member bore 

at least at said member distal end to be in interference fit 
with said cable. 
The device of claim 21 wherein the member bore is frustro-conical. 
A device for locking a circular cylinder thereto 
comprising: 

   a housing having a longitudinally extending bore 
therethrough for receiving said cylinder, said bore having a 

tapered portion forming a frustro-conical surface of revolution 
having a distal end and a relatively wider proximal end; 

   a hollow frustro-conical member having distal and proximal 
ends and dimensioned to be received in said tapered portion in 

a first direction toward said surface distal end for wedging 
against said frustro-conical surface, said member comprising a 

plurality of resilient fingers cantilevered from the member 
proximal end, the member proximal end being larger in diameter 

than the distal member end, said fingers bending radially 
inwardly in response to wedging of the member in said tapered 

bore in said first direction, said member for receiving said 
cylinder therethrough; and

 
   means for causing the fingers to grip and lock to the 

cylinder in response to the cylinder being axially pulled 
through said bore in the first direction and release the 

cylinder in response to the cylinder being axially pulled in a 
direction opposite the first direction. 
The device of claim 24 wherein said means for causing 
includes a irregular surface on at least said fingers in region 

engaging the cylinder. 
The device of claim 25 wherein the means for causing 
further includes an irregular surface on the cylinder. 
The device of claim 26 wherein the irregular surface on 
the cylinder includes one of knurls and grooves. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
