<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635123</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOISTURE SENSOR, IN PARTICULAR FOR FIBER OPTIC CABLE MONITORING SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01M304	G01M304	G01M1108	G01M1108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01M3	G01M3	G01M11	G01M11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a monitor for monitoring the condition of fibre optic communication cables. The system employs one or more of the optical fibres of a cable to monitor the cable structure for damage or kinks. By using two separate laser sources and simultaneously monitoring the optical losses at two distinct and separate wavelengths, the loss signature of the monitored fibre is determined, analyzed and related to the mechanical condition of the cable structure. To monitor splice points for moisture, a special optical splice sensor unit detects any penetration of water into the splice and transmits a coded alarm signal over the monitored fibre to the optical receiver. Every splice location is assigned a unique sensor code. The optical splice sensor is driven by moisture detection cell, which forms a single cell water activated battery. Water entering the monitored splice closure wets the tape, which activates the cell. The cell generates sufficient voltage and current to power timing, code generation and modulator circuits in the sensor unit for an extended period of time. The activated circuit drives a modulator which modulates the light travelling down the fibre. The modulated light is monitored at the equipment office and the address of the alarming sensor decoded.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a moisture sensor particularly for communication cable monitoring and more 
particularly for the monitoring of fibre optic communication cables. Telephone and other communication cables are subject to damage and wear 
from environmental and man made causes. Severe weather conditions such as high winds, 
snow, icing, rain, floods, and lightning can damage exposed cables. Damage can result 
from nearby construction or vandalism. The ingress of rain or ground water into the cable 
core or splice closures at damage locations is a major cause of service interruptions 
(outages). Every effort is therefore made to keep the cable in good repair and water out of 
the cable structure. Frequently, damage does not cause an immediate loss of service but results 
in a slow degradation of the cable system which often ends in failure of the cable and loss 
of service. Repair must then be carried out on an emergency basis, which is costly both in 
restoration costs and lost revenues. Dating back to the first major cable installations, maintenance monitoring 
systems have been used to provide early warning of cable trouble. This allows the 
scheduling of maintenance to avoid lost service and costly repair. The earliest systems 
used air pressure to keep water out of breaches in the cable or splice closures and to detect 
damage by measuring the air flow rate into a cable section. Modern telephone cables, including fibre optic cables, are often filled with 
water blocking compounds to prevent water migration into the cable core. While 
providing good resistance to water damage, the filling compounds also block or severely 
restrict air flow thus making air pressure monitoring systems useless. To overcome this  
 
limitation and to provide maintenance monitoring on filled telephone cables, all electronic 
systems were developed such as those described by McNaughton et al in United States 
patent 4,480,251 and Vokey et al in United States patent 5,077,526. Fibre optic cables constructed for applications such as inclusion in overhead 
power transmission static wires or suspended below phase conductors on transmission 
towers use all dielectric insulating materials. As a result, conventional cable and splice 
monitoring methods, such as described by the McNaughton et al and Vokey et al patents 
which require a metallic electrical conductor element can not be applied. OTDR techniques, which launch light pulses into a fibre and measure 
reflected energy to determine loss increases, have been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A moisture sensor for generating a signal in the presence of moisture, said signal 
generator comprising electrolytic cell means (76) that is normally inactive and is activated 

in response to contact with water to generate electrical energy and characterized by an 
electrically operated code signal generator (80, 86, 88) connected electrically to the cell 

means (76) and responsive to receipt of electrical energy from the cell means to generate an 
electric fault signal that is coded with information identifying the signal generator, and an 

optical modulator (62; 100) coupled to the code signal generator for generating a coded 
optical signal in response to generation of the fault signal. 
A moisture sensor according to Claim 1 for signalling moisture penetration 
of a splice closure (14) enclosing splice means (64; 102) holding in alignment the ends of 

optical fibres from the ends of two optical fibre cables, characterized in that: 

the optical modulator (62; 100) comprises displacement means (72, 
74; 108, 110) for selectively displacing one of the fibre ends of one cable with respect to 

the respective fibre end of the other cable; and 
the code signal generator (80, 86, 88) is coupled to the displacement 
means for selectively actuating the displacement means. 
A sensor according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein the electrolytic cell means (76) 
comprises two metal components (92, 94) and a water soluble ionizing solid (98) between 

the metal components. 
A sensor according to Claim 3 wherein the metal components (92, 94) and 
the ionizing solid (98) comprise a moisture detecting tape (90). 
A sensor according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein the code signal generator (80, 
86, 88) comprises means for generating a pulsed electrical signal. 
A sensor according to Claim 2 wherein the displacement means comprise a 
magnetic member (72; 108) coupled to said one fibre end and an electromagnet (74; 110) 

adjacent the magnetic member and coupled electrically to the signal generator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
