<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638872</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An electronic indentification system with fast communication and a label for this system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1375	G01S1376	G01S1379	G06K1907	G06K1907	H04B159	H04B159	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G06K	G06K	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G06K19	G06K19	H04B1	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic identification system comprising a transmitter 
and receiver unit for generating an electromagnetic field 

modulated with information to be transferred to a label. The 
label comprises at least one resonance circuit for receiving 

and further processing the information and further comprises 
control means for temporarily enlarging the bandwidth of the 

resonance circuit for correspondingly enlarging the 
information flow between the transmitter and receiver unit and 

the label. The label further comprises a limiter circuit, 
comprising the control means, with which a voltage generated 

by the resonance circuit is limited to a predetermined maximum 
value. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIP HARM JACOB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIP, HARM JACOB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electronic identification 
system comprising a transmitter and receiver unit for 
generating an electromagnetic field modulated with information 
to be transferred to a label and at least one label, 
comprising a resonance circuit, for receiving and further 
processing the information, the label further comprising 
control means for temporarily enlarging the bandwidth of the 
resonance circuit for correspondingly enlarging the 
information flow between the transmitter and receiver unit and 
the label. The term label is understood to include responders 
and vice versa. Such a system is disclosed in European patent application 
0,297,688. To enable fast communication, two switchable work 
modes are defined. In a first mode use is made of a tuned 
resonance circuit with a relatively small bandwidth to 
transmit information over a relatively great distance and with 
a relatively low steed from the transmitter and receiver unit 
to the label or responder and vice versa. In a second mode use 
is made of a resonance circuit with a relatively large 
bandwidth to transmit information over a relatively small 
distance and with a relatively high speed from the transmitter 
and receiver unit to the label and vice versa. Because the 
bandwidth is enlarged, the amount of information that can be 
transmitted per unit time can also be enlarged. On the other 
hand, the reception sensitivity of the label diminishes as a 
result of the greater bandwidth, so that communication over a 
relatively great distance proves to be impossible. These labels typically draw their energy from the 
electromagnetic field and use this energy to drive other 
electronic circuits of the label. These circuits typically 
comprise simple microprocessors (ICs) and a memory, 
cooperating therewith, for storing and further processing 
information and for generating information to be transmitted 
to the transmitter and receiver unit.  An important application of wireless electronic 
identification labels is the use of these labels as public 
transportation cards. For this application the label must have 
the dimensions of a credit card, as standardized in 
international standard ISO 7816. To also render the labels 
suitable for use in the listing infrastructure, a contact 
interface according to the above standard is of great 
importance. This combination of contact and wireless label is 
the subject of applicant's Dutch patent application 9101608. 
The wireless interface must be designed in such a manner that 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic identification system comprising a 
transmitter and receiver unit for generating an 

electromagnetic field modulated with information to be 
transferred to a label and at least one label, comprising a 

resonance circuit, for receiving and further processing said 
information, the label further comprising control means for 

temporarily enlarging the bandwidth of the resonance circuit 
for correspondingly enlarging the information flow between the 

transmitter and receiver unit and the label, characterized in 
that the label comprises a limiter circuit, comprising the 

control means, with which a voltage generated by the resonance 
circuit is limited to a predetermined maximum value. 
An electronic identification system according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the limiter circuit enlarges the 

bandwidth when it is activated to limit said voltage. 
An electronic identification system according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the limiter circuit is activated when 

the induction voltage generated in the resonance circuit by 
said field, or a quantity derived therefrom, exceeds a 

predetermined minimum value. 
An electronic identification system according to claim 3, 
characterized in that the limiter circuit varies the bandwidth 

depending on the magnitude of the current through the limiter 
circuit, which current is induced by the induction voltage 

generated in the resonance circuit. 
An electronic identification system according to any one 
of the preceding claims, characterized in that the label 

comprises data reconstruction means for reconstructing said 
information on the basis of the magnitude of the current 

through the limiter circuit, or a quantity corresponding 
therewith, which is induced by the induction voltage generated 

in the resonance circuit. 
An electronic identification system according to claim 3, 
characterized in that the limiter circuit varies the bandwidth 

depending on the magnitude of the current through the limiter 
circuit, which current is induced by the induction voltage 

generated in the resonance circuit, the label further 
comprising data reconstruction means for reconstructing said 

information on the basis of the magnitude of this current or a 
quantity corresponding therewith. 
An electronic identification system according to any one 
of the preceding claims, characterized in that the limiter 

circuit comprises an assembly comprising at least one Zener 
diode and at least one resistor connected in series therewith, 

the assembly being connected with the resonance circuit. 
An electronic identification system according to claims 6 
and 7, characterized in that the limiter further comprises 

first and second controllable switching units which are driven 
depending on the current through the assembly, the first 

switching unit being connected with the resonance circuit, the 
first and second switching units forming a current mirror and 

the current flowing through the second switching unit being 
supplied to the data reconstruction means. 
An electronic identification system according to claim 8, 
characterized in that said field is modulated in amplitude 

with said information, the amplitude taking a first or second 
level. 
An electronic identification system according to claim 8 
or 9, characterized in that the data reconstruction means 

reconstruct the information on the basis of successive 
differences in the magnitude of the current or a quantity 

derived therefrom. 
An electronic identification system according to 
claim 10, characterized in that the field is modulated in such 

a manner that the magnitude of successive differences in the 
magnitude of the current or a quantity derived therefrom 

represents the information. 
An electronic identification system according to 
claim 10, characterized in that the field is modulated in such 

a manner that the sign of successive differences in the 
magnitude of the current or a quantity derived therefrom 

represents the information. 
An electronic identification system according to any one 
of claims 9-12, characterized in that the data reconstruction 

means comprise an integrator with which the current is 
integrated during at least one period of the modulation for 

determining said differences. 
A label suitable for use in an electronic identification 
system according to any one of the preceding claims. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
