<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652803</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AGGLOMERATED ACTIVATED CARBON AIR FILTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J2028	B01J2020	B01D5381	B01J2020	B01D5334	B01D5334	B01D5381	B60H306	B60H306	B01J2028	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01D	B01J	B01D	B01D	B01D	B60H	B60H	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J20	B01J20	B01D53	B01J20	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B60H3	B60H3	B01J20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-supporting filter of adsorbent particles is provided by agglomerating the adsorbent particles with a thermoplastic binder and forming a self-supporting filter with a low pressure drop and high efficiency suitable for use as an automotive cabin filter.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to improved porous
adsorbent self-supporting structures particularly
suited for filtration of gases and vapors where very
low pressure drop of fluid flow while maintaining high
adsorption efficiency. The invention structures have a
high dynamic adsorption capacity and high efficiency
for contaminant removal with low pressure drop and
uniform air flow characteristics.It is known in the art that activated carbon can
remove undesired odors, noxious fumes, organic vapors
and the like from air and fluid streams. It is also
known to use these activated carbon granules in a
variety of structures including packed beds, loaded
nonwovens, loaded foams, and bonded adsorbents.
Granular adsorbents have been bonded and molded into
shapes suitable for filtration of gases.For example
US-A-3,217,715, and US-A-3,474,600,
propose extruding cylindrical, or other shaped, pellets
of activated carbon which pellets are then placed into
a supporting structure. The rods exemplified were an
extruded mix of activated carbon and polyethylene
binder. The purpose of these patents was to provide
improved pressure drops over carbon bonded into a
monolithic structure (e.g., a sheet).
GB-A-1,390,668 stated that a drawback with this extrusion
process was that during extrusion a substantial portion
of the pores within the rods became clogged resulting
in a decrease in adsorption capacity and an increase in
pressure drop when the extruded rods were used alone 
(i.e., a cigarette filter), rather than a packed bed.
This reference proposed forming sheets of bonded activated
carbon using a polyolefin binder by mixing hot carbon
with the binder, collecting the mixture on a belt,
leveling the mixture, and compressing the mixture. The
objective is to eliminate shear forces in forming the
bonded carbon body.US-A-3,538,020
proposes forming filters by coating adsorbent particles
with a liquid prepolymer binder, placing the coated
particles in a mold and curing. A cartridge formed by
this method allegedly had three combined advantages not
simultaneously possessed by any of the tested
commercial cartridges, low cost, good efficiency and
low pressure drop. A similar technique is discussed in
US-A-3,544,507 and US-A-3,721,072
in which a binder emulsion or solution of a
vinylidine polymer and a water soluble thermosetting
aminoplast to coat activated carbon are used. The object of US-A-3,544,507
was to prevent dusting and provide
adequate binding of the activated carbon particles
without a great loss in adsorption capacity.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A porous gas filter for use as a vehicle compartment
filter, or the like, said lilter in the form of a

unified molded body, said filter body comprising:

a plurality of adsorbent particles and particulate
thermoplastic binder particles fused into

agglomerate particles having an average particle
size of 1.3 mm (15 mesh) or larger, said

agglomerates being obtained by fusing adsorbent
particles having an average particle size of

less than 1.9 mm 10 mesh) and said
thermoplastic binder particles having an

average particle size of at least 20 % less than
said adsorbent average particle size, the fusing

being carried out at a temperature sufficiently
above the softening point of the thermoplastic

binder such that agglomerates are formed; and
the agglomerates being further fused into said
molded filter body at a temperature above the

softening point of the thermoplastic binder
without any significant consolidating pressure

thus providing open interstices between said

agglomerates;
wherein the density of said molded filter body
is at least 3 % less than that of a comparable

filter body of the same adsorbent particles and
thermoplastic binder particles but not

agglomerated.
The porous gas filter of claim 1 wherein the density
of said molded filter body is at least 20 % less than

that of a comparable filter body of the same
adsorbent particles and thermoplastic binder

particles but not agglomerated. 
The porous filter of claim 1 or 2 wherein said
adsorbent particles have an average particle size of

0.14 mm (100 mesh) or larger.
The porous filter of claim 3 wherein the adsorbent
particles have an average particle size of 0.22 mm

(70 mesh) or larger.
The porous filter of claim 4 wherein the molded body
has two opposing faces, the pressure drop across a

standard 8.89 mm thickness between said two faces
being 49 Pascals or less at an air flow rate of

30 m
3
/hr and a surface area of 77 cm
2
.
The porous filter of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein
the adsorbent particles comprise carbon granules.
The porous filter of claim 6 wherein said initial
toluene removal efficiency is at least 75 % that of

a comparable porous filter formed without
agglomeration of the adsorbent particles at a

pressure drop of less than 98 Pascals for an
8.89 mm thick filter at an air flow rate of 30 m
3
/hr
and a surface area of 77 cm
2
.
The porous filter of claim 6 wherein said initial
toluene removal efficiency is at least 90 % that of

a comparable porous filter formed without
agglomeration of the adsorbent particles at a

pressure drop of less than 147 Pascals for an
8.89 mm thick filter at an air flow rate of 30 m
3
/hr
and a surface area of 77 cm
2
. 
The porous filter of any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein
said molded filter body has at least one profiled

face.
The porous filter of claim 9 wherein the molded
filter body has two opposing profiled faces.
The porous filter of claim 10 wherein the profiled
faces are each a series of alternative peaks and

valleys in the form of a zig-zag where the peak of
one face is directly opposite the valley of the

opposing profiled face.
A method for forming a porous filter according to
claim 1 comprising:


heating a plurality of adsorbent particles having an
average particle size of less than 1.9 mm

(10 mesh) to a temperature sufficiently above
the softening point of a thermoplastic binder

particle such that agglomerates are formed;
mixing said heated adsorbent particles with
said thermoplastic binder particles wherein said

thermoplastic binder particles have an average
size at least 20 % less than the adsorbent

particle average size;
agglomerating said adsorbent particles and
binder particles into agglomerates having an

average size of greater than about 1.3 mm
(15 mesh);
forming said agglomerates into a predetermined
shape; and
heating said agglomerates to a uniform
temperature above the softening point of said

thermoplastic binder to form a fused filter body
without any significant consolidation

pressure, 
wherein the density of said molded filter body
is at least 3 % less than that of a comparable

filter body of the same adsorbent particles and
thermoplastic binder particles but not

agglomerated.
The method of claim 12 wherein the density of said
molded filter body is at least 20 % less than that of

a comparable filter body of the same adsorbent
particles and thermoplastic binder particles but not

agglomerated.
The method of claim 12 or 13 wherein the adsorbent
particles are heated to a temperature at least 5 °C

above the binder particle softening point.
The method of any one of claims 12 to 14 wherein the
adsorbent particles are heated to a temperature at

least 10 °C above the binder particle softening
point, and said adsorbent particles have an average

particle size of 0.14 mm (100 mesh) or larger
and the adsorbent particles comprise carbon granules.
The method of any one of claims 12 to 15 wherein the
mold is turned over at least once during the heating

process to form the fused body.
The method of any one of claims 12 to 16 wherein the
agglomerates are shaped in two mold halves each

having an open top and a profiled face wherein the
two molds are joined to provide a fused unitary

filter body having two profiled faces.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
