<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621993</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POWER SUPPLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B1311	C01B1311	G05F110	G05F1455	H01T2300	H01T2300	H02J300	H02J300	H02M502	H02M5257	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	C01B	G05F	G05F	H01T	H01T	H02J	H02J	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B13	C01B13	G05F1	G05F1	H01T23	H01T23	H02J3	H02J3	H02M5	H02M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENKEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENKEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUYNH ANH N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIOGAS PHOVIOS D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUYNH, ANH, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIOGAS, PHOVIOS, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 POWER SUPPLYFielfl Qt Tfte invent i<?τ\This invention relates generally to power supplies, and more particularly to solid-state power supplies that are particularly adapted for driving ozone generators.Background Of The InventionOne of the most efficient ways for generating ozone, Oj, is to subject oxygen, 02, or a gas containing a high concentration of oxygen to a corona discharge. Thus, for example, ozone may be generated by passing oxygen through an annular gap between a glass tube and a grounded outer electrode and applying a cyclic high voltage to an inner electrode embedded in the glass tube. Ozone is typically generated during portions of cycles occurring just prior to a peak. Therefore, more ozone can be produced by increasing the frequency of this cyclic voltage, but a point is reached when the power dissipated in the annular gap tends to break the ozone molecules 03 down into oxygen molecules 02.Circuits for generating the drive voltage for ozonators have used auto transformers or saturable reactors, both of which are bulky, heavy and inefficient. Furthermore, it is desirable to be able to control the rate of production of ozone from 0% to 

 100% of the capacity of the ozone generator by controlling the drive voltage. This is impracticable to achieve with circuits using saturable reactors. In addition, an ozonator presents a capacitive load to the drive voltage supply so that the sizes of the step-up transformer and inductive control components of the supply are much larger than would be required if the power factor were unity.In a U.S. patent application entitled "Power Supply" that was filed on October 23, 1991 by the present inventors of this application, under Serial No. 07/781,793, the drive voltage cycles supplied to the ozonator is asymmetric so that its slope during an increase in voltage to a maximum value was less than the slope during a decrease in voltage from the maximum value to zero. Since, as previously noted, ozone is produced while the drive voltage is increasing from some predetermined value to its maximum value, ozone is produced during a greater portion of each cycle than would be the case if the drive voltage half cycles were symmetrical. Control of the rate at which ozone is produced in this system is achieved by varying the duration of the lower slopes of the cycles. Operation at near unity power factor is achieved by including an inductor in the circuit that resonates with the capacitance of the ozonator at a frequency that is just below the frequency of the drive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. An ozonator power supply comprising: first and second input terminals adapted for coupling to a source of alternating current voltage; a transformer having primary and secondary windings; means for coupling one end of said primary winding to said first input terminal; first and second unidirectional switches coupled in anti-parallel relationship between the other end of said primary winding and said second input terminal, said switches being responsive to individual switching pulses, respectively, for turning on at different times; a switching pulse generator coupled to said first and second input terminals, for supplying said individual switching pulses to said first switch for biasing it into conduction during portions of half cycles of the alternating current voltage of one polarity, and for supplying said individual switching pulses to said second switch for biasing it into for conduction during portions of half cycles of the alternating current voltage of the opposite polarity.
2. An ozonator power supply as set forth in Claim 1 wherein said switching pulse generator has means for varying the duration of said individual switching pulses. 


 3. An ozonator power supply as set forth in Claim 1 wherein said switching pulse generator has means for changing the duration of the switching pulses by varying the timing of their leading edges.
4. An ozonator power supply as set forth in Claim 1, wherein an inductor is included in a circuit with one of said primary and secondary windings.
5. An ozonator power supply as set forth in Claim 4, wherein an ozonator coupled to said secondary winding presents a capacitive load across said secondary winding, and wherein said inductor has an inductance of such value that it resonates with said capacitive load at a frequency that is less than the frequency of said alternating voltage.
6. An ozonator power supply as set forth in Claim 1, wherein said unidirectional switches are thyristors.
7. An ozonator power supply as set forth in Claim 1 wherein said switching pulse generator comprises: means responsive to an alternating current voltage applied across said first and second input terminals for providing a first series of square waves during positive half cycles of the alternating current voltage, and a second series of square waves during negative half cycles of the alternating voltage; 


 means responsive to said first series of square waves for deriving a first series of sawtooth waves; means responsive to said second series of square waves for deriving a second series of sawtooth waves; means for providing a variable DC voltage; means responsive to said first series of sawtooth waves for providing a first series of switching pulses during the portions of the sawtooth waves of said first series of sawtooth waves having an amplitude exceeding, said DC voltage, for application to said first switch; and means responsive to said second series of sawtooth waves for providing a second series of switching pulses during the portions of the sawtooth waves of said second series of sawtooth waves having an amplitude exceeding said DC voltage, for application to said second switch.
8. A control circuit for providing switching pulses for an ozonator power supply comprising: means responsive to an alternating current voltage applied to first and second input terminals for providing a first series of square waves during positive half cycles of the alternating current voltage and a second series of square waves during negative half cycles of the alternating voltage; means responsive to said first series of square waves for deriving a first series of sawtooth waves; means responsive to said second series of square waves for deriving a second series of sawtooth waves; means for providing a variable DC voltage; 


 means responsive to said first series of sawtooth waves for providing a first series of switching pulses during the portions of the sawtooth waves of said first series of sawtooth waves having an amplitude exceeding said DC voltage; and means responsive to said second series of sawtooth waves for providing a second series of switching pulses during the portions of the sawtooth waves of said second series of sawtooth waves having an amplitude exceeding said DC voltage.
9. A power supply for an ozonator having a capacitive impedance comprising: a source of AC voltage having first and second terminals, the voltage having a given frequency and positive and negative half cycles; a transformer having primary and secondary windings; means for connecting one end of said primary winding to said first terminal; means including first and second thyristors in anti- parallel between the other end of said primary winding and said second terminal; means for triggering said first thyristor at times within the positive half cycles of the AC voltage; means for triggering said second thyristor at like times within the negative half cycles of the AC voltage; and an inductor included in circuit with one of said primary and secondary windings for resonating with the capacitance of said ozonator at a frequency that is less than the frequency of said AC voltage. 


 10. A power supply as set forth in Claim 9, wherein said inductor is connected in circuit with said primary winding.
11. A power supply as set forth in Claim 9, wherein said inductor is in circuit with said secondary winding.
12. A power supply for an ozonator as set forth in Claim 9, wherein said means for triggering said thyristors comprises; means for deriving first square waves during positive half cycles of the AC voltage; means for deriving first sawtooth waves during the occurrence of said first square waves; means for providing a DC voltage; means for comparing said first sawtooth waves with said DC voltage, for producing triggering pulses for said first thyristor in response to the amplitude of said first sawtooth waves becoming greater than the amplitude of the DC voltage; means for deriving second square waves during negative half cycles of the AC voltage; means for deriving second sawtooth waves during the occurrence of said second square waves; means for comparing said second sawtooth waves with said DC voltage and for producing triggering pulses for said second thyristor in response to the amplitude of said second sawtooth waves becoming greater than the amplitude of the DC voltage. 


 13. A method for generating a drive voltage for an ozonator having a capacitive impedance comprising: coupling a primary winding of a transformer to a voltage from an AC source via a circuit including two thyristors connected in antiparallel, the AC voltage having a given frequency; rendering the load seen by the AC source substantially resistive by inclusion of an inductance in circuit with said transformer; and generating triggering pulses for one thyristor during positive half cycles of the A.C. voltage and triggering pulses for the other thyristor during negative half cycles of the AC voltage.
14. A method for generating the trigger pulses of Claim 13 comprising: deriving square waves of like polarity from positive and negative half cycles of an AC voltage; deriving sawtooth voltage waves from said respective square waves that increase in voltage during the occurrence of said square waves; supplying a variable DC voltage; producing switching pulses for one thyristor when square waves derived from positive half cycles of said AC voltage exceed said DC voltage; and producing switching pulses for the other thyristor when square waves derived from negative half cycles of said AC voltage exceed said DC voltage; 


 whereby, the timing of the leading edges of said switching pulses changes as the value of said DC voltage is varied. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
