<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656862</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOCLAVE RECEPTACLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1900	A61B1900	A61B1902	A61L226	A61L226	B65D3008	B65D3008	B65D3316	B65D3324	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61L	A61L	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B19	A61B19	A61B19	A61L2	A61L2	B65D30	B65D30	B65D33	B65D33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A receptacle (10) is constructed having first and second broad sides connected along side and bottom edges (12) and (14), respectively. These sides are in turn constructed of an outer layer (28) of flexible, durable fabric material, and in one embodiment, an inner layer (26) of the fabric material. In this embodiment, a barrier material (24) may be placed between the inner and outer layers of at least one of the sides. In a preferred embodiment, a flap closure (20) configured as a cuff (40) extends from one of the sides adjacent opening (18), and folds over opening (18) so as to close the opening.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STODDARD CHARLES D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STODDARD JAMES T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STODDARD, CHARLES D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STODDARD, JAMES T.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STODDARD CHARLES D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STODDARD JAMES T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STODDARD, CHARLES D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STODDARD, JAMES T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOCLAVE RECEPTACLECROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThis application is a continuation-in-part of 5" application serial number 07/920,904, filed 07/28/92.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to durable fabric receptacles, and particularly to a receptacle having sides fo and a closure constructed of a continuous strip of a fabric material, generally with at least one of said sides incorporating barrier material against particulates and liquids.if BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONWith emergence of AIDS, an insidious immunodeficient disease that occurs in humans and is caused most probably by a retrovirus of simian origin, and commonly acquired by contact with blood and/or blood products from an infected2<Q individual, great concern has developed in the medical community over handling and sterilization of contaminated medical instruments. At present, and as is commonly done, instruments used for invasive procedures by surgeons, dentists, nurses, and others of the medical profession areITreceived or collected, typically by an individual who, during the last step of sterilizing the instruments in preparation for their next use, sorts the instruments in accordance with a particular protocol and sterilizes them in an autoclave which may utilize steam, dry heat, or a sterilizing toxic gas3o such as ethylene oxide. When the instruments are placed in the autoclave, they may be wrapped in a towel, placed in a disposable plastic bag and hermetically sealed, or as is 

 commonly done in hospitals, the instruments may be placed in paper bags or paper tubes constructed for the purpose of autoclaving instruments and simply taped shut using autoclave tape. In the instance where a number of instruments are5" assembled to form a kit for a particular application, such as a suture kit for repairing lacerations or cuts, the instruments may be packed together in a disposable plastic tray with a hermetically sealed plastic cover, with tthe tray containing the instruments being processed in an autoclave to\0 effect sterilization of its contents. After the sterilization process is completed, the bags, trays, or other containers containing the instruments are removed from the autoclave, and in the instance where they are to be used immediately, such as in a surgical or dental application, are/fcarried to the site of the procedure. If the instruments are stored for any length of time, they are placed in a relatively secure environment isolated from -contaminating materials. When used, the containers are opened,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A durable, protective fabric receptacle comprising: a first, outer, side having first, second, third, and fourth edges and constructed of a flexible, durable fabric material, f a second, outer, side having first, second, third, and fourth edges and constructed of flexable, durable fabric material, said first and second sides being in opposed relation, with said first, second, and third edges of said sides being attached to each other in terms of their 10 numerically referenced edges, defining an opening of said receptacle along said fourth edges, a closure extending at least the length of said opening, for completely covering said opening.
)f 2. A receptacle as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first and second sides and said flap each comprises at least two layers of said fabric.
3. A receptacle as set forth in claim 2 wherein said layers 0 of fabric material are formed by folding a strip of said fabric, forming an inner layer and an outer layer and a fold at a lower said edge of said receptacle.
4. A receptacle as set forth in claim 3 wherein said side 3.T edges of said receptacle are stitched together.
5. A receptacle as set forth in claim 4 wherein said closure is configured as a flap extending from and contiguous with one of said fourth edges, and being foldable to enclose said
30 opening.
6. A receptacle as set forth in claim 5 wherein said flap is folded downward over an exterior region of said receptacle, and edges thereof sewed to said side edges of said 


 receptacle, forming a cuff closure invertable over said opening.
7, A receptacle as set forth in claim 1 comprising a pocket in an interior of said receptacle.
8. A receptacle as set forth in claim 2 wherein a pocket is formed by folding said interior layer of fabric of one of said sides, forming folded edges defining an opening of said o pocket.
9.A receptacle as set forth in claim 1 comprising a layer of particulate and liquid barrier material associated with at least one of said sides of said receptacle.
10. A receptacle as set forth in claim 2 comprising a layer of particulate and liquid barrier material between said interior and exterior layers of fabric of at least one of said sides of said receptacle.
20
11.A receptacle as set forth in claim 10 comprising an adhesive between said barrier material and said fabric of at least one of said layers, for bonding said barrier material to said last-named layer of fabric.
V
12. A receptacle as set forth in claim 9 wherein said barrier material is bonded to said interior layer of fabric.
13. A receptacle as set forth in claim 1 comprising a 30 particulate and liquid barrier material applied as a coating to at least one exterior side of said receptacle.
14. A durable, protective receptacle comprising: a first, outer, side having first, second, third, and 3f fourth edges and constructed of a flexible, durable fabric material, 


 a second, outer, side having first, second, third, and fourth edges and constructed of said fabric material, said first and second sides being in opposed relation, with said first, second, and third edges of said sides being T connected in terms of their numerically referenced edges, defining an opening of said receptacle between said fourth edges, a closure constructed of said fabric material and extending from and contiguous with one of said fourth edges to adjacent said opening, for completely covering said opening, a layer of particulate and liquid barrier material associated with at least one of said first and second sides, for blocking entrance into said receptacle of particulate and liquid material through said last-named side,
15. A receptacle as set forth in claim 14 wherein said first side and said second side each comprises an inner layer and an outer layer of said fabric material.
ao 16. A receptacle as set forth in claim 15 wherein said barrier material is positioned between said inner layer and said outer layer of said first side and said second side.
17. A receptacle as set forth in claim 15 wherein said if interior layer of one of said sides is folded to form a pocket in an interior of said receptacle.
18. A receptacle as set forth in claim 14 wherein said closure is configured as a flap foldable over said opening to
30 effect closure thereof.
19. A receptacle as set forth in claim 18 wherein said flap is folded over an exterior region of a said side opposite said opening and attached along opposed said edges of said
3 receptacle, forming an exterior cuff, whereby said cuff is invertable over said opening to effect closure thereof. 


 20. A receptacle as set forth in claim 18 wherein said flap is configured as a tubular member generally parallel with said opening, and further comprising a length of securing material having securing ends insertable through said tubular
5" region, with said ends extending beyond opposed edges of said tubular region, whereby to effect closure of said opening, said tubular region is rolled over said opening, forming a roll of fabric over said opening, and said ends of said strip are secured to fix said roll over said opening. 10
21. A receptacle as set forth in claim 14 wherein said barrier material is adhesively fixed to said fabric material of one of said sides.
If 22 . A receptacle as set forth in claim 14 wherein said fabric material has disinfectant properties.
23. A receptacle for containing medical instruments during and after a sterilization process comprising:
20 a first, outer, side having first, second, third, and fourth edges, and of a length generally corresponding to lengths of said instruments to be sterilized, and constructed of a fabric material able to withstand sterilization processes, f a second, outer, side having first, second, third, and fourth edges, and of a length generally corresponding to lengths of said instruments to be sterilized, and constructed of a fabric material able to withstand sterilization processes, said first and second sides being in opposed
30 relation, with said first, second, and third edges of said sides being connected in terms of their numerically r^-^renced edges, defining an opening of said receptacle between said fourth edges for insertion and removal of said instruments;
3 a closure constructed of said fabric material and extending from and contiguous with one of said fourth edges, 


 and foldable over said opening so as to effect closure of said opening, a layer of microorganisms and liquid barrier material capable of withstanding said sterilization processes and ς spanning a length and width of at least one of said sides, for blocking passage of said microorganisms and liquid therethrough.
24. A receptacle as set forth in claim 23 wherein said 10 fabric has disinfectant properties.
25. A receptacle as set forth in claim 23 wherein each of said first and second sides comprises an interior layer and an exterior layer of said fabric, with said barrier material
/r positioned between said interior layer and said exterior layer.
26. A receptacle as set forth in claim 25 comprising an interior pocket formed by folding said interior layer of one
20 of said first and second sides.
27. A receptacle as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first and second sides, said pocket, and said closure are constructed of a contiguous strip of said fabric. ar
28. A receptacle as set forth in claim 23 wherein said barrier material is bonded to an exterior of at least one of said sides of said receptacle.
3029. A method for constructing a sterilization receptacle comprising the steps of:
(1) forming a contiguous strip of fabric having opposed ends and capable of withstanding sterilization,
(2) folding said strip to align said opposed ends at 3r one end and form a first folded region at an opposite end,
(3) sewing said opposed ends together to form a 


 folded strip having said first folded region at a first end and sewed said opposite ends at a second end,
(4) folding said folded strip to bring said first end to a point on said folded strip near said second end, forming first and second sides of said receptacle, said second end extending beyond said first end to form a closure flap,
(5) sewing together opposed edges of said first and second sides, forming a receptacle having sewed edges, said sides each having an interior layer of fabric and an exterior lo layer of fabric.
30. A method as set forth in claim 29 further comprising the step of positioning a layer of particulate and liquid barrier material between said interior layer of fabric and said
;r exterior layer of fabric of at least one of said sides.
31. A method as set forth in claim 30 further comprising the steps of:
(1) folding said closure flap over said exterior 20 layer of fabric of one of said sides, forming a folded region adjacent said opening,
(2) attaching sides of said flap to said sewed edges of said receptacle, forming a cuff closure.
if 32. A method as set forth in claim 29 further comprising the step of folding said interior layer of one of said sides to form a pocket between said interior layer and said exterior layer of said last-named side. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 29 November 1993 (29.11.93); original claim 2 cancelled; remaining claims amended and renumbered as claims 1-31 (6 pages)]
1. A durable, protective fabric receptacle comprising: a first side having first, second, third and fourth edges and constructed of at least two layers of a flexible, durable fabric material, a second side having first, second, third, and fourth edges and constructed of at least two layers of said flexible, durable fabric material, said first and second sides being in opposed relation, with said first, second, and third edges of said sides being attached to each other in terms of their numerically referenced edges, said fourth edges being unconnected to define an opening in said receptacle, and one of said fourth edges comprising a closure constructed of and contiguous with said two layers of said fabric material of a respective said side and extending at least the length of said opening, for completely covering said opening.
2. A receptacle as set forth in claim 1 wherein said layers of fabric material are formed by folding a single strip of said fabric such that said first and second sides each comprises an inner layer and an outer layer of said fabric, with a first folded, seamless region defining a lower said edge of said receptacle opposite said opening, and a second folded, seamless region defining a said fourth edge opposed from said closure.
3. A receptacle as set forth in claim 2 wherein said edges adjacent said opening are stitched together.
4. A receptacle as set forth in claim 3 wherein said closure is configured as a flap extending from said respective side, and being foldable to enclose said opening.
5. A receptacle as set forth in claim 4 wherein said flap is folded over an exterior region of said respective side. 


and edges of said flap sewed to said edges of said sides adjacent said opening, forming a cuff closure invertible over said opening.
6. A receptacle as set forth in claim 1 comprising a pocket in an interior of said receptacle.
7. A receptacle as set forth in claim 6 wherein said pocket is formed by folding said inner layer of said fabric of one of said sides so that a folded, seamless edge of said last named inner layer of fabric defines an opening of said pocket.
8. A receptacle as set forth in claim 1 comprising a layer of particulate and liquid barrier material associated with at least one of said sides of said receptacle.
9. A receptacle as set forth in claim 8 wherein said layer of particulate and liquid barrier material is positioned between inner and outer layers of said fabric of at least one of said sides of said receptacle.
10. A receptacle as set forth in claim 8 comprising an adhesive between said barrier material and said fabric of at least one of said layers, for bonding said barrier material to said last-named layer of fabric.
11. A receptacle as set forth in claim 9 wherein said barrier material is bonded to said inner layer of fabric.
12. A receptacle as set forth in claim 1 comprising a particulate and liquid barrier material applied as a coating to at least one exterior side of said receptacle.
13. A durable, protective receptacle comprising: a first side having first, second, third, and fourth edges and constructed of a flexible, durable fabric material , 


 a second side having first, second, third, and fourth edges and constructed of said fabric material, said first and second sides being in opposed relation, with said first, second, and third edges of said sides being connected in terms of their numerically referenced edges, said fourth edges being unconnected to define an opening in said receptacle, said fourth edge of one of said sides further comprising a closure constructed of and contiguous with said fabric material of said last named side, for completely covering said opening, a layer of particulate and liquid barrier material associated with at least one of said first and second sides, for blocking entrance into said receptacle of particulate and liquid material through that said side.
14. A receptacle as set forth in claim 13 wherein said first side and said second side are each constructed of a single strip of said fabric material folded to form an inner layer and an outer layer of said fabric material, with said closure also constructed of said inner and outer layers of said fabric material of a said respective side.
15. A receptacle as set forth in claim 14 wherein said barrier material is positioned between said inner layer and said outer layer of said first side and said second side.
16. A receptacle as set forth in claim 14 wherein said inner layer of one of said sides is folded to form a pocket in an interior of said receptacle, with an opening of said pocket defined by a folded, seamless edge of said inner layer of said fabric.
17. A receptacle as set forth in claim 14 wherein said closure is configured as a flap foldable over said opening to effect closure thereof.
18. A receptacle as set forth in claim 17 wherein said flap 


is folded over an exterior region of a respective said side and attached along opposed said edges of said receptacle, forming an exterior cuff, whereby said cuff is invertible over said opening to effect closure thereof.
19. A receptacle as set forth in claim 17 wherein said flap is configured as a tubular member generally parallel with said opening, and further comprising a length of securing material having securing ends and insertable through said tubular region, with said ends extending beyond opposed edges of said tubular region, whereby to effect closure of said opening, said tubular region is rolled over said opening, forming a roll of said fabric over said opening, and said ends of said strip are secured to fix said roll over said opening.
20. A receptacle as set forth in claim 14 wherein said barrier material is adhesively fixed to said fabric material of one of said sides.
21. A receptacle as set forth in claim 13 wherein said fabric material has disinfectant properties.
22. A reusable sterilization receptacle for containing medical instruments during and after sterilization comprising: a first, outer, side having first, second, third, and fourth edges, and of a length generally corresponding to lengths of said instruments to be sterilized, and constructed of a fabric material able to withstand repeated sterilization, a second, outer, side having first, second, third, and fourth edges, and of a length generally corresponding to lengths of said instruments to be sterilized, and constructed of said fabric material , said first and second sides being in opposed relation, with said first, second, and third edges of said sides being connected in terms of their numerically referenced edges, said fourth edges being unconnected to define an opening in said receptacle for insertion and removal of said instruments; 



 a closure constructed of said fabric material extending from and contiguous with one of said sides, and foldable over said opening so as to effect closure of said opening, a layer of microorganisms and liquid barrier material capable of withstanding said repeated sterilization and spanning a length and width of at least one of said sides, for blocking passage of said microorganisms and liquid therethrough.
23. A receptacle as set forth in claim 22 wherein said fabric has disinfectant properties.
24. A receptacle as set forth in claim 22 wherein each of said first and second sides comprises an inner layer and an outer layer of said fabric, with said barrier material positioned between said inner layer and said outer layer.
25. A receptacle as set forth in claim 24 comprising an interior pocket formed by folding said inner layer of one of said first and second sides, with an opening of said pocket defined by folded edges of said fabric.
26. A receptacle as set forth in claim 25 wherein said first and second sides, said pocket, and said closure are constructed of a contiguous strip of said fabric.
27. A receptacle as set forth in claim 22 wherein said barrier material is bonded to one said layer of said fabric of at least one of said sides of said receptacle.
28. A method for constructing a reusable sterilization receptacle comprising the steps of:
(1) forming a contiguous strip of fabric havingopposed ends and capable of withstanding repeated sterilization, (2) folding said strip to align said opposed ends at one end and form a first folded region at an opposite end,
(3) sewing said opposed ends together to form a folded strip having said first folded region at a first end and sewed 


said opposite ends at a second end,
(4) folding said folded strip to bring said first end to a point on said folded strip near said second end, forming first and second sides of said receptacle, said second end extending beyond said first end to form a closure flap,
(5) sewing together opposed edges of said first and second sides, forming a receptacle having sewed edges, said sides each having an inner layer of fabric and an outer layer of fabric.
29. A method as set forth in claim 28 further comprising the step of positioning a layer of particulate and liquid barrier material between said inner layer of fabric and said outer layer of fabric of at least one of said sides.
30. A method as set forth in claim 29 further comprising the steps of:
(1) folding said closure flap over said outer layer of fabric, forming a folded region adjacent said opening, (2) attaching sides of said flap to said sewed edges of said receptacle, forming a cuff closure.
31. A method as set forth in claim 28 further comprising the step of folding said inner layer of one of said sides to form a pocket between said inner layer and said outer layer of said last - named side. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
Claim 1 is amended to incorporate the subject matter of claim 2. which is cancelled with this amendment. As such, claim 1 now provides that the first and second sides of the claimed receptacle are constructed of "at least two layers of a flexible, durable fabric material...", with the closure of the receptacle being "contiguous with said two layers of said fabric material of a respective said side. Such structure, as claimed by applicants, is not found in any of the cited art. Other amendments are made to claim 1 to more clearly claim Applicants invention.
As claim 2 is cancelled with this amendment, claims 3 - 32, as originally filed, have been renumbered on the replacement sheets.
Claim 2, as originally filed, is amended to more distinctly claim "a first folded, seamless region defining a lower said edge of said receptacle... and a second folded, seamless region defining a said fourth edge opposed from said closure.". Again, such structure, as claimed by Applicants, is not found in any of the cited art.
Claims 3 and 4, as originally filed, are amended for clairity.
Claim 7, as originally filed, is amended to provide that an opening of the pocket of claim 6 is formed from "a folded, seamless edge of said last-named inner layer of fabric ... " .
Claim 10, as originally filed, is amended for clairity.
Claim 13, as originally filed, is amended for clairity .
Claim 15, as originally filed, is amended to provide that the first and second sides are "constructed of a single strip of said fabric material folded to form an inner layer and an outer layer... with said closure also constructed of said inner and outer layers of said fabric material...". As claimed by Applicants, such structure is not found in the cited art.
Claim 17, as originally filed, is amended to provide that the opening cf the pocket is "defined by a folded, 


seamless edge of said inner layer of said fabric."
Claim 18, as originally filed, is amended for clairity.
Claim 23, as originally filed, is amended to provide that the receptacle is a "reusable sterilization receptacle...", and is further amended for clairity.
Claim 25, as originally filed, is amended for clairity.
Claim 26, as originally filed, is amended to provide that an opening of an interior pocket is "defined by folded edges of said fabric"
Claim 29, as originally filed, is amended to provide a "reusable" sterilization receptacle constructed of fabric capable of withstanding "repeated" sterilization, and to change "interior" and "exterior" to "inner" and "outer" for consistency with the previous claims.
Claims 30, 31, and 32, as originally filed, are amended changing "interior" and "exterior" to "inner" and "outer". 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
