<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1220193</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Brightness offset error reduction system and method for a display device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G334	G09G336	G02F113	G09G510	G09G320	G09G510	G02F113357	G09G336	G09G320	G02F1133	G09G332	G09G334	G09G332	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G02F	G09G	G09G	G09G	G02F	G09G	G09G	G02F	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G09G3	G02F1	G09G5	G09G3	G09G5	G02F1	G09G3	G09G3	G02F1	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides a brightness offset error reduction system for a display
device, which may have a lighted display panel and control circuitry. The lighted

display may be backlit, frontlit, or emissive. The brightness offset error reduction
system has voltage divider circuitry (306) for receiving an output voltage from digital-to-analog

converter (DAC) circuitry (302). The voltage divider circuitry provides a fractional
portion of the output voltage as a divided output voltage. This division of the output

voltage reduces brightness offset errors and may increase the brightness resolution at
low luminance levels.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VISTEON GLOBAL TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VISTEON GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINDORF PAUL FREDERICK LUTHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINDORF, PAUL FREDERICK LUTHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to display devices. More particularly, this
invention relates to display devices having offset error reduction for brightness
resolution control.Display devices are used in a variety of consumer and industrial products to
display data, charts, graphs, messages, other images, information, and the like.
Backlight display devices, which may be backlit or frontlit, have a backlight
positioned to provide light for a display panel. Emissive display devices have pixels
that are the emissive light source. In emissive displays, the pixel light source may be
CRT phosphor, FED phosphor, a light emitting diode (LED), an organic diode, an
electroluminescent, or any emissive display technology. In backlight display devices,
the backlight may be a fluorescent tube, an electro-luminescent device, LED, a 
gaseous discharge lamp, a plasma panel, and the like. The display panel may be a
passive or active matrix liquid crystal display (LCD). The backlight and display
panel are connected to control circuitry, which is connected to a voltage supply. The
display device may be separate or incorporated with other components, such as a
dashboard in an automobile or other vehicle, a portable electronic device, and the like.Generally, a display device controls brightness in relation to the environment
of the display device and user preferences. In some applications, the brightness may
remain at an essentially fixed level for an extended time period. In other applications,
the brightness is adjusted frequently because of changes in the environment, user
preferences, and similar factors. The control circuitry may automatically adjust the
brightness. A user may further adjust or manually set the brightness through a user
interface, such as a knob, switch, keypad, touch screen, remote device, or the like.To change or adjust the brightness, the control circuitry receives an input
signal indicating a user preference, an environmental condition, or the like. The
control circuitry selects a luminance value corresponding to the input signal. The
luminance value is converted into an analog control signal or an output voltage. The
control circuitry provides the analog control signal to the backlight, the display panel,
or both. The control circuitry may modify or further adjust the analog control signal
and may combine the analog control signal with other inputs to operate the display
device at the desired brightness.The control circuitry typically has a single digital-to-analog converter (DAC)
or PWM plus a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus for a
display device, comprising:


a lighted display
a digital-to-analog converter circuitry (302)
receiving a luminance value of an image signal; and

voltage divider circuitry (306); in which

the voltage divider circuitry (306) is operatively
connected to receive the output voltage from the digital-to-analog

converter circuitry (302); and
in which the voltage divider circuitry (306) has a switching mechanism 
characterised in that
 :

the voltage divider circuitry (306) is arranged to
provide a fractional portion of the output voltage as a

divided output voltage
to the lighted display when the switching mechanism (326) is

engaged in dependence upon an input signal indicating to luminance
level of the ambient light.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to Claim 1, in which the voltage divider circuitry (306) is

arranged.to provide a divided output voltage in the range of
about 3 percent through about 50 percent of the output

voltage.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to Claim 1, in which the switching mechanism (326) is

connected to at least one of a reference voltage or to the
ground.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according 
to Claim 3, in which the reference voltage is less than about

1.5 volts.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to Claim 4, in which the reference voltage is in the range of

about 0.5 volts through about 1.5 volts.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to Claims 1 to 5, in which the switching mechanism (326) is

arranged to engage when the luminance value is in the range
of about 0.5 nits through about 60 nits.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to Claims 1 to 5, in which the switching mechanism (326) is

arranged to engage when the luminance value is in the range
of about 0.5 nits through about 15 nits.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to any one of the preceding claims, in which the voltage

divider circuitry (306) further comprises:

a first resistor (322); and
a second resistor (324);

in which

the first resistor (322) is operatively connected to the 
digital-to-analog converter circuitry (302);
the second resistor (324) is connected in parallel with
the first resistor (322); and
the second resistor (324) is connected in series with
the switching mechanism.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to Claim 8, in which


the first resistor (322) provides a resistance of about
3,240 ohms; and
the second resistor (324) provides a resistance in the
range of about 133 ohms through about 475 ohms.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to Claim 8 or Claim 9, in which the first and second

resistors (322,324) have a divider ratio D, represented by
the equation, D = R
2
/(R
1
+R
2
), where R
1
 is the resistance
provided by the first resistor (322) and R
2
 is the resistance
provided by the second resistor (324).
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to Claim 10, in which the divider ratio is in the range of

about 0.04 to 0.15.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to any one of claims 8 to 11, in which the voltage divider

circuitry further comprises:

a first amplifier (304) operatively connected to receive
the output voltage from the digital-to-analog converter

circuitry (302), in which an output of the first
amplifier is connected to the first resistor (322); and
a second amplifier (308) operatively connected to 
receive one of the output voltage or the divided output
voltage from the first and second resistors (322,324).
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according

to any one of Claims 1 to 12, further comprising:

a first amplifier (304) operatively connected to receive
the output voltage from the digital-to-analog converter

circuitry (302), in which an output of the first
amplifier (304) is connected to the voltage divider

circuitry (306); and
a second amplifier (308) operatively connected to
receive the divided output voltage from the voltage

divider circuitry (306).
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to any one of the preceding claims, in which the digital-to-analog

converter circuitry further (302) comprises a
plurality of digital-to-analog converters operatively

connected to have a cascade arrangement.
A brightness offset error reduction apparatus according
to any one of the preceding claims, in which at least one of

the digital-to-analog converter circuitry (302) and the
voltage divider circuitry (306) is provided on at least one

integrated circuit chip.
A display device (100) having a lighted display and a
brightness offset error reduction apparatus according to any

one of the preceding claims.
A display device according to Claim 16, in which the
lighted display further comprises: 


a display panel (104); and
a backlight (102) operatively disposed adjacent to the
display panel.
A display device according to Claim 17, in which the
display panel is an active matrix liquid crystal display.
A display device according to Claim 17 or Claim 18, in
which the backlight comprises at least one of a cold cathode

fluorescent lamp, an electro-luminescent lamp, and a light
emitting diode.
A display device according to any one of Claims 16 to
19, in which the voltage divider circuitry (306) is arranged

to provide the divided output voltage to at least one of the
display panel or the backlight.
A display device according to Claim 17, in which the
lighted display is a backlit display.
A display device according to Claim 17, in which the
lighted display is a frontlit display.
A display device according to Claim 17, in which the
lighted display is an emissive display.
A display device according to Claim 17, in which the
lighted display comprises a pixel light source.
A display device according to Claim 24, in which the
pixel light source comprises a light emitting diode. 
A display device according to any one of claims 16 to
25, in which the voltage divider circuitry (306) is arranged

to provide the divided output voltage in dependence upon an
operating condition of the display device.
A display device according to Claim 26, in which the
operating condition is nighttime.
A display device according to any one of claims 16 to
27, further comprising:


a light sensor (114) disposed to sense ambient light on
the display panel; and
control circuitry (108) connected to receive an input
signal from the light sensor,

in which

the control circuitry is arranged in operation to select
a luminance value in dependence upon the input signal;

and
in operation the output voltage corresponds to the
luminance value.
A display device according to Claim 28, in which the
light sensor (114) is a logarithmic sensor.
A display device according to any one of claims 16 to
27, further comprising:


a user interface (112); and
control circuitry (108) connected to receive an input
signal from the user interface;

in which

the control circuitry is arranged to select a luminance
value in response to the input signal and 
in operation the output voltage corresponds to the
luminance value.
A display device according to any one of claims 16 to
30, in which the display device is part of a navigation

radio.
A display device according any one of claims 16 to 30,
in which the display device comprises a display of an

electronic device.
A display device according to Claim 32, in which the
electronic device is one of a communication device, a

personal computer, and a personal organizer.
A method for reducing the brightness offset error in a
display device, comprising the steps of:


a, converting a luminance value into an output
voltage;
b, determining whether the output voltage is to be
divided

in dependence upon an input signal indicating the luminance condition of
the ambient light; and
c, providing a fractional portion of the output
voltage if the output voltage is to be divided.
The method according to Claim 34, in which step b
further comprises determining the output voltage is to be

divided when the luminance value indicates a nighttime
condition.
The method according to Claim 34, where step b further
comprises determining the output voltage is to be divided

when the luminance value is in the range of about 0.5 nits 
through about 60 nits.
The method according to Claim 34, in which step b
further comprises determining the output voltage is to be

divided when the luminance value is in the range of about 0.5
nits through about 15 nits.
The method according to Claim 34, in which the
fractional portion is in the range of about 3 percent through

about 50 percent of the output voltage.
The method according to Claim 36, in which step c
further comprises dividing the output voltage by a divider

ratio D.
The method according to Claim 34, further comprising the
step of:


d adjusting the luminance value by the divider ratio
D.
The method according to Claim 40, in which step d
further comprises increasing the luminance value by the

inverse of the divider ratio (1/D).
The method according to Claim 34, further comprising the
steps of:


d providing a reference voltage with the output
voltage; and
e removing the reference voltage.
The method according to Claim 42, in which the reference
voltage is less than about 1.5 volts. 
The method according to Claim 34, further comprising the
step of:


(d) providing the output voltage when the output
voltage is not divided.
The method according to Claim 44, further comprising the
steps of:


e providing a reference voltage with the output

voltage; and
f removing the reference voltage.
The method according to Claim 45, in which the reference
voltage is less than about 1.5 volts.
The method according to Claim 34, further comprising the
step of:


d selecting the luminance value in response to an
input signal from at least one of a light sensor or a

user interface.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
