<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1190993</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Base material for the preparation of vitreous vitrocrytalline type pieces, process for preparing the base material and method for manufacturing pieces
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B1900	C03B1906	C03B1906	C03B1910	C03C100	C03C102	C03C800	C03C816	C03C1000	C03C1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	C03C	C03C	C03C	C03C	C03C	C03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B19	C03B19	C03B19	C03B19	C03C1	C03C1	C03C8	C03C8	C03C10	C03C10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Base material for the manufacturing of baked vitreous
or vitrocrystalline pieces, characterized in that it

is a granulated material with granules with a particle
size with a diameter smaller than 2,000 µm that comprises,

at least,

60% and 99.89% by weight of a first component selected
among a frit composition, an enamel composition,

glass, or mixtures thereof,
0.1% and 5% by weight of an organic binding agent
that has a decomposition temperature lower than the end

of sintering temperature of the base material; and in
that said material is formed of granules with a humidity

content lower than 3% by weight.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESMALGLASS SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESMALGLASS, S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEL RIO SOTO JOSE LUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEL RIO SOTO, JOSE LUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention fits in the field of materials
useful in building, especially in the ceramic material
sector and, particularly, the vitreous or vitrocrystalline
type materials, the base granules that are used to
prepare such materials, and the processes for manufacturing
such granules and materials.Vitreous coating elements obtained by pressing
called "vitreous mosaic", that are obtained by pressing
of dry melting raw materials are known nowadays. Said
raw materials are recycled glass or frits that have been
dry ground, with which, when manufacturing pieces larger
than some 10 x 10 cm by means of a pressing process and
subsequent melting problems arise, due to the fact that
the pressing of dry ground materials does not tend to
permit a good load in the pressing mold. A lack of orthogonality
of the pieces is produced. On the other
hand, since the processed materials do not have plasticity,
pieces which when they are removed from the pressing
mold for their subsequent baking have a very low mechanical
strength that causes the pieces to break at the edges
and corners, when the format is larger than 3 x 3 cm, 4 x
4 cm., etc., are obtained.Other processes described in the prior art used
natural stone to obtain a laminated final product, such
as the case of patent application WO-A-9100402, that describes
a process for preparing a laminated tile product,
that comprises the use of natural stone in the form of a
sheet with a plurality of ceramic substrates that adhere
to the natural stone by means of an adhesive layer. The
resulting laminated product has one surface of natural 
stone and the other one of a ceramic substrate and it can
be cut in the form of tiles.On the other hand, European patent application EP-A-0305193
describes a process for producing cellular glass
tiles coated with films. Said process consists of molding
a material essentially consisting of a vitrifiable
mineral and a foaming agent within a block such as a
tile, coating the block with a layer of material that
vitrifies the mineral, heating the coated block at the
melting temperature of the coating layer and then heating
to a softening temperature of the vitrifying mineral.In turn, U.S. patent US-4818731 has the purpose of
providing colored frits that broaden the variety of different
colors and decorative motifs that can be obtained
on artificial stones. This document describes a colored
frit prepared by melting a composition of material that
comprises: a devitrifying substance, a dye that is a
compound with metal ions and a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Base material for manufacturing baked vitreous
or vitrocrystalline pieces, characterized in that it is a

granulated material with granules of a particle size with
a diameter smaller than 2,000 µm that comprises, at

least,

60% and 99.89% by weight of a first component selected
among a frit composition, an enamel composition,

glass or mixtures thereof,
0.1% and 5% by weight of an organic binding agent
that has a decomposition temperature lower than the end

of sintering temperature of the base material; and
in that said material is in the form of granules
with a humidity content lower than 3% by weight.
Material according to claim 1, characterized in
that the granules have a diameter smaller than 1,000 µm.
Material according to claim 1, characterized in
that the binding agent is selected from a group formed

by:

synthetic plastic aqueous dispersions of vinyl,
acrylic, and/or styrene polymers and derivatives thereof,
synthetic resins,
natural resins,
polysaccharides and modified polysaccharides,
polyvinyl alcohols,
waxes,
polyethylene glycols,
polypropylene glycols,
silicones or silicone derivatives, and
alkyl resins,
cellulose derivatives

   and combinations thereof.
Material according to claim 3, characterized in
that the binding agent is an acrylic acid ester copolymer.
Material according to claim 1, characterized in
that it also comprises at least a suspending agent.
Material according to claim 5, characterized in
that the suspending agent is in an amount between 0.01%

and 20% by weight.
Material according to claim 5 or 6, characterized
in that the suspending agent is selected from among

an organic product and an inorganic product.
Material according to claim 7, characterized in
that the suspending agent is kaolin.
Material according to claim 1, characterized in
that it also comprises at least a dye.
Material according to claim 9, characterized
in that the dye is in an amount between 0.01% and 15% by

weight.
Material according to claim 10, characterized
in that the dye is selected from among inorganic compounds,

soluble salts and colored frits.
Material according to claim 10 or 11, characterized
in that the dye is an inorganic pigment.
Material according to claim 10, 11 or 12,
characterized in that the dye is spread through the entire

mass of said granules.
Material according to claim 10, 11, 12 or 13,
characterized in that the dye is present as a coating of

at least part of the granules of the material.
Process for the preparation of a base material
used for the manufacture of vitreous or vitrocrystalline

pieces, characterized in that it comprises:

a first step in which a first mixture is prepared
by mixing, at least, a first component selected from

among a frit composition, an enamel composition, glass,
or mixtures of any of them with, at least, an organic

binding agent selected from among the above-specified
binding agents, and wet grinding same until a particle

size with a diameter smaller than 1,000 µm is obtained,
and
a second step in which a granulated material with
granules of a diameter smaller than 2,000 µm that comprises

60% to 99.89% by weight of the first component and
0.1 to 5% by weight of the organic binding agent is obtained,

subjecting the first mixture to granulation and
drying to a humidity content lower than 3% by weight.
Process according to claim 15, characterized
in that the granules have a diameter smaller than 1,000

µm.
Process according to claim 15, characterized
in that the binding agent is added in the form of an

aqueous dispersion, in the form of a solution or as a
solid.
Process according to claim 15, characterized
in that a dye is also added in the first step.
Process according to claim 15, characterized
in that a suspending agent is also added in the first

step.
Method for manufacturing a vitreous or vitrocrystalline
piece, characterized in that it comprises


preparing a formed material feeding a base material
obtained according to any of claims 1 to 14 into a

mechanical forming device, and
subjecting the formed material to baking.
Method according to claim 20, characterized in
that the mechanical forming is carried out by pressing.
Method according to claim 21, characterized in
that a pressure between 350 kg/cm2 and 600 kg/cm2 is applied

in the pressing.
Method according to claim 20, characterized in
that the mechanical forming is carried out by extrusion.
Method according to any of claims 20 to 23,
characterized in that the base material is subjected to

preforming into at least a shape that has at least a
physical characteristic different from the characteristics

defined in claim 1.
Method according to any of the claims 20 to
23, characterized in that the forming device is fed with

at least two fractions selected from among

a first fraction of a base material according to
any of claims 1 to 14;
a second fraction of a base material according to
any of claims 1 to 14;
a third fraction of a base material according to
any of claims 1 to 14;

   wherein the first fraction, the second fraction and
the third fraction differ in at least a first characteristic

selected among particle size, degree of humidity,
presence of a dye, proportion of the dye, presence of a

suspending agent, proportion of the suspending agent,
proportion of a binding agent, and physical characteristics.
Method according to claim 25, characterized in
that the third fraction has at least a particle size

larger than the particle sizes of the first fraction and
the second fraction.
Method according to claim 25, characterized in
that the first fraction has been prepared according to

claim 24.
Method according to claim 20, characterized in
that the baking is carried out in a furnace selected from

among a continuous or discontinuous furnace, or a muffled
or non-muffled furnace.
Method according to claim 20, characterized in
that the baking is carried out for a time between 15 and

120 minutes.
Method according to claim 20, 28 or 29, characterized
in that the baking is carried out at a maximum

temperature which is the melting temperature of the
formed material.
Vitreous or vitrocrystalline piece obtained by
a method according to any of claims 20 to 30.
Use of a material according to any of the
claims 1 to 14 in the manufacture of vitreous or vitrocrystalline

type pieces useful as building materials.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
