<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1114652</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Safety intravenous catheter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M5158	A61M2506	A61M2500	A61M2506	A61M2500	A61M532	A61M514	A61M532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A medical IV catheter is described comprising a needle cannula having a distal
point, a proximal end and further having a shaft with a circumference, a tip protector

having a base the tip protector defining an opening to receive the needle cannula shaft
and the tip protector is slideably mounted thereon, means coupled to the tip protector

for blocking the tip protector opening so as to enclose the needle cannula distal point
within the tip protector, a gasket coupled to the tip protector base defining an opening

of a size to receive the needle cannula shaft, means coupled to the needle cannula shaft
impeding movement of the tip protector along the needle cannula shaft beyond a pre-determined

distance from the needle cannula distal point, and a flash chamber coupled
to the needle cannula at the needle cannula proximal end.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHICON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHICON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG JOSEPH J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG, JOSEPH J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of medical devices and in particular to a safety 
intravenous (IV) catheter. Blood borne diseases such as AIDS and Hepatitis present significant risks to 
medical personnel administering vascular injections. The means by which a patient's 
vessel and skin are pierced to either draw or introduce fluids can just as effectively 
pierce the hands and arms of attending medical personnel. Gloves or similar protective 
garb may provide some protection, but making such items entirely resistant to needle 
penetration oftentimes sacrifices the wearer's mobility and dexterity proportionate to 
the degree of protection. Therefore, protective wear is not a total answer to the 
problem. In order to adequately protect medical personnel from inadvertent puncture and 
wounding, catheter systems have been developed to cover and shield the distal needle 
point after its withdrawal from the patient. These systems have taken a number of 
embodiments and have various degrees of elaboration. One such mechanism includes a 
cylindrical sheath of plastic which telescopes out from the flash chamber to surround 
the needle shaft, including the distal tip. Such mechanism increases costs of 
manufacture substantially and may malfunction, especially in a fluid filled environment 
where it may stick or slip. The need for locking parts under these circumstances also 
increases risk of failure. Other types of needle caps require moving parts, such as a 
spring activation, to close off the needle in the cap after its withdrawal. These 
sometimes combine moving parts with specially tooled needles having two or more  
 
separate widths so that the larger circumference and diameter either trips the spring 
and/or blocks the needle's removal from the cap. US 5,419,766 discloses a catheter stick 
protector having a metal flap chip which 
snaps down into place to prevent return of 
the needle through the protector device 
once withdrawn. A sleeve is provided and 
attached at one end to the needle hub 
and at a second end to the tip protector. Given that the needle protector, however configured, will be contaminated upon 
each use, cost-benefit requirements dictate that a desirable shielding system be 
disposable along with the needle. Furthermore, the system must be quick and easy to 
use as to present as little imposition as possible to the administration and function of 
the catheter. Moving parts which may malfunction or stick such as springs and similar 
biasing mechanisms, as well as telescoping sheaths
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus comprising: 

a needle cannula (10) having a distal point, a proximal end and further having a shaft (11) 
with a circumference; 
a tip protector (20) having a base (25), the tip protector (20) defining an opening (77) to receive the 
needle cannula shaft (11) and the tip protector (20) is slideably mounted thereon; 
means coupled to the tip protector (20) for blocking the tip protector opening (77) so as to 
enclose the distal point of the needle cannula (10) within the tip protector (20); and 
a gasket (28) coupled to the tip protector base (25) defining an opening of a size to receive 
the needle cannula shaft; 
characterised in that
 the apparatus further comprises 
means coupled to or formed on the needle cannula shaft for engagement by the gasket for impeding movement of the tip 
protector along the needle cannula shaft (11) beyond a pre-determined distance from the 

needle cannula distal point. 
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a flash chamber (30) coupled to 
the needle cannula (10) at the needle cannula proximal end. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein the gasket (28) is formed in place at the tip 
protector base (25) of an adhesive material. 
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the gasket adhesive material is selected 
from the group consisting of paraffin, polyester and polyamide. 
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the gasket adhesive material is cured by 
exposure to ultraviolet light.  

 
The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the blocking means comprises: 

a tab (18) having a length sufficient to block the tip protector opening, the tab (18) 
pivotably coupled to the tip protector (20) within the tip protector 
opening (11) and slideably 
engaging the needle cannula shaft (11) in a first biased position such that upon removal of 

the needle cannula shaft (11) the tab (18) is free to pivot to a second position extending across the 
tip protector opening (77). 
The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the tab (18) is an anti-stick metal tab. 
The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the tip protector (20) further comprises: 

a superstructure (85) coupled to the base (25); 
a cylindrical anti-stick metal clip housed within the superstructure (85) defining an 
opening to receive the needle cannula shaft (11), the clip housing the tab (18), the tab (18) disposed 

within the clip opening such that in its first position the tab is biased against the needle 
cannula shaft (11) and in its second position the tab (18) pivots to block the clip opening. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the tip protector (20) is optically 
transparent, the cylindrical clip opening is a first opening, and the clip further defines a 

second opening extending over a portion of the cylindrical circumference exposing a 
portion of the first opening. 
The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the impeding means comprises: 

an irregularity in the needle cannula shaft circumference a pre-determined 
distance from the needle cannula distal point occluding passage of the needle cannula 

shaft (11) through the gasket opening. 
The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the irregularity is a crimp (70) inscribed in 
the needle cannula shaft (11).  

 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is a medical intravenous catheter: 

the tip protector (20) being of a pre-determined length having a proximal end including the 
base (25) and a distal end including a superstructure (85); 
the catheter comprising: 

a flash chamber having a distal end and a proximal end, wherein the flash 
chamber distal end is coupled to the needle cannula proximal end, the flash chamber (30) 

further having walls extending from the flash chamber distal end defining a space to 
receive the tip protector (20); 
an anti-stick metal clip housed within the tip protector superstructure (85) defining 
an opening concentric with the tip protector opening; 
a catheter housing, having a catheter hub and further defining an opening, 
coupled to the tip protector (20) so as to cover the tip protector (20) and at least a portion of the 

needle cannula (10) wherein the needle cannula distal point extends through the catheter 
housing opening; and 
a flash plug (90) coupled to the flash chamber (30) proximal end; 
the blocking means comprising: 

a biased tab of a length sufficient to extend across the clip opening pivotably 
disposed within the clip opening such that in its first position the tab (18) engages the 

needle cannula shaft (11) and when the shaft (11) is withdrawn, the tab (18) pivots to occupy a 
second position blocking the clip opening; 
the gasket (28) is a formed in place gasket at the tip protector base (25); 
and 
the impeding means comprises 
a crimp (10) inscribed into the needle cannula shaft (11) at a pre-determined distance from 
the needle cannula distal point occluding passage of the needle cannula shaft (11) through 

the gasket opening, the pre-determined distance of the crimp (70) being commensurate with 
the tip protector length such that moving the tip protector (20) to the point where the crimp (70)  

 
occludes the needle cannula shaft (11) also moves the tab (18) beyond the needle cannula shaft (11) 

so as to free the tab (18) to pivot to its second position. 
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the tab (18) further comprises a 
lubricated surface engaging the needle cannula shaft (11) in its first position. 
The apparatus of claim 12 or 13, wherein the needle cannula shaft (11) 
further comprises a lubricated surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
