<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1000233</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING TO INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B2500	F02B2514	F02B2516	F02B3300	F02B3332	F02B3340	F02B7502	F02B7502	F04B1700	F04B1705	F04B3500	F04B3500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B25	F02B25	F02B25	F02B33	F02B33	F02B33	F02B75	F02B75	F04B17	F04B17	F04B35	F04B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An internal combustion engine (1) has a positive displacement supercharger (8) which can be used with particular advantage in an underpumping two stroke engine which is in the form of a valved diaphragm which reciprocates in a housing to deliver positive pulses of air. The internal combustion engine (1) also has an oiling system which comprises injecting oil between the piston (4) and cylinder walls (2) at discrete time intervals and any excess oil is removed through galleries in the piston (4), con rod (5) and main shaft (6) preferably by a vacuum exerted on the galleries. Various other innovative features include a two part exhaust valve (9), generation of the vacuum by a positive displacement supercharger, a two-part cylinder head (3), use of inserts on moving parts to increase the efficiency of an underpumping engine and a specially constructed flywheel (11).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RYNHART RES 
&
 DEV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RYNHART RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYNHART DEREK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYNHART, DEREK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "Improvements in and relating to internal combustion engines"In roductionThe present invention relates to internal combustion engines .Diesel fuel is environmentally much more acceptable than petrol and two stroke engines by their very nature are more advantageous than four stroke engines since theoretically for identical speeds a two stroke engine should produce twice the output of a four stroke engine . This is obviously not the case for many reasons and further two stroke engines are environmentally unacceptable in that they are a major source of pollution, as it is estimated that somewhat of the order of 40% of the oil/fuel mix which is used to lubricate the engine is delivered unburnt to exhaust. Increasingly stringent exhaust emission regulations in many countries will in effect prohibit the use of conventional two stroke engines .A further problem with many engines is that they operate in corrosive or otherwise unsuitable environments. It is appreciated that compression ignition engines are more efficient than other types of internal combustion engine particularly in such situations. They are also particularly suitable for continuous running. One of the problems with the use of compression ignition engines for low horsepower outputs is that they are generally extremely heavy. For example, it is not unknown for a conventional compression ignition engine producing somewhat of the order of 6 horsepower to have a weight in excess of 136 kg (300 lbs). Such an engine is generally speaking of limited use except for stationary 

applications. Further, because it is so heavy it is relatively expensive to produce, uses a considerable amount of material and is difficult to transport. Thus, diesel engines by their nature are unsuitable for many uses such as relatively small machines, for example, lawn mowers , marine outboard engines , portable generators and hand tools .In summary, there are considerable advantages in having a slow revving compression ignition engine if such a slow revving compression ignition engine could be relatively lighter than heretofore.Further, it is advantageous to have an efficient lubrication system, particularly for two stroke engines which does not suffer from the disadvantages of the present system using a combination of oil and fuel which is an inefficient way of carrying out the lubrication, doesn't operate during idling conditions with the throttle closed and further is a major source of pollution.Ideally any such internal combustion engine if its weight is to be reduced
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An internal combustion engine of the type comprising:-
a piston having a crown and side wall housed within a cylinder block in a cylinder bore;
the piston connected by a con rod to a crankshaft, said con rod having respective little and big ends, the piston reciprocating between bottom dead centre (BDC) and top dead centre (TDC), within the cylinder bore;
bearings for various parts of the engine;
an air transfer port in the cylinder bore;
an exhaust port in the cylinder bore connected to an exhaust pipe;
an oil storage sump;
a crankcase housing the piston, con rod and portion of the crankshaft;
an air charging chamber formed by portion of the cylinder bore and the crankcase;
an air inlet duct for delivery of air to the charging chamber; and
air transfer porting between the charging chamber and the air transfer port; 


 characterised in that the air inlet duct is fed by a positive displacement supercharger having a working stroke delivering air to the engine and a return stroke drawing air into the supercharger .
2. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 1, in which the supercharger comprises : -
a housing divided by a diaphragm into a front delivery chamber communicating via an outlet with the air inlet duct and a rear chamber open to the atmosphere;
means for moving the diaphragm across the chamber towards and away from the outlet; and
a one way valve associated with the diaphragm to only allow passage of air between the rear and front chambers during the return stroke of the diaphragm away from the outlet.
3. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 2, in which the means for moving the diaphragm comprises a piston formed from a plate secured to the diaphragm encircling the crankshaft and slidable thereon under the action of a cam, the one way valve being incorporated in the plate.
4. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any preceding claim, in which there is a timed delivery valve in the air inlet duct.
5. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 4, in which the timed delivery valve is open during a substantial portion of the superchargers working stroke . 

6. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 4 or 5 in which the timed delivery valve opens at approximately BDC and closes after the air transfer port is closed by the rising crown and side wall of the piston.
7. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any preceding claim in which inserts are provided in the crankcase and on portions of the engine housed therein to reduce the volume of the charging chamber.
8. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 7 in which the insert is of a suitable lightweight material.
9. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 7 or 8 , in which the inserts are formed from a structural foamed plastics material.
10. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 9, in which the structural foamed plastics material is a polyurethane .
11. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 7 to 10 in which the con rod is surrounded by the inserts .
12. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 7 to 11 inclusive, in which there is provided a generally cylindrical bob weight for the con rod filled with the inserts.
13. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any preceding claim, in which there is provided a lubricant distribution assembly comprising:- 


 means for delivery of oil from the storage sump;
means for injecting oil between the piston and cylinder walls at discrete time intervals; and
scavenging means for removing oil from the piston and cylinder wall and returning excess oil to the sump through lubricant galleries .
14. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 13, in which the galleries communicate through the piston and con rod to the sump.
15. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 13 or 14 in which the means for injecting oil between the piston and cylinder walls comprises a circumferential groove in the piston wall and a hole in the cylinder wall connected to the means for delivering oil from the storage sump.
16. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 15, in which there is provided a plurality of circumferentially spaced holes .
17. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 15 or 16, in which there is an additional elongated axially arranged groove in the piston wall communicating with the hole and the circumferential groove .
18. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 15 to 17, in which the circumferential groove incorporates an oil scavenging ring. 

19. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 15 to 18 in which the circumferential groove is adjacent the bottom of the piston.
20. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 15 to 19 in which a gallery communicates with the groove for scavenging.
21. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 13 to 20, in which the galleries connect the piston and sump via some or all of the engine bearings for lubrication thereof.
22. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 13 to 21, in which for at least part of its travel from and to the sump, the oil is carried as an oil/air mist.
23. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 13 to 22, in which the oil is in the form of an oil/air mist as it is drawn from the piston.
24. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 13 to 23, in which the lubricant distribution assembly incorporates a positive displacement pump.
25. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 13 to 23, in which the lubricant assembly incorporates an oil pressure relief valve.
26. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 13 to 25, in which scavenging means comprises means for causing a vacuum to be exerted in the gallery. 

27. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 13 to 26, in which the supercharger forms the vacuum.
28. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claims 3 and 27, in which the cam incorporates a rotatable swash plate having a one-way valve mounted in a crankshaft extension housing, said housing having a rear oil chamber remote from the diaphragm within which the swash plate reciprocates and a front oil chamber, closer to the diaphragm housing containing the cam, in which return piping connects the sump and the front oil chamber, in which feed piping connects the sump and the rear oil chamber through a non return valve, and in which the galleries feed the rear oil chamber through the crankshaft intermediate the connection of the supply and feed piping to the extension housing whereby as the swash plate reciprocates in the rear oil chamber towards the front oil chamber with the cam it generates a vacuum and first exposes the non-return valve in the feed piping to the sump to draw oil into the rear oil chamber and as the swash plate progresses further the vacuum builds up in the rear oil chamber until the gallery is exposed and a vacuum is exerted on the galleries to draw oil into the rear oil chamber and on the swash plate reversing oil is delivered through the one way valve in the swash plate to the front oil chamber for lubrication of the cam and return to the sump.
29. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any preceding claim, in which there is provided a two part exhaust valve having an outer exhaust port seating portion and a main inner portion, the outer and inner portions being mutually engagable to 


 retract away from the exhaust port .
30. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 29, wherein the valve is a two-part telescopic exhaust valve comprising an exhaust port seating mushroom valve head mounted on a valve stem and having a rearwardly extending tubular portion nesting and slidable within an enclosed tubular stationary bushed guide through which the valve stem projects.
31. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 30, wherein the valve stem engages one end of a valve rocker arm, the other end of which is spring urged into engagement with a cam on the crankshaft.
32. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any preceding claim, in which the cylinder head is a two- part cylinder head comprising an inner portion housed within a concentric outer portion, the portions forming a hollow circumferential chamber therebetween for the reception of sound absorbtion material .
33. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 32 wherein the sound absorption material is an efficient heat transfer material.
34. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any preceding claim, in which there is provided a flywheel driven from the crankshaft at a speed twice that of the crankshaft.
35. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 34, wherein the flywheel is mounted on a shaft offset from the crankshaft. 

36. An internal combustion engine of the type comprising:-
a piston housed within a cylinder block in a cylinder bore;
the piston connected by a con rod to a crankshaft, said con rod having respective little and big ends with associated bearings, the piston reciprocating between bottom dead centre (BDC) and top dead centre (TDC), within the cylinder bore;
bearings for various parts of the engine;
the piston having spaced-apart upper and lower piston rings;
an exhaust port in the cylinder bore connected to an exhaust pipe; and
an oil storage sump;
characterised in that there is provided a lubricant distribution assembly comprising: -
means for delivery of oil from the storage sump;
means for injecting oil between the piston and cylinder walls at discrete time intervals ; and
scavenging means for removing oil from the piston and cylinder wall and returning excess oil to the sump through galleries . 

37. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 36 in which the galleries communicate through the piston and con rod to the sump.
38. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 36 or 37 in which the means for injecting oil between the piston and cylinder walls comprises a circumferential groove in the piston wall and a hole in the cylinder connected to the means for delivering oil from the storage sump.
39. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 38, in which there is provided a plurality of circumferentially spaced holes.
40. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 38 or 39 in which there is an additional elongated axially arranged groove in the piston wall communicating with the hole in the cylinder wall and with the circumferential groove.
41. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 38 to 40, in which the circumferential groove incorporates an oil scavenging ring.
42. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 38 to 41, in which the circumferential groove is adjacent the bottom of the piston.
43. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 38 to 42, in which the galleries communicate with the groove .
44. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 43, in which the galleries connect the piston and sump via some or all of the engine 


 bearings for lubrication thereof .
45. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 44, in which for at least part of its travel from and to the sump, the oil is carried as an oil/air mist.
46. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 45, in which the oil is in the form of an oil/air mist as it is drawn from the piston.
47. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 46, in which the lubricant distribution assembly incorporates a positive displacement pump.
48. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 47, in which the lubricant distribution assembly incorporates an oil pressure relief valve.
49. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 48, in which scavenging means comprises means for causing a vacuum to be applied to some or all of the galleries.
50. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 49 inclusive, in which there is provided:-
a crankcase housing the piston, con rod and portion of the crankshaft;
an air charging chamber formed by portion of the cylinder bore and the crankcase;
an air inlet duct for delivery of air to the charging chamber; 


 an air transfer port in the cylinder bore;
air transfer porting between the charging chamber and the air transfer port; and
in which the air inlet duct is fed by a positive displacement supercharger having a working stroke delivering air to the engine and a return stroke drawing air into the supercharger.
51. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 50, in which the supercharger comprises :-
a housing divided by a diaphragm into a front delivery chamber communicating via an outlet with the air inlet duct and a rear chamber open to the atmosphere;
means for moving the diaphragm across the chamber towards and away from the outlet; and
a one way valve associated with the diaphragm to allow passage of air between the rear and front chambers during the return stroke of the diaphragm away from the outlet.
52. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 51, in which the means for moving the diaphragm comprises a piston formed from a plate secured to the diaphragm encircling the crankshaft and slidable thereon under the action of a cam, the one way valve being incorporated in the plate.
53. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 50 to 52, in which there is a timed delivery 


 valve in the air inlet duct.
54. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 53, in which the timed delivery valve is open during a substantial portion of the superchargers working stroke .
55. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 53 or 54 in which the timed delivery valve opens at approximately BDC and closes after the air transfer port is closed by the rising piston, crown and side wall.
56. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 50 to 55 and 49, in which the supercharger forms the vacuum.
57. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 56, in which the cam incorporates a rotatable swash plate having a one-way valve mounted in a crankshaft extension housing, said housing having a rear oil chamber remote from the diaphragm within which the swash plate reciprocates and a front oil chamber closer to the diaphragm housing containing the cam, in which return piping connects the sump and the front oil chamber, in which feed piping connects the sump and the rear oil chamber through a non return valve, and in which the galleries feed the rear oil chamber through the crankshaft intermediate the connection of the supply and feed piping to the extension housing whereby as the swash plate reciprocates in the rear oil chamber towards the front oil chamber with the cam it generates a vacuum and first exposes the non-return valve in the feed piping to the sump to draw oil into the rear portion and as the piston progresses further the vacuum 


 builds up in the rear oil chamber until the gallery is exposed and a vacuum is exerted on the galleries to draw oil into the rear oil chamber and on the swash plate reversing oil is delivered through the one-way valve in the swash plate to the front oil chamber for lubrication of the cam and return to the sump.
58. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 50 to 57 inclusive, in which inserts are provided in the crankcase and on the portions of the engine housed therein to reduce the volume of the charging chamber.
59. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 58, in which the insert is of a suitable lightweight material .
60. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 58 or 59 in which the inserts are formed from a structural foamed plastics material.
61. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 60 in which the structural foamed plastics material is a polyurethane.
62. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 58 to 61, in which the con rod is surrounded by the inserts .
63. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 58 to 62 inclusive, in which there is provided a generally cylindrical bob weight for the con rod filled with the inserts. 

64. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 63 in which there is provided a two part exhaust valve having an outer exhausting port seating portion and a main inner portion, the outer and inner portions being mutually engagable to retract away from the exhaust port.
65. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 64, wherein the valve is a two-part telescopic exhaust valve comprising an exhaust port seating mushroom valve head mounting on a valve stem and having a rearwardly extending tubular portion nesting and slidable within an enclosed tubular stationary bushed guide through which the valve stem projects.
66. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 65, wherein the valve stem engages one end of a valve rocker arm, the other end of which is spring urged into engagement with a cam on the crankshaft.
67. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 66 inclusive, in which the cylinder head is a two-part cylinder head comprising an inner portion housed within a concentric outer portion, the portions forming a hollow circumferential chamber therebetween for the reception of sound absorbtion material .
68. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 67, wherein the sound absorption material is an efficient heat transfer material.
69. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 36 to 68 inclusive, in which there is provided a flywheel driven from the crankshaft at a speed twice that of the crankshaft. 

70. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 69 wherein the flywheel is mounted on a shaft offset from the crankshaft .
71. An internal combustion engine of the type comprising:-
a piston having a crown and side wall housed within a cylinder block in a cylinder bore;
the piston connected by a con rod to a crankshaft, said con rod having respective little and big ends, the piston reciprocating between bottom dead centre (BDC) and top dead centre (TDC), within the cylinder bore;
bearings for various parts of the engine;
an air transfer port in the cylinder bore;
an exhaust port in the cylinder bore connected to an exhaust pipe;
an oil storage sump;
a crankcase housing the piston, con rod and portion of the crankshaft;
an air charging chamber formed by portion of the cylinder bore and the crankcase;
an air inlet duct for delivery of air to the charging chamber; and 


 air transfer porting between the charging chamber and the air transfer port;
characterised in that inserts are provided in the crankcase and on portions of the engine housed therein to reduce the volume of the charging chamber.
72. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 71, in which the insert is of a suitable lightweight material .
73. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 72 in which the inserts are formed from a structural foamed plastics material.
74. An internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 73, in which the structural foamed plastics material is a polyurethane.
75. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 71 to 74, in which the con rod is surrounded by the inserts .
76. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 71 to 75 in which there is provided a generally cylindrical bob weight for the con rod filled with the inserts.
77. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any preceding claim, in which the internal combustion engine is a two-stroke compression ignition engine.
78. An internal combustion engine as claimed in any preceding claim, in which the internal combustion engine is a single cylinder engine. 

79. A supercharged internal combustion engine characterised in that the supercharger is of the positive displacement type having a working stroke for delivering air to the engine combustion chamber and a return stroke drawing air into the supercharger.
80. A supercharged internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 79, in which the supercharger comprises :-
a housing divided by a diaphragm into a front delivery chamber communicating via an outlet with the air inlet duct and a rear chamber open to the atmosphere;
means for moving the diaphragm across the chamber towards and away from the outlet; and
a one way valve associated with the diaphragm to only allow passage of air between the rear and front chambers during the return stroke of the diaphragm away from the outlet .
81. A supercharged internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 80, in which the means for moving the diaphragm comprises a piston formed from a plate secured to the diaphragm encircling the crankshaft and slidable thereon under the action of a cam, the one way valve being incorporated in the plate.
82. A supercharged internal combustion engine as claimed in any of claims 79 to 81, in which the supercharger feeds the engine indirectly through an accumulator chamber having an outlet valve so as to deliver a pulsed charge of air to the combustion chamber. 

83. A supercharged internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 82, in which the valve is pressure controlled.
84. A supercharged internal combustion engine as claimed in claim 82 or 83, in which the operation of the valve is synchronised with the engine cycle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
