<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1129563</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FAULT-TOLERANT NETWORKING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1244	H04L2906	H04L2914	H04L1228	H04L1240	H04L2914	H04L1244	H04L1240	H04L2906	H04L1228	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L29	H04L29	H04L12	H04L12	H04L29	H04L12	H04L12	H04L29	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and apparatus for implementation of fault-tolerant networks provide a network fault-tolerance manager for detecting failures and manipulating a node to communicate with an active channel. Failure detection incorporates one or more methods, including message pair and link pulse detection. Failure recovery includes switching all node data communications to a stand-by channel or switching just those nodes detecting a failure. Communication between nodes provides the distributed detection, with detecting nodes reporting failures to their network fault-tolerance manager and the network fault-tolerance manager broadcasting the failure recovery to all nodes. The network fault-tolerance manager is middleware, residing with each node in a logical hierarchy above a physical layer of a network and below a transport layer of the network. The approach is particularly suited to Ethernet LANs and capable of using commercial off-the-shelf network components.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUANG JIANDONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI LING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SONG SEJUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUANG, JIANDONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI, LING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SONG, SEJUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to network data communications. In
particular, the present invention relates to apparatus and methods providing fault
tolerance of networks and network interface cards, wherein middleware facilitates
failure detection, and switching from an active channel to a stand-by channel upon
detection of a failure on the active channel.A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is
subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile
reproduction by anyone of the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and
Trademark Office patent files or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights
whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below
and in the drawings hereto: Copyright © 1998, Honeywell, Inc., All Rights Reserved.Computer networks have become widely popular throughout business and
industry. They may be used to link multiple computers within one location or across
multiple sites.The network provides a communication channel for the transmission of data, or
traffic, from one computer to another. Network uses are boundless and may include
simple data or file transfers, remote audio or video, multimedia conferencing, industrial
process control and more.Perhaps the most popular network protocol is Ethernet, a local area network
(LAN) specification for high-speed terminal to computer communications or computer
to computer file transfers. The Ethernet communication protocol permits and
accommodates data transfers across a bus, typically a twisted pair or coaxial cable.
Other media for data bus exist, such as fiber optic bus or wireless bus as just two
examples. For convenience, the generic term bus will be used, regardless of media type.A typical LAN will have a number of nodes connected to and in communication
with the LAN. Each node will have a network interface card (NIC) providing the
communication link to the physical LAN through a drop to the LAN. Alternatively, 
several nodes may be connected to a network hub, or switch,
through their respective network interface cards. In
addition, multiple LANs may be bridged together to create
larger networks.Nodes generally comply with the OSI model, i.e., the
network model of the International Standards Organization.
The OSI model divides network communications into seven
functional layers. The layers are arranged in a logical
hierarchy, with each layer providing communications to the
layers immediately above and below.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fault-tolerant communication network (100),
comprising:


at least two nodes (120), wherein each of the at least
two nodes is connected to a plurality of channels (110,

240, 130, 170) for data transmission; and
a network fault-tolerant manager (355) associated with
each of the at least two nodes, wherein the network fault-tolerance

manager associated with a node directs that node
to selectively transmit data packets on one of the

plurality of channels connected to the node, further
wherein each network fault-tolerance manager resides in a

logical hierarchy above a physical layer of the network and
below a transport layer of the network, still further

wherein each network fault-tolerance manager communicates
with other network fault-tolerance managers; 
characterised
in that
the network further comprises a configuration tool
(360) which configures each network fault-tolerance manager

by selectively utilising one of a plurality of failure
detection modes.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 1, wherein the network fault-tolerance managers (355)

further direct each of the at least two nodes (120) to
transmit data packets on the same one of the plurality of

channels (110, 240, 130, 170).
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 1, wherein one of the at least two nodes comprises:


a network interface card (170) connected to each of
the plurality of channels (110, 240, 130, 170) in a one-to-one

relationship; and
a network interface card switch (340) connected to
each of the network interface cards in a one-to-many

relationship;
 
   wherein the network interface card switch directs the

data packets to one of the network interface cards (170) as
directed by the network fault-tolerance manager.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 1, wherein the plurality of channels (110, 240, 13,

170) utilize network resources, further wherein the network
resources utilized for a first channel of the plurality of

channels is shared with the network resources utilized by
a second channel of the plurality of channels.
The fault-tolerant network (100) of claim 1, wherein
the plurality of channels (110, 240, 130, 170) are

resources of a single physical network.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 1, wherein the at least two nodes each comprise:


a first network interface (170)
a second network interface (170); and
a network interface card switch (340) in communication
with the network fault-tolerance manager (355), wherein the

network interface card switch selectively directs data
traffic between the node (120) and one of the network

interfaces (170) in response to the network fault-tolerance
manager.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 6, wherein the network fault-tolerance manager (355)

and the network interface card switch (340) are combined as
a single software object.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 1, wherein the operation of the network fault-tolerance

managers (355) includes:

means for transmitting a plurality of message pairs
from a first node (120), wherein a first message of each

message pair is transmitted on an active channel (110A) and 
a second message of each message pair is transmitted on a

stand-by channel (110B);
means for monitoring receipt of the plurality of
message pairs at a second node (120), wherein monitoring

receipt comprises determining an absolute delta time
between receiving the first and second messages of each

pair;
means for comparing the absolute delta time of each
message pair to a predetermined time, wherein an absolute

delta time greater than the predetermined time is
indicative of a receipt failure;
means for declaring a failure if a number of
consecutive receipt failures exceeds a predetermined

maximum.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 8, wherein the failure is selected from the group

consisting of a failure on the active channel (110A) and a
failure on the stand-by channel (110B).
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 8, wherein the active channel (110A) and the stand-by

channel (110B) are both logical networks of a single
physical network.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 8, wherein receiving the first message pair occurs

before receiving the second message of the message pair.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 8, wherein transmitting a plurality of message pairs

comprises transmitting a plurality of message pairs at
regular intervals.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 8, wherein declaring a failure if a number of

consecutive receipt failures exceeds a predetermined 
maximum comprises declaring a failure if a number of

consecutive receipt failures exceeds one.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 6, the at least two nodes (120) further comprising:


a processor (310); and
a machine-readable medium (320 coupled to the
processor, wherein the machine-readable medium has

instructions stored thereon capable of causing the
processor (310) to implement a method, the method

comprising:

initiating data communications from the node (120),
wherein the data communications are transmitted by the node

through the first network interface (170);
detecting a failure by the node, wherein the failure
occurs on a first network (110) coupled to the first

network interface (170); and
directing the node to switch data communications to a
second network (110) through the second network interface

(170).
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 14, wherein the machine-readable medium (320) further

has instructions stored thereon capable of causing the

processor (310) to report the failure.
The fault-tolerant communication network (100) of
claim 1 further wherein each network fault-tolerance

manager (355) is responsive to communications received from
other network fault-tolerance managers.
A failure recovery method for a fault-tolerant
communication network (100) having an active network (110A)

and a stand-by network (110B) and further having a
plurality of nodes (120) connected to the active and stand-by

networks, the method comprising: 

sharing network resources utilized by the active
network (110A) with resources utilised by the stand-by

network (110B);
initiating data communications from a first node
(120), wherein the data communications are transmitted by

the first node on the active network through a first
network interface, the method being 
characterised by
 the
step of
detecting a failure by the first node, wherein the
failure is selected from the group consisting of a failure

on the active network and a failure'on the stand-by network
by a configuration tool (360), which selectively utilises

one of a plurality of failure detection modes, wherein the
method further comprises the steps of:


directing the first node to switch data traffic to the
standby network through a second network interface when the

failure is on the active network; and
reporting the failure when the failure is on the
stand-by network.
The failure recovery method of claim 17, wherein the
active network (110A) and the stand-by network (110B) are

both logical networks of a single physical network.
The failure recovery method of claim 17, the method
further comprising directing each remaining node of the

plurality of nodes to switch data traffic to the stand-by
network when the failure is on the active network.
The failure recovery method of claim 17 further
comprising:


transmitting a first message of a message pair from a
the first node (120) on the active network (110A);
transmitting a second message of the message pair from
the first node on the stand-by network (110B); 
receiving a message by a second node (120), wherein
the message is selected from the group consisting of the

first message and the second message;
waiting a predetermined time to receive a remaining
message of the message pair by the second node; and
declaring a failure if the remaining message does not
arrive at the second node within the predetermined time.
The failure recovery method of claim 20, wherein
transmitting a first message occurs before transmitting a

second message.
A machine-readable medium (320) having instructions
stored thereon for causing a processor (310) to implement

the method of claim 17 or claim 20.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
