<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1028662</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF PLASMA INCISION OF MATTER WITH A SPECIFICALLY TUNED RADIOFREQUENCY ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD GENERATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61B1812	A61B1812	B23K1000	B23K1000	H05H124	H05H124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	B23K	B23K	H05H	H05H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	B23K10	B23K10	H05H1	H05H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of incising matter with a harmonious plasma cloud. An inexpensive radiofrequency generator and power amplifier generates an electromagnetic wave which is transmitted from an incising transmitter probe. This electromagnetic wave is impedance matched, frequency matched, and power matched to initiate and sustain a harmonious plasma cloud with low atomic particle turbulence and chaos. This harmonious plasma cloud forms a coating over the surface of the incising tip as well as acts to reduce the energy output needed from the power amplifier. The electromagnetic wave is also used to produce a Pinch Effect to compress, contour, shape and control the harmonious plasma cloud. The electromagnetic wave is furthermore used to trap and contain the plasma cloud without the need of a solid matter containment vessel according to the Magnetic Bottle Effect of physics. The Tunnelling effect of physical chemistry is utilized to amplify the energy delivered to the harmonious plasma cloud while shielding matter surrounding the intended path of incision from potential radiation exposure. The system provides an efficient, effective, safe, clean and inexpensive approach to producing an incision in matter.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUGO RICHARD JAMES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUGO, RICHARD JAMES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COCCIO DAMIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUGO RICHARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COCCIO, DAMIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUGO, RICHARD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD OF PLASMA INCISION OF MATTER WITH A SPECIFICALLY TUNED RADIOFREQUENCY ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD GENERATORBackground - Field of InventionThis invention relates to incisions placed in matter with a harmonious plasma cloud, specifically to harmonious plasma clouds initiated and sustained by electromagnetic energy waves transmitted from a radiofrequency signal generator system which is impedance matched, frequency matched and output power matched to the atomic particles comprising the harmonious plasma cloud that coats the activated transmitter incision probe.Background - Description of Prior ArtMost incisions made are created with a hardened physical blade, such as a steel blade, a sapphire blade, or a diamond blade. Such incisions are based on factional physical interactions of a sharp, acute edge of hardened matter against a surface of the matter to be incised. Such purely physical methods of one hardened matter attempting to cut through another hardened matter are inefficient and therefore experience significant frictional resistance and inefficiencies when the matter being incised is extremely solid and dense. For these reasons, others have resorted to methods such as electronically generated incisions, electro-incisions or electrosurgery of matter. With this form of approach to incision of matter, 

electrical arcs induce arc burns or volatilization of matter while electrical ohmic resistance in the matter to be incised creates a heating effect due to phenomenon such as dielectric hysteresis and eddy currents. These last two phenomenon produce an effect known as diathermy which may result in a physical reaction that can produce a cutting effect in matter. This approach has received limited use since its shortcomings include extensive damage to matter outside of the intended incision path, with the resultant production of burning, charring and frequently unpleasant smelling fumes. The inefficiency of classic electro- incision units is manifested by the high power needed to produce a cutting effect at the incising tip, usually in excess of 50 watts of power. This relatively high power output needed in classic electrosurgical or electro-cutting units is secondary to the cutting inefficiency of these units which operate on a combination of classic ohmic diathermy and unstable, caustic plasma arcing.Lasers have also been used to incise and cut; however, these units are expensive and require a large amount of system input energy to create a laser beam with sufficient power to cut or make an incision into
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims: I claim:
1. A method of incision of matter using plasma, comprising the steps of: employing an electronic system comprising a radiofrequency signal generator and power amplifier, producing radiofrequency energy, feeding said radiofrequency energy into an active incising transmitter electrode tip, generating an electromagnetic field outward from the surface of said active incising transmitter electrode tip, creating a plasma cloud that coats said active incising transmitter electrode tip by the mechanism of activating atomic particles along the interface of said active incising transmitter tip and said matter that is to be incised without the need to inject ionizable gas into the space surrounding said active incising transmitter electrode tip although said plasma cloud may be enhanced by injection of said ionizable gas into said space surrounding said active incising transmitter electrode tip, sustaining said plasma cloud by a high efficiency energy transfer from an electromagnetic wave to said atomic particles along said interface of said surface of said active incising transmitter electrode tip and said matter that is to be incised, and incising said matter by utilizing said plasma cloud surrounding said active incising transmitter electrode tip to produce a safe, clean, efficient and effective incision in said matter.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of constructing said active incising transmitter electrode tip includes construction with an electrically conductive or semi- conductive matter which is preferably a solid tip but may also be a hollow or a semi-hollow tip.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of constructing said active incising transmitter electrode tip consists of a preferably linear or curvilinear shape design, but may be non-specific in shape design even existing in a loop configuration. 

4. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of producing said electromagnetic wave includes the step of producing a continuous electromagnetic waveform.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of producing said electromagnetic wave includes the step of producing a pulsed electromagnetic waveform.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of producing said plasma includes impedance matching, frequency matching, and power matching said radiofrequency energy from said radiofrequency signal generator and power amplifier to said plasma cloud coating said active incising transmitter electrode tip.
7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of producing a high efficiency, tightly coupled energy transfer from said radiofrequency energy from said radiofrequency signal generator and amplifier to said atomic particles in said plasma cloud along said surface of said incising transmitter electrode tip.
8. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of matching the required output power of said radiofrequency signal generator and power amplifier to generate and sustain a harmonious plasma cloud.
9. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of reducing the turbulence and chaos of said atomic particles in said plasma cloud along said surface of said incising transmitter electrode tip.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of developing said harmonious plasma cloud which coats said surface of said incising transmitter electrode tip.
11. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of allowing a high percentage of the total energy of said electromagnetic wave generated from said radiofrequency signal generator and power amplifier to transmit through said plasma cloud but subsequently have a 


high percentage of said total energy of said electromagnetic wave be reflected back into said plasma cloud when said electromagnetic wave reaches the interface between said plasma cloud and said matter that is to be incised, according to the Tunnelling effect of physical chemistry.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of allowing the reflected energy of said electromagnetic wave to further energize said plasma cloud, thereby further reducing the energy output required to be transmitted by said radiofrequency signal generator and amplifier in order to generate and sustain said plasma cloud.
13. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of shielding said matter surrounding the path of intended incision from said energy of said electromagnetic wave, thereby protecting said matter outside of said path of incision from radiation exposure.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of producing said plasma includes using our transmitted magnetic wave to control the distance between said atomic particles in said plasma cloud and said surface of said active incising transmitter electrode tip.
15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of trapping, compressing, contouring, and controlling the shape and density of said plasma cloud by utilizing said transmitted magnetic wave according to the Pinch Effect of physics.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising a method of increasing the energy density of said plasma cloud while decreasing the cross sectional diameter of said plasma cloud and the width of said intended path of incision into matter.
17. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of trapping and confining said plasma cloud without the need of a solid matter confinement or containment vessel or the need to inject said ionizable gas into said space surrounding said active incising transmitter tip by utilizing said transmitted magnetic wave according to the Magnetic Bottle Effect of physics. 

18. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of producing said electromagnetic wave includes the step of selectively varying the frequency and power of said electromagnetic wave according to the requirements of variations in said atomic particles comprising said plasma cloud as well as the ability to change the physical parameters of said plasma cloud. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
