<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1090082</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CMP SLURRY CONTAINING A SOLID CATALYST
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09G102	C09G100	H01L2102	C09K314	H01L21321	B24B3704	C23F300	C23F300	B24B3704	C09K314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09G	C09G	H01L	C09K	H01L	B24B	C23F	C23F	B24B	C09K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09G1	C09G1	H01L21	C09K3	H01L21	B24B37	C23F3	C23F3	B24B37	C09K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A chemical mechanical polishing composition comprising an oxidizing agent and at least one solid catalyst, the composition being useful when combined with an abrasive or with an abrasive pad to remove multiple metal layers from a substrate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CABOT MICROELECTRONICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CABOT MICROELECTRONICS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUELLER BRIAN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG SHUMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUELLER, BRIAN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, SHUMIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns a chemical mechanical polishing slurry including at
least one oxidizer and a solid catalyst. The chemical mechanical polishing slurry is
useful alone or in combination with other chemicals and abrasives for polishing metal
layers and thin-films associated with semiconductor manufacturing. More particularly
this invention concerns a chemical mechanical polishing slurry that is especially
adapted for polishing multiple metal layers and thin-films where one of the layers or
films is comprised of aluminum, copper, copper-aluminum alloy, and tungsten and
another layer or thin film is comprised of titanium, tantalum or a titanium or
tantalum containing alloy such as titanium nitride or tantalum nitride. This
invention also concerns a method for using the polishing slurry that includes
exposing the slurry to an energy source in order to activate the solid catalyst.Integrated circuits are made up of millions of active devices formed in or on a
silicon substrate. The active devices, which are initially isolated from one another,
are united to form functional circuits and components. The devices are interconnected
through the use of well-known multilevel interconnections. Interconnection structures
normally have a first layer of metallization, an interconnection layer, a second level of
metallization, and sometimes a third and subsequent levels of metallization. Interlevel
dielectrics such as doped and undoped silicon dioxide (SiO2), are used to electrically
isolate the different levels of metallization in a silicon substrate or well. The electrical
connections between different interconnection levels are made through the use of
metallized vias. U.S. Patent No. 4,789,648, which is incorporated herein by
reference, describes a method for preparing multiple metallized layers and metallized
vias in insulator films. In a similar manner, metal contacts are used to form electrical
connections between interconnection levels and devices formed in a well. The metal
vias and contacts are generally filled with tungsten and generally employ an adhesion 
layer such as titanium nitride (TiN) and/or titanium to adhere a metal layer such as a
tungsten metal layer to SiO2. At the contact level, the adhesion layer acts as a
diffusion barrier to prevent tungsten and SiO2 from reacting.In one semiconductor manufacturing process, metallized vias or contacts are
formed by a blanket tungsten deposition followed by a chemical mechanical polish
(CMP) step. In a typical process, via holes are etched through an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An aqueous chemical mechanical polishing composition comprising:

at least one oxidizing agent; and
at least one heterogeneous solid catalyst, wherein the solid catalyst
is a mixture of TiO
2
 and Ti
2
O
3
.
The aqueous chemical mechanical polishing composition of claim 1
wherein the solid catalyst is present in the composition in an amount ranging from

0.005 to 5.0wt%.
The aqueous chemical mechanical polishing composition of claim 1 or claim 2
wherein the solid catalyst is present in the composition in an amount of from 0.1 to 3.0 wt %.
The aqueous chemical mechanical polishing composition of any preceeding claim
wherein the solid catalyst has a mean particle diameter less than 1 micron.
The aqueous chemical mechanical composition of any preceeding claim wherein the
oxidizing agent is selected from an organic per compound, an inorganic per compound, and

mixtures thereof. 
The aqueous chemical mechanical composition of any preceeding claim wherein the
oxidizing agent is monopersulfate, di-persulfate, peracetic acid, urea hydrogen

peroxide, hydrogen peroxide, acids thereof, salts thereof, adducts thereof, or mixtures
thereof.
The aqueous chemical mechanical composition of any preceeding claim wherein the
oxidizing agent is present in the composition in an amount ranging from 0.2 to

20.0 weight percent.
The aqueous chemical mechanical composition of claim 7 wherein the
oxidizing agent is present in the composition in an amount ranging from 0.5 to

10.0 weight percent.
The chemical mechanical polishing composition of any preceeding claim including a
complexing agent selected from the group of compounds consisting of inorganic acids,

citric acid, lactic acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, oxalic acids, amino acids and salts
thereof.
The chemical mechanical polishing composition of any preceeding claim including a
film forming agent.
The chemical mechanical polishing slurry of any preceeding claim including at least
one stabilizer.
The chemical mechanical polishing composition of claim 11 wherein
the stabilizer is selected from an organic acid, an inorganic acid, a nitrile, urea, salts thereof and

mixtures thereof.
An aqueous chemical mechanical polishing slurry comprising the
aqueous chemical mechanical polishing composition of claim 1 and at least one

abrasive. 
The aqueous chemical mechanical polishing slurry of claim 13
wherein the abrasive is at least one metal oxide abrasive selected from the group

consisting of alumina, ceria, germania, silica, titania, zirconia, and mixtures thereof
wherein the abrasive is not the same compound as the solid catalyst.
The aqueous chemical mechanical polishing slurry of claim 14 wherein
the solid catalyst is supported on the abrasive.
The aqueous chemical mechanical polishing slurry of claim 14 wherein
the metal oxide abrasive is from 0.1 to 20.0 weight percent of an abrasive

selected from silica, alumina, and mixtures thereof.
The aqueous chemical mechanical polishing composition of any one of claims 1 to 12
including a soluble catalyst.
The chemical mechanical polishing slurry of claim 13 wherein

the abrasive is selected from silica,
alumina, and mixtures thereof; and is present in an amount of from 0.5 to 7.0 weight percent; and

the oxidizing agent is selected from the group consisting of monopersulfate, di-persulfate,
peracetic acid, urea hydrogen peroxide, hydrogen peroxide, acids thereof,

salts thereof, adducts thereof, and mixtures thereof.
The chemical mechanical polishing slurry of claim 18 wherein the
solid catalyst is present in the slurry in an amount ranging from

0.005 to 5.0wt%.
The chemical mechanical polishing slurry of claim 19 wherein the
solid catalyst is present in the slurry in an amount of from 0.1 to 3.0 wt %. 
The chemical mechanical polishing slurry of any one of claims 18 to 20 wherein the
oxidizing agent is selected from ammonium persulfate and hydrogen peroxide.
The chemical mechanical polishing slurry of any one of claims 18 to 21 including at
least one surfactant.
A method for polishing a substrate including at least one metal layer
comprising the steps of:


(a) admixing at least one oxidizing agent, at least one solid heterogenous catalyst wherein the solid catalyst is a mixture of TiO
2
 and Ti
2
O
3
,
and deionized water to give an aqueous chemical mechanical polishing

composition;
(b) applying the chemical mechanical polishing composition to the
substrate; and
(c) removing at least a portion of the metal layer from the substrate
by bringing a pad into contact with the substrate and moving the pad in

relation to the substrate.
The method of claim 23 wherein the substrate includes at least one
metal layer selected from titanium, titanium nitride, tungsten, tantalum, tantalum

nitride, aluminum and copper.
The method of claim 23 wherein the substrate includes a titanium
containing metal layer wherein at least a portion of the titanium layer is removed in

step (c).
The method of claim 23 wherein the substrate includes an aluminum
containing metal layer wherein at least a portion of the aluminum layer is removed in

step (c). 
The method of claim 23 wherein the substrate includes a copper
containing metal layer wherein at least a portion of the copper layer is removed in step

(c).
The method of any one of claims 23 to 27 wherein the solid catalyst is present in the
composition in an amount ranging from 0.005 to 5.0wt%.
The method of any one of claims 23 to 28 wherein the solid catalyst acts as an abrasive

and as a catalyst.
The method of any one of claims 23 to 29 wherein the oxidizing agent is selected from an organic per
compound, an inorganic per compound, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claims 30 wherein the oxidizing agent is selected from monopersulfate,
di-persulfate, peracetic acid, urea hydrogen peroxide, hydrogen peroxide, acids

thereof, salts thereof, adducts thereof, or mixtures thereof.
The method of any one of claims 23 to 31 wherein the oxidizing agent is present in the
composition in an amount ranging from 0.1 to 20.0 weight percent. 
A method for polishing a substrate including a metal portion wherein
the metal is selected from titanium, titanium nitride, tantalum, tantalum nitride,

tungsten, copper and aluminum, comprising the steps of:

(a) admixing at least one oxidizing agent, at least one photoactive solid heterogenous
catalyst wherein the solid catalyst is a mixture of TiO
2
 and Ti
2
O
3
, at least one abrasive that is not the same compound as the photoactive solid heterogenous
catalyst, and deionized water to give an aqueous chemical mechanical polishing

slurry;
(b) applying the chemical mechanical polishing slurry to the substrate; and
(c) removing at least a layer of the metal portion from the substrate by
bringing a pad into contact with the substrate and moving the pad in relation to the

substrate.
The method of claim 33 wherein the metal portion is titanium.
The method of claim 34 wherein the slurry is exposed to light in the
UV range, and, during said exposure, at least a layer of the titanium portion

is removed from the substrate by bringing the pad into contact with the substrate and moving
the pad in relation to the substrate.
The method of claim 35 wherein the UV light has a wavelength of
from about 1 to about 400 nm.
The method of claim 35 wherein the UV light has a wavelength of
from about 200 to about 400 nm.
The method of claim 35 wherein the UV light has a wattage of at least
1 µw/cm
2
.
The method of claim 35 wherein the UV light has a wattage of at least
20,000 µw/cm
2
. 
The method of claim 35 wherein the wavelength of the UV light is held
constant and the wattage of the light is varied to activate the solid catalyst.
The method of claim 35 wherein the wattage of the UV light is held
constant and the wavelength is varied to activate the solid catalyst.
The method of any one of claims 33 to 41 wherein the abrasive is at least one metal
oxide abrasive selected from the group consisting of alumina, ceria, germania, silica,

titania, zirconia, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 42 wherein the metal oxide abrasive is from
0.2 to 20.0 weight percent of an abrasive selected from silica, alumina or

mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 43 wherein the photoactive solid catalyst is present in the slurry in an amount of from
0.1 to 3.0 wt %.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
