<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1055002</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR DETECTION OF TARGET NUCLEIC ACIDS USING PCR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N3350	G01N3350	G01N3353	G01N3353	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid sequence in a sample, said method comprising (a) subjecting said sample to an amplification reaction using a set of nucleotides, at least one of which is fluorescently labelled, (b) contacting amplification product with a probe under conditions in which the probe will hybridise to said target sequence, said probe comprising a reactive molecule which is able to absorb fluorescence from or donate fluorescent energy to said fluorescent labelled nucleotide and (c) monitoring fluorescence of said sample. The method can be used to quantitate the amount of target nucleic acid in the sample as well as to determine sequence characteristics. Kits for effecting the method are also claimed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SECR DEFENCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEFENCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE MARTIN ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LESLIE DARIO LYALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, MARTIN, ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LESLIE, DARIO LYALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention provides a method for detecting a target polynucleotide in a sample, for example by monitoring an amplification reaction, preferably in a quantitative manner, as well as to probes and kits for use in these methods. The method is also suitable for the detection of sequence characteristics such as polymorphisms or allelic variation and so may be used in diagnostic methodsKnown fluorescence polymerase chain reaction (PCR) monitoring techniques include both strand specific and generic DNA intercalator techniques that can be used on a few second-generation PCR thermal cycling devices.Generic methods utilise DNA intercalating dyes that exhibit increased fluorescence when bound to double stranded DNA species. Fluorescence increase due to a rise in the bulk concentration of DNA during amplifications can be used to measure reaction progress and to determine the target molecule copy number. Furthermore, by monitoring fluorescence with a controlled change of temperature, DNA melting curves can be generated, for example, at the end of PCR thermal cycling.Generic DNA methods monitor the rise in bulk concentration of nucleic acids without any time penalty. A single fluorescent reading can be taken at the same point in every reaction. End point melting curve analysis can be used to discriminate artefacts from amplicon, and to discriminate amplicons. Peaks of products can be seen at concentrations that cannon be visualised by agarose gel electrophoresis.In order to obtain high resolution melting data, the melt experiment must be performed slowly on existing hardware taking up to five minutes. However, by continually monitoring fluorescence amplification, a 3D image of the hysteresis ef melting and hybridisation can be produced. This 3D image is amplicon dependent and may provide enough information for product discrimination. Hiyoshi et al., Anal. Biochem. (1994) 221, 306-311 describes a particular DNA denaturation assay.It has been found that DNA melting curve analysis in general is a powerful tool in optimising PCR thermal cycling. By determining the melting temperatures of the amplicons, it is possible to lower the denaturing temperatures in later PCR cycles to this temperature. Optimisation for amplification from first generation reaction products rather than the genomic DNA, reduces artefact formation occuring in later cycles. Melting temperatures of primer oligonucleotides and their complements can be used to determine their annealing temperatures, reducing the need for empirical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid sequence in a sample, said method comprising (a) subjecting said sample to an amplification reaction using a polymerase and a set of nucleotides, at least one of which nucleotides is fluorescently labelled, (b) contacting amplification product with a probe under conditions in which the probe will hybridise to said target sequence, said probe comprising a reactive molecule which is able to absorb fluorescence from or donate fluorescent energy to said fluorescently labelled nucleotide and (c) monitoring fluorescence of said sample and relating that to the presence or absence of target nucleic acid sequence in the sample.
A method according to claim 1 wherein the reactive molecule absorbs fluorescence from said fluorescently labelled nucleotide.
A method according to claim 2 wherein the reactive molecule is an acceptor molecule which emits energy at a characteristic wavelength.
A method according to claim 3 wherein the acceptor molecule is a rhodamine dye or Cy5.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the labelled nucleotide is labelled uracil.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein all nucleotides used in the amplification reaction are labelled.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the amplification reaction comprises the polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the fluorescence of both the labelled nucleotide and the reactive molecule are monitored and the relationship between the emissions calculated.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the probe is present throughout the amplification reaction.
A method according to claim 9 wherein the fluorescent signal is monitored and the results used to quantitate the amount of target sequence present in the sample.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the probe is designed such that it is hydrolysed by the DNA polymerase used in the amplification reaction.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the probe is designed such that during the extension phase of the amplification reaction, the probe is released intact from the target sequence.
A method according to claim 12 wherein the amplification reaction is effected using a 5'-3' exonuclease lacking enzyme.
A method according to claim 13 wherein the enzyme is Stoffle fragment of Taq or Pwo.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 14 wherein the 3' end of the probe is blocked by phosphorylation.
A method for detecting nucleic acid amplification comprising: performing nucleic acid amplification on a target polynucleotide in the presence of (a) a nucleic acid polymerase (b) at least one primer capable of hybridising to said target polynucleotide, (c) a set of nucleotides, at least one of which is fluorescently labelled and (d)an oligonucleotide probe which is capable of binding to said target polynucleotide sequence and
 which contains a reactive molecule which is capable of absorbing fluorescence energy from or donating fluorescent energy to the said labelled nucleotide; and monitoring changes in fluorescence during the amplification reaction.
A method according to claim 16 wherein the amplification is carried out using a pair of primers which are designed such that only the target nucleotide sequence within a DNA strand is amplified.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the probe is specific either for a splice region of RNA or an intron in DNA, so that only one of amplified RNA or amplified DNA is detected or quantitated.
A method for determining a characteristic of a sequence, said method comprising (a) amplifying said sequence using a polymerase and a set of nucleotides, at least one of which nucleotides is fluorescently labelled, (b) either denaturing double stranded amplification product in the presence of a probe, and then subjecting the mixture to conditions in which the probe will hybridise to a strand of said target sequence, or contacting double stranded amplification product with a probe which specifically binds the target sequence in double stranded form, said probe comprising a reactive molecule which is able to absorb fluorescence from or donate fluorescent energy to said fluorescently labelled nucleotide and (c) monitoring fluorescence of said sample and determining a particular reaction condition, characteristic of said sequence, at which fluorescence changes as a result of the hybridisation of the probe to the sample or destabilisation of the duplex formed between the probe and the target nucleic acid sequence.
A method for detecting a polymorphism or allelic variation, said method comprising amplifying a sequence suspected of containing said polymorphism or variation using a method as defined in claim 19, measuring the temperature at which the probe melts from the amplification product using the
 fluorescent signal generated, and relating this to the presence of a polymorphism or allelic variation.
The use of a kit comprising (a) a fluorescently labelled nucleotide and (b) a probe specific for a target nucleotide sequence which probe contains a reactive molecule which is able to absorb fluorescence from or donate fluorescent energy to said fluorescently labelled nucleotide, in a method according to any one of the preceding claims.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
