<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1997050252</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PANORAMIC CAMERA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B1306	G02B1306	G03B1500	G03B1500	G03B3500	G03B3500	G03B3700	G03B3700	H04N5225	H04N5225	H04N5262	H04N5262	H04N718	H04N718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B13	G02B13	G03B15	G03B15	G03B35	G03B35	G03B37	G03B37	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is a new panoramic camera apparatus that instantaneously captures a 360 degree panoramic image. In one of the embodiments, the camera device comprises a convex mirror (210) for capturing light of the surrounding panorama, an astigmatic lens for correcting astigmatism, a camera objective lens (230) for converging light to a single point, a field flattening lens (240) for converting polar format images into two-dimensional planar images, and an image capture mechanism (250) for capturing optimized two-dimensional annular image of the surrounding panorama. The panoramic camera apparatus further includes various different systems for displaying and distributing the panoramic images. Specifically, these systems include means and method steps for digitally performing geometric transformation of the two-dimensional annular image into rectangular projections such that the panoramic image can be displayed using conventional methods such as printed images and televised images.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEHERE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEHERE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRISCOLL EDWARD JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOMAX WILLARD CURTIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORROW HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEINHAUER ALAN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRISCOLL, EDWARD, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOMAX, WILLARD, CURTIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORROW, HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEINHAUER, ALAN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Panoramic CameraCLAIM OF PRIORITYThis application claims the benefit of the U.S. provisional patent application with serial number 60/020,292 that was filed on June 24, 1996.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the field of film and video photography. In particular the present invention discloses a camera device that captures a 360 degree panoramic image and display systems for displaying the panoramic image captured by the camera device.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMost cameras only provide a small viewing angle. Thus, a typical conventional camera only captures an image in the direction that the camera is aimed. Limited view cameras force viewers to look only at what the camera operator chooses to focus on. Some cameras use a specialized wide angle lens to capture a wider panoramic image, but such panoramic cameras still have a limited field of view.It would be desirable to have a camera system that would capture the light from all directions such that a full 360 degree panoramic image can be created. A full 360 degree panoramic image would allow the viewer to choose what she would like to look at. Furthermore, a full 360 degree panoramic image allows multiple viewers to simultaneously view the world from the same point, with each being able to independently choose their viewing direction and field of view.At the piι:sent time, there are some known methods of creating 360 degree panoramic images. However, most current methods are subject to limitations 

due to their physical movements and mechanical complexity. For example, some of the current methods operate by combining a series of individual photographs taken in different directions into a single panoramic image. Some panoramic cameras spin a lens and film to capture a panoramic view in a single sweeping motion.There is a market for panoramic photos to be used in multimedia applications, typically provided on CD-ROMs. In the last few years, some software manufacturers have introduced standards for digital storage and computer playback of panoramic datasets. One example is QuickTime® VR, introduced by Apple® Computer, Inc. Apple® Computer's QuickTime® VR standard governs the file storage format and the playback software needed to view their datasets.Currently, Apple Computer recommends and provides software tools to implement a labor-intensive process for capturing these panoramic datasets. In the Apple QuickTime® VR (QTVR) process a standard 35mm camera is mounted vertically on a leveled tripod and equipped with an extreme wide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
We claim:
1. An apparatus for capturing panoramic images, said apparatus comprising: a convex mirror, said convex mirror reflecting light from 360 degrees around said convex mirror; an astigmatism correction lens, said astigmatism correction lens correcting astigmatism in said light reflected from said convex mirror; an objective lens for focusing said light reflected from said convex mirror; and an image capture mechanism, said image capture mechanism capturing said light reflected from said convex mirror.
2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further comprising: a field flattening lens, said field flattening lens flattening a field of optimal focus.
3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein image capture mechanism comprises photographic film.
4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein image capture mechanism comprises an electronic image capture mechanism.
5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said electronic- image capture mechanism comprises a charged coupled device array. 


 6. An apparatus for capturing panoramic images, said apparatus comprising: a convex mirror, said convex mirror reflecting light from 360 degrees around said convex mirror; an objective lens for focusing said light reflected from said convex mirror; a field flattening lens, said field flattening lens flattening a field of optimal focus, and an image capture mechanism, said image capture mechanism capturing said light reflected from said convex mirroi
7 The apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wheiein image capture mechanism comprises photogiaphic film.
8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein image capture mechanism is housed within
9 The apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wheiein said image capture mechanism comprises an electronic image captuie device
10 The apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said electronic image capture device comprises at least one charged coupled device.
1 1 An apparatus for capturing panoramic images, said apparatus comprising 


 a convex mirror, said convex mirror reflecting light from a 360 degree band around said convex mirror, said 360 degree band having a horizon line; and an image capture mechanism, said image capture mechanism capturing an annular shaped image created by said light reflected from said convex mirror; wherein said convex mirror is shaped such that an angle of elevation from said horizon line is linearly proportional to a radial distance of the center of said annular shaped image.
12. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 1 further comprising: a field flattening lens, said field flattening len.s flattening a field of optimal focus.
13. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 I further comprising: an astigmatism correction len.s, said astigmatism correction lens correcting astigmatism in said light reflected from said convex mirror.
14. An apparatus for capturing panoramic images, said apparatus comprising: a convex mirror, said convex mirror reflecting light from a 360 degree band around said convex mirror, said 360 degree band having a horizon line; a beam splitter, said beam splitter dividing said reflected light into a first annular image and a second annular image; a first electronic image capture mechanism, said first electronic image capture mechanism capturing at least half of said first annular image created by said light reflected from said convex mirror; and 


 a second electronic image capture mechanism, said second electronic image capture mechanism capturing at least half of said second annular image created by said light reflected from said convex mirror.
15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein said first electronic image capture mechanism and said second electronic image capture mechanism comprise charged coupled devices.
16. An apparatus for capturing panoramic images, said apparatus comprising: a convex mirror, said convex mirror reflecting light from a 360 degree band around said convex mirror; a second mirror, said second mirror reflecting said light from said convex mirror into an aperture in said convex mirror; and an image capture mechanism, said image capture mechanism capturing said lit-ht reflected from said convex minor and said second mirror.
17. The apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein said image capture mechanism is housed within said convex mirror.
18. A panoramic camera apparatus, said panoramic camera apparatus comprising: an image capture mechanism; a main reflector, said main reflector reflecting light from a 360 degree panorama onto said image capture mechanism; and a protective transparent block; said protective transparent block covering said main reflector. 


 19. The apparatus as claimed in claim 18 wherein said protective transparent block is shaped such that light rays that will be reflected onto said image capture mechanism enter said protective transparent case at a nomial to the surface of said protective transparent block.
20. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 8 further comprising: a second reflector, said second reflector reflecting light from said main reflector down through an opening in said main reflector.
2 1 . The apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein said protective transparent block ends a; said opening in said main reflector.
22. The apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein an lens system is housed within an indentation of said protective transparent block.
23. A method of recording a panorama, said method comprising the steps of: reflecting light from a 360 degree band around a convex mirror to an image plane; correcting astigmatism in said light reflected from said convex mirror; and capturing an annular representation of said panorama on said image plane with an image capture mechanism.
24. A method of recording a panorama, said method comprising the steps of: 


 reflecting light from a 360 degree band around a convex mirror to an image plane; flattening a field of optimal focus for said reflected light; and capturing an annular representation of said panorama on said image plane with an image capture mechanism.
25. The method as claimed in claim 24 further comprising: correcting astigmatism in said light reflected from said convex mirror.
26. The method as claimed in claim 24 wheiein said step of capturing an annular representation comprises capturing an annular image on photographic film.
27. The method as claimed in claim 24 wheiein said step of capturing an annular representation comprises capturing an annular image on a charged coupled device array.
28. The method as claimed in claim 24 further comprising: focusing said light reflected from said convex mirror with an objective lens.
29. A method of presenting panoramic images, said method comprising the steps of: recording an annular representation of a panorama; storing said annular representation of said panorama as a digitized annular representation; geometrically transforming said digitized annular representation of said panorama into a rectangular projection of said panorama; and 


 displaying said rectangular projection of said panorama.
30. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein said step of mathematical transforming further compri.ses sampling said digitized annular representation with a dynamically changing sampling shape wherein said sampling shape is dependent upon a viewing angle
31. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein said step of geometrically transforming further comprises sampling said digitized annular repiesentation with a dynamically changing sampling shape orientation wherein said sampling shape orientation is dependent upon a horizontal viewing angle.
32 A method of presenting panoramic images, said method comprising the steps of: recording an annulai repiesentation of a panorama, storing said annulai lepresentation of said panorama as a digitized annular representation, geometrically transforming said digitized annular repiesentation of said panoiiima into a cylindrical representation of said panorama, and displaying said cylindrical repiesentation ot said panorama using a compute! program.
33. The method as claimed in claim 32 wherein said step of displaying said cylindrical representation of said panorama using a computer program comprises i tinning a QuickTime VR program. 


 34. A method of presenting panoramic images of a remote location, said method comprising the steps of: capturing a digitized annular representation of a panorama at said remote location; transmitting said digitized annular representation to a local computer; geometrically transforming said digitized annular representation into a rectangular projection of said panorama using said local computer; and displaying said rectangular projection of said panorama.
35. A method of presenting panoramic images of a remote location, said method comprising the steps of: capturing a digitized annular representation of a panorama at said remote location; geometrically transforming said digitized annular representation into a rectangular representation of said panorama; transmitting said rectangular representation of said panorama to a local receiver; and displaying said rectangular representation of said panorama on said local receiver.
36. The method of presenting panoramic images of a remote location as claimed in claim 35 wheiein said step of geometrically transforming said digitized annular representation into a rectangular representation of said panorama comprises geometrically transfonning a portion of said digitized annular representation into rectangular projection.
37. The method of presenting panoramic images of a remote location as claimed in claim 36 further comprising the steps of: transmitting a request from said local receiver to said remote location; and 


 selecting said portion of said digitized annular representation dependent upon said request.
38. A method of presenting panoramic images of a remote location, said method comprising the steps of: capturing a digitized annular frame of a panorama at said remote location; geometrically transforming said digitized annular frame into a rectangular projection frame of said panorama; transmitting said rectangular projection frame of said panorama to a local receiver; displaying said rectangular representation of said panorama on said local receiver; capturing a stream of digitized annular frames of a panorama at said remote location; geometrically transforming a particular portion of said stream of digitized annular frames into a stream of rectangular projection frames; and displaying said stream of rectangular projection frames on said local receiver.
39. The method of presenting panoramic images of a remote location as claimed in claim 38 further comprising the steps of: transmitting a request from said local receiver to said remote location; and selecting said particular portion of said digitized annular representation dependent upon said request.
40. The method of presenting panoramic images of a remote location as claimed in claim 38 further comprising the steps of: capturing audio at said remote location; and transmitting said audio to said local receiver. 


 41. A method of presenting images from a remote location, said method comprising the steps of: capturing a digitized annular representation of a panorama at said remote location; geometrically transforming said digitized annular representation into a rectangular representation of said panorama; selecting a viewport from said rectangular representation of said panorama; transmitting said viewport from said rectangular representation of said panorama to a local receiver; and displaying said viewport on said local receiver.
42. The method of presenting images from a remote location as claimed in claim 41 , said method further comprising the steps of: capturing at least one audio stream at said remote location; transmitting said audio stream to said local receiver; and generating audio at said local receiver using said audio stream.
43. The method of presenting images from a remote location as claimed in claim 41 wherein said steps are repeated such that said viewport on said local receiver comprises a motion image.
44. The method of presenting images from a remote location as claimed in claim 41 wherein said step of capturing at least one audio stream at said remote location comprises , said method further comprising the steps of: capturing multiple directional audio sources; mixing said multiple directional audio sources based upon said selected viewport to create a mixed audio stream ; 


 transmitting said audio stream to said local receiver; and generating audio at said local receiver using said audio stream.
45. The method of presenting images from a remote location as claimed in claim 41 , said method further comprising the steps of: transmitting at least one command from said local receiver to said remote location; and selecting said viewporl dependent upon said command.
46. A method of presenting panoramic images of a remote location, said method comprising the steps of: capturing a digitized annular representaiion of a panorama at said remote location; selecting a viewport from said digitized annular representation of said panorama; geometrically transforming said selected viewport from said digitized annular representation into a rectangular representation of said viewport; transmitting said rectangular representation of said viewporl to a local computer; and displaying said rectangular representation of said viewport on said local computer.
47. The method of presenting images from a remote location as claimed in claim 46 wherein said steps are repeated such that said viewport on said local receiver comprises a motion image.
48. The method of presenting images from a remote location as claimed in claim 46, said method further comprising the steps of: 


 capturing at least one audio stream at said remote location; transmitting said audio stream to said local receiver; and generating audio at said local receiver using said audio stream.
49. The method of presenting images from a remote location as claimed in claim 46 wherein said step of capturing at least one audio stream at said remote location comprises , said method further comprising the steps of: capturing multiple directional audio sources; mixing said multiple directional audio sources based upon said selected viewport to create a mixed audio stream ; transmitting said audio stream to said local receiver; and generating audio at said local receiver using said audio stream.
50. The method of presenting images from a remote location as claimed in claim 46, said method further comprising the steps of: transmitting at least one command from said local receiver to said remote location; and selecting said viewport dependent upon said command.
51. A camera apparatus, said camera apparatus comprising: a panoramic camera for capturing a digitized annular representation of a panorama at said remote location; a computer for geometrically transforming said digitized annular representation into a rectangular representation of said panorama, said computer selecting a viewport from said rectangular representation of said panorama; a communication device for transmitting said viewport from said rectangular representation of said panorama to a local receiver; and a local receiver for receiving said viewport and displaying said viewport. 


 52. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 51 , said camera apparatus further comprising: at least one microphone for capturing at least one audio stream at said remote location, said audio stream transmitted to said local receiver; and audio generator for generating audio at said local receiver using said audio stream.
53. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 51 , said camera apparatus further comprising: at least two microphones at said remote location for capturing multiple audio sources; a mixer at said remote location, said mixer combining said multiple audio sources inio a mixed audio stream, said mixed audio stream transmitted to said local receiver; and audio generator for generating audio at said local receiver based upon said mixed audio stream.
54. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 53 wherein said mixer mixes said multiple audio sources based upon said selected viewport.
55. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 51 wherein said local receiver transmits at least one command to said computer to indicate a desired viewport. 


 56. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 51 wherein said communication device continuously transmits viewports such that a motion image is displayed at said local receiver.
57. A camera apparatus, said camera apparatus comprising: a panoramic camera for capturing a digitized annular representation of a panorama at said remote location: a computer for selecting a viewport from said digitized annular representation of said panorama, said computer geometrically transforming said digitized viewport into a rectangular representation of said panorama; a communication device for transmitting said viewport from said rectangular representation of said panorama to a local receiver; and a local receiver for receiving said viewport and displaying said viewport.
58. The camera apparatus as claimed m claim 57, said camera apparatus further comprising: at least one microphone for capturing at least one audio stream at said remote location, said audio stream transmitted to said local receiver; and audio generator for generating audio at said local receiver using said audio stream.
59. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 57, said camera apparatus further comprising: at least two microphones at said remote location for capturing multiple audio sources; a mixer at said remote location, said mixer combining said multiple audio sources into a mixed audio stream, said mixed audio stream transmitted to said local receiver; and 


 audio generator for generating audio at said local receiver based upon said mixed audio stream.
60. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 59 wherein said mixer mixes said multiple audio sources based upon said selected viewport.
61. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 57 wherein said local receiver transmits at least one command to said computer to indicate a desired viewport.
62. The camera apparatus as claimed in claim 57 wherein said communication device continuously transmits viewports such that a motion image is displayed at said local receiver. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
