<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1991008243</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
USE OF LIQUID CARBON DIOXIDE AS A BLOWING AGENT IN THE PRODUCTION OF OPEN-CELL POLYURETHANE FOAM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08J900	C08J912	C08J914	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08J	C08J	C08J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08J9	C08J9	C08J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARSON SCOTT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOYLE EARL N
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARSON, SCOTT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOYLE, EARL, N.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARSON SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOYLE EARL N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARSON, SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOYLE, EARL, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 USE OF LIQUID CARBON DIOXIDE AS A BLOWING AGENT . IN THE PRODUCTION OF OPEN-CELL POLYURETHANE FOAMBackground of the InventionThe present invention relates to a process for the production of open cell polyurethane foams.Open cell foams have been utilized as a means for providing soft cushioning in a variety of applications in the automotive and furniture industries. In addition, these foams have been frequently employed within toys, athletic equipment, filters and sponges.Such open cell polyurethane foams have traditionally been comprised of at least one polyol, an isocyanate, water, one or more surfactants, at least two catalysts which include a metallic catalyst as well as a tertiary amine catalyst, and, optionally, a blowing agent.The blowing agent is employed in order to enhance the expansion of the foam which is obtained from the reaction of the water with the isocyanate. Traditionally, these blowing agents include chlorofluorocarbons such as Freon 11 or 12 and/or low boiling solvents such as methylene chloride. However, certain problems associated with the use of chlorofluorocarbons, particularly environmental and public health problems, have led to the creation of an international agreement to reduce and eventually eliminate the use of these materials. Moreover, several states have already banned the use of methylene chloride due to health hazards which have been associated with its use. Thus, the art has been forced to look for alternative blowing agents. 

 One example of such a blowing agent has been liquid carbon dioxide as disclosed in U.S. Patents 3,184,419 and 4,337,318.U.S. Patent No-. 3,184,419 to Merriman, relates to a method for the production of polyurethane foam material. The method comprises the incorporation of a soluble inert gas under pressure in the liquified state into a liquid composition containing a prepolymer and a compound capable of reacting therewith to form a polyurethane foam composition. The carbon dioxide is introduced at a temperature below that which a substantial reaction between the prepolymer and the reactive compound takes place. The liquid composition is foamed by reducing the pressure of the mixer and raising the temperature of the foam to convert the composition to an elastomer.Because this process requires the use of a prepolymer in the production of the foam, it can not be economically employed for large scale production. Moreover, this patent process requires cooling of the inert gas to aid in maintaining it in a liquid state which also adds to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A process for the production of an open cell polyurethane foam in the absence of any substantial post-expansion, said process comprising: (a) mixing the following components at ambient temperatures in a mixing zone,
(i) a diisocyanate having a functionality of at least about 2.0,
(ii) at least one hydrogen donor, (iii) at least one surfactant which is effective in forming an open cell polyurethane foam, (iv) at least one catalyst, and (v) a blowing agent comprising a gas having a boiling point below approximately -100°F at atmospheric pressure, the mixture being subjected to a pressure in said mixing zone which is sufficient to maintain said blowing agent in the liquid state at ambient temperatures, said mixture being substantially free of water; (b) ejecting said mixture from said mixing zone to atmospheric pressure, thereby completely and instantaneously vaporizing said blowing agent to provide substantially total expansion of said mixture, and
(c) curing the resultant foam at ambient temperatures.
2. The process of claim 1 whereby the blowing agent comprises carbon dioxide, nitrogen, helium, tetrafluoroethylene, fluoroform, hexafluoroethane, or mixtures thereof.
3. The process of claim 1 wherein said blowing agent comprises carbon dioxide. 


 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said mixture is subjected in said mixing zone to a pressure of about 300 to about 5000 psi.
5. The process of claim 1 wherein said cured polyurethane foam has a density of about .75 to about 12 pounds per. cubic feet.
6. The process of claim 1 wherein each of the . components is separately metered into said mixing zone.
7. The process of claim 1 wherein said diisocyanate and said hydrogen donor are provided in a weight ratio of about 1:1 to about 1:25.
8. The process of claim 3 wherein said mixtures in said mixing zone comprise greater than about 3 percent by volume of said carbon dioxide in the liquid state.
9. The process of claim 8 wherein said mixture in said mixing zone comprises about 3 to about 40 percent by volume of said carbon dioxide in the liquid state.
10. The process according to claim 8 wherein the mixture in said mixing zone comprises about 10 to about
25 percent by volume of the carbon dioxide in liquid state.
11. The process of claim 1 wherein the catalyst comprises at least one tertiary amine catalyst.
12. The process or claim 1 wherein the catalyst comprises at least one metallic catalyst. 


 13. The process of claim 1 wherein the diisocyanate has a functionality of about 2.0 to about 2.7.
14. The process according to claim 1 wherein the diisocyanate comprises a pure diisocyanate or a prepolymer having a desired-NCO percentage.
15. The process of claim 1 wherein the surfactant comprises a silicone polymer, a diester, or mixtures thereof.
16. The process according to claim 1 wherein at least two of the components are pre-mixed prior to introduction into the mixing zone.
17. The process according to claim 1 further including an additional higher boiling point solvent which introduces a controlled minor amount of post expansion into the foam.
18. The process according to claim 17 wherein the higher boiling point solvent comprises methylene chloride, methyl chloride, ethyl chloride, chloroform, chlorofluorocarbon, hydrochlorofluorocarbon, azodicarbonamides, hexane, heptane, or mixtures thereof.
19. The process according to claim 1 wherein the hydrogen donor has a functionality of about 2 to about 4.
20. The process according to clai 19 wherein the hydrogen donor comprises a polyether polyol having a molecular weight of about 500 to about 6500. 


 21. The process according to claim 19 wherein the hydrogen donor comprises a polyester polyol having a molecular weight of about 500 to about 3800.
22. The process of claim 19 wherein the hydrogen donor comprises at least one polyol having a molecular weight of about 2000 to about 6500.
23. The process according to claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the blowing agent is mixed with one or more of the other components at a point prior to the mixing zone.
24. The process of claim 1 wherein said blowing agent comprises carbon dioxide, said diisocynate has a functionality of from about 2.0 to about 2.7, said hydrogen donor has a functionality of about 2 to about 4 and comprises at least one polyol having a molecular weight from about 500 to about 6500, and said diisocynate and said hydrogen donor being provided in a weight ratio of about 1:1 to about 1:25.
25. The process of claim 24 wherein at least a portion of the carbon dioxide blowing agent is mixed with one or more of the other components at a point prior to the mixing zone.
26. A process for the production of an open cell polyurethane foam with varying degrees of post expansion comprising:
(a) mixing in a mixing zone the following components at ambient temperatures;
(i) a diisocyanate having a functionality of at least about 2.0, (ii) at least one hydrogen donor, 


 (iii) at least one surfactant which is effective in forming an open cell polyurethane foam,
(iv) at least one catalyst,
(v) a blowing agent comprising a gas having a boiling point below approximately -100
β
F at atmospheric pressure, and
(vi) water, the mixture being subjected to a pressure in said mixing zone which is sufficient to maintain said blowing agent in the liquid state at ambient temperatures;
(b) ejecting said mixture from said mixing zone to atmospheric pressure, and
(c) curing the resultant foam at ambient temperatures.
27. The process of claim 26 whereby the blowing agent comprises carbon dioxide, nitrogen, helium, tetrafluoroethylene, fluoroform, hexafluoroethane, or mixtures thereof.
28. The process of claim 26 wherein said blowing agent comprises carbon dioxide.
29. The process of claim 26 wherein said mixture is subjected in said mixing zone to a pressure of about
300 to about 5000 psi.
30. The process of claim 26 wherein said polyurethane foam has a density of about .75 to about 12 pounds per cubic feet.
31. The process of claim 26 wherein each of the components is separately metered into said mixing zone. 


 32. The process according to claim 26 wherein at least two of the components are pre-mixed prior to introduction into the mixing zone.
33. The process according to claim 32 wherein at least a portion of the blowing agent is mixed with one or more of the other components at a point prior to the mixing zone.
34. The process of claim 26 wherein said diisocyanate and said hydrogen donor are provided in a weight ratio of about 1:1 to about 1:25.
35. The process of claim 28 wherein said mixtures in said mixing zone comprises greater than about 3 percent by volume of said carbon dioxide in the liquid state.
36. The process of claim 35 wherein said mixture in said mixing zone comprises about 3 to about 40 percent by volume of said carbon dioxide in the liquid state.
37. The process of claim 26 wherein the catalyst comprises at least one tertiary amine catalyst.
38. The process or claim 26 wherein the catalyst comprises at least one metallic catalyst.
39. The process of claim 26 wherein the diisocyanate has a functionality of about 2.0 to about 2.7. 


 40. The process according to claim 26 wherein the diisocyanate comprises a pure diisocyanate or a prepolymer having a desired-NCO percentage.
41. The process of claims 26 wherein the surfactant comprises a silicone polymer, a diester, or mixtures thereof.
42. The process of claim 26 wherein the water is present in an amount of about 0.25 to about 3 percent by weight of the total formula.
43. The process according to claim 26 further including an additional higher boiling point solvent which introduces a controlled minor amount of post expansion into the foam.
44. The process according to claim 43 wherein the higher boiling point solvent comprises methylene chloride, methyl chloride, ethyl chloride, chloroform, chlorofluorocarbon, hydrochlorofluorocarbon, azodicarbonamides, hexane, heptane, or mixtures thereof.
45. The process according to claim 26 wherein the hydrogen donor has a functionality of about 2 to about
4.
46. The process of claim 45 wherein the hydrogen donor comprises a polyether polyol having a molecular weight of about 500 to about 6500.
47. The process according to claim 45 wherein the hydrogen donor comprises a polyester polyol having a molecular weight of about 500 to about 3800. 


 48. The process of claim 45 wherein the hydrogen donor comprises at least one polyol having a molecular weight of about 2000 to about 6500.
49. The process of claim 26 wherein at least a portion of the carbon dioxide blowing agent is mixed with one .or more of the other components at a point prior to the mixing zone.
50. The process of claim 26 wherein said blowing agent comprises carbon dioxide, said diisocynate has a functionality of from about 2.0 to about 2.7, said hydrogen donor has a functionality of about 2 to about 4 and comprises at least one polyol having a molecular weight from about 500 to about 6500, and said diisocynate and said hydrogen donor being provided in a weight ratio of about 1:1 to about 1:25.
51. The process of claim 50 wherein at least a portion of the carbon dioxide blowing agent is mixed with one or more of the other components at a point prior to the mixing zone. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
