<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1998048733</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED STENT CONFIGURATIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F284	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stent includes a coil or coil-like structure comprised of joined elements which are coiled or bent and which unwind, uncoil or unbend to a more or less straightened condition on expansion of the stent. These structures provide regions of low strain in the stent during expansion. These elements may be joined to each other or to any radially expansive members of any kind, annular serpentine members being preferred.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EHR TIMOTHY G J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KVEEN GRAIG L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EHR, TIMOTHY, G., J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KVEEN, GRAIG, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED STENT CONFIGURATIONSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to stents of improved configuration which incorporate coiled articulations which unwind to form bracing structures or scaffolding upon expansion.2. Brief Description of the Prior Art Stents are radially expandable endoprosthesis which are typically intravascular implants capable of being implanted transluminally and enlarged radially after being introduced percutaneously. They have also been implanted in urinary tracts and bile ducts. They are used to reinforce body vessels and to prevent restenosis following angioplasty in the vascular system. They may be self-expanding or expanded by an internal radial force, such as when mounted on a balloon.In the past, stents have assumed many configurations and been made of many materials, including metals and plastic. Ordinary metals such as stainless steel have been used as have shape memory metals such as nitinol and the like. Stents have also been made of biodegradable plastic materials. They have been formed from wire, tube stock, etc.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention provides a new configuration for stents which may be adapted by all of the various types of prior art stents referred to hereinabove. There are numerous advantages to the new configuration. It limits recoil and adds resistance to compression for the expanded stent, among other things. It is longitudinally flexible in both the unexpanded and expanded conditions. It has several embodiments.An important part of the new configuration includes a coil or coil-like structure comprised of joined elements which are coiled or bent and which unwind, uncoil or unbend to a more or less straightened condition on expansion of the stent. Such structures are hereinafter referred to collectively as coils, spirals or coil-like structures. These structures provide regions of low strain in the stent during 

expansion. These elements may be joined to each other or to any radially expansive members of any kind, annular serpentine members being preferred.Brief Description of the Figures Figure 1 is a flat view of one pattern embodiment of a stent configuration of the invention (unexpanded);Figure 2 is a detail of a portion of Figure 1;Figure 3 is an end view of a stent of the Figure 1 pattern according to the invention showing it in tubular configuration; Figure 4 is a showing of a stent in the embodiment of the precedingFigures in perspective and in an unexpanded configuration;Figure 5 is a showing of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is as follows:
I. An expandable stent in the form of a generally tubular body including as part of the configuration thereof a plurality of coiled elements included in the stent body. 2. The stent of claim 1 wherein the coiled elements are at the ends of the stent.
3. The stent of claim 1 in which at least some of the coiled elements are connected to each other.
4. The stent of claim 2 in which the stent body is comprised of substantially all coiled elements interconnected to each other.
5. The stent of claim 1 in which at least some of the coiled elements are interconnected between other stent elements.
6. The stent of claim 5 wherein the other stent elements are annular serpentine elements. 7. The stent of claim 6 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements are longitudinally arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
8. The stent of claim 6 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements are angularly arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
9. A stent comprised of a plurality of interconnected expandable cells, each cell comprised of plurality of joined struts to form a perimeter of each cell, two of which are adjacent and curvilinear and meet two similarly arranged struts of an adjoining cell to form a coil-like joint at the joined ends of each cell and on expansion of the stent, all struts of each cell undergo deformation and the joined areas undergo straightening whereby the two struts of each cell joining the joined areas undergo a straightening action.
10. The stent of claim 9 wherein the straightening action is an unwinding action.
I I . The stent of claim 9 wherein two of the struts, other than the two curvilinear struts, forming a cell are a portion of a serpentine annular element, a plurality of which are in spaced arrangement. 12. A stent comprised of: 


 a plurality of longitudinally aligned and expandable segments of generally cylindrical configuration, expansion enlarging the diameter of the segments; at least one connector element extending from a segment to join a corresponding element extending from an adjacent segment, the connectors forming a coil-like configuration between the segments, the members straightening upon expansion of the adjoining segments.
13. The stent of claim 12 wherein there are a pair of connector elements extending from a segment to join a corresponding pair extending from an adjacent segment. 14. The stent of claim 12 wherein the straightening of the members is an unwinding action.
15. The stent of claim 12 wherein the aligned expandable stent elements are in the form of annular serpentine segments.
16. The stent of claim 15 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements are longitudinally arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
17. The stent of claim 15 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements are angularly arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
18. A stent comprised of: a plurality of expandable segments of generally cylindrical configuration; connector elements extending between the segments to join corresponding elements extending from an adjacent segment, the connectors forming at least one coiled configuration between the segments, the coils straightening upon stent expansion. 19. The stent of claim 18 wherein the connectors form a plurality of coiled configurations between the segments.
20. The stent of claim 18 wherein the straightening involves unwinding of the coils. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 1 October 1998 (01.10.98); original claims 1-20 replaced by amended claims 1-20 (3 pages)]
1. An expandable stent in the form of a generally tubular body including as part
of the configuration thereof a plurality of spiral elements included in the stent body.
2. The stent of claim 1 wherein the spiral elements are at the ends of the stent.
3. The stent of claim 1 in which at least some of the spiral elements are
connected to each other.
4. The stent of claim 2 in which the stent body is comprised of substantially all
spiral elements interconnected to each other.
5. The stent of claim 1 in which at least some of the spiral elements are interconnected between other stent elements.
6. The stent of claim 5 wherein the other stent elements are annular serpentine elements.
7. The stent of claim 6 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements are
longitudinally arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
8. The stent of claim 6 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements are
angularly arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
9. A stent comprised of a plurality of interconnected expandable cells, each cell
comprised of plurality of joined struts to form a perimeter of each cell, two of which are adjacent and curvilinear and meet two similarly arranged struts of an adjoining cell to form a spiral-like joint at the joined ends of each cell and on expansion of the stent, all struts of
each cell undergo deformation and the joined areas undergo straightening whereby the two
struts of each cell joining the joined areas undergo a straightening action.
10. The stent of claim 9 wherein the straightening action is an unwinding action. 

11. The stent of claim 9 wherein two of the struts, other than the two curvilinear
struts, forming a cell are a portion of a serpentine annular element, a plurality of which are in spaced arrangement.
12. A stent comprised of:
a plurality of longitudinally aligned and expandable segments of generally
cylindrical configuration, expansion enlarging the diameter of the segments;
at least one connector element extending from a segment to join a corresponding
element extending from an adjacent segment, the connectors forming a spiral-like
configuration between the segments, the members straightening upon expansion of the adjoining segments.
13. The stent of claim 12 wherein there are a pair of connector elements extending from a segment to join a corresponding pair extending from an adjacent segment.
14. The stent of claim 12 wherein the straightening of the members is an unwinding action.
15. The stent of claim 12 wherein the aligned expandable stent elements are in
the form of annular serpentine segments.
16. The stent of claim 15 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements are longitudinally arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
17. The stent of claim 15 wherein the serpentine portions of the elements are angularly arranged with respect to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
18. A stent comprised of: a plurality of expandable segments of generally cylindrical configuration;
connector elements extending between the segments to join corresponding 


elements extending from an adjacent segment, the connectors forming at least one spiral
configuration between the segments, the spirals straightening upon stent expansion.
19. The stent of claim 18 wherein the connectors form a plurality of spiral configurations between the segments.
20. The stent of claim 18 wherein the straightening involves unwinding of the
spirals. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
