<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1997000442</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MICROFABRICATED DIFFERENTIAL EXTRACTION DEVICE AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1102	B01D1102	B01D4300	B01D4300	B01F1300	B01F1300	B01J1900	B01J1900	G01N102	G01N102	G01N110	G01N110	G01N140	G01N140	G01N1506	G01N1506	G01N3000	G01N3000	G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N3700	G01N3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01F	B01F	B01J	B01J	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D11	B01D11	B01D43	B01D43	B01F13	B01F13	B01J19	B01J19	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N15	G01N15	G01N30	G01N30	G01N35	G01N35	G01N37	G01N37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides a microfabricated extraction system and methods for extracting desired particles from a sample stream containing desired and undesired particles. The sample stream is placed in laminar flow contact with an extraction stream under conditions in which inertial effects are negligible. The contact between the two streams is maintained for a sufficient period of time to allow differential transport of the desired particles from the sample stream into the extraction stream. In a preferred embodiment the differential transport mechanism is diffusion. The extraction system of this invention coupled to a microfabricated diffusion-based mixing device and/or sensing means allows picoliter quantities of fluid to be processed or analyzed on devices no larger than silicon wafers.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV WASHINGTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRODY JAMES P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORSTER FRED K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALAMBOS PAUL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLL MARK R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAGER PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRODY, JAMES, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORSTER, FRED, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALAMBOS, PAUL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLL, MARK, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAGER, PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MICROFABRICATED DIFFERENTIAL EXTRACTION DEVICE AND METHODThis invention was made with government support under Army research contract DAMD17-94-J-4460 awarded by the U.S. Army. The government has certain rights in the invention.Field of the InventionThis invention relates generally to microfabricated extraction systems and methods for separating analytes from streams containing other constituents by differential transport principles such as diffusion and applied fields. The invention is useful, for example, for processing blood to separate a stream containing smaller particles such as albumin molecules from a stream containing cells.Background of the InventionChemical analysis of biological samples is constrained by sample size. Withdrawing a few illiliters of blood from an adult may have little effect, but repeating this procedure every hour or even withdrawing this amount once from an infant can significantly alter the health of the subject. For these reasons, a miniaturized blood analysis system would be useful. Furthermore, while many sophisticated tests that have greatRECTIFIED SHEET (RULE 91) ISA/ EP 

importance for critical care can be performed in major hospital laboratories, a substantial impact could be made on the practice of emergency medicine if some key tests could be performed on the patient at the site of injury. For some assays it is vital to make measurements in the absence of red blood cells, so some form of separation of cells from plasma is required.Diffusion is a process which can easily be neglected at large scales, but rapidly becomes important at the microscale. The average time t for a molecule to diffuse across a distance d is t = d2/D where D is the diffusion coefficient of the molecule. For a protein or other large molecule, diffusion is relatively slow at the macroscale (e.g. hemoglobin with D equal to 7 x 10"7 cm2/s in water at room temperature takes about 106 seconds (ten days) to diffuse across a one centimeter pipe, but about one second to diffuse across a 10 μ channel) .Using tools developed by the semiconductor industry to miniaturize electronics, it is possible to fabricate intricate fluid systems with channel sizes as small as a micron. These devices can be mass-produced inexpensively and are expected to soon be in widespread use for simple analytical tests. See, e.g., Ramsey, J.M. et al. (1995), "Microfabricated chemical measurement systems," Nature Medicine 1:1093-1096; and Harrison, D.J. et al (1993) , "Micromachining a miniaturized capillary
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A microfabricated extraction device for extracting desired particles from a sample stream containing said desired particles comprising:
a. a sample stream inlet;
b. an extraction stream inlet;
c. an extraction channel having an aspect ratio (w/d) less than 50 in fluid communication with said sample stream inlet and said extraction stream inlet for receiving a sample stream from said sample stream inlet in parallel laminar flow with an extraction stream from said extraction stream inlet;
d. a by-product stream outlet in fluid communication with said extraction channel for receiving a by-product stream comprising at least a portion of said sample stream from which desired particles have been extracted;
e. a product stream outlet in fluid communication with said extraction channel for receiving a product stream comprising at least a portion of said extraction stream and comprising desired particles extracted from said sample stream.
2. The device of claim 1 wherein said extraction channel has an aspect ratio less than about 25.
3. The device of claim 1 wherein said extraction channel has an aspect ratio less than about 1. 


4. A microfabricated extraction device for extracting desired particles from a sample stream containing said desired particles comprising:
a. a sample stream inlet;
b. an extraction stream inlet;
c. an extraction channel having a depth less than about 100 micrometers in fluid communication with said sample stream inlet and said extraction stream inlet for receiving a sample stream from said sample stream inlet in parallel laminar flow with an extraction stream from said extraction stream inlet;
d. a by-product stream outlet in fluid communication with said extraction channel for receiving a by-product stream comprising at least a portion of said sample stream from which desired particles have been extracted;
e. a product stream outlet in fluid communication with said extraction channel for receiving a product stream comprising at least a portion of said extraction stream and comprising desired particles extracted from said sample stream.
5. The device of claim 1 fabricated of materials comprising a silicon wafer.
6. The device of claim 1 also comprising means for effecting differential transport of said desired particles from said sample stream into said extraction stream.
7. The device of claim 5 wherein said means for effecting differential transport are means for producing fields selected from the group consisting of magnetic, electrical, 


 dielectrical, sedimentation, shear, centrifugal force, temperature, pressure, and concentration gradients.
8. The device of claim 6 wherein said means for effecting a concentration gradient field comprises an effectively non- diffusing absorbent or adsorbent material selective for said desired particles in said extraction stream.
9. The device of claim 1 comprising a plurality of product stream outlets.
10. A microfabricated analytical system comprising a device of claim 1 in combination with means for detecting said desired particles in said product stream.
11. A microfabricated analytical system comprising a device of claim 1 wherein desired particles are extracted from a sample stream containing desired and undesired particles, which system comprises means for detecting said undesired particles in said product stream.
12. The analytical system of claim 10 wherein said means for detecting said desired particles comprise optical sensing means.
13. The analytical system of claim 11 wherein said means for detecting said undesired particles comprise optical sensing means.
14. The analytical system of claim 10 comprising means for mixing said product stream with an indicator substance capable of interacting with said desired particles so as to enable their detection.
15. An analytical system microfabricated on a silicon wafer comprising: 


a. extraction means for extracting desired particles of an analyte comprising:
(1) a sample stream inlet;
(2) an extraction stream inlet;
(3) an extraction channel having an aspect ratio
(w/d) less than 50 in fluid communication with said sample stream inlet and said extraction stream inlet for receiving a sample stream from said sample stream inlet in parallel laminar flow with an extraction stream from said extraction stream inlet;
(4) a by-product stream outlet in fluid communication with said extraction channel for receiving a by¬ product stream comprising at least a portion of said sample stream from which at least a portion of said desired analyte particles have been extracted;
(5) a product stream outlet in fluid communication with said extraction channel for receiving a product stream comprising at least a portion of said extraction stream and comprising desired analyte particles extracted from said sample stream;
b. a diffusion-based mixing device for mixing said product stream with an indicator substance capable of interacting with said desired analyte particles so as to enable their detection;
c. a detection chamber wherein the presence of said desired analyte particles may be detected. 


16. The analytical system of claim 15 in combination with sensing means whereby the presence of said desired analyte particles in said detection chamber may be detected.
17. The analytical system of claim 16 in combination with quantitation means whereby the concentration of said desired analyte particles in said detection chamber may be measured.
18. A method for extraction of at least a portion of desired particles from a sample stream comprising said desired particles and also containing undesired particles, comprising:
a. introducing said sample stream into the sample stream inlet of a microfabricated extraction device of claim i;
• b. introducing an extraction stream into the extraction channel of said extraction device;
c. withdrawing a product stream comprising desired particles from the product stream outlet of said device.
19. A method for extraction of at least a portion of desired particles from a sample stream comprising said desired particles and also containing undesired particles, comprising:
a. introducing said sample stream into the sample stream inlet of a microfabricated extraction device of claim
2;
b. introducing an extraction stream into the extraction channel of said extraction device; 


 c. withdrawing a product stream comprising desired particles from the product stream outlet of said device.
20. The method of claim 18 conducted as a continuous process.
21. The method of claim 18 conducted as a batch process.
22. The method of claim 18 wherein a field selected from the group consisting of magnetic, electrical, dielectrical, sedimentation, shear, centrifugal force, temperature gradient, pressure gradient, and concentration gradient fields is produced across said extraction channel to aid in differential transport of desired particles into said extraction stream in said extraction channel.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein said field is a concentration gradient field and said differential transport is effected by diffusion.
24. The method of claim 18 wherein the sample and extraction stream have different properties.
25. The method of claim 22 wherein said sample fluid volume is at least about 1 picoliter.
26. The method of claim 22 wherein said sample fluid volume is between about 1 nanoliter and about 10 microliters.
27. The method of claim 22 wherein said sample fluid volume is between about 1 microliter and about 1 microliter.
28. The method of claim 18 also comprising detecting the presence of said desired particles or said undesired particles in said product stream. 



29. The method of claim 18 also comprising determining the concentration of said desired particles or said undesired particles in said product stream.
30. The method of claim 18 also comprising determining the concentration of said desired particles in said sample stream.
31. The method of claim 18 wherein the presence and/or concentration of said desired and/or undesired particles in said product stream is determined in less than about 1 second after said sample stream is introduced into said sample stream inlet.
32. The method of claim 18 wherein the presence and/or concentration of said desired and/or undesired particles in said product stream is determined between about 1 second and about 5 minutes after said sample stream is introduced into said sample stream inlet.
33. The method of claim 18 wherein the presence and/or concentration of said desired and/or undesired particles in said product stream is determined within about 1 to about 4 minutes after said sample stream is introduced into said sample stream inlet.
34. The method of claim 18 wherein said device is flushed to remove both desired and undesired particles after said product stream has been withdrawn, and said extraction method is repeated.
35. The method of claim 18 comprising withdrawing a by-product stream and repeating said method by introducing said by¬ product stream as sample stream into said sample stream inlet. 


36. The method of claim 18 comprising detecting the concentration of a blood component wherein the sample stream comprises whole blood, and particles of a cleaned blood component are extracted into the product stream.
36. The method of claim 18 comprising withdrawing a by-product stream and introducing said by-product stream into a microfabricated flow cytometer.
37. The method of claim 18 comprising withdrawing a product stream and introducing said product stream into a microfabricated flow cytometer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
