<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1995028773</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED ADSL COMPATIBLE DISCRETE MULTI-TONE APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B302	H04B332	H04B1500	H04B1500	H04J1100	H04J1100	H04L2700	H04L2700	H04L2726	H04L2726	H04M1100	H04M1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B3	H04B3	H04B15	H04B15	H04J11	H04J11	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04M11	H04M11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transmission scheme contemplates encoding and modulating digital data onto a discrete multi-tone signal having a total banwidth of at least 1.6 MHz. The modulation system dynamically updates the subcarriers used and the amount of data transmitted on each subcarrier during transmission (215, 217, 219). In one embodiment, the multi-tone encoding and modulation complies with the ATIS North American Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines standard. However, additional subchannels (a total of 512) and/or subchannel bandwidths of greater than 4.3125 kHz may be used. In this system, the subchannels occurring above frequencies set forth in the standard are treated similarly to those within the standard range in terms of subcarrier selection criteria. This system permits transmission of digital data at transmission rates of 6-55 Mbps over twisted pair lines at distances of 1200 meters on lines experiencing significant crosstalk noise such as T1 or E1 (215, 217, 219), as well as at transmission rates of 10-50+Mbps over distances of 2000 meters.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMATI COMMUNICATIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIOFFI JOHN M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMATI COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIOFFI, JOHN, M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIOFFI JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIOFFI, JOHN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED ADSL COMPATIBLE DISCRETE MULTI-TONE APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to systems for the transmission and reception of multi-carrier, high speed data signals. More particularly, a discrete multi-tone (DMT) system having a widened bandwidth is described.At the time of this writing, the Alliance For Telecommunications Information Solutions (ATIS), which is group accredited by the ANSI (American National StandardInstitute) Standard Group, has finalized a standard for the transmission of digital data overAsymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines (ADSL). The standard is intended primarily for transmitting video data over ordinary telephone lines, although it may be used in a variety of other applications as well. The standard is based on a discrete multi-tone transmission system. Transmission rates are intended to faciUtate the transmission of information at rates of at least 6 million bits per second (i.e., 6+ Mbps) over ordinary phones lines, including twisted-pair phone lines. The standardized discrete multi-tone (DMT) system uses 256"tones" that are each 4.3125 kHz wide in the forward (downstream) direction. That is, in the context of a phone system, from the central office (typically owned by the telephone company) to a remote location that may be an end-user (i.e., a residence or business user).The Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines standard also contemplates the use of a duplexed reverse signal at a data rate of at least 608 Kbps. That is, transmission in an upstream direction, as for example, from the remote location to the central office. Thus, the term Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line comes from the fact that the data transmission rate is substantially higher in the forward direction than in the reverse direction. This is particularly useful in systems that are intended to transmit video programming or video conferencing information to a remote location over the telephone lines. By way of example, 

one potential use for the system allows residential customers to obtain video information such as movies over the telephone lines rather than having to rent video cassettes. Another potential use is in video conferencing.As is well known to those familiar with the Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines standardization process, as well as telephone systems generally, most telephone systems are divided into a multiplicity of carrier service areas that have a desired maximum carrier service area (CSA) range. In the U.S., maximum carrier service area ranges of 2
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS:
1. A discrete multi-tone transmitter that is suitable for transmitting digital data over a twisted pair communication line on a multiplicity of subcarriers having different frequencies, the transmitter comprising:
an encoder for encoding digital information, the encoder being capable of encoding digital information at speeds in excess of six megabits per second;
a monitor for monitoring a communication line to determine line quality parameters indicative of noise levels at each of a multiplicity of subchannels, each subchannel corresponding in frequency to an associated subcarrier;
a modulator for modulating the encoded digital information onto a multiplicity of subcarriers in a discrete multi-tone signal, each subcarrier corresponding to an associated tone and an associated subchannel, wherein the available subcarriers for the discrete multi- tone encoded signal have a combined bandwidth of at least 1.6 MHz, the modulation being arranged to take into consideration at least the detected line quality parameters and a permissible power mask parameter, and wherein the modulation is capable of dynamic updating both the subchannels used and the amount of data transmitted on each subchannel during transmission in order to accommodate real time changes in specific parameters; and
an adder for appending a cyclic prefix to the discrete multi-tone signal before it is applied to the transmission line.
2. A transmitter as recited in claim 1 wherein the modulator modulates the encoded digital information onto subcarriers that correspond to subchannels that each have a bandwidth that is in the range of approximately 4.3125 kHz to 34.5 kHz wide. 


3. A transmitter as recited in claim 2 wherein the modulator is arranged to modulate the encoded digital information onto subcarriers that correspond to subchannels that have variable widths.
4. A transmitter as recited in either claim 1 wherein the modulator is capable of transmitting information on 512 separate subchannels.
5. A transmitter as recited in claim 4 wherein the transmitter may also be used in a standard mode that utilizes a maximum of the lower 256 subchannels and is compatible with the ATIS North American Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines standard.
6. A transmitter as recited in claim 1 wherein the monitor is capable of detecting significant line noise and interference, and when noise is detected by the monitor, the modulator is arranged to transmit the encoded digital information at frequencies above and below the most significant noise to facilitate transmission of the encoded digital data throughout a carrier service area at data rates of at least six million bits per second (6 Mbps).
7. A transmitter as recited in claim 1 that is capable of transmitting the encoded digital information to a remote location that is up to 2000 meters from the transmitter, at a rate of at least ten million bits per second (10 Mbps) over a communication line that takes the form of a twisted pair phone line. 


8. A discrete multi-tone receiver for receiving a first set of multi-tone encoded digital information over a communication line that may take the form of a twisted pair communication line, the receiver comprising:
a demodulator for demodulating the encoded digital information from a multiplicity of subcarriers in a discrete multi-tone signal at data rates in excess of six megabits per second, each subcarrier corresponding to an associated tone and an associated subchannel, wherein the available subcarriers for the discrete multi-tone encoded signal have a combined bandwidth of at least 1.6 MHz, the demodulation being arranged to receive modulation information as part of the discrete multi-tone signal, wherein the demodulator is capable of dynamic updating during reception in response to changed modulation information in order to accommodate real time changes in the modulation scheme, the demodulator being arranged to strip the cyclic prefix from the discrete multi-tone signal;
a decoder for decoding the demodulated digital information in real time;
an encoder for encoding a second set of digital information; and
a modulator for modulating the encoded second set of digital information onto a multiplicity of subcarriers in a second discrete multi-tone signal, each subcarrier in the second discrete multi-tone signal corresponding to an associated tone and an associated subchannel, wherein the available subcarriers for the second discrete multi-tone encoded signal have a combined bandwidth that is significantly les
r
 than the bandwidth of the subcarriers that are available to the first discrete multi-tone encoded signal.
9. A receiver as recited in claim 8 wherein the second discrete multi-tone encoded signal has up to sixty four separate subcarriers and is transmitted over the communication line to a source. 


10. A receiver as recited in claim 8 wherein the demodulator further includes a time domain equalizer.
11. A method of transmitting digital information from a source over a potentially noisy communication line that may take the form of a twisted pair communication line using a discrete multi-tone transmission scheme having a multiplicity of tones wherein the digital information is encoded and modulated onto a multiplicity of subcarriers, each subcarrier corresponding to an associated tone, the method comprising the steps of:
monitoring the communication line to determine at least one line quality parameter indicative of noise levels at each of a multiplicity of subchannels that correspond to associated ones of said tones;
encoding a digital data stream;
forming a discrete multi-tone encoded signal from the encoded digital data stream using a discrete multi-tone modulator, wherein the available subcarriers for the discrete multi-tone encoded signal have a combined bandwidth of at least 1.6 MHz, the encoding and modulation being arranged to take into consideration the detected line quality parameters, and a permissible power mask parameter, and wherein the modulation system is capable of dynamically updating both the subchannels used and the data transmission rate over each subchannel used during transmission in order to accommodate real time changes in specific parameters;
appending a cyclic prefix to the discrete multi-tone encoded signal;
transmitting the discrete multi-tone encoded signal and its cyclic prefix over the communication line to a remote location. 


12. A method as recited in claim 11 further comprising the steps of receiving the signal at the remote location and demodulating and decoding the signal received at the remote location.
13. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the tones each have a bandwidth that is at least approximately 4.3125 kHz wide.
14. A method as recited in claim 13 wherein up to 512 tones may be utilized to facilitate the use of a bandwidth of at least approximately 2.208 MHz.
15. A method as recited in one of claims 11 and 14 wherein the multi-tone encoding is done in substantial compliance with the AΗS Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines standard and wherein the subchannels that occur at frequencies above those set forth in the standard are treated similarly to those within the standard range in terms of subcarrier selection criteria.
16. A method as recited in claim 11 wherein when significant noise or interference is detected during said monitoring step, the modulator is arranged to transmit the data at frequencies above and below the most significant noise or interference to facilitate transmission of the encoded digital data throughout a carrier service area. 


17. A method as recited in claim 16 wherein the data transmission rate over twisted pair communication lines may be at least ten million bits per second (10 Mbps) at distances of up to 2000 meters even in the presence of Tl noise.
18. A method as recited in claim 11 wherein the communication line is a twisted pah- phone line, the remote location may be up to 1500 meters from the transmitter, and the digital data may be transmitted at a rate of at least twenty five million bits per second (25 Mbps).
19. A method as recited in claim 13 further comprising the steps of encoding and modulating a second set of data at the remote location and transmitting the second set of data over the communication line back to the source on a second discrete multi-tone signal having up to sixty four separate tones.
20. A method as recited in claim 18 wherein the digital data in the second set of data is transmitted at a data transmission rate of at least 1.544 million bits per second. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
