<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2000072983</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESSES FOR COATING A METAL SUBSTRATE WITH AN ELECTRODEPOSITED COATING COMPOSITION AND DRYING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05D100	B05D100	B05D302	B05D302	B05D304	B05D304	C25D1322	C25D1322	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05D	B05D	B05D	B05D	B05D	B05D	C25D	C25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05D1	B05D1	B05D3	B05D3	B05D3	B05D3	C25D13	C25D13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for drying a liquid electrodeposited coating composition applied to a metal substrate is provided. Infrared radiation and warm air are applied simultaneously to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at least about 1 minute, the velocity of the air at the surface of the electrodeposited coating composition being less than about 4 meters per second. The temperature of the metal substrate is increased at a rate ranging from about 0.25  DEG C per second to about 2  DEG C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature of the substrate ranging from about 35  DEG C to about 140  DEG C. Infrared radiation and hot air are applied simultaneously to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at least about 2 minutes, during which the temperature of the metal substrate is increased at a rate ranging from about 0.2  DEG C per second to about 1.5  DEG C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature ranging from about 160  DEG C to about 215  DEG C, such that a dried electrodeposited coating is formed upon the surface of the metal substrate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG IND OHIO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG INDUSTRIES OHIO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMCH DONALDSON J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMCH, DONALDSON, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESSES FOR COATING A METAL SUBSTRATE WITH AN ELECTRODEPOSITED COATING COMPOSITIONAND DRYING THE SAMECROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThis patent application is related to U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 09/320,264 entitled "Multi-Stage Processes for Coating Substrates with Liquid Basecoat and Powder Topcoat"; U.S. Patent Application Serial No.09/320,265 entitled "Multi-Stage Processes for Coating Substrates with Liquid Basecoat and Liquid Topcoat"; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 09/320,484 entitled "Processes for Drying Primer Coating Compositions"; and U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 09/320,522 entitled "Processes for Drying Topcoats and Multi-Component Composite Coatings on Metal and PolymericSubstrates", all of Donaldson J. Emch and each filed concurrently with the present application.Field of the Invention The present invention relates to drying of electrodeposited coating compositions for automotive coating applications and, more particularly, to multi-stage processes for drying liquid electrodeposited coating compositions which include a combination of infrared radiation and convection drying.Background of the InventionToday's automobile bodies are treated with multiple layers of coatings which not only enhance the appearance of the automobile, but also provide protection from corrosion, chipping, ultraviolet light, acid rain and other environmental conditions which can deteriorate the coating appearance and underlying car body.The formulations of these coatings can vary widely. However, a major challenge that faces all automotive manufacturers is how to rapidly dry and 

cure these coatings with minimal capital investment and floor space, which is valued at a premium in manufacturing plants.Various ideas have been proposed to speed up drying and curing processes for automobile coatings, such as hot air convection drying. While hot air drying is rapid, a skin can form on the surface of the coating which impedes the escape of volatiles from the coating composition and causes pops, bubbles or blisters which ruin the appearance of the dried coating.Other methods and apparatus for drying and curing a coating applied to an automobile body are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,771 ,728; 4,907,533; 4,908,231 and 4,943,447, in which the automobile body is heated with radiant heat for a time sufficient to set the coating on Class A surfaces of the body and subsequently cured with heated air.U.S. Patent No. 4,416,068 discloses a method and apparatus for accelerating the drying and curing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THEREFORE, I CLAIM:
1. A process for drying a liquid electrodeposited coating composition applied to a metal substrate, comprising the steps of: (a) applying infrared radiation and warm air simultaneously to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at least about 1 minute, the velocity of the air at the surface of the electrodeposited coating composition being less than about 4 meters per second, the temperature of the metal substrate being increased at a rate ranging from about 0.25°C per second to about 2°C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature of the substrate ranging from about 35°C to about 140°C; and
(b) applying infrared radiation and hot air simultaneously to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at least about 2 minutes, the temperature of the metal substrate being increased at a rate ranging from about 0.2°C per second to about 1.5°C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature ranging from about 160°C to about 215°C, such that a dried electrodeposited coating is formed upon the surface of the metal substrate.
2. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the metal substrate is selected from the group consisting of iron, steel, aluminum, zinc, magnesium and alloys and combinations thereof.
3. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the metal substrate is an automotive body component.
4. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the volatile material of the liquid electrodeposited coating composition is selected from the group consisting of water, organic solvents and low molecular weight organic acids. 

5. The process according to claim 4, wherein the volatile material of the liquid electrodeposited coating composition comprises water.
6. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the infrared radiation is emitted at a wavelength ranging from about 0.7 to about 20 micrometers.
7. The process according to claim 6, wherein the wavelength ranges from about 0.7 to about 4 micrometers.
8. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the infrared radiation is emitted at a power density ranging from about 10 to about 40 kilowatts per square meter of emitter wall surface.
9. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the air has a temperature ranging from about 35°C to about 140°C in step (a).
10. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the period ranges from about 1 minute to about 3 minutes in step (a).
11. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the air velocity ranges from about 0.5 to about 4 meters per second in step (a).
12. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the temperature of the metal substrate is increased at a rate ranging from about 0.8°C per second to about 1.2°C per second in step (a). 

13. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the peak metal temperature of the metal substrate ranges from about 70°C to about 95°C in step (a).
14. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the air has a temperature ranging from about 120°C to about 180°C in step (b).
15. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the period ranges from about 2 minutes to about 3 minutes in step (b).
16. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the temperature of the metal substrate is increased at a rate ranging from about 0.25°C per second to about 1.1 °C per second in step (b).
17. The process according to claim 1 , wherein the peak metal temperature of the metal substrate ranges from about 190°C to about 205°C in step (b).
18. The process according to claim 1 , further comprising a preliminary step of applying the electrodeposited coating by immersing the metal substrate in a bath containing a liquid electrodeposited coating composition and permitting excess liquid electrodeposited coating composition to drain from the metal substrate for at least about 5 minutes in air at a temperature ranging from about 10°C to about 40°C and having a velocity of less than about 0.5 meters per second. 

19. The process according to claim 1 , further comprising an additional step (c) of applying a second electrodepositable coating composition over the dried electrodeposited coating of step (b).
20. The process according to claim 1 , further comprising an additional step (c') of applying hot air to the dried electrodeposited coating for a period of at least about 6 minutes after step (b) at a peak metal temperature ranging from about 160°C to about 215°C, such that a cured electrodeposited coating is formed upon the surface of the metal substrate.
21. The process according to claim 20, wherein additional step (c') further comprises applying infrared radiation to the dried electrodeposited coating simultaneously while applying the hot air.
22. The process according to claim 1 , further comprising an additional step (d) of applying a primer/surfacer composition over the dried electrodeposited coating.
23. The process according to claim 1 , further comprising an additional step (e) of applying a basecoating composition over the dried electrodeposited coating.
24. A process for coating a metal substrate, comprising the steps of:
(a) depositing a liquid electrodepositable coating composition on a surface of the metal substrate to form a liquid electrodeposited coating composition thereon;
(b) exposing the liquid electrodeposited coating composition to air having a temperature ranging from about 10°C to about 40°C for a period of 


at least about 30 seconds to volatilize at least a portion of volatile material from the liquid electrodeposited coating composition, the velocity of the air at a surface of the liquid electrodeposited coating composition being less than about 4 meters per second; (c) applying infrared radiation and warm air simultaneously to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at least about 1 minute, the velocity of the air at the surface of the electrodeposited coating composition being less than about 4 meters per second, the temperature of the metal substrate being increased at a rate ranging from about 0.25°C per second to about 2°C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature of the substrate ranging from about 35°C to about 140°C; and
(d) applying infrared radiation and hot air simultaneously to the electrodeposited coating composition for a period of at least about 2 minutes, the temperature of the metal substrate being increased at a rate ranging from about 0.2°C per second to about 1.5°C per second to achieve a peak metal temperature ranging from about 160°C to about 215°C, such that a dried electrodeposited coating is formed upon the surface of the metal substrate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
