<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616700</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOTION PICTURE SYSTEM FOR ECONOMICAL REPLICATION, CONSOLIDATION, DUPLICATION AND EXHIBITION OF WIDE SCREEN FORMATS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B100	G03B118	G03B122	G03B124	G03B148	G03B2132	G03B2132	G03B27475	G03B27475	G03B3700	G03B3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B1	G03B1	G03B1	G03B1	G03B1	G03B21	G03B21	G03B27	G03B27	G03B37	G03B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A new 35mm film print (88), film printer and projector (196) method and apparatus are disclosed for 1:1 optical replication of useable wide screen (58) formats defined by established boundaries of wide screen camera composition relative to the useable image width of 35mm print film, for consolidation of said useable formatted images (58) onto shortened distribution prints (88) and for exhibition of said short prints in motion picture theaters. A new interframe film pitch produces substantially shortened prints without reduction or cropping of the useable images of original production negatives.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED ARTISTS THEATRE CIRCUIT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED ARTISTS THEATRE CIRCUIT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VETTER RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VETTER RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MOTION PICTURE SYSTEM FOR ECONOMICALREPLICATION, CONSOLIDATION, DUPLICATION ANDEXHIBITION OF WIDE SCREEN FORMATSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field Of The InventionThe present invention relates to motion picture film, optical film printers and to exhibition systems, and more particularly to means for generating a new economical distribution film format from conventional production negative and exhibiting a substantially shorter print consolidation together with full projection automation and enhanced quality of presentation.Related ArtNearly a century ago standards for professional motion picture film were set by George Eastman and Thomas Edison. Those standards have remained intact even though the sizes and shapes of theater screens have changed dramatically.Feature film width was established at 35mm (1 3/8 inch) with two rows of perforations spaced apart by approximately 1 inch. The longitudinal distance between perforation centers was 3/16 inch. Individual picture frames were nearly 3/4 inch high by 1 inch wide with an aspect ratio of 1.37:1. Film width and perforation position and spacing have remained unchanged to the present day.The aspect ratio of 1.37:1 seemed appropriate for Edison's early Kinetoscope galleries at the turn of the century, as well as the early theaters known as Nickelodeons, which were long and narrow. Nothing changed until the advent of Movietone (optical) sound in the late 1920's. Image width was reduced from .980 inch to .868 inch, and the picture was offset to allow adequate space for an optical sound track substantially .100 inch in width, positioned "in board" between the image edge and one row of perforations. In order to maintain a geometry compatible with existing screens, image height was proportionately reduced to .631 inch yielding an aspect ratio of 1.37:1 - - these are known as the Academy and ASA 

 standards to this day. In the Academy format, the frame pitch is four perforations, or 0.748 inch. The image width is 0.868 inch, and the image height is 0.631 inch. The sound track between the left row of perforations and the image frames contains analog optical sound information read at 90 feet per minute, the film rate.Cinemascope ("Scope") is a wide screen process introduced by Twentieth Century Fox in 1953. The frame pitch in Scope film format is four perforations, or 0.748 inch. The image width is 0.868 inch (anamorphic) , while the image height is 0.735 inch. Initially the sound track contained recorded information on magnetic stripping read at 90 feet per
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A 35mm print of a motion picture presentation, said print having a dimension of length intended to progress through a projector so as to project said images in their time relationship, the print having images distributed along the dimension of length in a sequence determined by the time relationship such that each image is next subsequent in time relative to the immediately preceding, adjacent image, wherein each image is a substantially 1:1 optical replication of a useable composition portion of an image from an original camera negative wherein the optical replication is substantially optically non-reduced relative to the corresponding original camera negative image and wherein longitudinally adjacent images are separated with no more than insubstantial non-image space, and the images extend only in a forward running time relationship in a single direction along the print length.
2. The print claim of claim 1 wherein the image corresponds to the useable, composition area of a Wide Screen image.
3. The print of claim 2 wherein the image is approximately 0.868 inch wide by 0.4675 inch.
4. The print of claim 2 wherein the insubstantial non-image space is no more than approximately 0.022 inch in length along the length of the film.
5. The print of claim 2 wherein the insubstantial non-image space is approximately zero.
6. The print of claim 1 wherein the image corresponds to the useable, composition area of a Scope image. 


 7. The print of claim 6 wherein the image is approximately 1.049 inch wide by 0.453 inch.
8. The print of claim 7 wherein the insubstantial non-image space is no more than approximately 0.046 inch in length along the length of the film.
9. The print of claim 7 wherein the insubstantial non-image space is approximately 0.014 inch.
10. A 35mm film print of a motion picture presentation, said print having a dimension of length intended to progress through a projector so as to project successive images in their time relationship, said print containing substantially 1:1 optical replications of useable
"
wide screen images defined by established boundaries of wide screen camera composition without substantial reduction or cropping of said useable wide screen image replications relative to the useable image width of 35mm print film wherein the successive images of the print are consolidated from the images of the original negative and are longitudinally adjacent without substantial non-image space between picture frames, whose interframe pitch is approximately 0.4675 inch, all of the images extending in a forward running time relationship in one direction along said print length.
11. A print of a motion picture presentation as defined in claim 1 wherein said print further includes coded information.
12. A 35mm print of a motion picture presentation, said print having a dimension of length intended to progress through a projector so as to project successive images in their time relationship, said print containing substantially 1:1 optical replications of useable wide screen images defined by established boundaries of wide screen camera composition without substantial reduction 


 or cropping of said useable wide screen image replications relative to the useable image width of 35mm print film, wherein the successive images of the print are consolidated from the images of the original negative and are longitudinally adjacent without substantial non-image space between picture frames, whose interframe pitch is approximately 0.4675 inch, all of the images extending in a forward running time relationship in one direction along said print length, wherein each image corresponds to an integer number of perforations plus a fraction.
13. The print of claim 12 wherein said image is optically non-reduced from a standard motion picture original film image size.
14. The print of claim 12 wherein the images are spaced with respect to each other so as to leave substantially no interframe blank space and wherein successive images align alternatively with two perforations and with three perforations.
15. The print of claim 12 wherein adjacent images define an imaginary frame line and wherein frame lines occur on the film alternately on a perforation and between a perforation.
16. The print of claim 12 further comprising a sound track extending longitudinally along the film between a series of images and a series of perforations wherein the sound track is recorded to be run at a rate of approximately 56.25 feet per minute.
17. The print of claim 12 further comprising a sound track wherein the sound track extends longitudinally along the film between perforations and/or between a series of images and a series of perforations wherein the sound track is recorded digitally. 


 18. The print of claim 12 wherein each image is recorded with an aspect ratio of approximately 1.85:1.
19. The print of claim 12 wherein each image is recorded with an aspect ratio of approximately 2.35:1.
20. The print of claim 12 wherein each image on the print defines a width and height and wherein each image on the print corresponds to a useable image of an original camera negative wherein the ratio of the image of the print to the useable image of the original camera negative is substantially 1:1.
21. The print of claim 12 wherein the print includes a plurality of images extending in time relationship in one direction along the dimension of length of the film and wherein the number of picture frame images on the print is approximately 25.60 per linear foot of film.
22. The print of claim 12 wherein the print has a number of images per unit length, wherein the print includes images consolidated from an original camera negative having a number of frames per unit length, and wherein the ratio of the number of images per unit length on the print to the number of frames per unit length on the original camera negative is approximately 1.60:1.
23. The print of claim 12 having an overall length defined by the length of the given motion picture, and wherein the images on the print are obtained from an original camera negative, having a film length defined by the length of the motion picture, wherein the ratio of the length of the print to the length of the original camera negative is approximately 0.625:1.
24. A film printer for transferring images from a first film strip to a second film strip comprising: a first film projector; 


 a film supply and a film take-up on the first film projector; a film camera for recording images from the first film strip onto the second film strip; a film supply and a film take-up on,the film camera; a printer lens between the projector and the camera; a film transport in the camera for moving the film from the film supply to the film take-up having a pull-down pitch of 0.933 inch per stroke; and a camera aperture for exposing only approximately half of the image recording area for each stroke distance of 0.933 inch.
25. The printer of claim 24 wherein the projector, camera and printer lens are configured to record each image from the first strip without substantial reduction or cropping of the useful original wide screen camera composition onto the second film strip with an aspect ratio of approximately 1.85:1.
26. The printer of claim 24 wherein the projector, camera and printer lens are configured to record each image from the first film strip without substantial reduction or cropping of the useful original wide screen camera composition onto the second film strip with an aspect ratio of approximately 2.35:1.
27. The printer of claim 24 wherein the projector, camera and printer lens are configured to record each image from the first film strip without substantial reduction or cropping of the useful original wide screen camera composition onto the second film strip with dimensions substantially 0.825 inch by 0.446 inch.
28. The printer of claim 24 wherein the projector, camera and printer lens are configured to record each 


 image from the first film strip without substantial reduction or cropping of the useful original wide screen camera composition onto the second film strip with dimensions substantially 1.049 by 0.446 inch.
29. The printer of claim 24 wherein the printer transport advances the second film strip so as to produce a film frame pitch of 0.4665 inch.
30. The printer of claim 24 wherein the camera of the printer is a 65mm film camera and wherein the printer lens is arranged to enlarge images from the first film strip to the second film strip at a 1:2 ratio.
31. The printer of claim 24 wherein the projector of the printer is a 65mm film projector and wherein the printer lens is arranged to reduce images of the first strip to the second film strip at a 2:1 ratio.
32. The printer of claim 24 comprising a mechanical cam mechanism for activating a longitudinal alternating displacement of movement of a pull-down movement by approximately 0.0933 inch for each pull-down cycle, and further comprising dual alternating registration pin-sets spaced apart a distance equal to the pitch of at least one perforation plus the pitch of one-half perforation and wherein the longitudinal distance between the first registration pin-set relative to the picture frame line is equal to the pitch of one-half perforation.
33. The printer of claim 32 wherein the longitudinal distance between the first registration pin-set relative to the picture frame line is equal to the pitch of one-half perforation plus the pitch of at least one whole perforation and wherein the distance between the first and second alternating registration pin-sets is equal to the pitch of at least one perforation plus the pitch of one-half perforation. 


 34. The printer of claim 33 wherein the perforation pitch is 0.1866 inch.
35. The printer of claim 24 wherein the projector is a 65mm film projector.
36. The printer of claim 24 wherein the film camera is a 35mm film camera containing a movement having a pull-down pitch of approximately 0.933 inch with a stationary registration pin-set and having a film aperture approximately 0.4665 inch high by 0.868 inch wide to 1.049 inch wide and whose center is longitudinally offset from the pull-down pitch center by a distance of approximately 0.23325 inch positioned for projecting odd numbered frames of film from the projector during a first pass in the printer and where the aperture is longitudinally reversed 180 degrees relative to the film travel in the camera in a second pass and wherein the projector is displaced downward relative to a printer centerline equal to one-half the camera pull-down pitch for recording even numbered frames from the projector during the second pass.
37. The printer of claim 36 wherein the projector is a 65mm film projector.
38. The printer of claim 36 wherein the offset of the projector during the first printer pass is approximately 0.04665 inch above the optical centerline of the printer and wherein the offset of the projector during the second printer pass is approximately 0.04665 inch below the optical centerline of the printer and wherein the film of the camera is advanced approximately 0.3732 inch prior to the second printer pass.
39. The printer of claim 36 wherein both the projector and the camera are longitudinally positioned on the printer centerline and wherein the printer lens is 


 offset 0.0233 inch below the printer centerline during the first pass; wherein the printer lens is offset 0.0233 inch above the printer centerline during the second pass, and wherein the film of the camera is advanced approximately 0.3732 inch prior to the second printer pass.
40. A method for printing film in a film printer for transferring images from a first film strip to a second film strip, the method comprising the steps of: transferring an exposed film through a film projector between a film supply and a film take-up; projecting light through an image contained on the first film strip; passing the projected light through a printer lens between the first film projector and a film camera; recording images passed through the printer lens onto the second film strip in the film camera as the film is passed from a camera film supply to a camera film take-up; transporting the film in the camera by moving the film from the film supply to the film take-up in pull-down increments of 0.933 inch per increment; and exposing only approximately half of the image recording area for each 0.933 inch increment.
41. An optical printer system according to claim 40, but where on completion of the first pass wherein the odd numbered interpositive frames were exposed on the internegative film stock, both the interpositive and internegative film rolls are removed from their respective projector and camera mechanisms, rotated in an "eas /west" direction so that the film emulsions are still face-to-face, replaced on their feed spindles and rethreaded in their respective projector and camera mechanisms with the even numbered positive frames on optical center and the five-perforation negative frame on 


 its original center, whereon the even numbered positive frames are exposed on the unexposed internegative spaces.
42. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of projecting includes the step of projecting light on images on the first film strip so as to illuminate a useable image area of approximately 0.825 inch wide by 0.446 inch high for a Wide Screen format.
43. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of projecting includes the step of projecting light on images of the first film strip so as to illuminate a useable image area of approximately 0.999 inch wide by 0.425 inch high for a Scope format.
44. The method of claim 43 wherein the width and height aspect ratio of the useable images on the first film strip is approximately 2.35:1.
45. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of exposing includes the step of exposing the second film strip with an image from the first film strip over an area only within the picture frame delineated by 0.748 inch of standard separations with prior systems pulling down one frame at a time, wherein the improvement comprises: pull-down means for advancing a film print in a forward direction at a rate of 0.4675 inch for each picture frame; framing means for masking a currently pulled down frame so as to provide for projection of a single image as said film is running a forward direction; and includes the step of transporting a second film strip having square Fox-type perforations.
46. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of exposing comprises the step of exposing an area on the second film strip with the image from the first film 


 strip over an area of approximately 1.049 inch wide by 0.446 inch high for the Scope format.
47. The method of claim 46 wherein the step of transporting the second film strip through the camera includes the step of transporting a second film strip having square Fox-type perforations.
48. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of exposing the second film strip includes the step of exposing an area on the second film strip with a useable image from the first film strip over an area of approximately 0.368 inch for a Wide Screen format.
49. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of exposing an area on the second film strip includes the step of exposing an area on the second film strip with a useable image from the first film strip over an area approximately 0.468 square inch for a Scope format.
50. The method of claim 49 wherein the ratio of the area of useable image on the second film strip of a Wide Screen format, wherein the area corresponding to the Wide Screen format is approximately 0.368 square inch, to the area of the useable image recorded in the Scope format wherein the area for the Scope format is approximately 0.468 square inch is approximately 1:1.27.
51. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of projecting includes the step of projecting light on a useable image area on the first film strip, the step of exposing includes the step of exposing a useable image from the first film strip on an area on the second, film strip, wherein the optical ratio of the useable image from the first film strip to the useable image on the second film strip is approximately 1:1. 


 52. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of exposing produces an image on the second film strip having a width to height aspect ratio in a Wide Screen format of approximately 1.85:1.
53. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of exposing includes the step of producing a recorded image on the second film strip having a width to height aspect ratio of a useable image in a Scope format of approximately 2.35:1.
54. A method for printing film in a film printer for transferring images from a first film strip to a second film strip, the method comprising the steps of: transferring an exposed film through a film projector between a film supply and a film take-up; projecting light through an image contained on the first film strip; passing the projected light through a printer lens between the first film projector and a film camera; recording images passed through the printer lens onto the second film strip in the film camera as the film is passed from a camera film supply to a camera film take-up; passing the second film strip from the camera film supply to the camera film take-up in increments defined by a longitudinal pull-down pitch of approximately 0.4665 inch; and exposing the second film with the useable image.
55. The method of claim 54 wherein the step of exposing includes the step of exposing an area on the second film strip with the useable image from the first film strip over a height of approximately 0.4665 inch.
56. The method of claim 55 wherein the step of exposing is repeated for an additional useable image for the first film strip and the step of exposing including 


 the additional useable image adjacent to the first useable image over a height of approximately 0.4665 inch without substantial non-image space between the first and the additional images.
57. The method of claim 54 wherein the step of exposing produces a frame pitch for the second film strip and wherein the image on the first film strip which was projected and exposed onto the second film strip defines a frame pitch for the first film strip, wherein the ratio of the frame pitch of the second film strip to the frame pitch of the first film strip is approximately 0.625:1.
58. A motion picture projector for exhibiting motion pictures from a motion picture film strip having images arranged thereon, the projector comprising: a film supply and film take-up; a film gate; a lens assembly before the film gate and a light source behind the film gate; a film transport for transporting the film through the film gate from the film supply to the film take-up wherein the film transport moves the film a distance corresponding to one film frame at a time and wherein each film frame corresponds to 0.4675 inch in height.
59. The projector of claim 58 wherein the lens assembly includes spherical lenses.
60. The projector of claim 59 wherein the lens assembly contains only spherical lenses.
61. The projector of claim 58 wherein the transport pulls down the film approximately 0.4675 inch per stroke. 


 62. The projector of claim 58 wherein the film transport is capable of transporting film at a rate of approximately 56.25 feet per minute.
63. The projector of claim 58 wherein the movement of the film distance corresponding to one film frame defines an intermittent pull-down pitch, and wherein the images on the film of the projector were obtained from images on an original camera negative, having an intermittent pull-down pitch, wherein the ratio of the intermittent pull-down pitch of the projector to the intermittent pull-down pitch used in recording the original camera negative is approximately 0.625:1.
64. The projector of claim 58 wherein the film transport operates at a film frame rate, wherein the images on the film were obtained from a corresponding original camera negative recorded in a camera at a given film frame rate wherein the ratio of the film frame rate of the projector to the film rate of the camera is substantially 1:1.
65. An improved system for displaying motion pictures comprising an improved motion picture film print and a projector, said improved print including: a series of images sequenced to depict a motion picture while said improved print is moved through said projector in a forward direction; a progression of sprocket perforations in said improved print, said perforations being equally spaced apart; and said projector including: advancing means for moving said improved print in said forward direction 0.4675 inch for each image; and framing/masking means for ensuring that only one image is projected when said improved print is moved in said forward direction. 


 66. An improved motion picture projector for displaying motion picture film prints having a standard wide screen size image contained within the picture frame delineated by 0.748 inch of standard separations with prior systems pulling down one frame at a time, wherein the improvement comprises: pull-down means for advancing a ilm print in a forward direction at a rate of 0.4675 inch for each picture frame; framing means for masking a currently pulled down frame so as to provide for projection of a single image as said film is running a forward direction; and a spherical lens for projecting the image of the. improved print onto a motion picture screen.
67. An improved system for displaying motion pictures having a standard wide screen size image contained within the picture frame delineated heretofore by 0.748 inch of standard separations with prior system pulling down one frame at a time, and wherein a wide screen picture image has been presented heretofore as approximately sixty percent of the useable picture frame of such standard film and with the forty percent unused portion being masked by masking means, the improvement comprising: film means for providing picture frames delineated by 0.4675 inch separation between successive picture frame centers; pull-down means for advancing said film means a distance of 0.4675 inch per stroke; and framing means associated with a film projector of said system for positioning a currently pulled down frame so as to provide for film projection of the image; and whereby an improved system for displaying motion pictures is provided which provides individual projection images of said standard wide screen size in a forward run film which is approximately thirty-seven and one-half percent shorter than said standard film. 


 68. An improved system for displaying motion pictures as defined in claim 67 wherein said improvement further includes advancing said film at the standard rate of 24 frames per second while advancing said film at a rate of approximately 56.25 feet per minute.
69. An improved system for displaying motion pictures as defined in claim 68 wherein said film means further includes code means, said code means including code information located on said film means and a code pickup incorporated with said film projector for detecting said code information. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
