<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639290</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROADWAY SENSOR SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01F904	E01F9047	E01F1100	E01F1100	G08G102	G08G102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01F	E01F	E01F	E01F	G08G	G08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01F9	E01F9	E01F11	E01F11	G08G1	G08G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A linear roadway vehicle sensor for sensing vehicular traffic thereover includes a flexible carrier (10) comprising an elongated flat elastomeric member (11) having upper and lower surfaces (12, 13) and at least one groove (16) in one of the surfaces. An elongated pressure sensor (17) is carried in the one groove and a linear weight (21) is distributed along and secured to the length of said flexible carrier. The weight has a weight per unit length which is sufficient to maintain said sensor on said roadway and substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow effects and turbulence caused by vehicles.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITRON SYSTEMS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITRON SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TYBURSKI ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TYBURSKI, ROBERT, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ROADWAY SENSOR SYSTEMS BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION:This invention relates to roadway sensors in which a load or pressure sensitive electric sensor is carried within an elastomeric or carrier and a linear weighting member is substantially coextensive with the sensor maintains the sensor on the roadway despite being traversed by heavily loaded trailer trucks traveling at high speeds generating trailing air turbulences having the effect of sweeping the roadway. The weight member is uniformly distributed along the roadway portions of the sensor strip to maintain the sensor on the roadway and substantially immune to air effects generated by vehicular traffic on the roadway, such as a loaded truck trailer traveling at high speeds. Preferably the weight is a flat malleable metal such as a lead strip having a protective adherent plastic coating and having a weight of about one pound per linear foot. For lower speeds and/or smaller or lighter vehicles (which cause less air flow effects) a lower distributed weight can be used, for example, one-half pound per linear foot of sensor. The lead weight may be adhered by an adhesive to the lower flat surface of the carrier or be embedded in a pocket or slot in the lower portion of the elastomeric carrier.Since the weight member, in a preferred embodiment, is a flat strip of lead, and since roadways are not flat, e.g., concrete roads wear and wide grooves develop over time and create a cavity or groove where the wheels travel, the malleable lead 

strip adapts to such cavities and undulations and curvatures in the roadway so that the sensor does not bounce and oscillate for a long period of time as would be the case if the sensor were mounted on a rigid member such as a steel strip. During the period of time when the strip is vibrating, the sensor output signal would mask legitimate pulses from a tire of a closely spaced axle, for example.The sensor weighting system disclosed above monitors an variable number of lanes simultaneously, preferably from one to six lanes or more. In a worst case situation, six lanes, this would require 12 feet times 6 equals 72 feet, plus 8 feet for the shoulder or an 80 foot length. With a rigid steel base member, this would be difficult to install in the field. The sensor is maintained essentially motionless when a vehicle is traversing the sensor if the weight is added to avoid movement effects due to air flow generated by the moving vehicle. Large trucks with wide square backs are one of the worst. As discussed above, experience
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. In a linear roadway vehicle sensor for sensing vehicular traffic thereover, the improvement comprising, a flexible carrier member comprising an elongated flat elastomeric member having an upper and lower surfaces and at least one groove in one of said surfaces, an elongated pressure sensor carried in said at least one groove, linear weight means distributed along the length of said flexible carrier, said linear weight means having a weight per unit length which is sufficient to maintain said sensor on said roadway and substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow effects and turbulence caused by vehicles.
2. The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said at least one groove is formed in said lower surface and said weight means is secured to said lower surface.
3. The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said linear roadway vehicle sensor has a length sufficient to sense multiple lanes of roadway traffic and said flexible carrier member, and said linear weight means are of corresponding length.
4. The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said linear weight means is a malleable metal.
5. The invention defined in claim 4 wherein said malleable metal is lead embedded in a pocket or slot in said elastomeric member.
6. The invention defined in claim 3 wherein there are a plurality of grooves in said elastomeric member, and said pressure sensor includes a pressure sensitive electric cable 


means, one for each roadway, and all of said sensors being carried in a common groove, and at least one of said pressure sensitive electric cable means has a shielded conductor carried to a side of the roadway in another of said grooves.
7. A linear roadway sensor for sensing vehicular traffic and a carrier for said sensor which is substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow turbulence caused by vehicles traveling at high speeds thereover, said carrier being a flat flexible elastomeric carrier member, having upper and lower surfaces, and a groove in one of said surfaces for receiving said linear roadway sensor and a linear weight distributed along said flexible carrier member, said linear weight and said carrier having a weight at least one pound per foot and at least sufficient to render said flexible carrier member substantially immune to air effects generated by vehicular traffic on the roadway, and to cause said flexible carrier to hug the roadway surface and not be dangerous to moving traffic or pedestrians even if snagged or broken by vehicular traffic.
8. The invention defined in claim 7 wherein said flexible elastomeric carrier has a plurality of grooves in said one surface, and there are a plurality of said sensors, each sensor being constituted by a load sensitive piezoelectric cable carried in one of said grooves.
9. The invention defined in claim 7 wherein said linear weight is a flat lead strip. 


 10. In a linear roadway vehicle sensor having an electric sensing cable for sensing vehicular traffic thereover, the improvement comprising, a flexible flat elastomeric carrier member having upper and lower surfaces and one or more linear grooves in one of said surfaces, linear weight means distributed along the length of said elastomeric carrier and means for securing said electric sensing cable in one of said grooves, said linear weight means having a weight per unit length which is sufficient to maintain said sensor on said roadway and substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow effects and turbulence caused by vehicles.
11. The invention defined in claim 10 wherein said linear roadway vehicle sensor has a length sufficient to cross multiple lanes of roadway traffic and said flexible carrier member and said linear weight means are of corresponding length, there being a plurality of said linear grooves, an electric sensing cable for each roadway, respectively, with all of said electric sensing cables being carried in a groove, respectively.
12. A roadway sensor for sensing vehicular traffic and a carrier for said sensor which is substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow turbulence caused by vehicles traveling at high speeds thereover, said carrier being a flexible carrier member for said linear roadway sensor and having at least one groove therein, said groove having an enlarged base for receiving said sensor and a pair of sidewalls which are spreadable apart sufficiently to allow said sensor to be snugly 



seated in said enlarged base, said flexible carrier member includes linear weight distributed along said flexible carrier member, said linear weight having a weight at least sufficient to render said flexible carrier member substantially immune to air effects generated by vehicular traffic on the roadway, and to cause said flexible carrier to hug the roadway surface and not be dangerous to moving traffic or pedestrians even if snagged or broken by vehicular traffic.
13. The invention defined in claim 12 wherein said carrier is an extruded, flat elastomeric member having upper and lower surfaces, said at least one groove being formed in said lower surface and said linear weight being a flat strip of lead.
14. The invention defined in claim 12 wherein said carrier is a flat elastomeric extrusion having upper and lower surfaces, a plurality of said grooves in one of said surfaces, and a plurality of said sensors carried by at least one of said grooves, and means for securing said lower surface to said flat lead strip.
15. The invention defined in claim 14 wherein the surface having said grooves is said lower surface and said flat lead strip is adhesively secured to said lower surface.
16. The invention defined in claim 14 wherein said sensor is a piezoelectric cable.
17. The invention defined in claim 16 wherein said grooves are a predetermined distance apart and there is at least two piezoelectric sensor cables, each in its own respective groove. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 15 October 1993 (15.10.93); original claims 1,7,10 and 12 amended; remaining claims unchanged (5 pages)]
1. In a linear roadway vehicle sensor for sensing vehicular traffic on the roadway surface, the improvement comprising, a flexible carrier member comprising an elongated flat elastomeric member having upper and lower surfaces and at least one groove in one of said surfaces, an elongated pressure sensor carried in said at least one groove, linear weight means distributed along the length of said flexible carrier, said linear weight means being able to adapt to curvature and undulations in said roadway in such a way that it is able to adapt to curvature and undulations in the roadway surface, said linear weight means having a weight per unit length which is sufficient to maintain said sensor on said roadway and substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow effects and turbulence caused by vehicles and thereby reduce or eliminate extraneous signals in said elongated pressure sensor.
2. The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said at least one groove is formed in said lower surface and said weight means is secured to said lower surface.
3. The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said linear roadway vehicle sensor has a length sufficient to sense multiple lanes of roadway traffic and said flexible carrier member, and said linear weight means are of corresponding length.
4. The invention defined in claim 1 wherein said linear weight means is a malleable metal. 


 5. The invention defined in claim 4 wherein said malleable metal is lead embedded in a pocket or slot in said elastomeric member.
6. The invention defined in claim 3 wherein there are a plurality of grooves in said elastomeric member, and said pressure sensor includes a pressure sensitive electric cable means, one for each roadway, and all of said sensors being carried in a common groove, and at least one of said pressure sensitive electric cable means has a shielded conductor carried to a side of the roadway in another of said grooves.
7. A linear roadway sensor for sensing vehicular traffic and a carrier for said sensor which is substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow turbulence caused by vehicles traveling at high speeds thereover, said carrier being a flat flexible elastomeric carrier member, having upper and lower surfaces, and a groove in one of said surfaces for receiving said linear roadway sensor and a linear weight distributed along said flexible carrier member, said linear weight being able to adapt to curvature and undulations in said roadway in such a way that it is able to adapt to curvature and undulations in the roadway surface, said linear weight means and said carrier having a weight at least one pound per foot and at least sufficient to render said flexible carrier member substantially immune to air effects generated by vehicular traffic on the roadway, and to cause said flexible carrier to hug the roadway surface and not be dangerous to moving traffic or pedestrians even if snagged or 


broken by vehicular traffic.
8. The invention defined in claim 7 wherein said flexible elastomeric carrier has a plurality of grooves in said one surface, and there are a plurality of said sensors, each sensor being constituted by a load sensitive piezoelectric cable carried in one of said grooves.
9. The invention defined in claim 7 wherein said linear weight is a flat lead strip.
10. In a linear roadway vehicle sensor having an electric sensing cable for sensing vehicular traffic thereover, the improvement comprising, a flexible flat elastomeric carrier member having upper and lower surfaces and one or more linear grooves in one of said surfaces, linear weight means distributed along the length of said elastomeric carrier and means for securing said electric sensing cable in one of said grooves, said linear weight being able to adapt to curvature and undulations in said roadway in such a way that it is able to adapt to curvature and undulations in the roadway surface, said linear weight means having a weight per unit length which is sufficient to maintain said sensor on said roadway and substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow effects and turbulence caused by vehicles.
11. The invention defined in claim 10 wherein said linear roadway vehicle sensor has a length sufficient to cross multiple lanes of roadway traffic and said flexible carrier member and said linear weight means are of corresponding length, there being 


a plurality of said linear grooves, an electric sensing cable for each roadway, respectively, with all of said electric sensing cables being carried in a groove, respectively.
12. A roadway sensor for sensing vehicular traffic and a carrier for said sensor which is substantially immune to lifting from the roadway because of air flow turbulence caused by vehicles traveling at high speeds thereover, said carrier being a flexible carrier member for said linear roadway sensor and having at least one groove therein, said groove having an enlarged base for receiving said sensor and a pair of sidewalls which are spreadable apart sufficiently to allow said sensor to be snugly seated in said enlarged base, said flexible carrier member includes linear weight distributed along said flexible carrier member, said linear weight being able to adapt to curvature and undulations in said roadway in such a way that it is able to adapt to curvature and undulations in the roadway surface, said linear weight means having a weight at least sufficient to render said flexible carrier member substantially immune to air effects generated by vehicular traffic on the roadway, and to cause said flexible carrier to hug the roadway surface and not be dangerous to moving traffic or pedestrians even if snagged or broken by vehicular traffic.
13. The invention defined in claim 12 wherein said carrier is an extruded, flat elastomeric member having upper and lower surfaces, said at least one groove being formed in said lower surface and said linear weight being a flat strip of lead. 


 14. The invention defined in claim 12 wherein said carrier is a flat elastomeric extrusion having upper and lower surfaces, a plurality of said grooves in one of said surfaces, and a plurality of said sensors carried by at least one of said grooves, and means for securing said lower surface to said flat lead strip.
15. The invention defined in claim 14 wherein the surface having said grooves is said lower surface and said flat lead strip is adhesively secured to said lower surface.
16. The invention defined in claim 14 wherein said sensor is a piezoelectric cable.
17. The invention defined in claim 16 wherein said grooves are a predetermined distance apart and there is at least two piezoelectric sensor cables, each in its own respective groove. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
