<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632441</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Holding apparatus for two types of optical disks
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B17028	G11B1704	G11B1704	G11B17028	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Both a compact disk and a mini disk are rotated by 
the rotary shaft of the same disk motor. The fixed units 

are fixed to the rotary shaft of a disk motor. A movable 
unit is guided by the fixed units to be movable up and 

down in a predetermined range, and biased upward by a 
compression coil spring. A clamper is moved between a 

position where it contacts the fixed unit and a position 
spaced upward from the fixed unit. A magnet is mounted 

on the upper surface of the fixed unit for attracting an 
attachment unit of the clamper and a metal plate of a 

mini disk. In the first optical disk holding apparatus 
of the invention, the movable unit is formed with a taper 

surface at its upper periphery for engaging with the 
center hole of a compact disk and positioning the compact 

disk, and is formed with a press contact plane at its 
upper surface for press-contacting the central flange 

plane of a mini disk. The periphery of the fixed unit is 
fitted in the center hole of a mini disk to align the 

position of the mini disk. In the second optical disk 
holding apparatus of the invention, the movable unit is 

formed with a press contact plane at its upper surface 
for press-contacting the central flange plane of a mini 

disk and the bottom surface of a compact disk. The 
periphery of the fixed unit is fitted in the center hole  

 
of a mini disk to align the position of the mini disk. 

The clamper is provided with a disk positioning unit 
which is fitted in the center hole of a compact disk, and 

with a friction member which is press-contacts the top 
surface of the compact disk. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KENWOOD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA KENWOOD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRAGA TAKAYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRAGA, TAKAYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optical disk
recording/reproducing apparatus, and more particularly to
an optical disk holding apparatus for holding an optical
disk while it is rotated.A so-called mini disk (hereinafter referred to as
MD) is known which is a rewritable optical disk, and a
recording/reproducing apparatus dedicated to MD is
commercially available. A compact disk (hereinafter
referred to as CD) is also known which is a reproduction-only
optical disk, and a reproducing apparatus dedicated
to CD is commercially available. A reproducing apparatus
which can reproduce data from CD and optical disks other
than MD such as a video disk is also commercially
available.The common point to both CD and MD is that a laser
spot is applied from an optical pickup to a record track
and a reflected beam is received by a light receiving
element whose output is used for reproducing recorded
data. There are different points, however, between CD and
MD as in the following. In the case of MD, an optical
disk is housed within a cartridge. The rotation and
recording/reproducing of the optical disk are performed
by using a hole and a shutter formed in the cartridge.
CD is not housed in a cartridge.In the case of MD, a disk is held on a turntable by
attracting a metal plate mounted on the disk main body by
a magnet mounted on the turntable. CD is not provided
with a metal plate, and held on the turntable by holding
it at both front and back surfaces.Although a positioning hole is formed in both CD and
MD at the central area thereof, the hole of CD is larger
than that of MD. The hole of CD is a through hole, and
the hole of MD is shielded at its upper opening by a
metal plate.As described above, the shapes and holding
structures of CD and MD are different. Therefore,
although there is the common point that data reproduction
is performed by a reflected light beam of a laser spot, a
reproducing apparatus has not been realized heretofore
which is compatible with both CD and MD and capable of
driving CD and MD by the same disk motor and reproducing
data by the same optical pickup. US-A-4,853,924 discloses a disk clamping device for a compatible disk player
capable of playing both compact disks and video disks, in which the clamping force for the
thicker video disk is greater than that for the thinner compact disk. In the case of a video
disk, clamping is performed by a turntable on the one hand and a clamper on the other
hand, said elements abutting the video disk. In the case of a compact disk, what serves for
clampin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical disk holding apparatus for holding either an optical disk (12) of a first,
hubless type or an optical disk (14a) of a second type contained in a cartridge (14) and

having a hub containing a plate (14b) so that information can be read from or written onto
either type of said optical disks, the apparatus comprising:


a turntable with a fixed unit (2, 3) fixed to the rotary shaft (1) of a drive motor and a
movable unit (5) surrounding said fixed unit and being movable in the axial direction of said

rotary shaft (1) guided by said fixed unit;
a clamper (9) having an attaching unit (8) and a friction member (13) which contacts
a first surface of an optical disk (12) of said first type;
an attracting member (7) mounted in said fixed unit (2, 3) for forcibly attracting either
said plate (14b) of a disk (14) of said second type or said attaching unit (8) of said clamper

(9);
whereby the disk (12) of said first type is sandwiched between said clamper (9) and
said movable unit (5), and is centered by either said clamper (9) or said movable unit, said

movable unit being urged against the clamper and whereby the disk (14a) of said second
type is held by the attracting force of the attracting member (7) alone and is centered on the

turntable by the fixed unit (2, 3).
The optical disk holding apparatus of claim 1, wherein said movable unit (5) is
biased by a spring (6) in the direction of its movability.
The optical disk holding apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein said movable unit (5) has
a tapered surface (5a) contacting a periphery of a center hole (12a) of the optical disk (12, 

14) at least when said optical disk is of a first type, and has a press contact plane
contacting a central flange plane (14d) of the optical disk (12, 14) at least when said optical

disk (12, 14) is of said second type.
The optical disk holding apparatus of claim 3, wherein said press contact plane has
a high friction coefficient.
The optical disk holding apparatus of claim 3 or 4, wherein said tapered surface (5a)
of said movable unit (5) is held in contact with said periphery of said center hole (12a) by a

spring (6) at least when said optical disk (12, 14) is of a first type, and said press contact
plane is held in contact with said central flange plane (14d) of the optical disk (12, 14) by

said spring at least when said optical disk (12, 14) is of said second type.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said clamper (9) further comprises a
second attracting member (11) for holding said optical disk (12, 14) at least when said

optical disk is of said first type, said second attracting member (11) operating to attract said
movable unit (5).
The optical disk holding apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein:

said fixed unit comprises an upper portion (3) having a positioning hole (3b) and a
lower portion (2) connected to said upper portion (3);
said movable unit (5) moves between said upper portion (3) of said fixed unit and
said lower portion (2) of said fixed unit; and
said clamper (9) has a projection (8a), said projection being received in said
positioning hole (3b) for aligning said optical disk (12) of said first type with said fixed unit

(2, 3) and said movable unit (5).
The optical disk holding apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein a distance
between an optical pick-up and a first surface of said optical disk (12, 14) is the same when 

said apparatus is holding an optical disk (12) of said first type or an optical disk (14) of said
second type.
The optical disk holding apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein a press contact
surface of said friction member (13) has a high friction coefficient.
The optical disk holding apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein a rotation-stop
member (4) is provided between said movable unit (5) and said fixed unit (2, 3).
The optical disk holding apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said optical disk
(12) of said first type is a compact disk and said optical disk (14) of said second type is a

mini disk.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
