<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629561</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Package for sliced food product.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D7504	B65D7512	B65D7552	B65D7558	B65D7560	B65D8572	B65D8576	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D75	B65D75	B65D75	B65D75	B65D75	B65D85	B65D85	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A package (10) for sliced food (22) product comprising a 
bottom wall (14), a top wall (12), opposite sidewalls (16) and opposite 

end walls (18), wherein the package includes a flap (30) which 
comprises portions of the top wall and/or an adjoining 

sidewall of the package, and which is movable between a 
closed position and an open position to selectively 

facilitate access to the package interior. The package 
is preferably made of a thin, flexible plastic material. 

The flap is removably retained in closed position by a 
peelable seal extending along one or more edges of the 

flap, or at least along portions thereof. The package 
is configured so that when the flap is in open position, 

the sliced food product is accessible from the side, 
which facilitates engagement of slice edges and subsequent 

separation thereof, as well as removal of the 
slices without undue distortion. This makes the package 

particularly useful in conjunction with packaging of 
certain sliced cheeses, although the package may also be 

useful with other products as well. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN FOODS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN FOODS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LITTLE JOHN COLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDEVITT JOHN FITZGERALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARSUTIS JOELLEN NIELSEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LITTLE JOHN COLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDEVITT JOHN FITZGERALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARSUTIS JOELLEN NIELSEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to packaging, 
and more particularly to a package employing one or more 
peelable seals to facilitate opening. One prior art packaging operation that has 
been used commercially for bulky products such as stacks 
of sliced cheese or blocks of cheese involves orienting 
a web of laminated polymeric material horizontally, 
placing product on the web, wrapping the web upward 
around both sides of the product, bringing the 
longitudinal edges together to form a longitudinal fin 
seal, and subsequently sealing the ends and cutting the 
finished package from the web. Gas flush techniques may 
be employed to eliminate oxygen from the package 
interior. Such an operation is illustrated in the 
context of packaging for blocks or chunks of cheese in 
U.S. Patent No. 3,274,746. Another known packaging apparatus functions 
in a manner generally similar to that described above, 
except that the web is positioned above the product and 
wrapped downward around the product to form the fin seal 
beneath the product. In recent years, there has been increased 
demand for packaging that may be easily opened by a 
consumer without the need for a cutting implement such 
as a knife or scissors, and which may be reclosed and 
reopened one or more times. There have been numerous 
proposals for provision of easy-open features to 
facilitate opening of food packages. Some such 
proposals have involved provision of areas of weakness 
to enable a marginal portion of the package to be torn 
along a line. Other packages have a peelable seal along 
a seam of package.  U.S. Patent No. 3,740,237 discloses a 
peelable, resealable bond in a wiener package. U.S. 
Patent No. 5,012,928 discloses a package for cheese 
slices comprising a tray with a lid or cover attached 
thereto by a hinge. U.S. Patent No. 4,957,571, No. 
3,249,288 and No. 4,663,915 disclose further examples of 
reclosable packages for food products. There is a continuing need for improvement in 
easy-open, reclosable packaging, particularly in the 
areas of ease of opening and reclosing, and cost. It is a general object of the invention to 
provide an improved reclosable package for sliced food 
products which has one or more peelable seals to 
facilitate opening and reclosing thereof, and which is 
sufficiently economical to be suitable for commercial 
use in packaging of products for consumer sale. Further 
objects and advantages of the invention are set forth 
below. In accordance with the invention, there is 
provided a package for sliced
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A flexible package and a stack of slices of food 
product disposed within the package, said package comprising 

a top wall, a bottom wall, first and second sidewalls, and 
first and second end walls; 

   said package having a line of weakness formed in 
said top wall and said first sidewall, said line of weakness 

being configured to define an opening when ruptured, said 
opening having a greater width than said slices so as to 

permit withdrawal of one or more slices through said opening 
by displacing said one or more slices generally horizontally 

without requiring bending of said one or more slices to 
enable the slices to fit through the opening; 

   said package further comprising a flap which is 
movable between a closed
 position for covering said opening 
and an open position for permitting access to said opening, 

said flap being peelably sealed to said top wall and first 
sidewall when in closed position. 
A combination according to claim 1, wherein said 
top wall, bottom wall, first and second end walls, and first 

and second sidewalls are formed from a single integral sheet 
of flexible material, with marginal portions of said sheet 

of flexible material being joined to one another to form a 
longitudinal fin seal extending along said bottom wall, and 

wherein said first and second end walls comprise end seals 
disposed substantially perpendicular to said fin seal. 
A combination according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
wherein said flap includes a fixed portion sealed to said 

first sidewall of said package adjacent and beneath said 
opening. 
A combination according to any one of claims 1 to 
 

3, wherein said flap comprises a first layer formed 
integrally with said top wall and said first sidewall but 

separated therefrom by said line of weakness, and a second 
layer comprising a thin, flexible label adhered to said 

first layer and to adjacent portions of said top wall and 
first sidewall. 
A combination according to any one of claims 1 to 
4, wherein said flap is peelably sealed to said sidewall 

along peripheral regions of varying width to vary peeling 
force as the flap is peeled away from said sidewall. 
A combination according to any one of claims 1 to 
5, wherein said line of weakness has end portions which are 

configured to inhibit tearing of said flexible material 
beyond the ends of said line of weakness. 
A combination according to claim 6, wherein said 
end portions of said line of weakness are sharply curved so 

as to be hook-shaped. 
A combination according to any one of claims 1 to 
7, wherein said flap and said line of weakness are 

configured to provide increased resistance to opening of 
said flap as said flap approaches its open position. 
A flexible package and a stack of slices of a food 
product disposed within the package, said package comprising 

a single sheet of flexible material formed to enclose said 
stack and comprising a top wall, a bottom wall, a pair of 

upstanding sidewalls, and a pair of end walls; 
   said sheet of flexible material having a thickness 

of less than about 0.01 in. (less than about 0.254 mm) and 
having first and second longitudinal edge portions joined to 

 
one another to form a longitudinal fin seal, and having 

transverse edge portions folded and joined to one another to 
form transverse end seals intersecting said longitudinal fin 

seal at opposite ends of said longitudinal fin seal; 
   said package having a line of weakness extending 

from one of said transverse end seals to the other across 
one of said upstanding sidewalls so that an opening for 

withdrawal of a slice of said food product may be formed in 
said one of said upstanding sidewalls by parting said 

flexible material at the line of weakness; 
   said package further comprising a flexible flap 

extending across said line of weakness and sealed to said 
flexible material on both sides of said line of weakness, 

said flexible flap being peelably and resealably sealed to 
said flexible material on at least one side of said line of 

weakness so that said package may be opened initially by 
parting said flexible material at said line of weakness, and 

said package may subsequently be reclosed and reopened 
through the use of said flexible flap. 
A combination according to claim 9, wherein said 
flexible material may be parted at said line of weakness by 

peeling said flap away from said flexible material on one 
side of said line of weakness and subsequently applying 

tension to said flap while said flap remains sealed to said 
flexible material on the opposite side of said line of 

weakness. 
A combination according to claim 9 or claim 10, 
wherein said line of weakness extends substantially across 

an uppermost portion of said one of said upstanding 
sidewalls. 
A combination according to any one of claims 9 to 
 

11, wherein said flap comprises a first portion overlying 
said line of weakness and secured to said flexible material, 

and an unsecured second portion comprising a tab to 
facilitate initiation of peeling said flap away from said 

flexible material, and wherein said flap increases in width 
from said tab to said first portion overlying said line of 

weakness. 
A combination according to any one of claims 9 to 
12, wherein said line of weakness comprises a tear strip. 
A flexible package and a stack of slices of a food 
product disposed within the package, said package comprising 

a single sheet of flexible material formed to enclose said 
stack; 

   said sheet of flexible material having a thickness 
of less than about 0.01 in. (less than about 0.254 mm) and 

having first and second longitudinal edge portions joined to 
one another to form a longitudinal fin seal, and having 

transverse edge portions joined to one another to form 
transverse end seals intersecting said longitudinal fin seal 

at opposite ends of said longitudinal fin seal; 
   wherein said longitudinal fin seal is a peelable 

seal and said transverse end seals have peelable seal 
regions thereon, said package being capable of being opened 

by separating said longitudinal edge portions from one 
another and separating said transverse end seals at said 

peelable seal regions without tearing said flexible 
material; 

   said package being capable of being resealed by 
pressing said transverse edge portions against one another 

at said peelable seal regions and pressing said longitudinal 
edge portions against one another. 
A combination according to claim 14, wherein said 
peelable seal regions of the transverse end seals are 

resealable. 
A combination according to claim 14 or claim 15, 
wherein said peelable longitudinal fin seal is resealable, 

and said peelable seal regions on said transverse end seals 
are resealable. 
A combination according to any one of claims 14 to 
16, wherein said first longitudinal edge portion has a 

greater width than said second longitudinal edge portion so 
that a marginal area of said first longitudinal edge portion 

extends laterally beyond said second longitudinal edge 
portion, said marginal area having a resealable, peelable 

adhesive strip thereon to enable said marginal area to be 
peelably adhered to a portion of said package adjacent said 

longitudinal fin seal; said package further comprising a 
strip of removable tape covering said adhesive strip on said 

marginal area. 
A combination according to claim 17, wherein said 
second longitudinal edge portion has a marginal area which 

is not sealed to said first longitudinal area which is not 
sealed to said first longitudinal edge portion. 
A combination according to any one of claims 14 to 
18, wherein each of said transverse end seals includes a 

permanent seal region in addition to said peelable seal 
region. 
A combination according to claim 19, wherein each 
of said permanent seal regions is disposed on the same side 

of said longitudinal fin seal. 
A combination according to any one of claims 14 to 

20, wherein marginal portions of said longitudinal edge 
portions are left unsealed to facilitate initial separation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
