<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631721</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Control of sharks
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K7900	A01K7902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K79	A01K79	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides a method and apparatus for controlling aquantic animals, 
particularly sharks. Electrodes are immersed in a body of water and an electric field is 

created between the electrodes by applying electrical pulses thereto. The pulses may 
have a duration of betwenn 0.1 and 200ms, a repetition rate of between 1 and 60Hz, 

and a field strength in the body of water at a distance of 1m of 1 to 10 V.m⁻¹ from the 
electrodes. In a preferred form of the invention, the pulses are generated in pulse trains 

each comprising a plurality of pulses, with each pulse having a duration of between 0.1 
and 3 ms, the pulses in each train being spaced at intervals of between 1 and 30 ms, 

and the pulse trains being repeated at intervals of between 100 and 1000 ms. In a 
specific form of the invention, each pulse in such a pulse train has a duration of 2 ms, 

the pulses in each train are spaced at intervals of 20 ms and the pulse trains are 
repeated at a frequency of between 2 and 5 Hz. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATAL SHARKS BOARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATAL SHARKS BOARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHARTER GRAEME ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIPLEY SHERMAN HARVEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STARKEY NORMAN GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHARTER, GRAEME ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIPLEY, SHERMAN HARVEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STARKEY, NORMAN GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of and apparatus for repelling aquatic creatures such 
as sharks. The invention has particular application in the protection of swimmers or 
divers from sharks and will be described with reference to such an application 
by way of example. Various shark repellant devices have been proposed over the years. A large number 
of these devices appear to rely on the electro-perception of sharks which is performed 
by the ampullae of Lorenzini in the shark's nose and head. These sensory organs have 
been shown, for instance, by Dr. Adrianus J Kalmijn (in research done for the Woods 
Hole Oceanographic Institution and the US Office of Naval Research), to be extremely 
sensitive to electrical fields in sea water. Using fields decreasing to 5 nanovolts.cm-1 
at distances 24cm to 30cm from the field source, Kalmijn was able to stimulate feeding 
attacks in response to electric fields simulating prey. It should be appreciated that this 
research was conducted against the background that the human body, especially when 
the skin is damaged, creates substantially stronger bioelectric fields, which some sharks  
 
in the ocean can detect from distances up to at least 1m. The galvanic fields of metallic 
objects are usually even stronger, which, according to Dr. Kalmijn, could explain much 
of the aberrant behaviour of sharks in the presence of man and underwater gear. It is possible, however, that electrical shark deterrents operating on larger field 
strengths exceed the sensitivity levels of the ampullae of Lorenzini to such an extent 
that these sensors are of no significance other than possibly to serve as electrical 
conductors of current. Substantial research will still have to be done in order to confirm 
these views, but it is clear that electrical deterrents need to rely on involuntary physical 
effects in order to be reliable and effective. It appears unlikely that the ampullae of Lorenzini play any direct role in the shark's 
avoidance and startle reaction. It is possible, however, that these organs play an 
important passive role. The electrical resistance of living shark skin was measured at 
a number of places on the shark's body and also in the snout region where the largest 
number of the jelly-filled canals leading to the ampullae of Lorenzini, exist. It was found 
that shark's skin has a fairly low electrical resistance, but that on the snout, amidst the 
canals, the resistance was particularly low, some 5 or more times lower than the skin 
over the rest of the body.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of controlling aquatic animals in a body of water comprising the steps 
of immersing at least one first electrode (14) and at least one second electrode (16) in 

the body of water and creating an electric field between at least one first and at least 
one second electrode by passing a pulsed electrical current between the electrodes, 

wherein the pulses have a duration of between 0.1 and 200ms, a repetition rate of 
between 1 and 60Hz, and the electrical current has a field strength in the body of water 

at a distance of 1m from the electrodes of 1 to 10 V.m
-1
, characterised in that the rise 
time of each pulse is less than 0.001 µs, thereby to repel aquatic animals from the 

vicinity of the electrodes. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that the polarity of the pulses 
is reversed periodically. 
A method as claimed in Claim 2, characterised in that the polarity of the pulses 
is reversed by switching an output of a DC power supply (10) to the electrodes (14,16). 
A method as claimed in Claim 3, characterised in that the polarity of the pulses 
is reversed after a predetermined number of pulses of each polarity. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, of controlling aquatic 
animals of the sub-group Elasmobranchii, such as sharks, characterised in that the 

pulses are generated in pulse trains each comprising a plurality of pulses, with each 
pulse having a duration of between 0.1 and 3 ms, the pulses in each train being spaced 

at intervals of between 1 and 3 ms, and the pulse trains being repeated at intervals of 
between 100 and 1000 ms. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5, characterised in that each pulse in a pulse train 
has a duration of 2 ms, the pulses in each train being spaced at intervals of 20 ms, and  

 
the pulse trains being repeated at a frequency of between 2 and 5 Hz. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5 or Claim 6, characterised in that the polarity of 
successive individual pulses in each pulse train is reversed. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5 or Claim 6, characterised in that the polarity of 
successive pulse trains is reversed. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that 
a plurality of first and second electrodes (14,16) are immersed in the body of water in 

a predetermined configuration, the pulses being applied to selected pairs or groups of 
electrodes in a predetermined sequence for the resulting electrical field to be moved 

about within the body of water in a predetermined manner. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that a plurality of 
first and second electrodes (14,16) are immersed in the body of water in a 

predetermined configuration, the pulses being applied to selected pairs or groups of 
electrodes randomly for the resulting electrical field to be moved about within the body 

of water in a random manner. 
Apparatus for controlling aquatic animals in a body of water comprising a power 
supply (10), at least one first electrode (14) and at least one second electrode (16) for 

immersion in a body of water, first controllable switch means (18) for connecting the 
electrodes selectively to an output of the power supply in response to control signals, 

and control means (12) arranged to provide control signals to the switch means for the 
switch means to apply electrical pulses to the electrodes, wherein the pulses have a 

duration of between 0.1 and 200 ms and a repetition rate of between 1 and 60 Hz, and 
the electrical current has a field strength in the body of water, at a distance of 1m from 

the electrodes of 1 to 10 V.m
-1
, characterised in that the rise time of each pulse is less 
than 0.001 µs thereby to repel aquatic animals from the vicinity of the electrodes.  

 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 11, characterised in that the power supply (10) 
is a DC power supply. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 11 or Claim 12, characterised in that the; 
apparatus includes second controllable switch means responsive to polarity control 

signals from the control means to reverse the polarity of the pulses applied to the 
electrodes periodically. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 11 to 13, characterised by the 
provision of current limiting means (26) associated with the first switch means for 

controlling the current drawn from the power supply in use. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 13 or Claim 14, characterised in that the first and 
second controllable switch means comprise solid state switch elements such as 

transistors, triacs, or the like. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 11 to 15, characterised by the 
provision of a plurality of first and second electrodes (14,16) arranged in a 

predetermined configuration, the control means operating to control the first switch 
means so that the electrical pulses are applied to selected pairs or groups of electrodes 

in a predetermined sequence for the resulting electrical field to be moved about within 
the body of water in a predetermined manner. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 11 to 15, characterised by the 
provision of a plurality of first and second electrodes (14,16) arranged in a 

predetermined configuration, the control means operating to control the first switch 
means so that the electrical pulses are applied to selected pairs or groups of electrodes 

randomly for the resulting electrical field to be moved about within the body of water in 

a random manner.  
 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 13 to 17, in which the first and 
second switch means are to be controlled synchronously so that the reversal of the 

polarity of the pulses occurs simultaneously with the generation thereof. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 11 to 15, characterised in that it is 
portable and adapted to be worn by a swimmer or diver, the power supply being a 

battery supply. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 19, characterised in that the electrical circuitry is 
housed in a waterproof casing. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 20, characterised in that it includes a sensor 
adapted to provide an output when the casing is submerged, the control means being 

responsive to the output to actuate the apparatus automatically. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 20 or Claim 21, characterised by the provision of 
a sensor adapted to provide an output when the casing is removed from the water, the 

control means being responsive to the output to deactivate the apparatus automatically 
on receipt thereof. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 11 to 22, for controlling aquatic 
animals of the sub-group Elasmobranchii, such as sharks, characterised in that the 

pulses are generated in pulse trains each comprising a plurality of pulses, with each 
pulse having a duration of between 0.1 and 3 ms, the pulses in each train being spaced 

at intervals of between 1 and 30 ms, and the pulse trains being repeated at intervals 
of between 100 and 1000 ms. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 23, characterised in that each pulse in a pulse 
train has a duration of 2 ms, the pulses in each train are spaced at intervals of 20 ms 

and the pulse trains are repeated at a frequency of between 2 and 5 Hz. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
