<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624120</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RECOVERY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23Q1108	B23Q1108	B24C300	B24C306	B24C900	B24C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23Q	B23Q	B24C	B24C	B24C	B24C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23Q11	B23Q11	B24C3	B24C3	B24C9	B24C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A recovery system (10) is disclosed for recovering a treating material (12) for treating a surface (20) with a vacuum source (25). The treating material (12) may be a cleaning material such as sand, water or may be a coating material such as a paint or a plasma coating. The apparatus (10) comprises a housing (16) having a housing opening (18) for projecting the treating material (12) from a nozzle (14) through the housing opening (18) onto the surface (20). A fluid seal means (30) provides a seal between the housing (16) and the surface (20). The vacuum source (25) is connected to the housing (16) for withdrawing the treating non-adhering material (12A) from the housing (16).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDROID SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDROID SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOCKETT WAYNE B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOCKETT WAYNE B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RECOVERY SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates to a recovery system for treat- ing a surface, and more particularly to an apparatus for cleaning or coating a surface by projecting a cleaning or coating material upon the surface and for recovering the impacted cleaning or coating material and/or the material removed from the surface.Prior Art StatementThe process cleaning of a surface by sand blasting, water blasting and the like has been well established in the prior art. Although these cleaning processes have pro¬ gressed the art, the processes still require the projection of a cleaning material such as sand, water or another abra¬ sive material to impact onto a surface. The force of the impact of the cleaning material abrades or cleans the sur¬ face thus removing any overcoating, contaminants, corrosion or the like. Typically, the cleaning material is directed from a nozzle toward the surface by an operator physically holding the nozzle. The force of the cleaning material emanating from the nozzle makes the physical holding of the nozzle difficult for the operator. In addition, the force of the impact of the cleaning material on the surface results in the cleaning material and material removed from the surface such as overcoatings, contaminants, corrosion or the like being projected back from the surface. The cleaning materi¬ al and the material removed from the surface are not only projected back toward the operator but are also dispersed within the surrounding atmosphere. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that such an operation is haz¬ ardous not only to the operator but is also hazardous to the environment. 

 In a spray coating process, a coating material is directed from a nozzle toward the surface. In some cases, a portion of the coating material is projected back and dispersed within the surrounding atmosphere. In a plasma spray coating process, an inert atmosphere is required for the spray coating process. The loss of the inert atmosphere significantly increases the cost of applying the plasma coating. In other spray coating processes, coating solvents are released into the surrounding atmosphere. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that such a coating operation is hazardous to the environment.In my prior patents including U.S. Patents RE 30,289; 4,139,970 and 4,545,156, I replaced the physical holding the of nozzle by an operator through the use of a nozzle holding apparatus. These U.S. patents not only eliminated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A recovery system for recovering a treating material with a vacuum source, the treating material being supplied by a pressurized source of treating material for treating a surface, comprising in combination: s a housing having a housing opening; nozzle means connected to the pressurized source of the treating material secured to a nozzle support; housing mounting means for mounting said nozzle support to said housing enabling said nozzle means to pro- o ject the treating material through said housing opening to impact onto the surface; fluid seal means defining a fluid sealing element; fluid seal mounting means or mounting said fluid sealing element about said housing opening; s said fluid seal means comprising a fluid under pressure flowing between said fluid sealing element and the surface into said housing opening to establish a fluid cushion between said fluid sealing element and the surface for providing a seal between said housing opening and the o surface; and vacuum connection means for connecting the vacuum source to said housing for withdrawing non-adhering material from the housing.
2. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said fluid seal means including a plurality of fluid seal ports communicating with a fluid pressure source for establishing a fluid flow from each of said plurality of fluid seal ports into said housing opening between said housing and the surface for providing said seal between said housing and the surface. 


3. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said fluid seal means comprises a plurality of fluid sealing elements being disposed about said housing opening; and said fluid seal mounting means independently mounting each of said plurality of fluid sealing elements for enabling each of said plurality of fluid sealing ele¬ ments to be independently movable for sealing with a curved surface.
4. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said fluid seal mounting means includes resilient means for resiliently mounting said fluid sealing element to said housing.
5. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said housing defines a substantially cylindrical housing internal volume having a first and a second cylindrical end and a cylindrical sidewall; said housing mounting means being disposed proxi¬ mate said first cylindrical end of said housing for mounting said housing to encompass said nozzle means with said nozzle means being disposed within said housing internal volume of said housing; and said fluid seal mounting means being disposed proximate said second cylindrical end of said housing with said fluid sealing element disposed about said housing opening.
6. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said nozzle means comprises a plurality of nozzles; and said nozzle support being rotatably mounted within said housing.
7. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said nozzle means includes a plurality of nozzles; and 


 said nozzle support includes means for varying a spacing between said plurality of nozzles.
8. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said housing mounting means comprises first resilient means for resiliently mounting said housing relative to said nozzle support; and said first resilient means being adjustable for adjusting said housing relative to said nozzle means for varying the distance between said nozzle means and the surface.
9. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said vacuum connection means includes a plurality of angularly orientated vacuum ports disposed proximate said first cylin¬ drical end of said housing adjacent said cylindrical side¬ wall of said housing internal volume of said housing for enhancing said vortex within said housing internal volume of said housing.
10. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, including vent means for introducing ambient air into said housing for enabling the vacuum source to withdraw non-adhering treating material from the housing.
11. A recovery system as set forth in claim l, including vent means comprising a plurality of directional louvers communicating with said housing internal volume through said cylindrical sidewall to direct a fluid into said housing internal volume for creating a vortex adjacent said cylin¬ drical sidewall of said housing internal volume for with¬ drawing the non-adhering treating material from the housing. 


 12. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said housing defines a substantially cylindrical housing internal volume having a first and a second cylindrical end and a cylindrical sidewall; s said housing mounting means being disposed proxi¬ mate said first cylindrical end of said housing for mounting said housing to encompass said nozzle means with said nozzle means being disposed within said housing internal volume of said housing; and o said vacuum connection means includes a plurality of angularly orientated vacuum ports disposed proximate said first cylindrical end of said housing adjacent said cylin¬ drical sidewall of said substantially cylindrical housing internal volume of said housing.
13. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said housing defines a substantially cylindrical housing internal volume having a first and a second cylindrical end and a cylindrical sidewall; said housing mounting means being disposed proxi¬ mate said first cylindrical end of said housing for mounting said housing to encompass said nozzle means with said nozzle means being disposed within a central region of said housing internal volume of said housing; said fluid seal mounting means being disposed proximate said second cylindrical end of said housing with said fluid sealing element disposed about said housing opening; and said vacuum connection means being disposed proxi¬ mate said first cylindrical end of said housing within a peripheral region of said housing internal volume of said housing.
14. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said housing defines a substantially cylindrical housing internal volume; 


 said housing mounting means mounting said housing s to encompass said nozzle means with said nozzle means being disposed within a central region of said housing internal volume of said housing; and vent means for creating a vortex within a periph¬ eral region of said housing internal volume of said housing o for withdrawing the non-adhering treating material from the housing.
15. A recovery system for recovering a cleaning material and a surface material with a vacuum source, the cleaning material being supplied by a pressurized source of cleaning material for cleaning a surface, comprising in combination: a housing having a housing opening; nozzle means connected to the pressurized source of cleaning material secured to a nozzle support; housing mounting means for mounting said nozzle support to said housing enabling said nozzle means to pro¬ ject the cleaning material through said housing opening to impact onto the surface to remove the surface material from the surface; fluid seal means defining a fluid sealing element; fluid seal mounting means for mounting said fluid sealing element about said housing opening; said fluid seal means being connected to a fluid pressure source for discharging a fluid under pressure through said fluid sealing element to provide a seal between said housing opening and the surface; and vacuum connection means for connecting the vacuum source to said housing for withdrawing the impacted cleaning material and the surface material removed from the surface from the housing.
16. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said fluid seal means including a plurality of fluid seal ports communicating with an air pressure source for establishing an air flow from each of said plurality of fluid seal ports 


s into said housing opening between said housing and the surface for providing an air seal between said housing and the surface.
17. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said vacuum connection means includes a plurality of angularly orientated vacuum ports disposed proximate said first cylin¬ drical end of said housing adjacent said cylindrical side¬ wall of said housing internal volume of said housing for enhancing said vortex within said housing internal volume of said housing.
18. A recovery system as set forth in claim 1, including vent means for introducing ambient air into said housing for enabling the vacuum source to withdraw the impacted cleaning material and the surface material removed from the surface from the housing.
19. A recovery system for recovering a coating material with a vacuum source, the coating material being supplied by a pressurized source of coating material for coating a surface, comprising in combination: a housing having a housing opening; nozzle means connected to the pressurized source of coating material secured to a nozzle support; housing mounting means for mounting said nozzle support to said housing enabling said nozzle means to pro¬ ject the coating material through said housing opening to impact onto the surface; fluid seal means defining a fluid sealing element; luid seal mounting means for mounting said fluid sealing element about said housing opening; said fluid seal means being connected to a fluid pressure source for discharging a fluid under pressure through said fluid sealing element to provide a seal between said housing opening and the surface; and 



 vacuum connection means for connecting the vacuum source to said housing for withdrawing non-adhering coating material from the housing.
20. A recovery system as set forth in claim 19, wherein said fluid seal means including a plurality of fluid seal ports communicating with a pressure source of a selected gas for establishing a flow of said selected gas from each of said plurality of fluid seal ports into said housing opening between said housing and the surface for providing a gas seal between said housing and the surface; and said selected gas flow from said plurality of fluid seal ports into said housing opening establishing a selected gas atmosphere within said housing.
21. A recovery system as set forth in claim 19, wherein said fluid seal means including a plurality of fluid seal ports communicating with a pressure source of a selected gas for establishing a flow of said gas from each of said plu¬ rality of fluid seal ports into said housing opening between said housing and the surface for providing a gas seal be¬ tween said housing and the surface; said selected gas flow from said plurality of fluid seal ports into said housing opening establishing a desired selected gas atmosphere within said housing; and vent means for introducing said selected gas into said housing for enabling the vacuum source to withdraw the selected gas from the housing to recover said selected gas thereby.
22. A recovery system for recovering a selected gas with a vacuum source during the application of a coating material onto a surface, the coating material being supplied by a pressurized source of coating material, comprising in combi¬ nation: a housing having a housing opening; 


 nozzle means connected to the pressurized source of coating material secured to a nozzle support; housing mounting means for mounting nozzle support o to said housing enabling said nozzle means to project the coating material through said housing opening to impact onto the surface; fluid seal means defining a fluid sealing element; fluid seal mounting means for mounting said fluid XΞ sealing element about said housing opening; said fluid seal means being connected to a pres¬ sure source of the selected gas for discharging the selected gas under pressure through said fluid sealing element to provide a seal between said housing opening and the surface; 20 said gas flow from said plurality of fluid seal ports into said housing opening establishing a selected gas atmosphere within said housing; and vacuum connection means for connecting the vacuum source to said housing for withdrawing said selected gas 25 from the housing to recover said selected gas thereby. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
