<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612500</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR DIAGNOSIS OF LIVING ORGANISM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and a device for diagnosis of a living organism 
providing for subjecting the surface of the living organism (1) 

to electromagnetic radiation from an optical frequency band 
source (2) within the wavelength interval of 0.3 to 2.0 µm. 

The radiation passed through the living organism and/or 
dissipated back by it is then received by receivers (3 and 4), 

and the space distribution of at least one parameter 
characterizing the passage and/or dissipation of the 

electromagnetic radiation by the living organism is then 
consecutively recorded in time in a computer system (8) by 

means of, consecutively interconnected, a commutator (5), an 
analog-to-digital converter (6) and an input-output controller 

(7). In the said space distributions are identified spaced areas 
distinguished one from another by at least one of the 

parameters characterizing their time change and the set of 
the identified areas is recorded in the form of a functional 

chart of the physiological processes in the living organism. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DYNAMICS IMAGING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DYNAMICS IMAGING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GODIK EDUARD EMMANUILOVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GODIK, EDUARD EMMANUILOVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention belongs to the field of physics
and medicine, or more concretely, to methods and
apparatus, destined for obtaining information about
physiological processes taking place in living organisms,
it relates to a method of living organism state diagnostics
and apparatus for its realization, which could be used for
the investigation and diagnostics of functional dynamics
of living organism physiological processes.Functional diagnostics permits revealing the early
precursors of pathology. This opens up the possibility of
avoiding non-reversible disturbances in living organism
and radical treatment methods. Due to this reason,
methods of early functional diagnostics are acquiring
increasing significance for organization of population
screening and development of preventive medicine.The state of living organism is reflected in continuous
functional dynamics of its biological tissues. This dynamics
is determined by functioning of the main distributed
physiological systems, such as cell metabolism, supplying
the tissues with energy, and microcirculation, supporting
their metabolic resource. Functional status of these main
life supporting tissue systems is determined by the
distributed regulator mechanisms, both, the whole-organism,
reflective and humoral ones, and the local,
metabolic one. Cell metabolism is connected with micro-circulation
via one else important distributed tissue
system - perfusion. Its functional dynamics interconnects
the first two systems.The state of the whole-organism systems is reflected not
only and not exclusively at the tissue functional dynamics
at separate organism sites, but mainly by the degree and
the character of the spatial connectivity of this dynamics. To 
explore this connectivity of tissue physiological processes,
characterizing the whole-organism functional status, the
investigation of continuous spatial distribution of
functional dynamics of microcirculation is necessary. In
the relaxation state, for example, spatial connectivity of the
functional dynamics in the process of tissue activity is
minimal, whereas it is greatly increased under the stress
conditions; increased internal connectivity of the tissue
functional dynamics is characteristic of cancer tumors as
compared with surrounding normal tissues .The spatial organization of the tissue functioning
reflects the state of all the whole-organism systems and organs,
which appeared during evolution just for supporting of
the functional tissue status.Each physiological parameter has its own physical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The method of diagnostics of living organism state,
comprising the steps of:


illuminating living organism or a part of it with
electromagnetic radiation of optical wavelength range,
receiving transmitted through living organism and
back scattered radiation of optical wavelength range,
recording it in the form of maps of spatial distribution
of at least one parameter, characterizing transmittance and

back scattering by living organism of electromagnetic radiation
of optical wavelength range,

the aforementioned
spatial distribution being recorded sequentially and temporally continously.
A method as described in claim 1, characterized by
recording the spatial distribution of the coefficients of

transmittance and back scattering of the aforementioned
radiation by living organism.
A method as described in claims 1,2, characterized by

amplitude modulation of the aforementioned radiation.
A method as described in claims 1-3, characterized in
that the aforementioned electromagnetic radiation is

stroboscopically modulated by amplitude synchronously with
one of the living organism physiological rhythms.
A method as described in claims 1-4, characterized by
a concentration of electromagnetic radiation at least at

one point of the living organism surface and recording a
radial distribution relative it of at least one parameter,

characterizing back scattering of this electromagnetic
radiation by living organism tissues and, thereby, the state of

the organism tissues at different depths is judged by.
A method as described in claim 5, characterized by
scanning the illuminated surface of living organism with the

aforementioned electromagnetic radiation, concentrated at
least to one point.
A method as described in any of the above claims, characterized
by spectral filtering of illuminating living 

organism electromagnetic radiation, transmitted through
and/or back scattered by it, at the physiological pigments

absorption bands.
A method as described in claim 7, characterized by
a frequency filtering of the radiation at least at one band

from the wavelength interval from 0.38 µm to 0.48 µm and/or
from 0.52 µm to 0.62 µm.
A method as described in claim 7, characterized by the
radiation frequency filtering at least at one band from the

wavelength interval from 0.6 µm to o.75 µm.
A method as described in claim 7, characterized by
the radiation frequency filtering at least at one band from

the wavelength interval from 1 µm to 1.1 µm.
A method as claimed in any of the above claims, characterized
in that the frequency modulated transmitted

through and back scattered by the living organism
electromagnetic radiation is received synchronously at the

modulation frequency.
A method as described in claim 11, characterized by
modulation of a beam at least at one band from the wavelength

interval from 0.6 µm to 0.65 µm and/or 0.65 to 0.72 µm.
A method as described in any of the above claims, characterized
by revealing in sequentially recorded

aforementioned spatial distributions spatial regions,
differing from each other by at least one parameter,

characterizing their temporal change, and by recording of
the above regions in the form of a functional map of

physiological processes taking place in living organism.
A method as described in claim 13, characterized by
using, as a distinctive parameter, the temporal

cross-correlation coefficient of at least one parameter,
characterizing transmittance and back scattering of the

aforementioned electromagnetic radiation at different points
of the region of living organism investigated.
A method as described in claim 13, characterized by
using as a distinctive parameter, under investigation of 

wave-like physiological processes, the velocity of
temporal wave-like changes of at least one parameter,

characterizing transmittance and back scattering by
living organism electromagnetic radiation is used.
A method as described in claim 13, characterized by the
use, as a distinctive parameter, a frequency of temporal

changes of at least one parameter, characterizing
transmittance and back scattering of electromagnetic

radiation by living organism.
A method as described in claim 13, characterized by
the use, as a distinctive parameter, a temporal delay of

changes of at least one parameter characterizing transmittance
and back scattering of the aforementioned radiation by

living organism.
A method as described in claim 13, characterized by
use, as a distinctive parameter, the number and position of

extrema at the temporal dynamics of at least one parameter,
characterizing transmittance and back scattering of the

aforementioned radiation by living organism.
A method as described in any of the above claims, characterized
by a synchronous recording with at least

one of the natural living organism physiological rhythms.
A method as described in claim 19, characterized by
using of living organism breathing rhythm, as a natural

physiological rhythm of living organism.
A method as described in claim 19, characterized by
using living organism cardiopulsation rhythm, as a natural

physiological rhythm of living organism.
A method as described in claim 19, characterized by
using living organism muscle tremor, as a natural

physiological rhythm of living organism.
A method as described in any of the above claims, characterized
by a simultaneous investigation of the

functionally connected regions of living organism.
A method as described in any of the above claims, characterized
by simultaneous investigation of living 

organism paired organs.
A method as described in any of the above claims, characterized
by application of at least one external

influence on living organism or a part of it.
A method as described in claim 25, characterized by
the use, as an external influence, of changes in physical

parameters of the environment, surrounding living organism.
A method as described in claim 25, characterized by
use, as an external influence, of changes in the parameters

of external living organism breathing, and via obtained
optical functional maps, characterizing physiological

reactions of living organism, the state of both respiratory
system and the whole-organism homeostasis being judged by.
A method as described in claim 25, characterized by
use of vibration, as an external parameter.
A method as described in claim 25, characterized by
use of an electric field, as an external influence.
A method as described in claim 25, characterized by
use, as an external influence, of alternating magnetic field,

affecting different regions of an organ investigated, and via
the optical functional maps of physiological reactions on such

an influence at the reflective skin projections of this organ,
pathology presence and localization being judged by.
A method as described in claim 26, characterized by
use of physical exercise, as an external influence.
A method as described in claim 26, characterized by
use, as an external influence, of ultrasound focused to at least

one point of diagnosed internal organ, and the presence and
the localization of pathologies being judged by the optical

functional maps of physiological reactions on this influence at
the corresponding to this organ dermatome.
A method as described in claim 25, characterized by
use of external pressure as external influence, and the state

of diagnosed organs being judged by the optical functional
maps of physiological reactions on its application and/or

removal. 
A method as described in claim 25, characterized by
use of 
thermal radiation and/or thermal flows, as an external
influence.
An apparatus for diagnostics of living organism
state containing: a source (2) of optical radiation; a detector

(3) of scattered by living organism (1) radiation located at
the opposite side from the illuminated part of living organism

(1), sequentially connected analog-to-digital converter (6), an
input-output controller (7), a computer system (8),

an additional detector (4) of
scattered by living organism radiation located at the same side

as the optical radiation source (2), commutator (5), two inputs
of which are connected with outputs of corresponding detectors

of scattered by living organism radiation, while the output - to
analog-to-digital converter (6) input, three outputs of

input-output controller being connected with control inputs of,
correspondingly, the commutator and the detector of scattered

by living organism radiation,
said apparatus recording transmitted and back scattered electromagnetic radiation of optical wave

length range and recording maps of spatial distribution characterizing sequential and temporal
continuous recordings of the transmitted and back scattered electromagnetic radiation. 
An apparatus as described in claim 35, characterized by
by the presence of a reference detector (13) of optical

radiation optically connected with source (2) of the radiation
and divisor (14), included between commutator (5) output and

analog-to-digital converter (6) input, the input of reference
detector (13) of optical radiation being output to

the input of divisor (14).
An apparatus as described in claims 35, 36,
characterized by containing sequentially connected sensor (19)

of at least one of the parameters of the natural physiological
living organism rhythms and temporal modulator (20), whose

output is connected with optical radiation source (2) input
and corresponding input of input-output controller (7).
An apparatus as described in claim 37, characterized
by the realization of sensor (19) of natural physiological

living organism rhythm via the mode of living organism
respiration rhythm meter.
An apparatus as described in claim 37, characterized 
by the realization of sensor (19) of natural living

organism physiological rhythm via the mode of cardiopulsation
rhythm meter.
An apparatus as described in claim 37, characterized by
realization of senior (19) of natural living

organism physiological rhythm via the mode of muscle tremor
meter.
An apparatus as described in any of claims 35-40,
characterized by presence of optical system (24), located

between source (2) of optical radiation and the surface of
living organism (1), and focusing optical radiation at

least into one point at living organism surface (1).
An apparatus as described in claim 41, characterized
by containing a scanning system (29), optically connected with

optical system (24), whose input is connected with the
corresponding output of input-output controller (7).
An apparatus as described in any of claims 35 to 42,
characterized by placing of at least one optical filter (34)

at the same optical axis with source (2) of optical
radiation between source (2) of optical radiation and the

surface of living organism (1) illuminated.
An apparatus as described in any of claims 35-43,
characterized by placing at least one additional optical

filter (34) at the optical axis of detectors (3 and 4) of
scattered by living organism radiation between the

aforementioned detector and the surface of living organism
investigated.
An apparatus as described in any of claims 35-44,
characterized by the presence of frequency modulator (35),

whose output is connected with source (2) of optical radiation
and input - with corresponding output of input-output

controller (7).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
