<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE TONE GENERATOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10K900	G10K912	G10K913	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10K	G10K	G10K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10K9	G10K9	G10K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATOMA INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATOMA INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETER WALTER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETER, WALTER H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE TONE GENERATORFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to acoustic transducers and more particularly to transducers for automotive vehicle use capable of producing a chime signal or the like.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Acoustic transducers of the type herein contemplated are well known in the art. An exemplary device of this type is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,823,110. As stated in the patent, a particularly acute problem in producing devices of this type is the manner in which the diaphragm is mounted within the device. In general it can be stated that the functional characteristics provided by the diaphragm in the automotive environment are such that it becomes highly desirable to mount the diaphragm in a manner which can be repeated on a mass production basis sufficient to maintain uniformity in operation without significant variation.The mounting of the diaphragm is critical in this regard in two functional aspects requiring repeatability without significant variation. The first aspect is that the mounting must serve to accurately position the diaphragm with respect to the pole piece. The second aspect is that the mounting must provide a difficult to consistently achieve acoustical seal for the interior chamber which enables dynamic acoustical sealing to occur while permitting static pressure leakage to occur. The manner of securing the diaphragm to the fixed structure may detrimentally effect these two 

functional aspects. The interrelationship between the various aspects of the diaphragm mounting materially contribute to the difficulty of the problem presented. The chamber which the diaphragm must acoustically seal contains the pole piece spacing. Consequently, the spacing cannot be conveniently determined after the diaphragm is mounted in acoustically sealed relation. Moreover, the physical contact which the diaphragm is subjected to in accomplishing its mount can effect both the pole piece spacing and the acoustic seal of the chamber as well as the vibrational characteristics of the diaphragm itself.The mounting arrangement of the '110 patent is to utilize a rigid retaining number having spaced lugs which contact the diaphragm at spaced positions along its marginal periphery. This mode of mounting is described in the patent as replacing prior art modes wherein spaced spot weldings are used to secure the diaphragm to its fixed support or a ring of foam rubber is used to resiliently retain the marginal periphery of the diaphragm on its fixed seat. These structural
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A tone generator suitable for automotive vehicle use comprising housing means defining an interior space open to the atmosphere, circuit board means mounted within said housing means, and transducer means carried by said circuit board means within said housing means, said transducer means comprising: a rigid structure of magnetic material annular about a central axis, said rigid annular structure having an axially outwardly facing annular diaphragm engaging surface formed in one axial end portion thereof, an interior peripheral surface extending axially therefrom defining a central space terminating in a radially inwardly directed opposite end wall having a central pole piece engaging interior axially extending surface therein communicating with said central space, a diaphragm of magnetic material having an outer annular marginal edge portion engaging said diaphragm engaging surface and a central portion providing armature means, said rigid annular structure including a permanent magnet operable to constantly magnetically attract the marginal edge portion of said diaphragm into engagement with the diaphragm engaging surface of the rigid annular structure, said diaphragm and armature means being free of engagement other than the engagement of the 


outer annular marginal edge portion thereof with said annular diaphragm engaging surface so that the aforesaid magnetic attraction constitutes the sole means of constantly retaining said diaphragm in an operative position with respect to said rigid annular structure enclosing the associate axial end of said central space, a pole piece extending within said central space in alignment with said axis, means for fixedly securing said pole piece with respect to said rigid structure with an end portion of said pole piece engaged in a predetermined position of axial adjustment along said pole piece engaging surface so that a remote end surface of said pole piece is disposed within said central space a predetermined gap distance from the central portion of said diaphragm, electromagnetic coil means mounted within said central space in surrounding relation to said pole piece and in axially spaced relation with said diaphragm so as to leave a portion of the central space enclosed by said diaphragm operatively dynamically acoustically sealed by the engagement of the outer marginal peripheral edge portion of the diaphragm with said diaphragm engaging surface but statically communicated with the interior space within said housing means, and means for mounting said rigid annular structure on said circuit board means and for electrically connecting said electromagnetic coil means with said circuit board means so as to be electrically energized by the operation of said circuit board means to thereby impart vibrations to 


said diaphragm which dynamically varies the conditions within the closed portion of the central space and creates within the interior space within said housing means a desired tone sequence which is audible to a person within the atmospheric environment of the automotive vehicle.
2. A tone generator as defined in claim
1 wherein said one axial end portion of said rigid annular structure is provided by an end portion of an annular sheet metal member of generally bowl- shaped configuration including a bottom wall having a central opening therein and a peripheral wall having an outer annular rim defining said axially outwardly facing annular diaphragm-engaging surface.
3. A tone generator as defined in claim
2 wherein said bottom wall is recessed at the central opening therein, the permanent magnet included in said rigid annular structure comprising a ring magnet having one end fixed within the recess in said bottom wall and extending therefrom so as to define with the central opening in said bottom wall a portion of the interior peripheral surface defining said central space.
4. A tone generator as defined in claim 3 wherein the opposite end wall of said rigid annular structure is provided by a base place fixed in abutting relation with an opposite end of said ring magnet. 


 5. A tone generator as defined in claim
4 wherein said electromagnetic coil means includes a bobbin of electrically insulating plastic material, said bobbin including a cylindrical core having opposite ends with annular flanges extending radially outwardly therefrom and a coil of wire wound around said core between said flanges.
6. A tone generator as defined in claim
5 wherein one of said bobbin flanges has a pair of spaced depending portions thereon, said one bobbin flange also having a pair of spaced peripheral grooves formed therein which extend peripherally along said pair of depending portions for receiving opposite ends of the coil of wire therein, each of said depending portions having a metal pin embedded therein and extending in depending relation therefrom to which an associated wire end is soldered, said pins being soldered to said circuit board means.
7. A tone generator as defined in claim
6 wherein said base plate is apertured to receive said depending portions therethrough.
8. A tone generator as defined in claim
7 wherein said base plate is formed with integral diametrically opposed legs bent into depending relation with respect thereto and solder means for fixedly securing said legs and said pins with said circuit board means to mount said acoustic transducer thereon. 


 9. A tone generator as defined in claim 8 wherein said armature means comprises a disk of metal bonded to the exterior of the central portion of said diaphragm.
10. A tone generator as defined in claim
1 wherein said electromagnetic coil means includes a bobbin of electrically insulating plastic material, said bobbin including a cylindrical core having opposite ends with annular flanges extending radially outwardly therefrom and a coil of wire wound around said core between said flanges.
11. A tone generator as defined in claim 10 wherein one of said bobbin flanges has a pair of spaced depending portions thereon, said one bobbin flange also having a pair of spaced peripheral grooves formed therein which extend peripherally along said pair of depending portions for receiving opposite ends of the coil of wire therein, each of said depending portions having a metal pin embedded therein and extending in depending relation therefrom to which an associated wire end is soldered.
12. A tone generator as defined in claim 1 wherein said armature means comprises a disk of metal bonded to the exterior of the central portion of said diaphragm.
13. A transducer comprising: a rigid structure of magnetic material annular about a central axis, 


 said rigid annular structure having an axially outwardly facing annular diaphragm engaging surface formed in one axial end portion thereof, an interior peripheral surface extending axially therefrom defining a central space terminating in a radially inwardly directed opposite end wall having a central pole piece engaging interior axially extending surface therein communicating with said central space, a diaphragm of magnetic material having an outer annular marginal edge portion engaging said diaphragm engaging surface and a central portion providing armature means, said rigid annular structure including a permanent magnet operable to constantly magnetically attract the marginal edge portion of said diaphragm into engagement with the diaphragm engaging surface of said rigid annular structure, said diaphragm and armature means being free of engagement other than the engagement of the outer annular marginal edge portion thereof with said annular diaphragm engaging surface so that the aforesaid magnetic attraction constitutes the sole means of constantly retaining said diaphragm in an operative position with respect to said rigid annular structure enclosing the associate axial end of said central space, a pole piece extending within said central space in alignment with said axis, means for fixedly securing said pole piece with respect to said rigid structure with an end portion of said pole piece engaged in a predetermined position of axial adjustment along 


said pole piece engaging surface so that a remote end surface of said pole piece is disposed within said central space a predetermined gap distance from the central portion of said diaphragm, and electromagnetic coil means mounted within said central space in surrounding relation to said pole piece and in axially spaced relation with said diaphragm so as to leave a portion of the central space enclosed by said diaphragm operatively dynamically acoustically sealed by the engagement of the outer marginal peripheral edge portion of the diaphragm with said diaphragm engaging surface but statically communicated with the interior space within said housing means.
14. A transducer as defined in claim 13 wherein said one axial end portion of said rigid annular structure is provided by an end portion of an annular sheet metal member of generally bowl- shaped configuration including a bottom wall having a central opening therein and a peripheral wall having an outer annular rim defining said axially outwardly facing annular diaphragm-engaging surface.
15. A transducer as defined in claim 14 wherein said bottom wall is recessed at the central opening therein, the permanent magnet included in said rigid annular structure comprising a ring magnet having one end fixed within the recess in said bottom wall and extending therefrom so as to define with the central opening in said bottom wall a portion of the interior peripheral surface defining said central space. 


 16. A transducer as defined in claim 15 wherein the opposite end wall of said rigid annular structure is provided by a base place fixed in abutting relation with an opposite end of said ring magnet.
17. A transducer as defined in claim 16 wherein said electromagnetic coil means includes a bobbin of electrically insulating plastic material, said bobbin including a cylindrical core having opposite ends with annular flanges extending radially outwardly therefrom and a coil of wire wound around said core between said flanges.
18. A transducer as defined in claim 17 wherein one of said bobbin flanges has a pair of spaced depending portions thereon, said one bobbin flange also having a pair of spaced peripheral grooves formed therein which extend peripherally along said pair of depending portions for receiving opposite ends of the coil of wire therein, each of said depending portions having a metal pin embedded therein and extending in depending relation therefrom to which an associated wire end is soldered.
19. A transducer as defined in claim 13 wherein said electromagnetic coil means includes a bobbin of electrically insulating plastic material, said bobbin including a cylindrical core having opposite ends with annular flanges extending radially outwardly therefrom and a coil of wire wound around said core between said flanges. 


 20. A transducer as defined in claim 19 wherein one of said bobbin flanges has a pair of spaced depending portions thereon, said one bobbin flange also having a pair of spaced peripheral grooves formed therein which extend peripherally along said pair of depending portions for receiving opposite ends of the coil of wire therein, each of said depending portions having a metal pin embedded therein and extending in depending relation therefrom to which an associated wire end is soldered.
21. A transducer as defined in claim 13 wherein said armature means comprises a disk of metal bonded to the exterior of the central portion of said diaphragm.
22. A method of assembling transducer components with the use of an assembly fixture in which the transducer components include a rigid annular structure including a permanent magnet, the rigid annular structure having an axially outwardly facing annular diaphragm engaging surface formed in one axial end portion thereof, an interior peripheral surface extending axially therefrom defining a central space terminating in a radially inwardly directed opposite end wall having a central pole piece engaging interior axially extending surface therein communicating with said central space, a diaphragm of magnetic material having an outer annular marginal edge portion, a pole piece having an end portion engageable with the pole piece engaging surface of the rigid annular structure for 



axial movement with respect thereto and a remote end surface, and an electromagnetic coil assembly, and the assembly fixture has an outer annular surface shaped to be engaged by the diaphragm engaging surface of the rigid annular structure and a central surface spaced a predetermined axial distance from the outer annular surface shaped to be engaged by the end surface of the pole piece, said method comprising the steps of engaging (1) the diaphragm surface of the rigid annular structure and (2) the end surface of the pole piece with (1) the outer annular surface and (2) central surface respectively of the assembly fixture while the end portion of the pole piece is engaged with the pole piece engaging surface of the rigid annular structure so as to establish said predetermined axial space between the diaphragm engaging surface of the rigid annular structure and the end surface of the pole piece, securing the pole piece and rigid annular structure together against relative axial movement with respect to one another and the electromagnetic coil assembly in aligned relation thereto within the central space of the rigid annular structure and in surrounding relation to the pole piece, and mounting the diaphragm in assembled relation within the transducer solely by engaging the marginal edge portion thereof with the diaphragm engaging surface of the rigid annular structure to be retained therein solely by the magnetic attraction of the permanent magnet of the rigid annular structure. 


 23. A method as defined in claim 22 wherein the electromagnetic coil assembly is initially disposed in assembled relation within the central space of the rigid annular structure and in surrounding relation with said pole piece prior to the engagement of the diaphragm engaging surface of the rigid annular structure and end surface of the pole piece with the respective surfaces of the assembly fixture.
24. A method as defined in claim 23 wherein the pole piece and rigid annular structure are secured together by adhesive applied to exterior abutting surfaces thereof while in an inverted relation with the diaphragm engaging surface of the rigid annular structure and the end surface of the pole piece in engagement with the respective surfaces of the assembly fixture.
25. A method as defined in claim 24 wherein the securement of the electromagnetic coil assembly in the assembled relation within the central space of the rigid annular structure and in surrounding relation with the pole piece is accomplished by pouring a liquid adhesive within the central space while the rigid annular structure and pole piece are in a non-inverted position and rigidify the liquid adhesive. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
