<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641431</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR INDUCING AND DETECTING FLUORESCENCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2164	G01N2164	G01N2185	G01N2185	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and a method for inducing and detecting fluorescence in a fluid medium containing at least one fluorophore. The apparatus comprises a light emitter adapted to emit light of a wavelength capable of exciting fluorophores in the fluid medium, a light detector adapted to detect fluorescence emitted by the fluorophores excited by the exciting light, a sensor body, preferably being solid and made of quartz, having internally reflecting wall parts capable of reflecting at least light having a wavelength corresponding to the wavelength of the fluorescence and having a sensor face adapted to be exposed to the fluid medium, the sensor body being adapted to receive exciting light from the light emitter, such as via an optical fiber, and to transmit the received exciting light into the fluid medium through the sensor face, to receive, through the sensor face, fluorescence emitted by excited fluorophores in the fluid medium, and to transmit at least part of the received fluorescence to the light detector, both the light emitter and the detector being positioned in a distance from the sensor face, and the relative positioning of the light emitter, the optical detector, and the sensor face being such that the detector is able to receive light transmitted from at least a portion of that part of the sensor face which receives light from the light emitter. The apparatus is especially well suited for operation in turbid or highly turbid media such as a fermentation tank or a wastewater in a wastewater purification plant.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOBALANCE AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOBALANCE A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIELSEN HANS OLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSEN, JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIELSEN, HANS, OLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a novel apparatus and method 
for inducing and detecting fluorescence. The apparatus is 
particularly useful for measuring fluorescence emitted from 
turbid or highly turbid fluid media, such as, e.g., fluorescence 
emitted from living cells in a fermentation tank or 
in a mixed culture in a water purification plant. Thus, the 
apparatus is most valuable for performing the fluorescence 
determinations in the method disclosed in WO90/10083 
published 7 September, 1990, which relates to a method for 
controlling and/or optimising a process in which an aqueous 
system comprising biodegradable material, such as waster 
water or sewage, is subjected to biological treatment using 
mixed cultures of microorganisms. US-A-4 577 110 discloses an apparatus for inducing fluorescence 
in, and measuring fluorescence emitted from, a biological 
medium. The apparatus is adapted to launch, from a continuous 
light source, a beam of exciting light through a ring-shaped 
detector. The apparatus is designed so that the field of 
illumination of the exciting light is substantially contained 
within the field of view of the detector measuring the 
emitted fluorescence. EP-A-0 047 094 discloses an apparatus for inducing and detecting 
fluorescence in a medium. The pulsed exciting light and 
the fluorescence emitted from the medium are guided to and 
from the measured medium by means of optical fibres. Other apparatus and methods for performing spectroscopic analysis 
may be seen in EP-A2 0 122 741 and United States Patents 
Nos. 4,746,179; 5,221,958 (corresponding to WO 90/13808) and 
5,155,046 (corresponding to EP-A-0 470 820). In highly turbid media, light is not able to travel more than 
a few mm or even only fractions of a mm before it becomes 
very considerably attenuated. Therefore, fluorescence 
measurements in such media present severe problems, and there 
is a considerable demand for fluorescence measuring equipment 
which is able to perform measurements with a high sensitivity 
and over a broad dynamic range.  
  
 The present invention relates to an apparatus of a novel type 
which is particularly adapted for performing the inherently 
very difficult fluorescence measurements in highly turbid 
media, but which will also be advantageous for applications 
in less turbid or non-turbid media. In one aspect, the invention relates to an apparatus for 
inducing and detecting fluorescence in a fluid medium 
containing at least one fluorophore, the apparatus 
comprising:  
 
a light emitter
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for inducing and detecting fluorescence in a 
fluid medium containing at least one fluorophore, the 

apparatus comprising: 

a light emitter (10, 22) adapted to emit exciting light 
of a wavelength capable of exciting fluorophores in the fluid 

medium, 
a light detector (40) adapted to detect fluorescence 
emitted by the fluorophores excited by the exciting light, 

characterized in that the apparatus further comprises 
a solid sensor body (30) having internally reflecting 
wall parts (33) capable of reflecting at least light having a 

wavelength corresponding to the wavelength of the 
fluorescence and having a sensor face (32) adapted to be 

exposed to the fluid medium, 
the sensor body (30) being adapted to receive exciting light 
from the light emitter (10, 22), and to transmit the received 

exciting light into the fluid medium through the sensor face 
(32), to receive, through the sensor face (32), fluorescence 

emitted by excited fluorophores in the fluid medium, and to 
transmit at least part of the received fluorescence to the 

light detector (40), 
the sensor body (30) being made of a material which is 
capable of effectively transmitting the exciting light and 

the fluorescence,  
 
both the light emitter (10, 22) and the detector (40) being 
positioned at positions at one end (31) of the sensor body 

(30) and at a distance from the sensor face (32), and the 
relative positioning of the light emitter (10, 22), the 

optical detector, and the sensor face (32) being such that 
the detector is able to receive light transmitted from at 

least a portion of that part of the sensor face (32) which 
receives light from the light emitter (10, 22), and such that 

light emitted by the light emitter (10, 22) is able to 
directly, i.e. without reflections occurring at the wall parts of the sensor body, illuminate the predominant part of the sensor face 

(32). 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the relative 
positioning of the light emitter (10, 22), the sensor face 

(32), and the optical detector is such that the detector is 
able to directly receive light from a predominant proportion 

of the illuminated part of the sensor face (32). 
An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the light 
emitter (10, 22) is a light emitting end of a fibre optical 

means having a light receiving end adapted to receive light 
from a light source. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the fibre 
optical means is an optical fibre bundle. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the light emitter (10, 22) is capable of emitting 

pulsed light. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein at least part of the light which the light emitter 

(10, 22) is capable of emitting is in the Ultra Violet 
region. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
further comprising light filtering means permitting the light 

emitter (10, 22) to emit filtered light.  
 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the sensor body (30) is a monolithic body. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the sensor body (30) has a substantially symmetrical 

cross section in a direction transverse to the sensor face 
(32). 
An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the cross 
section is substantially elliptical. 
An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the cross 
section is substantially circular. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the sensor body (30) is an elongated body. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the sensor body (30) is made of quartz. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the reflective property of the wall parts (33) of the 

sensor body (30) are due to a coating of the wall parts. 
An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the coating 
is selected from dielectric coatings and metal coatings. 
An apparatus according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the 
coating is an aluminum coating. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the sensor body (30) has a length in the range of 3-50 

mm, preferably in the range of 5-50 mm, more preferably in 
the range of 10-25 mm, such as about 15 mm. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein the sensor body (30) has a diameter of in the range  

 
of 2-40 mm, preferably in the range of 3-30 mm, more preferably 

in the range of 5-20 mm, such as about 10 mm. 
An apparatus according to any of the preceding claims, 
further comprising filter means filtering the fluorescence to 

be detected by the optical detector so that substantially 
only light having a wavelength in the wavelength region of 

the fluorescence emitted from the excited fluorophores is 
received by the detector. 
A method for inducing and detecting fluorescence in a 
fluid medium containing at least one fluorophore,
 
characterized in that the method comprises 


transmitting light from a light emitter (10, 22) 
positioned in a position at one end (31) of a solid 

sensor body (30) having internally reflecting wall parts 
(33) capable of at least reflecting light having a 

wavelength corresponding to the wavelength of the 
fluorescence, through the sensor body (30) and through a 

sensor face (32) thereof into the fluid medium, the light 
emitted by the light emitter directly, i.e. without reflections occurring at the wall parts (33) of the sensor body, illuminating a 

predominant part of the sensor face, at least part of the 
light being of a wavelength capable of exciting the 

fluorophores so as to induce the emission of 
fluorescence, the sensor body (30) being made of a 

material which is capable of effectively transmitting the 
exciting light and the fluorescence, 
receiving, through the sensor face (32), fluorescence 
emitted by the excited fluorophores in the fluid medium, 

and transmitting at least part of the received 
fluorescence through the sensor body (30) to a light 

detector (40) adapted to detect the fluorescence emitted 
by the fluorophores excited by the exciting light and 

positioned at a position at said one end (31) of the sensor 
body (30), 
  
 

at least part of the fluorescence transmitted to the detector 
being fluorescence received through a part of the sensor face 

(32) from which light from the light emitter (10, 22) is 
emitted to the fluid medium. 
A method according to claim 20, wherein the fluid medium 
is a turbid medium. 
A method according to claim 20 or 21, wherein the fluid 
medium is waste water which is being biodegraded by a mixed 

culture of microorganisms, the microorganisms containing at 
least one biogenic fluorophore the fluorescence of which is 

inducible by the exciting light and detectable by the light 
detector (40). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
