<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635820</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Minimum error rate training of combined string models
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L1514	G10L1500	G10L1506	G10L1528	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L15	G10L15	G10L15	G10L15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of making a speech recognition model database is disclosed. 
The database is formed based on a training string utterance signal and a plurality of 

sets of current speech recognition models. The sets of current speech recognition 
models may include acoustic models, language models, and other knowledge 

sources. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the invention, a set of 
confusable string models is generated, each confusable string model comprising 

speech recognition models from two or more sets of speech recognition models 
(such as acoustic and language models). A first scoring signal is generated based on 

the training string utterance signal and a string model for that utterance, wherein the 
string model for the utterance comprises speech recognition models from two or 

more sets of speech recognition models. One or more second scoring signals are 
also generated, wherein a second scoring signal is based on the training string 

utterance signal and a confusable string model. A misrecognition signal is generated 
based on the first scoring signal and the one or more second scoring signals. Current 

speech recognition models are modified, based on the misrecognition signal to 
increase the probability that a correct string model will have a rank order higher than 

other confusable string models. The confusable string models comprise 
N
-best word 
string models. The first recognizer scoring signal reflects a measure of similarity 

between the training string utterance signal and the string model for that utterance. 
The second recognizer scoring signal reflects a measure of similarity between the 

training string utterance signal and a confusable string model. The misrecognition 
signal reflects a difference of the first scoring signal and a combination of one or 

more second scoring signals. The modification of current speech recognition models 
is accomplished by generating a recognition model modification signal according to 

a gradient of a function, which function reflects a recognizer score of a training 
string utterance based on a string model for that utterance and one or more 

recognizer scores of the training string utterance based on one or more confusable 
string models. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOU WU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUANG BIING-HWANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE CHIN-HUI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOU, WU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUANG, BIING-HWANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, CHIN-HUI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the training of pattern
databases and, more specifically, to the training of speech pattern databases for
speech processing tasks, such as speech recognition.The objective of continuous speech recognition is to identify (i.e.,
recognize) an underlying word sequence from an input speech utterance.
Recognition is performed with use of a set of speech recognition patterns or models
(hereinafter, models). These basic speech recognition models are the building blocks
for words and strings of words, such as phrases or sentences. Recently, significant
research effort has been concentrated on the problem of how to select and represent
these basic speech recognition units for use in continuous speech recognition.One conventional approach to the continuous speech recognition
problem is that of statistical pattern recognition using acoustic recognition models,
such as templates or hidden Markov models (HMMs). Based on a lexical
description of a vocabulary, acoustic speech recognition models are prescribed and
their parameters are then statistically determined through a process known as
training. The basic models may reflect vocabulary words or subwords (such as
phones that are the acoustic manifestation of linguistically-based phonemes). One
assumption generally made in this approach to continuous speech recognition is that
a fluently spoken sequence of words, i.e. a word string, may be adequately
represented by a linear concatenation of the basic speech recognition models (of
words or subwords) according to the lexical transcription of the words in the string.
Conventionally, this has meant a concatenation of speech recognition models
estimated directly from training tokens (such as words). A concatenation of acoustic
recognition models forms a model of the word string and is a type of word string
model. In continuous speech recognition, multiple string models are hypothesized
for a given recognition task. Each such string model is compared with a continuous
utterance to be recognized. The closeness of each comparison is indicated by a
recognition score. The string model which most closely compares with the
continuous utterance "recognizes" the utterance. Another conventional approach to continuous speech recognition is to
augment word string models with non-acoustic recognition models. These non-acoustic
recognition models include, inter alia, language models, phonetic-based
models, semantic models, syntactic models, and other knowledge sources (e.g.,
pitch, energy,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of making a speech recognition model database based on a
training speech utterance signal and a plurality of sets of current speech recognition

models, the method comprising the steps of:

a. generating a set of one or more confusable string models, a confusable
string model comprising a plurality of said current speech recognition models from two

or more of said sets of said current speech recognition models, wherein each of at least
two of said sets of models corresponds to different characteristics of speech and wherein

the confusable string model is a model which, if selected to represent the training
speech utterance, would result in a misrecognition of the training speech utterance;
b. generating a first scoring signal based on the training speech utterance
signal and a string model for that utterance, the string model for the utterance

comprising a plurality of said current speech recognition models from said two or more
of said sets of said current speech recognition models;
c. generating one or more second scoring signals, a second scoring
signal based on the training speech utterance signal and a confusable string model;
d. generating a signal reflecting a comparison of a likelihood of
correctly recognizing the training speech utterance and a likelihood of incorrectly

recognizing the training speech utterance, said likelihood of correctly recognizing the
training speech utterance based on the first scoring signal and said likelihood of

incorrectly recognizing the training speech utterance based on the one or more second
scoring signals; and
e. based on the signal reflecting the comparison of said likelihoods,
modifying one or more of said current speech recognition models to increase the

probability that a string model for the utterance will have a rank order higher than the
confusable string models.
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of generating the set of one or
more confusable string models comprises generating N- best word string models. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the first scoring signal reflects a
measure of similarity between the training speech utterance signal and the string model

for that utterance.
The method of claim 3 wherein the measure of similarity comprises a
log-likelihood recognizer score.
The method of claim 1 wherein the second scoring signal reflects a
measure of similarity between the training speech utterance signal and one of said

confusable string models.
The method of claim 5 wherein the measure of similarity comprises a
log-likelihood recognizer score.
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of generating a signal
reflecting a comparison comprises forming a difference of the first scoring signal and a

combination of one or more second scoring signals.
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of modifying the one or more
of said current speech recognition models comprises the steps of:


1. generating a recognition model modification signal reflecting a gradient of a
function, the function reflecting a recognizer score of a training speech utterance

based on a string model for that utterance and one or more recognizer scores of
the training speech utterance based on one or more confusable string models;

and
2. adjusting the one or more of said current speech recognition models based on
the modification signal.
The method of claim 8 wherein the function reflects a difference of a
recognizer score of a training speech utterance based on a string model for that utterance

and a weighted sum of the one or more recognizer scores of the training speech
utterance based on one or more confusable string models.
The method of claim 1 wherein one of said sets of current speech
recognition models comprises acoustic models. 
The method of claim 10 wherein the acoustic models comprise
hidden Markov models.
The method of claim 1 wherein one of said sets of current speech
recognition models comprises language models.
The method of claim 1 wherein one of said sets of current speech
recognition models comprises pitch models.
The method of claim 1 wherein one of said sets of current speech
recognition models comprises energy models.
The method of claim 1 wherein one of said sets of current speech
recognition models comprises speaking rate models.
The method of claim 1 wherein one of said sets of current speech
recognition models comprises duration models.
A speech recognizer trainer for making a speech recognition model
database based on a training speech utterance signal and a plurality of sets of current

speech recognition models, the trainer comprising

a. means for generating a set of one or more confusable string models, a
confusable string model comprising a plurality of said current speech

recognition models from two or more of said sets of said current speech
recognition models, wherein each of at least two of said sets of models

corresponds to different characteristics of speech and wherein the Confusable
string model is a model which, if selected to represent the training speech

utterance. would result in a misrecognition of the training speech utterance;
b. means for generating a first scoring signal based on the speech
utterance signal and a string model for that utterance, the string model for the

utterance comprising a plurality of said current speech recognition models from
said two or more of said sets of said current speech recognition models;
c. means for generating one or more second scoring signals, a second
scoring signal based on the training speech utterance signal and a confusable

string model; 
d. means for generating a signal reflecting a comparison of a likelihood

of correctly recognizing the training speech utterance and a likelihood of
incorrectly recognizing the training speech utterance, said likelihood of correctly

recognizing the training speech utterance based on the first scoring signal and
said likelihood of incorrectly recognizing the training speech utterance based on

the one or more second scoring signals; and
e. means, responsive to the signal reflecting the comparison of said
likelihoods, for modifying one or more of said current speech recognition

models to increase the probability that a string model for the utterance will have
a rank order higher than the confusable string models.
The trainer of claim 17 wherein the means for generating a signal
reflecting a comparison comprises means for forming a difference between the first

scoring signal and a combination of the one or more second scoring signals.
The trainer of claim 17 wherein the means for modifying the one or
more of said current speech recognition models comprises:


1. means for generating a recognition model modification signal reflecting a gradient
of a function, the function reflecting a recognizer score of a training speech utterance

based on a string model for that utterance and one or more recognizer scores of the
training speech utterance based on the one or more confusable string models; and
2. means for adapting the one or more of said current speech recognition models
based on the modification signal.
A speech recognition system comprising:

a. a feature extractor (20) for receiving an unknown speech signal and
generating feature signals characterizing the unknown speech signal;
b. a memory (70) having stored therein a plurality of sets of speech recognition models,
one or more of the speech recognition models generated in accordance with a

process of modifying parameters of predetermined speech recognition models to
enhance the probability that a correct string model will have a rank order higher

than one or more confusable string models,

wherein each of at least two of said sets of speech recognition models
corresponds to different characteristics of speech and wherein said confusable 

string models are models which, if selected to represent a training speech
utterance, would result in a misrecognition of the training speech utterance,
and wherein the modification of said parameters is based on a
comparison of a likelihood of correctly recognizing a training speech utterance

and a likelihood of incorrectly recognizing the training speech utterance, the
likelihood of correctly recognizing the training speech utterance based on a first

scoring signal and the likelihood of incorrectly recognizing the training speech
utterance based on one or more second scoring signals,
the first scoring signal generated based on the training speech utterance
and a string model for that utterance, the string model for the utterance

comprising a plurality of said speech recognition models from said at least two
of said sets of said speech recognition models, and each of the second scoring

signals generated based on the training speech utterance signal and one of said
confusable string models; and
c. a scoring processor (40,50), coupled to the feature extractor and the memory,
for comparing a string model with features of the unknown speech signal, the

string model comprising one or more of said speech recognition models from
each of the plurality of said sets of speech recognition models, and for

recognizing the unknown speech signal based on one of a plurality of string
models which most closely compares with the features of the unknown speech

signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
