<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611691</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Motorized power steering apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62D602	B62D504	B62D602	B62D504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62D6	B62D5	B62D6	B62D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A motorized power steering apparatus in which a 
voltage to be applied to a motor (32) for assisting 

steerage, is controlled based on (i) an electric current 
flowing in the motor (32) and (ii) a target electric 

current value determined based on steering 
torque. The target electric current value is determined 

based on the steering torque. Based on the voltage 
value applied to the motor (32), a polarity is 

given to a motor electric current detection value. The 
voltage applied to the motor (32) is controlled based 

on the polarized motor electric current value and the 
target electric current value. It is therefore possible 

to control the voltage applied to the motor (32) 
with consideration also given to the direction of the 

electric current flowing in the motor (32). This 
enables to securely give, to a steering mechanism, a 

steerage assisting force corresponding to the steering 
torque. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOYO SEIKO CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOYO SEIKO CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUOKA HIROFUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIMOTO MITSUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUOKA, HIROFUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIMOTO, MITSUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a motorized 
power steering apparatus for transmitting, to the 
steering mechanism, torque generated by the motor 
driven in response to steerage, thereby to assist the 
steerage. The U.K. patent application GB-A-2 167 025 discloses an 
electric power steering system for motor vehicles. A direct 
current motor is arranged to supply auxiliary torque to an 
input shaft connected to the steering wheel of a vehicle. 
Torque detection means are provided for detecting the 
steering torque present on the input shaft. A control 
circuit applies a driving control signal to the DC motor in 
accordance with an output signal from the detection means. 
The control signal comprises an armature voltage of the 
motor having a value dependent on the magnitude of the 
steering torque acting on the input shaft.  
 Conventionally, a motorized 
power steering apparatus is adapted such that, when 
steerage is conducted by rotating a steering wheel, 
the motor gives, to the steering mechanism, an assisting 
force corresponding to steering torque applied to 
the steering shaft, thereby to assist the steerage. More specifically, the motor is attached to a 
steering column which holds the steering shaft. The 
rotation force of the motor is transmitted to the 
steering shaft through a worm gear. A torsion bar is 
disposed at an intermediate portion of the steering 
shaft. When the steering wheel is operated, the torsion 
bar is slightly twisted. This relatively displaces 
the input shaft and the output shaft which are  
 
connected to each other by the torsion bar. Such a 
relative displacement is detected by a torque sensor, 
and an electric current to be supplied to the motor is 
controlled based on the result of such detection. Accordingly, 
the steerage can be assisted according to 
steering torque applied to the steering shaft. Fig. 7 is a block diagram illustrating the electric 
arrangement of the motorized power steering apparatus 
above-mentioned. An electric power from a battery 
1 mounted on a vehicle, is given to a motor drive 
circuit 2, to which a motor 3 is connected. Torque 
generated by the motor 3 is transmitted to the steering 
shaft, thus assisting the steerage. In the motor drive circuit 2, a series circuit 
of power transistors 2A, 2B and a series circuit of 
power transistors 2C, 2D are connected in parallel to 
the battery 1. The motor 3 is connected between a connection 
point 8 of the power transistors 2A, 2B and a 
connection point 9 of the power transistors 2C, 2D. A 
pul
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A motorized power steering apparatus comprising: 

a torque sensor (31) for detecting steering torque; 
a motor (32) for generating a drive force to be 
supplied to a steering mechanism for assisting 

steerage; 
means (41, 42, 43, 44, 45) for determining a target 
electric current value (Io) based on the steering 

torque detected by said torque sensor (31); 
motor electric current detecting means (36) for 
detecting a value of an electric current (Im) flowing 

in said motor (32); and 
control means (46, 48, 49) for feedback-controlling a 
target voltage (V) to be applied to said motor (32), 
 
characterized in that
 
polarizing means (47) are provided comprising means 

for determining the polarity of the voltage (V') 
previously applied to the motor (32) and means for 

polarizing the motor electric current detection value 
(Im) with the determined polarity of the previously 

applied voltage (V'), and
 
said control means (46, 48, 49) comprises means (46, 

48) to determine the target voltage to be applied to 
the motor (32) on the basis of the target electric 

current value (Io) and the polarized motor electric 
current detection value (Is).  

 
A motorized power steering apparatus according to 
Claim 1, wherein
 
the target electric current value (Io) has a polarity 

corresponding to a direction of torque to be applied 
to the steering mechanism from the motor (32), and
 
the value of the target voltage applied to said motor 

(32) has a polarity corresponding to a direction of 
torque to be applied to the steering mechanism from 

said motor (32). 
A motorized power steering apparatus according to 
Claim 1, wherein the control means (46, 48, 49) 

controls the target voltage to be applied to the motor 
(32), based
 on a difference between the polarized 
motor electric current detection value (Is) and the 

target electric current value (Io). 
A motorized power steering apparatus according to 
Claim 1, wherein the control means (46, 48, 49) 

comprises: 

means (48, 49) for supplying, based on a polarity of 
the target voltage value, a pulse width control signal 

to either one of a first drive means (TR1, TR2) and a 
second drive means (TL1, TL2); 
means (48, 49) for determining a duty ratio of the 
pulse width control signal based on the target voltage 

value, 
wherein the first drive means (TR1, TR2) supplies the 
motor (32) with an electric current in one direction  

 
at the duty ratio of the pulse width control signal; 

and 
wherein the second drive means (TL1, TL2) supplies 
said motor (32) with an electric current in the other 

direction at the duty ratio of the pulse width control 
signal. 
A control method for a motorized power steering 
apparatus providing a drive force generated by a motor 

(32) to a steering mechanism in order to assist 
steerage, comprising: 


detecting steering torque; 
determining a target electric current value (Io) based 
on the detected steering torque; 
detecting an electric current value (Im) flowing in 
said motor (32); 
 
characterized by
 
determining the polarity of the previously applied 

voltage (V') to the motor (32) and polarizing the 
motor electric current detection value (Im) with the 

determined polarity of the previously applied voltage 
(V');
 
feedback-controlling a target voltage (V) to be 

applied to the motor (32) by determining the target 
voltage (V) on the basis of the target electric 

current value (Io) and the polarized motor electric current 
detection value (Is).  

 
A control method of a motorized power steering 
apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein
 
the target electric current value (Io) has a polarity 

corresponding to a direction of torque to be applied 
to the steering mechanism from the motor (32), and
 
the value of the target voltage (V) to be applied to 

said motor (32) has a polarity corresponding to a 
direction of torque to be applied to said steering 

mechanism from said motor (32). 
A control method of a motorized power steering 
apparatus according to Claim 5, further comprising: 


controlling the target voltage (V) to be applied to 
the motor (32) based on a difference between the 

polarized motor electric current detection value (Is) 
and the target electric current value (Io). 
A control method of a motorized power steering 
apparatus according to Claim 5, further comprising: 


supplying, based on a polarity of said target voltage 
value (V), a pulse width control signal to either one 

of a first drive means (TR1, TR2) and a second drive 
means (TL1, TL2); and 
determining a duty ratio of the pulse width control 
signal based on the target voltage value, 
wherein the first drive means (TR1, TR2) supplies the 
motor (32) with an electric current in one direction 

at the duty ratio of the pulse width control signal; 
and  

 
second drive means (TL1, TL2) supplies said motor (32) 
with an electric current in the other direction at the 

duty ratio of the pulse width control signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
