<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODULAR TUBING ASSEMBLY DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B2702	B25B2710	F16L3300	F16L3300	F16L3328	F16L3328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	B25B	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B27	B25B27	F16L33	F16L33	F16L33	F16L33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automatic tubing assembly device of modular design and suitable to utilization with thin-walled, flexible tubing is shown in several embodiments. The device includes a mechanical assembly for pure rectilinear motion to avoid tubing damage and an elongated jaw set (18) which applies a force to the tubing (45) over the fitting (1) involved and which flexes outward over the fitting (1). Use of a springed friction member (54) and sliding cam (21) act to achieve the rectilinear motion. The fitting (1) is supported along its length and the entire device is operable from one lever (7) which has only one degree of freedom and thus lends itself to assembly line automated uses. Additionally, multiple axis fittings can be accommodated through simple reconfiguration of the modular design.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMPSON JAMES K
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMPSON RICHARD K
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMPSON, JAMES K.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMPSON, RICHARD K.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAMPSON JAMES K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAMPSON RICHARD K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAMPSON, JAMES K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAMPSON, RICHARD K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MODULAR TUBING ASSEMBLY DEVICEI. TECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates generally to the field of automatic devices for the repetitive assembly of flexible tubing and fittings. Specifically, the invention focuses on devices which can accommodate a variety of tubing characteristics, including thin, extremely flexible tubing.II. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONFor many years, flexible tubing has been an important component in a broad variety of designs. In the vast majority of applications, the tubing is joined to a system by sliding it over a fitting which causes the tubing to expand and securely engage the fitting. While such designs have been in use for over a century, .ittle attention has been paid to how the tubing is actually attached to the fitt-ng. Perhaps even more surprising is the fact that in spite of the wide spread use of such assemblies, even the concept of automating the creation of these assemblies has not been the focus of efforts until the last few years.In many of those few efforts which have been made at automating the creation of such assemblies, those skilled in the art have frequently focused upon creating devices which specifically accommodate particular tubing or fitting designs. As an example of this type of device, U.S. Patent No. 4408381 to Kish in 1983, discloses a device which is designed to be used with a particular type of hose which has a metal shell on its end. Similarly, U.S. Patent No. 4757588 to Churchich in 1988, discloses a plier-type device which is particularly designed to engage fittings having a certain base design. While these types of designs no doubt work well in their specific applications, they do not lend themselves to utilization in a variety of applications. The present invention overcomes this limitation among others.In 1989, a particular design which combined both an automatic character as well as a relatively universal design was disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4811441 

 to Potesta. While this device is of a more universal nature, it, too, present limitations which restrict the variety of applications to which it may be applied.One of the characteristics which practically every previous device relies upo to accomplish insertion is the integrity of the tubing itself. Specifically, virtuall every device relies upon the tubing to have sufficient structural rigidity in order t accomplish actually forcing the tubing itself over the fitting. While, obviously, thi works for certain types of tubing, it does not work for very thin or extremel flexible tubing.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
VI. CLAIMS
We claim:
1. A combination of a fitting, elastic tubing to which the fitting is attached, and assembly device comprising: a. a base plate; b. a fitting positioned upon said assembly device; c. a section of elastic tubing also positioned upon said assembly device and capable of engaging said fitting; d. a means for supplying an axial force to engage said tubing and said fitting; e. a means for resisting said axial force; f. a means for clamping said tubing wherein said length of tubing and said means for clamping overlap said fitting an amount during engagement.
2. A combination as described in claim 1 and further comprising a means for transforming said axial force to a force transmitted along a length of said tubing for assembly.
3. A combination as described in claim 2 wherein said means for clamping comprises a means for expanding over said fitting.
4. A combination as described in claim 3 wherein said means for clamping comprises movable jaws having length and wherein said means for expanding over said fitting comprises a portion of said jaw length to be flexible relative to the remaining jaw portion.
5. A combination as described in claim 4 wherein relatively flexible jaw portion comprises a means for varying the degree of flexure over its length. 


 6. A combination as described in claim 4 wherein said movable jaws comprise a relatively inflexible portion and wherein said relatively inflexible portion does not significantly overlap said fitting.
5 7. A combination as described in claim 3 wherein said means for expanding comprises jaws having diameters which vary over their length.
8. A combination as described in claim 2 wherein said means for clamping has length and wherein said means for clamping comprises a means for varying
10 the degree of engagement with said tubing along said length.
9. A combination as described in claim 8 wherein said means for varying the degree of engagement with said tubing comprises flexible jaws.
1 5 10. A combination as described in claim 8 wherein said means for clamping comprises movable jaws and wherein said means for varying the degree of engagement with said tubing comprises the inner surface of said jaws.
1 1 . A combination as described in claim 8 wherein said means for clamping 20 comprises movable jaws and wherein said means for varying the degree of engagement with said tubing comprises the shape of said jaws.
1 2. A combination as described in claim 8 wherein said means for varying the degree of engagement with said tubing along said length comprises a 5 textured inner surface.
13. A combination as described in claim 1 2 wherein said texturing varies along said length of said inner surface.
0 14. A combination as described in claim 2 wherein said means for clamping comprises a means for minimizing deformation of the tubing. 


 15. A combination as described in claim 14 wherein said means for clampin generates a clamping force and wherein said means for clamping comprise a means for limiting said clamping force.
5 16. A combination as described in claim 15 wherein said means for limiting sai clamping force comprises a stop.
17. A combination as described in claim 14 wherein said means for minimizing deformation of the tubing comprises curved jaw members having significant
10 length.
18. A combination as described in claim 2 wherein said means for clamping comprises: a. at least two curved members each having a top and a bottom portion 15 and capable of movement relative to each other from an open to a closed position; b. a stop on each of said bottom portions such that said stops abut in the closed position; and c. a truncated edge on each top portion such that said truncated edges 20 do not abut when in the closed position.
19. A combination as described in claim 18 wherein said curved members can be moved from a rearward to a forward position and wherein said curved members overlap the fitting when in said forward position.
25
20. A combination as described in claim 2, 4, or 19 and further comprising a means for adjusting the amount said means for clamping and said length of tubing overlap said fitting.
30 21. A device for assembling a fitting having a stem and elastic tubing comprising: a. a base plate; 


 b. a means for supplying an axial force to engage said tubing and said fitting at a distance from the stem of said fitting; c. a means for resisting said axial force; d. a means for adjusting the relative distance between said means fo supplying an axial force and said stem of said fitting.
22. A device for assembling a fitting and elastic tubing comprising: a. a base plate; b. a lever arm for supplying an axial force from a rearward to a forward position to engage said tubing and said fitting wherein said lever arm has only one degree of freedom; c. a means for resisting said axial force; and d. a means for allowing additional applications of axial force by only motion of said lever arm.
23. A device as described in claim 22 and further comprising a means for clamping the tubing and wherein said means for allowing additional applications of axial force comprises: a. a means for releasing the means for clamping; b. a means for returning the means for clamping to the rearward position; c. a means for activating the means for clamping when in the rearward position without applying any axial force to the tubing; and d. a means for applying said axial force to the tubing.
24. A device as described in claim 23 wherein said lever arm causes activation of said means for releasing, said means for returning, and said means for activating.
25. A device for assembling a fitting and elastic tubing comprising: a. a base plate; b. a base detachably engaging said base plate; c. a lever arm pivotally inserted into said base; 


 d. a plurality of jaws slidably inserted into said base and axially aligne with said fitting; and e. a means for accomplishing pure rectilinear motion of said jaws through operation of said lever arm.
5
26. A device as described in claim 25 wherein said lever arm has only one degree of freedom.
27. A device as described in claim 26 wherein said means for accomplishing 10 pure rectilinear motion is activated only by said lever arm.
28. A device as described in claim 27 wherein said means for accomplishing pure rectilinear motion comprises a friction member which frictionally engages said base.
15
29. A device as described in claim 28 wherein said jaws are movable from an open to a closed position and wherein said friction member begins to slide only after said jaws are in said closed position.
20 30. A device as described in claim 28 or 29 wherein said friction member comprises a friction member which slidably engages said base.
31. A device as described in claim 25 wherein said means for accomplishing pure rectilinear motion comprises a pivot member. 5
32. A device as described in claim 25 wherein said means for accomplishing pure rectilinear motion comprises: a. a friction member which slidably engages said base; b. a cam member responsive to said friction member; and 0 c. a drive gear engaged by said cam member.
33. A device as described in claim 32 wherein said jaws comprise a relatively flexible portion. 


 34. A device as described in claim 32 and further comprising a means for adjusting the position of said jaws relative to the fitting.
35. A device as described in claim 32 and further comprising a means for 5 adjusting the position of said jaws relative to the fitting wherein said means for adjusting can be positioned to allow overlap of said jaws and the fitting.
36. A device as described in claim 25 or 27 wherein said lever arm is reversible.
10 37. A combination as described in claim 1 and further comprising a means for adapting to a fitting.
38. A device for assembling a fitting having a stem and elastic tubing comprising: 5 a. a base plate; b. a means for supplying an axial force to engage said tubing and said fitting; c. a means for resisting said axial force; d. a means for adapting to a fitting. 0
39. A device as described in claim 37 or 38 wherein said means for adapting to a fitting comprises a rotatable anvil.
40. A device as described in claim 37 or 38 wherein said means for adapting © 5 a fitting comprises a pivotable pin.
41 . A device for assembling a fitting and elastic tubing comprising: a. a base plate; b. a means for supplying an axial force to engage said tubing and said 0 fitting;
'
 c. a means for resisting said axial force; and d. a means for supporting the fitting along its length. 


 42. A device as described in claim 41 wherein said means for supporting comprises a lateral support.
43. A device as described in claim 42 wherein said lateral support comprises a 5 pin.
44. A device as described in claim 42 wherein said means for supporting further comprises an axial support.
10 45. A device as described in claim 44 wherein said axial support comprises a tapered pin.
46. A device for assembling a fitting and elastic tubing comprising: a. a base plate; 5 b. a means for supplying an axial force to engage said tubing and said fitting; c. a means for resisting said axial force; d. a lever arm for supplying an axial force from a rearward to a forward position to engage said tubing and said fitting and wherein said lever 0 arm has only one degree of freedom; e. a means for clamping said tubing wherein said means for clamping is responsive to said lever arm; f. a means for activating the means for clamping without applying any axial force to the tubing; 5 g. a means for applying said axial force to the tubing by moving said means for clamping from said rearward position to said forward position; h. a means for releasing the means for clamping; and i. a means for returning the means for clamping to the rearward 0 position.
47. A device as described in claim 1 or 46 and further comprising a means for supporting the fitting along its length. 


48. A device as described in claim 46 wherein said lever arm causes activation of said means for activating, said means for releasing, and said means for returning.
49. A device as described in claim 48 wherein said lever arm causes activation of said stated means in the sequences stated .
50. A device as described in claim 46 and further comprising a means for transforming said axial force to a force over the fitting.
51 . A device for assembling a fitting and elastic tubing comprising: a. a base plate; b. a means for supplying an axial force to engage said tubing and said fitting; c. a means for resisting said axial force; and d. a means for automatically reloading the fitting.
52. A device as described in claim 51 wherein said means for automatically reloading comprises a fitting magazine.
53. A device for assembling a fitting and elastic tubing comprising: a. a base plate; b. a means for supplying an insertion force to engage said tubing and said fitting; c. a means for resisting said insertion force; and d. a means for accomplishing insertions in multiple axes.
54. A device as described in claim 53 wherein said means for accomplishing insertions in multiple axes comprises a modular system.
55. A device as described in claim 53 wherein said means for accomplishing insertions in multiple axes comprises a plurality of means for supplying an insertion force. 


 56. A device as described in claim 53 wherein said means for accomplishing insertions in multiple axes comprises a multiple mount base plate.
57. A device as described in claim 54 wherein said means for accomplishing 5 insertions in multiple axes comprises a multiple mount base plate.
58. A device as described in claim 56 wherein said means for supplying an insertion force to engage said tubing and said fitting comprises a lever arm assembly and wherein said multiple mount base plate comprises a plurality
10 of tracks capable of accepting said fever arm assemblies.
59. A device as described in claim 58 wherein at least one of said lever arm assemblies comprises jaws which are capable of overlapping the fitting.
15 60. A device as described in claim 59 and further comprising at least one means for adjusting the position of said jaws relative to the fitting.
61. A device as described in claim 59 wherein at least one of said jaws comprises a flexible portion. 0
62. A device as described in claim 53 wherein said means for supplying an insertion force to engage said tubing and said fitting comprises at least one lever arm assembly and wherein said lever arm assembly comprises a means for accomplishing pure rectilinear motion. 5
63. A device as described in claim 62 wherein said means for accomplishing pure rectilinear motion comprises: a. a lever arm for supplying an insertion force from a rearward to a forward position to engage said tubing and said fitting wherein said 0 lever arm has only one degree of freedom; b. a means for clamping said tubing wherein said means for clamping is responsive to said lever arm; 


 c. a means for activating the means for clamping without applying any axial force to the tubing; d. a means for applying said axial force to the tubing by moving said means for clamping from said rearward position to said forward
5 position; e. a means for releasing the means for clamping; and f. a means for returning the means for clamping to the rearward position.
10 64. A device as described in claim 63 wherein said lever arm causes activation of said means for activating, said means for releasing, and said means for returning.
65. A device as described in claim 58 wherein said tracks are approximately 15 aligned radially with a common point.
66. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly comprising the steps of: a. placing the tubing in approximately an axial position; and 0 b. inserting the fitting in approximately an axial position; then c. moving a lever arm forward wherein said step of moving said lever arm comprises the step of clamping the tubing prior to applying any axial force; then d. moving said lever arm backward; then 5 e. removing said tubing assembly.
67. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 66 wherein said tubing has an exterior surface and wherein said step of moving said lever arm forward 0 accomplishes the step of applying an axial force to a portion of the exterior of the tubing which is over the fitting. 


 68. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubin assembly as described in claim 67 wherein the step of clamping the tubin utilizes a clamp which is capable of moving from a rearward to a forward position and wherein said step of moving said lever arm backwar accomplishes the steps of: a. releasing said clamp; and then b. returning said clamp to a rearward position.
69. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 67 wherein the step of clamping the tubing utilizes a clamp and further comprising the step of expanding said clamp over the fitting.
70. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 69 wherein the step of expanding said clamp over the fitting comprises the step of allowing said clamp to flex.
71. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 67 and further comprising the step of varying the force applied to the exterior of tubing while accomplishing the step of moving said lever arm forward.
72. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 67 wherein the step of clamping the tubing utilizes a clamp and further comprising the step of allowing a portion of the tubing to slide within said clamp while accomplishing the step of moving said lever arm forward.
73. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 66 wherein the step of clamping comprises the step of not substantially deforming the tubing. 


74. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 73 wherein the step of clamping applies a clamping force and wherein the step of clamping further comprises the step of automatically limiting the clamping force applied to the tubing.
75. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 66 and further comprising the step of again moving said lever arm forward to apply additional force to the exterior of the tubing without manually readjusting the tubing before removing the tubing assembly.
76. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 66, 67, or 71 and further comprising the step of supporting the fitting along its length while accomplishing the step of moving said lever arm forward.
77. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 76 wherein said step of supporting the fitting along its length comprises the step of laterally supporting said fitting along its length.
78. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 77 wherein said step of supporting the fitting along its length further comprises the step of axially supporting said fitting along its length.
79. A method of assembling a fitting and elastic tubing to create a tubing assembly as described in claim 66, 67, 70, 72, or 73 and further comprising the step of automatically inserting another fitting in approximately an axial position after accomplishing said step of removing said tubing assembly. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
