<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613531</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CAGE FOR ROLLER BEARINGS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C3346	F16C3346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C33	F16C33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bearing cage (10) for a roller bearing. The bearing cage comprising first and second annular end rims (32, 34) axially spaced along a common axis (36) and cross bars (38) connecting the end rims such that pockets (40) are formed between the end rims and the cross bars for retaining the rollers (42). Axially outward surfaces (52, 54) of the end rims define the axial length of the bearing cage and include at least one recess (56) for facilitating passage of lubricant to the rollers (42).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TORRINGTON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE TORRINGTON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOULTON DAVID R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOULTON, DAVID, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CAGE FOR ROLLER BEARINGSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to bearing cages for use with roller bearings and, more particularly, to bearing cages suitable for applications imposing high operating temperatures and severe inertia loads.Bearing conditions existing within two- and four-cycle internal combustion engines are among the most severe. High loads, speeds, accelerations, and temperatures, particularly at crankpin and wristpin positions, make bearing selection critical. Needle roller and cage assemblies have found general acceptance as an optimum choice for meeting those extreme requirements.Due to the proximity to combustion chambers and the piston's oscillating motion, the wristpin position has required a strong, hardened cage machined of steel and staked to retain the rollers. Commonly, such cages have end rims that are wider (axially) than would be considered normal for additional strength and to keep the roller length within connecting rod width. Minimum diameter rollers with minimum diametral clearance are used to reduce inertial loading.In less demanding applications, bearing cages for roller bearings have been made of various polymers to minimize weight and reduce manufacturing cost. However, such polymer bearing cages have not been successful in wristpin positions and other severe applications because they lack sufficient strength and/or prevent adequate lubricant flow to the rollers.The foregoing illustrates limitations known to exist in present cages for roller bearings. Thus, it is apparent that it would be advantageous to provide an alternative directed to overcoming one of more of the limitations set forth above. Accordingly, a suitable alternative is provided including features more fully disclosed hereinafter. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In one aspect of the present invention, this is accomplished by providing a bearing cage for a roller bearing, the bearing cage comprising first and second annular end rims axially spaced along a common axis and cross bars connecting the end rims such that pockets are formed between the end rims and the cross bars for retaining the rollers. Axially outward surfaces of the end rims define the axial length of the bearing cage and include at least one recess for facilitating passage of lubricant to the rollers.The foregoing and other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawing figures.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING FIGURES
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Having described the invention, what is claimed is:
1. A bearing cage (10) for a roller bearing, the bearing cage comprising: first and second annular end rims (32, 34) axially spaced along a common axis (36), the end rims having axially outward surfaces defining the axial length of the bearing cage; and cross bars (38) connecting the end rims such that pockets (40) are formed between the end rims and the cross bars for retaining the rollers (42); wherein the axial length of each of the end rims varies along its circumference such that a piloting end surface of the bearing cage is provided at a longer end rim portion and such that a recessed end surface of the bearing cage is provided at a shorter end rim portion circumferentially spaced from the longer end rim portion for facilitating passage of lubricant to the rollers.
2. The bearing cage of claim 1 , wherein said axially outward surface of each of the end rims includes at least one radial surface defining the axial length of the bearing cage and at least one axially inwardly extending undulation comprising said recessed end surface.
3. The bearing cage of claim 2, wherein the number of radial surfaces is four and the number of undulations is four.
4. The bearing cage of claim 2, wherein the end rims are offset with respect to each other such that the radial surface of the first end rim is axially opposite the inwardly extending undulation of the second end rim and the inwardly extending undulation of the first end rim is axially opposite the radial surface of the second end rim.
5. A bearing cage (10) for roller bearing, the bearing cage comprising: first and second annular end rims (32, 34) axially spaced along a 


common axis (36), the end rims having axially outward surfaces defining the axial length of the bearing cage; and cross bars (38) connecting the end rims such that pockets (40) are formed between the end rims and the cross bars for retaining the rollers (42); said end rims being configured with at least one recess (56) in said axially outward surfaces (52, 54) for facilitating passage of lubricant to the rollers, wherein said axially outward surface of each of the end rims includes four arcuate undulations equally spaced along the circumference thereof, the undulations comprising said at least one recess for facilitating passage of lubricant.
6. A bearing cage (10) for a roller bearing, the bearing cage comprising: first and second annular end rims (32, 34) axially spaced along a common axis (36), the end rims having axially outward surfaces (52, 54) defining the axial length of the bearing cage; and cross bars (36) connecting the end rims such that pockets are formed between the end rims and the cross bars for retaining the rollers; said end rims being configured with at least one recess in said axially outward surfaces (52, 54) for facilitating passage of lubricant to the rollers, wherein the end rims have a maximum thickness in the radial direction of at least eighty (80) percent of the diameter of the rollers.
7. The bearing cage of claim 1, wherein the end rims and cross bars are molded of polyetheretherketone with a reinforcing filler.
8. The bearing cage of claim 1 , wherein the crossbars include retention pads (44) extending radially outward with respect to other portions of the crossbars and with respect to the end rims, the retention pads having retaining surfaces for engaging the rollers to limit outward movement of the rollers. 


9. The bearing cage of claim 8, wherein the retention pads have a radially outward surface that is cylindrical and coaxial with the end rims for conforming to a surface of an outer bearing race.
10. A bearing cage for a roller bearing, the bearing cage comprising: first and second annular end rims (32, 34) axially spaced along a common axis (36), the end rims having axially outward surfaces (52, 54) defining the axial length of the bearing cage; and cross bars (38) connecting the end rims such that pockets (40) are formed between the end rims and the cross bars for retaining the rollers (42); said end rims being configured with at least one recess (56) in said axially outward surfaces for facilitating passage of lubricant to the rollers, wherein the end rims and the cross bars have radiused corners and blended edges for reducing stress within the bearing cage.
11. A polymer bearing cage for a bearing having rollers, the bearing cage comprising: first and second annular end rims (32, 34) axially spaced along a common axis (36), the end rims having axially outward surfaces (52, 54) defining the axial length of the bearing cage, the end rims being made of a polymer and having a maximum thickness in the radial direction of at least eighty (80) percent of the diameter of the rollers; and cross bars (38) connecting the end rims such that pockets are formed between the end rims and the cross bars for retaining the rollers, the cross bars made of the same polymer as the end rims; the crossbars having retention pads extending radially outward with respect to other portions of the crossbars and with respect to the end rims, the retention pads (44) having retaining surfaces for engaging the rollers to limit outward movement of the rollers. 


12. The polymer bearing cage of claim 11 , wherein said end rims are configured with at least one recess in said axially outward surfaces for facilitating passage of lubricant to the rollers.
13. The polymer bearing cage of claim 11 , wherein the axial length of each of the end rims varies along its circumference such that a piloting surface is provided at a longer axial portion and said at least one recess is provided at a shorter axial portion.
14. The polymer bearing cage of claim 11 , wherein said axially outward surface of each of the end rims includes at least one radial surface defining the axial length of the bearing cage and at least one axially inwardly extending undulation comprising said at least one recess.
15. The polymer bearing cage of claim 14, wherein the number of radial surfaces is four and the number of undulations is four.
16. The polymer bearing cage of claim 14, wherein the end rims are offset with respect to each other such that the radial surface of the first end rim is axially opposite the inwardly extending undulation of the second end rim and the inwardly extending undulation of the first end rim is axially opposite the radial surface of the second end rim.
17. The polymer bearing cage of claim 14, wherein said axially outward surface of each of the end rims includes four arcuate undulations equally spaced along the circumference thereof, the undulations comprising said at least one recess for permitting passage of lubricant.
18. The polymer bearing cage of claim 11 , wherein the end rims and cross bars are molded of polyetheretherketone with a reinforcing filler. 


19. The polymer bearing cage of claim 18, wherein the retention pads have a radially outward surface that is cylindrical and coaxial with the end rims for conforming to a surface of an outer bearing race. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
