<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626890</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COLD-FORMING OF TOOTHED WHEELS FROM SHEET STEEL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D5326	B21D5328	B21H500	B21H500	B21H502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B21H	B21H	B21H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D53	B21D53	B21H5	B21H5	B21H5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TESMA INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TESMA INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIMMEROEDER HELGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIMMEROEDER, HELGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COLD-FORMING OF TOOTHED WHEELS FROM SHEET STEEL Field of InventionThis invention relates to toothed wheels of the type utilized in motor vehicles as, for example, in the starter assembly thereof and more particularly to improvements in the method of making such toothed wheels. Background of InventionA motor vehicle usage of a mechanical part presents certain inherent' problems which are peculiar to automotive use and are not presented in other uses. Today, the weight of the part is a particular problem and there is always a desire to reduce weight to a minimum commensurate with adequate strength. An extended useful life is also a highly prized characteristic. Moreover, due to the mass production basis upon which most motor vehicles and parts are made,. the one most necessary attribute is cost-effectiveness.Toothed wheels, as herein utilized, includes starter gears, toothed timing belt pulleys, pulse rings, and the like, with particular emphasis on starter gears.Conventional practice in the manufacture of starter gears is to form an annular body from sheet metal by suitable cold-forming, as, for example, stamping and the like, which annular body provides the central wall of the gear and includes a peripheral configuration suitable to receive a separate ring gear. The ring gear is made from a ring of metal of rectangular cross-sectional configuration with the teeth being conventionally machined by a metal removal process. The starter gear is completed by spot-welding the ring gear to the peripheral configuration of the sheet metal body. The resultant construction while providing adequate service life is somewhat heavy and somewhat costly to manufacture. It has long been known that substantial manufacturing cost and weight savings could be achieved if a satisfactory gear could be fabricated from a single piece of sheet metal by moving the sheet metal into the final configuration using cold- forming techniques. The so-called "Grob" machine has been available for some time which is operable to hammer in gear teeth or, more particularly, to hammer materialSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

in an annular blank radially inwardly to form the space between teeth on an indexed basis.' Indeed, the patented literature contains proposals for making motor vehicle starter gears utilizing the Grob technique and machinery. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,796,345 discloses a method of making a starter gear which includes forming a preform from a circular piece of sheet metal by cold-forming an axial flange on the outer periphery of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of forming a toothed wheel including a series of cold-formed peripheral teeth having sides spaced apart a predetermined distance utilizing (1) a rotary holding unit having structure providing generally radially outwardly facing control surface means, and (2) a rotary tooth-forming tool unit having a rotational axis and a tooth-forming periphery extending annularly about said rotational axis, said rotary units including a total of two annular flanges extending outwardly thereof having two smooth tooth-side forming surface means facing toward one another spaced apart said predetermined distance, said method comprising the steps of cold foπning a circular piece of sheet metal of predetermined thickness into a preform having an outer annular section of generally uniform cross- sectional configuration and an integral sheet metal central wall generally of said predetermined thickness extending generally radially inwardly from the outer annular section toward a preform axis, said outer annular section having (1) a width greater than said predetermined thickness but no greater than said predetermined distance, and (2) an outer periphery which will allow a meshing action with the tooth-forming periphery of the tooth-forming tool unit, rotating (1) said rotary holding unit with said preform secured thereto about the preform axis and with said control surface means underlying at least a portion of said annular section and (2) said tooth-forming tool unit about the rotational axis thereof in a predetermine rotational relation, wherein said axes are parallel and the rotational speeds are synchronized, and while said rotary holding unit with the exterior periphery of said preform secured thereto and said tooth-forming tool unit are in said predetermined rotational relation affecting a relative movement between said units and the axes thereof in a direction toward one another to engage the tooth-forming periphery of the tooth-forming tool unit in cooperating metal- deforming relation with said annular section and deforming the same inwardly of the exterior periphery thereof until the sheet metal of the annular section 


 is cold-formed into said series of teeth, the peripheries of which are cold- formed by rolling contact with the tooth-forming periphery of the tooth- forming tool unit and portions of the sides of which are smooth and cold- formed by contact with said smooth tooth-side forming surface means so that an amount of sheet metal which would otherwise uncontrollably flow axially outwardly of the smooth tooth-side forming surface means is concentrated within the teeth and/or the radially inward back-up therefor.
2. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said preform is cold-formed into its final configuration while secured to said rotary holding unit and at least a portion of said control surface means is contacted by at least a portion of said annular section during the cold-forming of said preform.
3. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said preform is formed by cold- forming a first annular wall portion in side-by-side relation to a second annular wall portion integral with a central portion of the circular piece of sheet metal so that the two side-by-side annular wall portions are integrally interconnected at their outer peripheries so as to form a non-thickened preform.
4. A method as defined in claim 3 wherein said non-thickened preform is cold- formed into a thickened final preform while secured to said rotary holding unit with said first annular wall portion overlying said control surface means by cold-rolling the integrally interconnected outer peripheries of said two side-by-side annular wall portions radially inwardly to thicken the outer portion of the annular wall portions and the integral interconnection therebetween.
5. The method as claimed in claim 4 wherein said non-thickened preform is formed by cold-forming an outer annular portion of the circular piece of sheet metal into a peripheral flange extending axially from a central portion thereof, cold-forming a portion of the peripheral flange into said two side-by-side annular wall portions integrally extending outwardly of a remaining portion of said peripheral flange, said central portion providing said central wall, said pair of side-by-side integrally 


interconnected annular wall portions providing said annular section, and the remaining portion of the peripheral flange providing a pulse ring.
6. A method as defined in claim 5 wherein said outwardly facing control surface means comprises an annular control surface extending axially from an outer periphery of the central wall of said preform and in substantial abutting engagement with the remaining portion of the peripheral flange so that during the cold-forming of the series of teeth radial inward movement of the remaining portion of the peripheral flange is controlled by engagement with said annular control surface.
7. A method as defined in claim 6 wherein said two tooth-side forming surface means include parallel radial surfaces and said flanges are on said rotary holding unit in radially outwardly extending relation with respect to the periphery of said final preform when secured thereto so that the sides of the series of teeth are cold-formed by relatively stationary contact with said tooth-side forming surfaces.
8. The method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the entire opposite sides of said series of teeth are cold-formed by contact with said tooth-side forming surfaces except for rounded transitional surfaces between the opposite sides and the periphery of said series of teeth.
9. The method as claimed in claim 8 wherein said predetermined rotational relation includes a simultaneous synchronous rotation of said units in opposite directional meshing engagement to one another through a multiplicity of revolutions including reversal of directions.
10. A method as defined in claim 3 wherein said flanges are on said tooth-forming tool unit so that the sides of the series of teeth are cold-formed by relatively sliding contact with said tooth-side forming surface means. 11. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said outwardly facing control surface means includes a pair of annular control surfaces extending axially in opposite directions from an outer periphery of the central wall of the preform and radially within overlying portions of said annular section so that during the cold-forming of 



the series of teeth radial inward movement of the overlying portions of the annular section is controlled by engagement with said pair of annular control surfaces.
12. A method as defined in claim 11 wherein the circular piece of sheet metal is cold-formed into said preform while secured with the rotary holding unit by cold- rolling an outer annulus of the circular piece of sheet metal radiilly inwardly to an extent sufficient to thicken the outer annulus into said annular section having two portions contacting said pair of control surfaces.
13. A method as defined in claim 12 wherein said pair of annular control surfaces are cylindrical and are in pressure contact control of the overlying portions of said annular section at the end of the cold-forming of the series of teeth.
14. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said control surface means comprises an annular control surface extending axially from the outer periphery of the central wall of the preform and within an overlying portion of said annular section so that during the cold-forming of the series of teeth radially inward movement of the overlying portion of the annular section is controlled by engagement with said annular control surface.
15. A method as defined in claim 14 wherein said annular control surface is cylindrical and is in pressure contact control of the overlying portion of said annular section at the end of the cold-forming of the series of teeth. 16. The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said preform is formed by cold- forming an outer annulus of the circular piece of sheet metal into a peripheral flange extending outwardly and then downwardly from a curved central portion thereof so as to provide a cross-sectional configuration form which opens generally radially inwardly, said central portion providing said central wall and said peripheral flange of arcuate cross-section providing said annular section.
17. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said preform is formed by securing a circular piece of sheet steel with the rotary holding unit so that an annulus extends outwardly beyond said control surface means, thickening the annulus into an initial 


solid annular section by cold-rolling, and then cold-rolling the initial solid annular section into a final sohd annular section with an axial flange portion extending therefrom.
18. A toothed wheel cold-formed from a circular piece of sheet steel of predeteπnined thickness comprising a central wall generally of said predeteπnined thickness and an outer annular section extending annularly around an outer periphery of said central wall having a series of teeth therein, said outer annular section having, smooth opposite side surfaces spaced apart a predetermined distance greater than said predetermined thickness provided by steel from the circular piece having an interior grain configuration cold-formed by generally axially outward contact with cold-forming surfaces, an exterior peripheral surface in tooth formation provided by steel from the circular piece having an interior grain configuration cold-formed by rollingly meshing engagement with tooth-forming surfaces of a rotary tooth- foπning tool unit, and generally radially inwardly facing transitional surface means extending generally axially from the outer periphery of said central wall provided by steel from the circular piece having an interior grain configuration cold-forming by generally radially inward pressure contact with control surface means of a rotary preform holding unit.
19. A toothed wheel as defined in claim 18 wherein said exterior peripheral surface is a starter gear tooth formation and said outer annular section includes an integral pulse ring in the form of an axially extending cylindrical flange having a series of openings formed therein at regular annular intervals. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
