<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635110</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONNECTING DEVICE FOR PIPE ASSEMBLIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L3900	F16L3900	F16L4102	F16L4103	F16L5500	F16L5500	G01M300	G01M304	G01M304	G01M312	G01M312	G01M328	G01M328	G01M338	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L39	F16L39	F16L41	F16L41	F16L55	F16L55	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device (10) for providing access to the interstitial region between an inner pipe (35) and an outer pipe (37) which coaxially define the region. The inner pipe has at least one terminal end extending from the outer pipe to leave a portion of the outer wall of the inner pipe exposed to thereby expose the interstitial region. A boot (11) is provided for defining a chamber with a larger end snugly fitting the outer pipe and a small end snugly fitting on the exposed outer wall of the inner pipe. The boot has an access port (17) communicating with the interior of the chamber to provide access to the interstitial region.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENVIRON PROD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENVIRON PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBB MICHAEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBB, MICHAEL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CONNECTING DEVICE FOR PIPE ASSEMBLIESFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to pipe systems of the type used in environmentally safe underground piping systems. More particularly, the present invention relates to a device for use with piping system in which access is provided to the interstitial region between an inner pipe and a containment jacket or outer pipe. 
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn recent years there has been an increased awareness that underground storage and distribution systems for hazardous fluids such as hydrocarbon fuels and a diversity of other chemicals need to be improved to prevent from leaking into the environment and potentially contaminating underground drinking water. Both public health and fire safety regulatory bodies have imposed strict guidelines and regulations on such systems to insure public safety. Leaking underground storage tanks and their associated underground piping systems have become the focus of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to initiate federal and state legislation that would require an improved means of storage, distribution, leak detection and accounting for all stored fluids which are deemed to be hazardous. The EPA has conducted studies which show that underground piping failures are caused by poor installation practices. Corrosion and structural failure are responsible for most of the leaks reported.In response to this public awareness and concern, equipment specifiers and manufacturers have developed improved piping systems in recent years to provide a greater degree of protection for the environment. Most of these improved piping systems provide a second barrier of protection around the primary fluid supply piping, commonly referred to as "secondary containment". 

 For purpose of this description, underground piping systems are defined as the means of transferring liquids from a buried underground storage tank, using the tank's electrically powered dispensing pump to a generally metered dispensing unit or dispenser, generally located above ground. An underground piping system which is secondarily contained by a larger diameter piping system is generally referred to as a double-wall piping system. The primary distribution pipe which is contained is commonly referred to as the supply pipe and the larger outer secondary containment pipe is commonly referred to as the containment jacket or pipe. Other secondary containment components such as surface access chambers that are installed around the tanks pump and underneath a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A device for providing access to the interstitial region between an inner pipe and an outer pipe which define said region, said inner pipe having at least one terminal end extending from said outer pipe to leave a portion of the outer wall of said inner pipe exposed to thereby expose said interstitial region, comprising: boot means for defining a chamber with a larger end snugly fitting said outer pipe and a small and snugly fitting on said exposed outer wall of said inner pipe, said boot means having an access port communicating with the interior of said chamber to provide access to said interstitial region.
2. The device of Claim 1 which further includes ribs on the interior of said chamber for locating the terminal end of the outer pipe at a predetermined position with respect to the cylinder.
3. The device of Claim 1 which further includes clamp means for tightening said fitting on said outer pipe and said outer wall of said inner pipe.
4. The device of Claim 3 wherein said chamber includes outer right cylinder regions for locating said clamp means and a central tapered region.
5. The device of Claim 1, wherein said access port is radially extending.
6. The device of Claim 5, which further includes means for connecting said access port to an adjacent access port of a similar device. 


 7. A double wall pipe device, comprising: an inner pipe having an outer wall having a first outer diameter and extending for a desired length; an outer pipe having an inner wall with a diameter sized to define an interstitial region between the outer diameter of said inner pipe and the inner diameter of said outer pipe, said inner pipe having at least one terminal end extending out from said outer pipe to leave a portion of the outer wall of said inner pipe exposed to thereby expose said interstitial region; and boot means for defining a chamber with a larger end snugly fitting said outer pipe and a smaller end snugly fitting said exposed outer wall of said inner pipe, said boot means having an access port communicating with the interior of said chamber to provide access to said interstitial region.
8. The device of Claim 7 which further includes ribs on the interior of said chamber for locating the terminal end of the outer pipe at a predetermined position with respect to the cylinder.
9. The device of Claim 7 which further includes clamp means for tightening said fitting on said outer pipe and said outer wall of said inner pipe.
10. The device of Claim 9 wherein said chamber include outer right cylinder regions for locating said clamp means and a central tapered region.
11. The device of Claim 7 wherein said access port is radially extending.
12. The device of Claim 11 which further includes means for connecting said access port to an adjacent access port of a similar device. 


 13. A pipe system in which at least two double wall pipes define an interstitial region therebetween are connected, comprising: inner pipe connector means connecting the respective inner pipes of said two coaxial pipes, at least one of said inner pipes having its connected terminal end extending from its outer pipe to leave a portion of the outer wall of said inner pipe exposed to thereby expose said interstitial region; and boot means for defining a chamber with a larger end snugly fitting said outer pipe and a smaller end snugly fitting said exposed outer wall of said inner pipe, said boot means having an access port communicating with the interior of said chamber to provide access to said interstitial region.
14. The device of Claim 13 , wherein both inner pipes have connecting terminal ends extending from their respective outer pipes to expose each of said interstitial region.
15. The device of Claim 14, which further includes connector means for connecting the interstitial region of said connected pipes, said connecting means including tubing attached to the access ports of both of said boot means.
16. In a two pipe assembly having inner and outer members spaced to define an interstitial space therebetween, the improvement comprising: a boot sealed at one end to the outer member and at the other end to the inner member and having an annular chamber between said ends communicating with said interstitial space.
17. The boot of claim 16 which further includes a plurality of annular spaced ribs in said annular chamber for locating said boot with respect to said interstitial space. 


 18. A monitoring device for use with a coaxial pipe device, comprising: an inner pipe having an outer wall having a first outer diameter and extending for a desired length; an outer pipe having an inner wall with a diameter sized to define and interstitial region between the outer diameter of said inner pipe and the inner diameter of said outer pipe, said inner pipe having at least one terminal end extending out from said outer pipe to leave a portion of the outer wall of said inner pipe exposed to thereby expose said interstitial region; and boot means for defining a chamber with a larger end snugly fitting said outer pipe and a smaller end snugly fitting said exposed outer wall of said inner pipe, said boot means having an access port communicating with the interior of said cylinder to provide access to said interstitial region; and sensor tube means for transferring liquid to said access port to provide a quantity of liquid in said interstitial region, said sensor tube means including a level positioning means for locating the level of liquid in said tube with respect to a fixed point, and sensor means for detecting changes in the level of liquid in said tube beyond predetermined limits.
19. The device of Claim 18 wherein said tube is a vertically aligned observation tube.
20. The device of Claim 19 which further includes fiber optic sensors monitoring said predetermined limits.
21. The device of Claim 20 which further includes alarm means for sounding an alarm upon movement of said fluid beyond said predetermined limits. 


 22. A method of connecting the interstitial regions in a coaxial pipe system formed from at least two double wall pipes having inner and outer pipes to define said interstitial region, comprising the steps of: connecting the respective inner pipes of said two coaxial pipes, said inner pipes having their connected terminal ends extending from its respective outer pipe to leave a portion of the outer wall of each inner pipe exposed to thereby expose said interstitial region; placing a boot means having a chamber with its larger end snugly fitting said outer pipe and its smaller end snugly fitting said exposed outer wall of said inner pipe over each of said exposed interstitial regions said boot means having an access port communicating with the interior of said chamber to provide access to said interstitial region; and connecting said access parts to thereby connect said interstitial regions.
23. A method of monitoring the integrity of a double wall pipe system to provide an alarm in the event of a leak in either pipe wall, comprising the steps of: connecting the inner pipes to form a closed system for conveying a fluid using a pump to thereby create a positive pumping pressure in said inner pipes; sealing the interstitial space between said walls by connecting each end of each double wall pipe to a boot sealed at one end to the outer pipe and at the other end to the inner pipe and having an annular chamber between said ends communicating with said interstitial space; connecting each adjacent boot to provide a closed system of said interstitial space; transferring liquid to provide a quantity of liquid in said interstitial region with a sensor tube means including a level positioning means for locating the level of liquid in said tube with respect to a fixed point; and detecting changes in the level of liquid in said tube beyond the predetermined limits. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
