<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631220</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Signals and method for controlling temperature of an electrical circuit.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05D2319	G05D2319	G05D2320	G05D2320	H01L2702	H01L2702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05D	G05D	G05D	G05D	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05D23	G05D23	G05D23	G05D23	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermal sensor mechanism which controls the 
operation of a logic circuit to maintain the logic 

circuit at appropriate temperature. The thermal sensor 
mechanism includes a thermal sensor incorporated at a 

junction of the logic circuit to detect the temperature 
at the junction. The mechanism also includes a 

temperature feedback signal indicative of the temperature 
sensed by the thermal sensor at the junction. The 

temperature feedback signal is an input to a clock 
divider circuit of the mechanism. The clock divider 

circuit also receives an input clock signal and then 
outputs an output clock signal of frequency dictated by 

the clock divider circuit based upon the temperature 
feedback signal received by the clock divider circuit. 

The output clock signal serves as an input to drive the 
logic circuit. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUDGETT DAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUDGETT DAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a system and method for detecting 
the temperature of, for example, part of 
a circuit and delivering a desired clock signal to drive 
the circuit based on the temperature detected, 
for example a system that 
detects temperature at a location within a circuit and 
responds with desired control signals which dictate the 
frequency of clock signals driving the circuit in order 
to allow fastest possible operation of the circuit within 
particular temperature conditions appropriate for the 
circuit's operation. We will describe a system or method that 
detects circuit temperature and responds thereto with 
appropriate control signals which cause the mechanism to 
vary the frequency of a clock signal driving the circuit 
so as to maintain circuit temperature within appropriate 
operational limits while attaining fastest possible 
circuit performance. In effect, the system resolves  
 
excessive temperature problems which may result from 
increasing circuit operating frequency or when using a 
circuit in certain higher temperature environments. 
Previous techniques, in particular power management 
techniques, have proven helpful in limiting circuit power 
consumption, but those techniques do not directly limit 
operating temperature as necessary to avoid excessive 
temperature problems. The present system can prevent 
circuits operating 
under excessive temperatures and so is a significant 
improvement in circuit technology. The present system is particularly effective in 
a C-MOS circuit but may also be advantageously applied in 
other applications. The system is particularly 
effective in a C-MOS circuit because the dynamic-power 
consumed by a C-MOS circuit is directly proportional to 
the average frequency of operation of the circuit; static 
power being very small. With static C-MOS circuits there 
is no static power within those circuits, i.e., that is, 
when the clock driving a Static C-MOS circuit is stopped, 
there is no path for any current flow, except for minimal 
flow such as due to leakage of transistors of the 
circuit. Power is thus consumed by a C-MOS circuit 
primarily only each time a node of the circuit is 
transitioned to a different signal level. In the process 
of node transition in C-MOS circuits, there is a certain  
 
amount of energy that is required to move the load 
capacitance of each affected node through a voltage. The 
total power consumed by C-MOS circuits is, therefore, 
proportionally related to the power required to 
transition all of the nodes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for controlling temperature of a 
circuit driven by a circuit clock signal, comprising: 

   a means for sensing a temperature of said 
circuit, said means supplying a signal indicative of said 

temperature sensed; and 
   a means for detecting said signal from said 

means for sensing and varying said circuit clock signal 
to said circuit based on said signal from said means for 

sensing in order to appropriately maintain circuit 
temperature. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said means for 
detecting is a clock divider circuit, said clock divider 

circuit receiving inputs of an input clock signal and 
said signal indicative of said temperature sensed by said 

means for sensing and outputting an output clock signal 
as said circuit clock signal to said circuit. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said means for 
sensing is a temperature sensor which samples said 

temperature from time to time at a junction of said 
circuit. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said means for 
detecting varies said circuit clock signal to said 

circuit to a lower frequency when said means for sensing 
samples that said temperature exceeds a threshold 

temperature. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said means for 
detecting varies said circuit clock signal to said 

circuit to a frequency equivalent to that of an input 
clock signal to said system when said means for sensing 

samples that said temperature is not greater than a 
threshold temperature. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said circuit is 
formed on a silicon die and said means for sensing is 

incorporated as part of said die. 
The system of claim 2, wherein said circuit 
clock signal to said circuit has a frequency at least as 

high as that of said input clock signal unless said 
temperature sensed by said means for sensing exceeds a 

threshold temperature. 
The system of claim 2, wherein said circuit 
clock signal to said circuit has a frequency less than 

that of said input clock signal unless said temperature 
 

sensed by said means for sensing does not exceed a 
threshold temperature. 
The system of claim 3, wherein said means for 
sensing is incorporated with said circuit and samples 

said temperature at at least one junction of said 
circuit 
The system of claim 4, wherein said circuit 
clock signal to said circuit is low frequency when said 

means for sensing samples that said temperature exceeds 
said threshold temperature and is otherwise high 

frequency. 
The system of claim 7, wherein said circuit 
clock signal to said circuit has a frequency lower than 

that of said input clock signal when said means for 
sensing samples that said temperature exceeds said 

threshold temperature. 
A system for controlling temperature of a 
circuit, comprising: 

   a thermal sensor mechanism; and 
   a power management mechanism. 
The system of claim 12, wherein said thermal 
sensor mechanism includes a clock divider means and a 

thermal sensor/feedback means. 
The system of claim 13, wherein said clock 
divider means is a clock divider circuit. 
The system of claim 13, wherein said thermal 
sensor/feedback means includes a temperature sensor and 

a temperature feedback signal. 
A system, integrated with a system logic 
circuit, for controlling said circuit, said system 

receiving input of an input clock signal, and said 
circuit receiving input of a circuit clock signal of a 

frequency dictated by said system, comprising: 
   a means for sensing a temperature of said 

circuit; 
   a means for generating a temperature signal 

indicative of said temperature sensed by said means for 
sensing; and 

   a means for receiving said temperature signal 
and generating said circuit clock signal having said 

frequency. 
The system of claim 16, wherein said frequency 
of said circuit clock signal is varied by said means for 

receiving and generating to maintain a circuit 
temperature of said circuit as desired. 
The system of claim 17, wherein said frequency 
of said circuit clock signal is varied to lower frequency 

when said temperature detected by said means for sensing 
exceeds a threshold temperature and is varied to higher 

frequency when said temperature detected by said means 
for sensing is not in excess of said threshold 

temperature. 
The system of claim 18, wherein said higher 
frequency is equivalent to a frequency of said input 

clock signal. 
The system of claim 18, wherein said higher 
frequency is programmable. 
The system of claim 19, wherein said lower 
frequency is programmable. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said means for 
sensing samples said temperature continuously. 
A method for controlling an electronic circuit 
including a clock signal generator, comprising sensing the 

temperature of at least part of said electronic circuit and 
controlling the clock signal in accordance with said sensed 

temperature. 
A method as claimed in claim 23 in which the frequency 
of the clock signal is controlled. 
A method as claimed in claim 23 or 24 in which said 
clock signal is controlled when the sensed temperature 

exceeds a threshold value. 
An electronic circuit comprising a clock signal 
generator and means for sensing the temperature of at least 

part of said electronic circuit, and means for controlling 
the clock signal provided by said clock sig
nal generator in 
accordance with the temperature sensed by said sensing 

means. 
An electronic circuit as claimed in claim 26 in which 
said control means controls the frequency of the clock 

signal provided by said clock signal generator. 
An electronic circuit as claimed in claim 27 in which 
said sensing means controls the frequency of the clock 

signal output of said clock signal generator when the 
sensed temperature exceeds a threshold value. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
