<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629520</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Glass run guides for slidable vehicle windows
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60J1000	E05F1138	E05F1138	B60J1002	B60J1004	B60J1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60J	E05F	E05F	B60J	B60J	B60J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60J10	E05F11	E05F11	B60J10	B60J10	B60J10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A glass run guide for retaining and smoothly 
guiding a slidable vehicle window includes a molded 

polymeric strip (20) having a substantially U-shaped 
transverse cross section including a base (24), an 

inboard leg (26), having a projecting lip portion (30) 
which engages an interior surface of a slidable 

vehicle window (12), and an outboard leg (28) having 
a projecting lip portion (32), which engages an 

exterior surface of the slidable vehicle window (12). 
The glass run guide is formed of a fiber reinforced 

polymer having sufficient -strength and rigidity to 
counter forces exerted by the sliding vehicle window 

(12) and is mounted below the vehicle beltline to 
prevent undesirable movements of the window. The 

surfaces of the lip portions (30, 32) which contact 
the surfaces of the slidable vehicle window are low 

friction, non-abrasive surfaces which facilitate 
smooth movement of the window as it is raised or 

lowered. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENCORP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENCORP INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUPUY RONALD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUPUY, RONALD E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This specification relates generally to glass run
guide members disposed within an automotive
vehicle door having a slidable window, and which serve to
smoothly guide the window as it is being lowered into or
raised from the well of the door.Automotive vehicle doors are almost invariably
provided with a sliding window which can be raised to a
position sealingly closing a window opening and which can
be lowered to a position wherein the window is stored in
a cavity within the vehicle door. The periphery of the
window opening in a vehicle door is generally provided
with a plurality of polymeric sealing elements having
resilient elastomeric characteristics to allow for smooth
movement of the window and to ensure sealing engagement
between the window and that portion of the door frame
defining the window opening, even after thousands of
cycles between the open and closed positions over many
years of service. The sealing elements surrounding the
window opening generally include a header and pillar or
side elements which typically have a substantially U-shaped
portion into which the edges of the window are
received, and a pair of opposing inner and outer beltline
sealing elements which are attached to the door frame
along the lower edge of the window opening. The header,
pillar and beltline sealing elements are generally attached
to a pinchweld flange or U-shaped channel formed by 
the sheet metal defining the doorframe, with the door
frame serving as a reinforcement for the sealing elements
to stabilize or counter forces exerted by the window along
its edges as it is being raised or lowered.Below the beltline, within the door cavity or
well, the window is typically guided by a pair of spaced
parallel rails or glass runs. The belowbelt glass runs
generally comprise an elastic U-shaped member of, for
example, rubber which does not serve a sealing function,
but instead provides a nonabrasive, low-friction guide
liner which promotes smooth movement of the window as it
is being raised or lowered. Typically, the edges of the
door frame below the beltline are not in close proximity
to the belowbelt glass runs and are therefore unavailable
for providing reinforcing support to the elastic member or
guide liner to stabilize or counter forces exerted by the
window along its edges when it is being raised or lowered
as is the case with the window sealing elements. Accordingly,
conventional belowbelt guide means generally
include a rigid retainer having a U-shaped cross section
into which the guide liner is received. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A glass run guide for guiding the sliding edge of a
slidable vehicle window pane at a position below the

window opening of a vehicle body, comprising an elongate
strip member (20,22) having a base (24) and opposed

inboard and outboard side walls (26,28) forming a U-section
channel which receives the pane edge, each of the

side walls (26,28) contacting the pane by a flexible lip
(30,32) projecting from the side wall along its length,

   characterised in that

   the elongate strip member (20) is a stiff polymeric
member whose polymeric base and side walls (24,26,28)

have sufficient rigidity to define of themselves a stiff
channel capable of retaining the pane edge and

restraining it against movements transverse to the
sliding direction.
A glass run guide according to claim 1 comprising
two moulded guide elements (40,42) joined to one another

along a longitudinal joint, and respectively providing
the inboard and outboard side walls (26,28) of the U-section

channel.
A glass run guide according to claim 2 in which the
longitudinal joint of the guide elements (40,42) is

secured by adhesive. 
A glass run guide according to claim 2 or claim 3 in
which the guide elements (40,42) have integrally moulded

parts (43,44) which interlock at the longitudinal joint.
A glass run guide according to claim 4 in which one
of the guide elements (40) has a longitudinal groove (44)

which fits an interlocking tongue (43) on the other guide
element (42).
A glass run guide according to any one of the
preceding claims in which the flexible lips (30,32) are

in one piece with their respective side walls (26,28), of
the same material.
A glass run guide according to any one of the
preceding claims in which the flexible lips (30,32) have

a low-friction coating or flocking to contact the window
pane.
A glass run guide according to any one of the
preceding claims in which the elongate strip member

(20,22) is of fibre-reinforced thermoplastic material.
A glass run guide according to claim 8 in which the
fibre reinforcement is glass fibre and the thermoplastic

material is selected from EPDM, polypropylene, polyamide,
polyester, polyurethane, polyacetal, polyethylene, 

polyvinyl chloride, acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene,
acrylic-styrene-acrylonitrile, fluoro polymers and alloys

thereof.
A glass run guide according to any one of claims 1
to 7 in which the elongate strip member (20,22) is of

fibre-reinforced thermosetting material.
A glass run guide according to claim 10 in which the
thermosetting material is selected from unsaturated

polyesters, crosslinked polyurethanes, high modulus
elastomers and epoxy resins.
A glass run guide according to any one of the
preceding claims comprising integrally-formed securing

locations or securing means (34,36) spaced along its
length, for securing the guide to the vehicle body.
A glass run guide according to claim 12 in which the
securing means comprises a clip (34).
A glass run guide according to claim 12 or claim 13
in which the securing means comprises a fastening lug

(36), moulded integrally with the strip member (20,22)
and having a hole (38) through which a fastener can be

passed. 
An automobile window assembly in which a window pane
(12) is slidable in a window opening of a vehicle door

(10) under the control of a window regulator mechanism,
and front and rear glass run guides (20,22) as defined in

any one of claims 1 to 14 are mounted in the vehicle door
(10) extending below the window opening in the sliding

direction of the window pane (12), to receive front and
rear edges of the window pane (12) respectively and

thereby guide and restrain sliding movements of the
window pane.
An automobile window assembly according to claim 15
in which each glass run guide (20,22) is mounted in the

vehicle door (10) by fixing at plural spaced
longitudinally-localised portions thereof.
A method of making a glass run guide as defined in
claim 2 or any claim dependent thereon, comprising

separately moulding the inboard and outboard guide
elements (40,42) and joining them by a longitudinal joint

to form the U-section channel.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
