<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611450</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANALYTE DETECTION DEVICE INCLUDING HYDROPHOBIC MEANS FOR IMPROVED FLUID FLOW.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J20281	B01J20281	G01N3000	G01N3088	G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33558	G01N33558	G01N3700	G01N3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J20	B01J20	G01N30	G01N30	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N37	G01N37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An immunochromatographic assay device for the detection of an analyte in a liquid sample, the device including a housing that contains an opening for the application of the liquid sample and multiple liquid permeable materials located in the housing that are adapted to receive, treat and facilitate the movement of the sample through the housing; preferably, a first liquid permeable material is adapted to receive the liquid sample; a second liquid permeable material is positioned under the first liquid permeable material; a third liquid permeable material is positioned above the second liquid permeable material; means are provided to prevent liquid communication between the first and third liquid permeable materials; a wicking material, in fluid contact with the third liquid permeable material receives the sample; and reagents are positioned in the housing that display the results of the immunoassay.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PACIFIC BIOTECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PACIFIC BIOTECH INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWTON MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANG HSIN MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU, PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWTON, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANG, HSIN, MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ΆNΆLYTE DETECTION DEVICE INCLUDING HYDROPHOBIC MEANS FOR IMPROVED FLUID FLOWFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to medical testing devices suitable for detecting the presence of a particular analyte in a biological sample. More particularly this invention relates to immunochromatographic devices.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION A number of devices for the detection of a given analyte in a biological sample are available in a variety of design formats. In addition to devices requiring a multiplicity of tubes, vials and support structures, immunoassay devices are encased in housings or casings of varying designs, shapes and colors. One-step assays are those assays in which the user adds a biological sample to a sample application port and receives a positive or negative signal corresponding to the presence or absence of a test analyte in the biological sample. These assays are complex devices that must incorporate into the assay housing a number of immunochromatographic elements. Since the one-step assay has a limited means for sample manipulation, design variations that reduce the number of false positives and improve the sensitivity of the assays are a significant improvement to the art. There are a number of one-step immunochromatographic assay devices available in the art. These systems all generally permit a sample to be introduced into a receiving port. The sample is placed in contact with a particular reagent which is most often linked to a chromogenic tag. Detectable molecules in the sample complex with reagent and are wicked through the assay where they are ultimately immobilized, usually by a second reagent specific for the test analyte, in a position that generates a positive reaction signal. Additional signals included in the assay provide a negative reaction indicator and a test complete indicator.Immunochromatographic assays of this sort may have a number of potential problems. If the flow of liquid from the 

sample through the wicking material is too fast, th detectable molecules cannot keep up. They are left behind an are not accurately detected by the assay. The choice of assa materials and their dimensions determine the rate of liqui flow through the assay. The materials and dimensions als influence the evenness of the flow of the detecting molecule through the assay as well as the compatibility of variou analytes testable with the sample. Both of these feature influence the accuracy of the assay. In addition, one-step assay results are often compromise by the presence of water
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An immunochromatographic assay device, comprising: a housing having an opening for introduction of a sample; first liquid permeable material in said housing under said opening adapted to receive a liquid sample introduced through said opening and defining a sample receiving zone; second liquid permeable material in said housing under said first liquid permeable material, adapted to receive sample from said first liquid permeable material, said second liquid permeable material being absorbent and defining a sample transport zone; third liquid permeable material in said housing adjacent said first liquid permeable material, and adapted to receive sample from said second liquid permeable material, said third liquid permeable material located on top of said second liquid permeable material; means comprising a hydrophobic material interposed between said first and third liquid permeable materials to prevent direct transfer of sample from said first liquid permeable material to said third liquid permeable material; an elongated sheet of wicking material in fluid contact with said third liquid permeable material adapted to receive sample therefrom; and reagents located in said housing to display the results of an immunoassay of the sample.
2. The assay device of Claim 1, wherein said first and third liquid permeable materials and said hydrophobic material are physically joined together into an integral sheet which is separate from said second liquid permeable material. 3. The assay device of Claims 1 or 2 , wherein said first liquid permeable material is a porous material. 


 4. The assay device of Claims 1, 2, or 3, wherein said first liquid permeable material is porous thermoplastic polymer.
5. The assay device of Claims 3 or 4 , wherein said third liquid permeable material is a porous material.
6. The assay device of Claim 5, wherein said third liquid permeable material is porous thermoplastic polymer.
7. The assay device of Claims 4 or 6 , wherein said porous thermoplastic polymer is high density polyethylene. 8. The assay device of Claims 5, 6, or 7, wherein the pore size of said first liquid permeable material is smaller than the pore size of said third liquid permeable material.
9. The assay device of Claims 1, 3, 4, or 7 , wherein said first liquid permeable material has a pore size of not greater than about 300 microns and acts to filter said sample.
10. The assay device of Claim 1, further including an absorbent material in fluid contact with said elongated sheet of wicking material.
11. An immunochromatographic assay device comprising a housing, a sample receiving zone in said housing, a liquid permeable material in fluid communication with said sample receiving zone, an elongate sheet of wicking material in fluid communication with said liquid permeable material, and reagents located in said housing to display the results of an immunoassay including a detecting reagent supported by said liquid permeable material to detect the presence of an analyte in a fluid sample, wherein the improvement comprises means comprising a hydrophobic material for preventing direct fluid communication between said sample receiving zone and said liquid permeable material supporting said detecting reagent while permitting indirect fluid communication therebetween through a third material.
12. The assay device of Claim 11, wherein the sample receiving zone is adapted to pretreat said fluid sample. 13. The assay device of Claim 12, wherein said fluid sample is pretreated with immobilized antibody from an animal immunized with a control fluid sample from a human. 


 14. The assay device of Claim 13, wherein said control fluid sample tests negative in said immunochromatographic assay.
15. The assay device of Claims 11, wherein said liquid permeable material is a porous thermoplastic polymer.
16. The assay device of Claim 11, wherein said hydrophobic material is a liquid-impermeable thermoplastic polymer.
17. The assay device of Claim 16, wherein said hydrophobic material is polypropylene hot melt adhesive.
18. The assay device of Claim 11, wherein a further improvement comprises means for preventing flooding in said assay device.
19. The assay device of Claim 18, wherein said means for preventing flooding is a divider that controls the flow of liquid from said liquid permeable materials to said wicking material.
20. The assay device of Claims 18 or 19, wherein said means for preventing flooding flow includes a depression adjacent to said divider to collect liquid pooling in the housing.
21. The assay device of Claim 11, wherein said housing additionally comprises at least two support rails extending in the direction of fluid flow for supporting said wicking material, said support rails defining at least one recess between said support rails wherein excess liquid can pool.
22. A sample treatment pad for use in an immunochromatographic assay comprising at least first and second liquid permeable materials separated by a hydrophobic barrier, and a third liquid permeable material extending across said hydrophobic barrier to join said first and second materials and permit liquid communication therebetween.
23. The sample treatment pad of Claim 22, wherein at least one of said liquid permeable materials is a porous thermoplastic poϋymer. 


 24. The sample treatment pad of Claims 22 or 23, wherein said hydrophobic barrier is polypropylene, silicone, or rubber.
25. The sample treatment pad of Claims 22 or 23, wherein said hydrophobic barrier is high density polyethylene.
26. The sample treatment pad of Claim 22, wherein at least one of said liquid permeable materials is a glass fiber pad. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
