<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616601</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRODUCTION OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND HYDROGEN FLUORIDE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B700	C01B719	C01F1146	C01B2522	C01F1100	C01B2500	C01B25223	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	C01B	C01F	C01B	C01F	C01B	C01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B7	C01B7	C01F11	C01B25	C01F11	C01B25	C01B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING 
&
 CONSTR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING 
&
 CONSTRUCTION CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOUFFARD LEIF E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERICKSON WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOUFFARD, LEIF, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERICKSON, WILLIAM, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to a process which utilizes fluosilicic acid. 
phosphate rock and sulfuric acid to produce wet process phosphoric acid and 
hydrogen fluoride and/or fluoride slats. In the process of the present invention, the 
fluosilicic acid is reacted with phosphate rock in order to obtain phosphoric acid and 
calcium fluoride which are thereafter reacted in a crystallizer with sulfuric acid to 
form a gypsum slurry which is filtered to obtain a weak phosphoric acid solution and 
hydrogen fluoride. The resultant solution is treated to remove the hydrogen 
fluoride after which the hydrogen fluoride is concentrated and/or converted to 
fluoride salts while the phosphoric acid may be removed or transferred to a 
conventional phosphoric acid plant reactor associated with a system for producing 
wet process phosphoric acid. The use of the transferred weak phosphoric acid to a 
conventional phosphoric acid plant reactor will increase the production of 
phosphoric acid in the c ommercial production of wet process phosphoric acid in the 
conventional process. Wet process phosphoric acid is commercially produced by chemically 
attacking phosphate rock within a reactor with concentrated sulfuric acid in a 
medium of phosphoric acid and calcium sulfate (gypsum). The resulting phosphoric 
acid gypsum slurry is filtered under vacuum to separate the liquid phosphoric acid 
product from the solid gypsum waste. Two or more stage countercurrent washes on 
the gypsum filter are used to provide maximum recovery of water soluble P₂O₅. The 
wash water and recovered acid are returned to the reactor to control acid 
concentration and percent solids. The reactor provides a vehicle for contact and 
reaction of the rock and sulfuric acid under the necessary conditions for the 
nucleation and growth of the gypsum crystals.  
 The above described reaction is carried out in one or more vessels 
each consisting of one or more agitated compartments; The process is based on the 
fundamentals of adding the phosphate rock and sulfuric acid to a large circulating 
mass of phosphoric acid and gypsum to provide uniform concentration throughout 
the reaction mass, constant reaction mass temperature, and proper crystal growth 
retention time in order to yield the highest attack and filtration efficiencies. The 
resulting filter or product acid containing dissolved impurities is further processed 
by evaporation to produce a more concentrated acid for sale or to produce other 
phosphate fertilizer products. The reaction with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the production of phosphoric acid and hydrogen 
fluoride from a feedstock of phosphate rock and fluosilicic acid (FSA) comprising 

the steps of: 

A. reacting the phosphate rock and FSA together to produce a reaction slurry 
of phosphoric acid, calcium fluoride, silicon dioxide, and undigested 

phosphate rock; 
B. separating the phosphoric acid and calcium fluoride from the undigested 
phosphate rock and silicon dioxide; 
C. mixing the phosphoric acid and calcium fluoride with a sufficient amount of 
sulfuric acid to convert the calcium fluoride to hydrogen fluoride and 

calcium sulfate; and 
D. recovering the hydrogen fluoride as a concentrated hydrogen fluoride 
solution or as anhydrous hydrogen fluoride. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the phosphate rock contains an 
excess stoichiometric amount of calcium compared to the fluorine in the FSA. 
The process of claim 2 in which the FSA is present in the feedstock 
in an amount of approximately 20% to 30% by weight and the phosphate rock 

feedstock is a wet phosphate rock slurry. 
The process of claim 2 in which the phosphate rock in the 
feedstock is dry phosphate rock and the FSA is present in the feedstock in an 

amount preferably not less than 17% by weight. 
The process of claim 2 in which the phosphate rock is a wet 
phosphate rock slurry having at least 70% solids and the FSA is present in the 

feedstock in an amount generally greater than 20% by weight. 
The process of claim 2 in which sufficient phosphate rock is 
reacted with the FSA to form a slurry in which the fluorine is converted to calcium 

silicofluoride and wherein the slurry is retained for a sufficient time to convert the 
calcium silicofluoride to calcium fluoride and silica. 
The process of claim 6 in which the slurry is reacted for a period of 

at least approximately one hour in order to convert calcium silicofluoride to calcium 
fluoride and silica and the slurry heated to at least 90° C. 
The process of claim 7 in which the slurry is heated to 
approximately 100°C. 
The process of claim 7 in which the phosphoric acid and calcium 
fluoride are separated from the undigested rock and silica by filtering. 
The process of claim 7 in which the reaction slurry is introduced 
into at least one centrifuge wherein a phosphoric acid and a phosphoric  

 
acid/calcium fluoride mixture is separated from the undigested phosphate rock and 

silica. 
The process of claim 2 wherein the phosphoric acid and calcium 
fluoride are mixed with the sulfuric acid in a crystallizer to form a slurry, and 

thereafter filtering the slurry to separate calcium sulfate from the phosphoric acid 
and hydrogen fluoride. 
The process of claim 11 in which a vacuum is applied to the slurry 
within the crystallizer to thereby increase the recovery of hydrogen fluoride. 
The process of claim 11 in which air is passed through the 
phosphoric acid and hydrogen fluoride slurry to strip the hydrogen fluoride 

therefrom. 
The process of claim 13 including passing the air stream 
containing the hydrogen fluoride through a scrubber where the hydrogen fluoride is 

removed and the air returned to the phosphoric acid and hydrogen fluoride slurry to 
strip more hydrogen fluoride thereby creating a closed loop. 
The process of claim 11 including the additional step of 
separating the hydrogen fluoride from the phosphoric acid and subsequently 

transferring the phosphoric acid to a phosphoric acid plant. 
The process of claim 2 including the additional step of stripping 
the hydrogen fluoride from the phosphoric acid as a hydrogen fluoride vapor prior 

to recovering the concentrated hydrogen fluoride. 
The process of claim 2 wherein the phosphoric acid and calcium 
fluoride are mixed with sulfuric acid in a crystallizer to form a slurry wherein the 

sulfuric acid is present in an amount in excess of that necessary to convert the 
phosphoric acid and calcium fluoride to hydrogen fluoride, calcium sulfate, and a 

weak phosphoric acid, and after stripping the hydrogen fluoride from the slurry, 
conveying the resultant slurry to plant reactor for the conventional production of 

phosphoric acid. 
The process of claim 17 in which the slurry is heated to maintain 
a temperature between 110°-140°C 
The process of claim 2 in which the phosphoric acid and the 
calcium fluoride are mixed with sulfuric acid to form a mixture in a pipe reactor 

under elevated temperatures and pressures and thereafter flashing the mixture into 
a separator. 
The process of claim 2 wherein the hydrogen fluoride vapors are 
processed into at least a 70% hydrogen fluoride solution or anhydrous hydrogen 

fluoride by distillation wherein sulfuric acid is added thereto to absorb water, 
thereafter separating the water from the sulfuric acid and recycling the sulfuric acid.  

 
The process of claim 20 wherein the hydrogen fluoride vapors are 
processed into between 70% to 90% hydrogen fluoride solution or anhydrous 

hydrogen fluoride. 
The process of claim 2 in which the phosphate rock and FSA are 
reacted at approximately 100°C in a batch reactor or reactors which include a reflux 

condenser which prevents the loss of fluosilicic acid. 
A process of Claim 1 for the production of hydrogen fluoride and 
phosphoric acid from a feedstock of phosphate rock and fluosilicic acid (FSA) 

comprising the step of: 

A. reacting an excess stoichiometric amount of calcium, as the tricalcium 
phosphate and calcium carbonate fraction of the rock, to fluorine in the 

fluosilicic acid. 
A process for the production of hydrogen fluoride from a 
feedstock of phosphate rock and fluosilicic acid (FSA) comprising the steps of: 


A. reacting an excess stoichiometric amount of calcium, as the tricalcium 
phosphate and calcium carbonate fraction of the rock, to fluorine in the  

 
fluosilicic acid to produce a reaction slurry of phosphoric acid, calcium 

fluoride, silicon dioxide, and undigested phosphate rock; 
B. separating the phosphoric acid and calcium fluoride from the undigested 
phosphate rock and silicon dioxide; 
C. mixing the phosphoric acid and calcium fluoride with a sufficient amount of 
sulfuric acid to convert calcium fluoride to hydrogen fluoride and calcium 

sulfate; and 
D. stripping the hydrogen fluoride from the phosphoric acid as a hydrogen 
fluoride vapor; 
E. contacting the hydrogen fluoride vapors with a scrubbing solution selected 
from the group consisting of solutions of alumina trihydrate, sodium 

aluminate, aluminum sulfate, sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, and 
ammonia to form precipitated salts; and 
F. thereafter separating precipitated salts and recirculating the scrubbing 
solution. 
The process of claim 24 wherein the phosphoric acid and calcium 
fluoride are mixed with the sulfuric acid in a crystallizer to form a slurry, and 

thereafter filtering the slurry to separate calcium sulfate from the phosphoric acid 
and hydrogen fluoride. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
