<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611330</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FABRIC WITH REVERSIBLE ENHANCED THERMAL PROPERTIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06N300	F28D2002	D06N312	D06N314	D06N300	F28D2002	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06N	F28D	D06N	D06N	D06N	F28D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06N3	F28D20	D06N3	D06N3	D06N3	F28D20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coating (10) is adapted to be applied to a substrate (50) such as a fabric in order to enhance the thermal characteristics thereof. The coating includes a polymer binder (20) in which are dispersed integral and leak-resistant microcapsules (30) filled with phase change material (40) or plastic crystals that have specific thermal properties at predetermined temperatures.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIANGLE RES 
&
 DEV CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIANGLE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRYANT YVONNE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLVIN DAVID P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRYANT, YVONNE, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLVIN, DAVID, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention comprises a coating according to
the precharacterizing portion of claim 1, an article
according to the precharacterizing portion of claim 8
and a method of improving the thermal capacity of a
fabric or fiber substrate.This invention relates generally to the field of
coated fabrics and more particularly to fabrics coated
with a binder containing microcapsules filled with energy
absorbing phase change material which enables the fabric
to exhibit extended or enhanced heat retention or storage
properties.The treatment of textiles with various substances in
order to change the properties thereof is well known.
For example, it is known that textiles may be
waterproofed by coating them with natural or synthetic
rubber. Substances have been developed which when
sprayed onto fabrics introduce the property of stain
resistance. Also known is the example of a fragrance
delivery system which uses breakable fragrance-filled
microcapsules which are attached to the surface of a
fabric or fiber and upon the introduction of an external
force, the microcapsules break releasing the fragrance
over an extended time period.Other examples of microcapsules being applied to the
surface of fabrics for various end-uses are known. US-A-4,774,133
to Doree et al. discloses a thermoplastic
substrate bearing rupturable microcapsules in a binder.
The substrate is capable of being softened when heated,
and by the application of pressure the microcapsules
become partially imbedded in the surface of porous
objects such as fabrics. A thermo-adhesive textile
product is disclosed in US-A-4,990,392 and
comprises a backing fabric and an adhesive layer
deposited on its surface. The adhesive layer comprises a
thermo-adhesive polymer and a cross-linking agent which
is isolated from the polymer by microencapsulation and
which is freed by external action. The present invention
differs from the forgoing examples in that the 
microcapsules contain phase change material and are
designed to be an integral and permanent part of a
coating applied to a substrate, as opposed to being
ruptured during use.Fabrics have been given enhanced thermal properties
by coating the fibers with phase change material and
plastic crystals. US-A-4,871,615 discloses
temperature adaptable textile fibers which store heat
when the temperature rises and release heat when the
temperature decreases, in which phase change or plastic
crystalline materials are enclosed within hollow fibers
or impregnated upon non-hollow fibers. The fibers are
produced by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A coating (10) comprising a binder (20) and a
plurality of leak resistant microcapsules (30) dispersed

throughout said binder (20), said microcapsules (30)
containing a temperature stabilizing means (40)

characterized in that the coating is adapted to be applied
to the surface of a fabric or fiber substrate (50) for

enhancing the thermal storage properties thereof and said
binder (20) is a liquid polymer binder (20) said

microcapsules being submerged within said liquid polymer
binder (20) and when said liquid polymer binder (20)

containing the microcapsules bonds with the surface of the
substrate (50), upon application to the surface thereof,

the substrate (50) exhibits enhanced thermal stability when
the coating (10) thus applied is cured and is subjected to

heat or cold.
The coating (10) according to claim 1
characterized in that said temperature stabilizing means

(40) comprises a phase change material selected from the
group of paraffinic hydrocarbons.
The coating according to claim 1 characterized in
that said temperature stabilizing means (40) comprises

plastic crystals.
The coating according to claim 2 characterized in
that said microcapsules (30) range in diameter from 0,5 µm

(microns) to 1,000 µm (microns).
The coating according to claim 1 characterized in
that the liquid polymer binder (20) is comprised of

polyurethane, the microcapsules (30) have an average
diameter of from 10 to 60 µm (microns) and the temperature

stabilizing means (40) is octadecane. 
The coating according to claim 2 characterized in
that the paraffinic hydrocarbon is selected from the group

consisting of n-Octacosane, n-Heptacosane, n-Hexacosane, n-Pentacosane,
n-Tetracosane, n-Tricosane, n-Docosane, n-Heneicosane,

n-Eicosane, n-Nonadecane, n-Octadecane, n-Heptadecane,
n-Hexadecane, n-Pentadecane, n-Tetradecane and

n-Tridecane.
The coating according to claim 2 characterized in
that the paraffinic hydrocarbon has a melting point between

-5.5 degrees Centigrade and 61.4 degrees Centigrade.
An article comprising a base material and a
coating, said coating (10) comprising a binder (20) and a

plurality of leak resistant microcapsules (30) dispersed
throughout said binder (20), said microcapsules (30)

containing a temperature stabilizing means (40)
characterized in that said base material is selected from

the group consisting of fabrics or fibers and said binder
(20) is a polymeric binder (20) wherein said microcapsules

are submerged on the surface of said base material whereby
the article exhibits enhanced temperature thermal stability

when subjected to heat or cold.
The article having enhanced thermal storage
properties according to claim 8, characterized in that said

microcapsules (30) are leak resistant, whereby the article
may be subjected to repeated mechanical stresses with

minimum changes in the thermal characteristics thereof.
The article with reversible enhanced thermal
storage properties according to claim 8 characterized in

that said temperature stabilizing means (40) comprises a
phase change material.
The article with reversible enhanced storage
properties according to claim 8 characterized in that said 

temperature stabilizing means (40) comprises a material
selected from the group of paraffinic hydrocarbons.
The articles with reversible enhanced thermal
properties according to claim 8 characterized in that said

temperature stabilizing means (40) comprises a plastic
crystal.
The articles with reversible enhanced thermal
storage properties according to claim 8 characterized in

that said microcapsules (30) range in diameter from 0.5 to
1,000 µm (microns).
The article with reversible enhanced thermal
storage properties according to claim 8 characterized in

that the coating (10) includes at least two types of
separately encapsulated temperature stabilizing means (40).
The article according to claim 8 characterized in
that said binder (20) is a polymer selected from the group

consisting of polyurethane, nitrile rubber, chloroprene
rubber, polyvinyl alcohol, silicone, ethylene/vinyl acetate

copolymer, and acrylic.
The article according to claim 8 characterized in

that the binder (20) is a polyurethane, the microcapsules
(30) have an average diameter of from 10 to 60 µm (microns)

and the temperature stabilizing means (40) is octadecane.
The article of claim 8, said article being a
fabric characterized in consisting essentially of, in

combination:

(a) a base fabric substrate (50), and
(b) a flexible polymer directly coating (10) covering
at least a portion of the surface of said substrate (50), a

plurality of microcapsules (30) dispersed throughout said
coating so as to be covered and surrounded thereby, said

microcapsules (30) containing a temperature stabilizing 
means (40) and being positioned on the surface of said

substrate (50), whereby the coated substrate (50) exhibits
enhanced thermal stability when subjected to heat or cold.
An article according to claim 17, characterized
in that said substrate (50) is a tightly woven fabric and

said coating (10) covers a portion of the outer surface
thereof forming a continuous layer.
The article according to claim 17, characterized
in that said substrate (50) is a loosely woven fabric

composed of a plurality of individual fibers and wherein
said coating (10) covers the entire circumference of the

individual fibers forming a discontinuous layer.
The article according to claim 17 characterized
in that said temperature stabilizing means (40) comprises a

phase change material.
The article according to claim 8 characterized in
that the paraffinic hydrocarbon is selected from the group

consisting of n-Octacosane, n-Heptacosane, n-Hexacosane, n-Pentacosane,
n-Tetracosane, n-Tricosane, n-Docosane, n-Heneicosane,

n-Eicosane, n-Nonadecane, n-Octadecane, n-Heptadecane,
n-Hexadecane, n-Pentadecane, n-Tetradecane and

n-Tridecane.
The article according to claim 8 characterized in
that the paraffinic hydrocarbon has a melting point between

-5.5 degrees Centigrade and 61.4 degrees Centigrade.
A method of improving the thermal capacity of a
fabric or fiber substrate (50) characterized in comprising

the steps of:

(a) applying directly to the surface of the substrate
(50) a liquid polymer having a plurality of microcapsules

(30) containing thermal energy storage compound dispersed
throughout the liquid polymer, the polymer being present in 

sufficient quantity to cover and surround said
microcapsules, and
(b) curing the polymer so that the polymer and the
microcapsules (30) adhere to the surface of the substrate

(50).
The method according to claim 23 characterized in
that the thermal energy storage compound is a phase change

material.
The method according to claim 23 characterized in
that the thermal energy storage compound is a plastic

crystal.
The method according to claim 24 characterized in
that the microcapsules (30) have a diameter between 0.5 µm

(microns) and 1,000 µm (microns).
The method according to claim 24 characterized
in that the paraffinic hydrocarbon is selected from the

group consisting of n-Octacosane, n-Heptacosane, n-Hexacosane,
n-Pentacosane, n-Tetracosane, n-Tricosane, n-Docosane,

n-Heneicosane, n-Eicosane, n-Nonadecane, n-Octadecane,
n-Heptadecane, n-Hexadecane, n-Pentadecane, n-Tetradecane

and n-Tridecane.
The method according to claim 24 characterized in
that the phase change material comprises a paraffinic

hydrocarbon having a melting point between -5.5 degrees
Centigrade and 61.4 degrees Centigrade.
The method according to claim 23 characterized in
that the liquid polymer is polyurethane and the applying

step comprises spraying the polyurethane with microcapsules
(30) dispersed therein on the substrate (50).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
