<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632411</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Value selection mechanism including means for weakening a shaft thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41K300	B41K312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41K	B41K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41K3	B41K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Value selection and printing apparatus comprising, 
structure for printing a value, the printing structure 

including a rotatable device (60) and a drive shaft therefor, 
structure for selecting the value, the value selecting 

structure including a first rack gear (30) slidably movably 
connected to the drive shaft (20), the first rack gear (30) including 

a first portion of the length thereof movable internally of 
the device and a second portion of the length thereof 

movable externally of the device, the internally movable 
portion including a driving element (36), the externally movable 

portion including a plurality of first gear teeth (38) formed 
therein the value selecting structure including a rigid 

guide shaft fixedly mounted within the device and an 
elongate second rack gear (50) slidably connected to the guide 

shaft (40) for movement therealong, the second rack gear (50) 
including a driving element (54) therefor, the first rack gear's 

driven element (36) and the second rack gear's driving element (54) 
disposed in engagement, the second rack gear including a 

plurality of second gear teeth (56), the value selecting 
structure including a value printing wheel (60), the printing 

wheel including a circumferentially-extending periphery (62) and 
a plurality of printing elements (64) located at spaced intervals 

thereabout, the value selecting structure including a pinion 
gear (70) coaxially fixedly attached to the printing wheel (60) for 

rotation thereof, the pinion gear (70) disposed in meshing 
engagement with the second rack gear teeth (56) for rotation of 

the pinion gear and thus the print wheel in response to 
movement of the second rack gear, and structure for 

weakening (90) the rigidity of the guide shaft (40) against a force 
exerted against the printing wheel which is sufficient to 

disassociate the second rack gear to permit the guide shaft 
to bend in response to the force. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALIN RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALIN, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is generally concerned with a value 
selection mechanism and more particularly with a postage 
value selection mechanism including means for weakening a 
guide shaft thereof. U.S. Patent No. 4,050,374 for a Meter Setting 
Mechanism, issued September 27, 1977 to Check, Jr. and 
assigned to the assignee of the present invention, discloses 
a mechanism for selecting postage values which are to be 
printed by a rotary postage meter. The drive shaft of the 
drum includes a plurality of selectable racks, each of which 
is slidably movable in engagement with a different pinion 
gear, connected to an associated print wheel within the 
drum, for selectively rotating the print wheel to dispose a 
printing element or font thereof at the outer periphery of 
the drum for printing purposes. The value selection 
mechanism includes a first stepper motor which is operable 
for selecting one of the racks, and a second stepper motor 
which is operable for actuating the selected rack for 
selectively rotating the desired printing element of the 
associated print wheel to the printing position thereof. An 
electronic control system (not shown) which is coupled to a 
keyboard for processing postage value entries made by an  
 
operator, selectively drives the respective stepper motors 
in response to keyboard entries. U.S. Patent No. 4,630,210 for a Microprocessor 
Controlled D.C. Motor For Controlling A Load, issued 
December 16, 1986 to Salazar, et. al., and assigned and the 
assignee of the present invention, shows a conventional 
postage meter including a plurality of lengthwise 
translatable racks mounted in channels formed in the drive 
shaft of a rotatable postage printing drum. The drum 
includes a plurality of print wheels, which are mounted for 
rotation in the drum, and a like number of pinion gears 
connected on a one-for-one basis with the print wheel. And, 
each of the pinion gears is disposed, on a one for one 
basis, in meshing engagement with each of the rack gears, so 
that lengthwise translation of a rack gear results in 
rotation of the associated print wheel to a selected 
position thereof wherein a printing font at the periphery of 
the print wheel is located for printing purposes when the 
drum is rotated. U.S. Patent No. 4,649,814 for a Rotary Selector Device, 
issued March 17, 1987 to Sette and assigned to the assignee 
of the present invention, shows a rotary value selection 
mechanism, of the type used for selecting and driving the 
respective translatable racks of the aforesaid U.S.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Value selection and printing apparatus comprising: 

a. means (14) for printing a value, the printing means (14) 
including a rotatable device (18) and a drive shaft (20) 

therefor; 
b. means (16) for selecting the value, the value selecting 
means (16) including a first rack gear (30) slidably movably 

connected to the drive shaft (20), the first rack gear (30) 
including a first portion (32) of the length thereof 

movable internally of the device and a second 
portion (34) of the length thereof movable externally 

of the device, the internally movable portion (32) 
including a driven element (36), the externally movable 

portion including a plurality of first gear teeth (38) 
formed therein; 
c. the value selecting means (16) including a rigid guide 
shaft (40) fixedly mounted within the device and an 

elongate second rack gear (50) slidably connected to 
the guide shaft (40) for movement therealong, the 

second rack gear (50) including a driving element (54) 
therefor, the first rack gear's driven element (36) and 

the second rack gear's driving element (54) being disposed in 
engagement, the second rack gear (50) including a 

plurality of second gear teeth (56);  
 
d. the value selecting means (16) including a value 
printing wheel (60), the printing wheel including a 

circumferentially-extending periphery (62) and a 
plurality of printing elements (64) located at spaced 

intervals thereabout, the value selecting means (16) 
including a pinion gear (70) coaxially fixedly attached 

to the printing wheel (60) for rotation thereof, the 
pinion gear (70) disposed in meshing engagement with 

the second rack gear teeth (56) for rotation of the 
pinion gear (70) and thus the print wheel (60) in response 

to movement of the second rack gear (50) and 
 
   characterized in that it further comprises :
 
   means (90) for weakening the rigidity of the guide 

shaft (40) against a force (92) exerted against the printing 
wheel (60) which is sufficient to disassociate the 

printing wheel (60) and second rack gear (50) to permit the 
guide shaft (40) to bend in response to the force (92). 
The apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein the guide 
shaft weakening means (90) includes an annularly-extending 

channel (94) formed in the guide shaft (40). 
The apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein the second 
rack gear (50) includes oppositely spaced portions (52) thereof 

slidably connected to the guide shaft (40) at spaced intervals 
therealong.  

 
The apparatus according to Claim 3 wherein the guide 
shaft weakening means (90) includes at least one 

annularly-extending channel (94) formed in the guide shaft. 
The apparatus according to Claim 4, wherein the guide 
shaft weakening means (90) includes a single annularly-extending 

channel (94) formed in the guide shaft (40). 
The apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein one of the 
driving (36) and driven (54) elements includes a tang portion of one 

of the rack gears (30, 50) and the other of the driving (36) and driven (54) 
elements includes an aperture of the other of the rack 

gears. 
The apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein the guide 
shaft weakening means (90) includes an annularly-extending 

channel formed (94) in the guide shaft. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
