<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643890</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLOCK EXTRACTION CIRCUIT FOR FIBER OPTICAL RECEIVERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03L708	H03L708	H03L7081	H03L7099	H03L716	H03L723	H04L7033	H04L7033	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H04L7	H04L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit for regenerating a clock signal from an NRZ encoded signal. The NRZ signal is filtered, differentiated, and applied to a nested phase-locked loop. The main loop of the phase-locked loop includes a voltage controlled crystal oscillator. The inner loop of the nested phase-locked loop includes a voltage controlled oscillator which multiplies the frequency of the signal provided by the crystal oscillator to obtain the regenerated clock signal. Tunable low pass filters are used in the differentiating circuit as delay elements. The voltage controlled oscillator includes a tunable low pass filter and an integrator. The control voltage for the inner loop voltage controlled oscillator is used to control the low pass filters of the differentiating circuit in a frequency locked loop.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEDER HEINZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEDER, HEINZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CLOCK EXTRACTION CIRCUIT FOR FIBER OPTICAL RECEIVERSCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThis application is related to Application Serial No. 194,947 filed May 17, 1988, now issued to Heinz B. MSder as U.S. Letters Patent No. 4,914,401 for Implementation and Control of Filters. The disclosure of U.S. Patent 4,914,401 is hereby incorporated by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a clock extraction circuit. More particularly, the present invention relates to a clock extraction circuit, suitable for monolithic integration fabrication, for use in a fiber optical receiver, and which utilizes a nested phase-locked loop for clock regeneration and a frequency-locked loop for a differentiation network.One known technique of transmitting digital information is with a nonreturn-to-zero coded (NRZ coded) data stream in which a binary "1" is represented by one bit time at the 1, or high, level and a binary "0" is represented by one bit time at the 0, or low, level. This NRZ coding scheme permits placing about twice as much data on the data stream as can be provided with a return-to-zero code, in 

 which a binary 0 is represented by one bit time at the 0 level, and a binary 1 is pulsed in such a way that it reaches the 1 level for only half a bit time. A return-to-zero coded signal therefore returns, to 0 (or remains at 0) after each bit of data.Communications over fiber optic channels often require a receiver to extract a clock signal from an NRZ coded data stream for retiming purposes. Of course, for accurate data transmission it is important to maximize the reliability and precision of the clock extraction circuit.Ideally, a practical clock extraction circuit should be suitable for monolithic integration with bipolar technology. To minimize production costs, the design of the clock extraction circuit should guarantee high level performance without production adjustments. Additionally, the clock extraction circuit should be independent of absolute device tolerances. -< It is a primary object of the present invention to provide a reliable and accurate clock extraction circuit for use in a receiver of NRZ encoded data. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a clock extraction circuit suitable for integration in a bipolar device and which is insensitive to absolute device tolerances. 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn accordance with the preferred embodiment of the present invention, a clock extraction circuit for use in a fiber optical receiver circuit is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1. A circuit for providing a clock signal from an input signal having a clocked data stream, comprising: means for differentiating said input data stream signal to provide an input data differential signal; and a nested phase-locked loop for regenerating said clock signal, said nested phase-locked loop having a main phase-locked loop and an inner phase-locked loop, said main phase-locked loop including: a main loop phase detector responsive to said input data differential signal and said clock signal to provide a main loop phase regulation signal; a main loop filter which operates on said main loop phase regulation signal to provide a main loop oscillator control voltage; and a voltage controlled crystal oscillator responsive to said main loop oscillator control voltage to produce a main loop oscillating signal; 


 said inner phase-locked loop including: an inner loop phase detector responsive to said main loop oscillating signal and a frequency-divided clock signal to produce an inner loop phase regulation signal; an inner loop filter which operates on said inner loop phase regulation signal to provide an inner loop oscillator control voltage; a voltage controlled oscillator having an oscillating frequency n times the frequency of said voltage controlled - 
^
 crystal oscillator and responsive to said inner loop oscillator control voltage to produce said clock signal; and means for dividing said clock signal by n to produce said frequency-divided clock signal.
2. The circuit of claim 1, wherein said differentiating means includes an EXCLUSIVE OR logic gate and means for delaying said input data stream signal by % bit time, said EXCLUSIVE OR gate having a first input for receiving said input data stream signal and a second input for receiving said delayed 


 input data stream signal, said input data differential signal being provided on the output of said EXCLUSIVE OR logic gate.
3. The circuit of claim 2, wherein said delaying means includes a plurality of low-pass filters connected in series, each low pass filter of said delaying means having a control input connected with said inner loop oscillator control voltage.
4. The circuit of claim 3, wherein said delaying means includes two low-pass filters, each low-pass filter of said delaying means operable to delay said input data stream signal by bit time.
5. The circuit of claim 3, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes a tunable low pass filter and an integrator, said tunable filter including a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said inner loop oscillator control voltage, said inner loop control voltage controlling the oscillating frequency of said voltage controlled oscillator.
6. The circuit of claim 5, wherein said integrator includes an operational transconductance amplifier and a plurality of capacitors. 


 7. The circuit of claim 3, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes: a tunable second order low pass filter having a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said inner loop oscillator control voltage, a positive input terminal, a negative input terminal, a positive output terminal, and a negative output terminal; an operational transconductance amplifier having a positive input terminal connected with the positive output terminal of said low pass filter, a negative input terminal connected with the negative output terminal of said low pass filter, a positive output connected with the negative input- of said low pass filter, and a negative output connected with the positive input of said low pass filter; a first capacitor connected between the positive output of said operational transconductance amplifier and a reference voltage; and a second capacitor connected between the negative output of said operational transconductance amplifier and said reference voltage.
8. The circuit of claim 1, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes a tunable low pass filter and an integrator, said tunable filter including a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said inner loop oscillator control voltage. 


 said inner loop control voltage controlling the oscillating frequency of said voltage controlled oscillator.
9. The circuit of claim 8, wherein said integrator includes an operational transconductance amplifier and a plurality of capacitors.
10. The circuit of claim 1, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes: a tunable second order low pass filter having a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said inner loop oscillator control voltage, a positive input terminal, a negative input terminal, a positive output terminal, and a negative output terminal; an operational transconductance amplifier having a positive input terminal connected with the positive output terminal of said low pass filter, a negative input terminal connected with the negative output terminal of said low pass filter, a positive output connected with the negative input of said low pass filter, and a negative output connected with the positive input of said low pass filter; a first capacitor connected between the positive output of said operational transconductance amplifier and a reference voltage; and 


 a second capacitor connected between the negative output of said operational transconductance amplifier and said reference voltage.
11. A clock extraction circuit comprising: means for differentiating an input signal having a clocked data stream to provide an input data differential signal; a nested phase-locked loop responsive to said input data differential signal for regenerating said clock signal, said nested phase-locked loop having a main phase-locked loop and an inner phase-locked loop, said main phase-locked loop including a voltage controlled crystal oscillator for producing a first oscillating signal, said inner phase-locked loop including a voltage controlled oscillator responsive to an inner loop oscillator control voltage for multiplying the frequency of said first oscillating signal to produce said clock signal.
12. The clock extraction circuit of claim 11, wherein said differentiating means includes an
EXCLUSIVE OR logic gate and means for delaying said input data stream signal by % bit time, said EXCLUSIVE OR gate having a first input for receiving said input data stream signal and a second input for 


 receiving said delayed input data stream signal, said input data differential signal being provided on the output of said EXCLUSIVE OR logic gate.
13. The clock extraction circuit of claim 12, wherein said delaying means includes a plurality of low-pass filters connected in series, each low pass filter of said delaying means having a control input connected with said inner loop oscillator control voltage.
14. The clock extraction circuit of claim 13, wherein said delaying means includes two low-pass filters, each low-pass filter of said delaying means operable to delay said input data stream signal by bit time.
15. The clock extraction circuit of claim 13, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes a tunable low pass filter and an integrator, said tunable filter including a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said inner loop oscillator control- voltage, said inner loop control voltage controlling the oscillating frequency of said voltage controlled oscillator. 


 16. The clock extraction circuit of claim 15, wherein said integrator includes an operational transconductance amplifier and a plurality of capacitors.
17. The clock extraction circuit of claim 13, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes: a tunable second order low pass filter having a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said inner loop oscillator control voltage, a positive input terminal, a negative input terminal, a positive output terminal, and a negative output terminal; an operational transconductance amplifier having a positive input terminal connected with the positive output terminal of said low pass filter, a negative input terminal connected with the negative output terminal of said low pass filter, a positive output connected with the negative input of said low pass filter, and- negative output connected with the positive input of said low pass filter; a first capacitor connected between the positive output of said operational transconductance amplifier and a reference voltage; and a second capacitor connected between the negative output of said operational transconductance amplifier and said reference voltage. 


 18. The clock extraction circuit of claim 11, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes a tunable low pass filter and an integrator, said tunable filter including a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said inner loop oscillator control voltage, said inner loop control voltage controlling the oscillating frequency of said voltage controlled oscillator.
19. The clock extraction circuit of claim 18, wherein said integrator includes an operational transconductance amplifier and a plurality of capacitors.
20. The clock extraction circuit of claim 11, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes: a tunable second order low pass filter having a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said inner loop oscillator control voltage, a positive input terminal, a negative input terminal, a positive output terminal, and a negative output terminal; an operational transconductance amplifier having a positive input terminal connected with the positive output terminal of said low pass filter, a negative input terminal connected with the negative output terminal of said low pass filter, a positive output connected with the negative input of said low pass 


filter, and a negative output connected with the positive input of said low pass filter; a first capacitor connected between the positive output of said operational transconductance amplifier and a reference voltage; and a second capacitor connected between the negative output of said operational transconductance amplifier and said reference voltage.
21. A circuit for providing a clock signal from an input signal having a clocked data stream, comprising: _ means for differentiating said input data stream signal to provide an input data differential signal, said differentiating means including at least one second order turnable low pass filter having a control input; and means responsive to said input data differential signal for regenerating said clock signal, said clock regenerating means including a voltage controlled oscillator responsive to an oscillator control voltage, said oscillator control voltage being further provided to said control input of said low pass filter. 


 22. The circuit of claim 21, wherein said differentiating means includes a plurality of second order low pass filters connected in series, each of said low pass filters having a control input connected with said oscillator control voltage.
23. The circuit of claim 22, wherein said differentiating means includes two low pass filters, each low pass filter operable to delay said input data stream signal by bit time.
24. The circuit of claim 21, wherein said differentiating means includes an EXCLUSIVE OR logic gate and means for delaying said input data stream signal by bit time, said EXCLUSIVE OR gate having a first input for receiving said input data stream signal and a second input for receiving said delayed input data stream signal, said input data differentials,signal being provided on the output of said EXCLUSIVE OR logic gate.
25. The circuit of cliam 24, wherein said delaying means includes a plurality of low-pass filters connected in series, each low pass filter of said delaying means having a control input connected with said oscillator control voltage. 


 26. The circuit of claim 25, wherein said delaying means includes two low-pass filters, each low-pass filter of said delaying means operable to delay said input data stream signal by % bit time.
27. The circuit of claim 21, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes a tunable low pass filter and an integrator, said tunable filter including a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said oscillator control voltage, said control voltage controlling the oscillating frequency of said voltage controlled oscillator.
28. The circuit of claim 27, wherein said integrator includes an operational transconductance amplifier and a plurality of capacitors.
29. The circuit of claim 21, wherein said voltage controlled oscillator includes: a tunable second order low pass filter having a cut-off frequency control input for receiving said oscillator control voltage, a positive input terminal, a negative input terminal, a positive output terminal, and a negative output terminal; an operational transconductance amplifier having a positive input terminal connected with the positive output terminal of said low pass filter, a negative 


input terminal connected with the negative output terminal of said low pass filter, a positive output connected with the negative input of said low pass filter, and a negative output connected with the positive input of said low pass filter; a first capacitor connected between the positive output of said operational transconductance amplifier and a reference voltage; and a second capacitor connected between the negative output of said operational transconductance amplifier and said reference voltage. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
