<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624110</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GOLF SWING TRAINING DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B5900	A63B5900	A63B6936	A63B6936	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B59	A63B59	A63B69	A63B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
R M 
&
 G PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
R.M. 
&
 G. PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH ALFRED J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH, ALFRED, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH, ROBERT, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 GOLF SWING TRAINING DEVICEBackground of the InventionThis invention pertains to the art of training devices and more particularly to a golf swing training device. The invention is particularly applicable to a golf swing training device that permits a golfer to detect certain types of errors in his swing, and provides a positive indication of the error. If the golfer's swing is properly executed, the golfer is able to hit a golf ball with the training device, and again, obtain immediate and positive feedback. However, it will be appreciated that the invention has broader applications and may also be employed without actually hitting a golf ball, or in conjunction with other golf swing training methods, devices, and instruction.A number of golf swing training devices are already known in the art, but this invention is particularly an improvement of commonly assigned U.S. Patent No. 4,854,585 of Koch, et al. As shown and described in that patent, a two-way hinge is included in the golf club shaft to permit the club head, whether a wood or iron, to break from an aligned arrangement with the remainder of the shaft and indicate a fault or error in the golfer's swing. If a swing is technically proper, the hinge remains unbroken, the shaft portions aligned, and the golfer can strike a ball to instantly perceive the success in his swing.U.S. Patent No. 4,854,585, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference, teaches one preferred structure in which a hinge assembly includes a projection, a means for receiving the projection, and means for biasing the projection into the receiving means to tension or maintain the hinge in an unbroken state. More 

 particularly, the 4,854,585 patent employs a ball as the projection which is biased outwardly from one hinge member by a coil spring. The ball is received in a recess on the other hinge portion to maintain the hinge and shaft portions in aligned fashion until a predetermined force imposed by a faulty swing overcomes the spring bias and permits the club head to break either rearwardly or forwardly. An adjustment member cooperates with the spring so that the tension on the ball member, and thus the hinge assembly, can be adjusted if so desired.Golf swing training devices sold under the teachings of the 4,854,585 patent have met with substantial commercial success. Various potential areas for improvement, though, are addressed by the present application. A first area of improvement is directed to ease of adjustment of the tension of the hinge assembly,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Having thus described the invention, it is claimed:
1. A golf club used for training a golfer's 5 swing, the club having a first end with a hand grip and a second end having a club head adapted for hitting a ball, a hinge interposed between the first and second ends permitting the second end to selectively break from longitudinal alignment along a first axis with the first
10 end, means operatively associated with the hinge for selectively maintaining the first and second ends in longitudinal alignment including biasing means that requires a predetermined force to overcome it and break the alignment, and means for altering the biasing means, the
15 improvement comprising: an access to the altering means being accessible from a location adjacent and non-aligned with the first axis.
0 2. The golf club as defined in claim 1 wherein the access is generally parallel to the longitudinal extent of the club.
3. The golf club as defined in claim 1 wherein 5 the altering means is integrally formed with the hinge and spaced from the first axis in a direction opposite from the extension of the club head from the first axis whereby the altering means can be used to facilitate positioning of the club. 0
4. The golf club as defined in claim 1 wherein
* the maintaining means includes means for requiring a first force to break the club head in a first direction away from
* longitudinal alignment with the first end relative to a 5 different, second force required to break the club head in an opposite, second direction away from longitudinal alignment with the first end. 


 5. The golf club as defined in claim 1 wherein the hinge includes first and second portions operatively connected together by a pin member or selective movement relative to one another and the maintaining means includes a projection extending from one of the first and second portions and a recess defined in the other of the first and second portions, the recess, the recess having a first surface disposed at an angle different from the second surface relative to the projection whereby different forces are required to break the club head in opposite first and second directions away from longitudinal alignment with the first end.
6. The golf club as defined in claim 5 wherein the recess is defined by a V-shaped notch.
7. The golf club as defined in claim 5 wherein the projection is defined by a ball member.
8. The golf club as defined in claim 1 wherein the hinge includes first and second portions operatively connected together by a pin member for selective movement relative to one another.
9. The golf club as defined in claim 8 wherein the hinge first portion is a male member and the hinge second portion is a female member.
10. The golf club as defined in claim 8 wherein the hinge first portion is substantially identical to the hinge second portion.
11. In a golf club used for training a golfer wherein the club includes an elongated shaft having a first end with a grip and a second end with a club head, the shaft being divided into two parts by a hinge that selectively articulates the first and second ends relative 


 to one another during an improper swing, the hinge comprising: 
~~
 a first portion secured to a first part of the shaft; 
*
5 a second portion secured to a second part of the shaft; a pin member interconnecting the hinge first and second portions together; means incorporated into the hinge for 0 maintaining the shaft first and second parts in alignment along a first axis, the maintaining means including a projection extending outwardly from one of the hinge first and second portions and means for receiving the projection on the other of the hinge first and second portions; 5 means for biasing the receiving means and projection into operative engagement; and, means for altering the force imposed by the biasing means, the altering means being located in non- aligned relation with the first axis. 0
12. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 11 wherein the altering means is disposed in generally parallel relation to the first axis and includes a threaded member that abuts the biasing means to urge the projection 5 outwardly.
13. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 12 wherein the biasing means is a spring.
0 14. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 11 wherein the hinge first portion is a male member and the hinge second portion is a female member having first and second yokes receiving the male member therebetween.
5 15. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 14 wherein the male member has a ball member offset from the 


 projection and cooperates with a recess defined in one of the yokes of the female member.
16. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 11 wherein the receiving means includes means for holding the projection against movement, the holding means requiring a first magnitude force to break the hinge in one direction and a different, second magnitude force to break the hinge in an opposite direction.
17. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 16 wherein the holding means includes a first surface disposed at a first angle relative to the first axis and a second surface disposed at a different, second angle relative to the first axis.
18. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 17 wherein the first angle is approximately 60° and is adapted to control the rearward break of the club head relative to the first axis.
19. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 18 wherein the second angle is approximately 45* and is adapted to control the forward break of the club head relative to the first axis.
20. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 17 wherein the first and second surfaces intersect at an area offset from the first axis.
21. The golf club hinge as defined in claim 16 wherein the holding means is defined by a generally hemispherical recess having a curvature substantially less than a curvature of the projection.
22. A golf club used for training a golfer's swing, the club having an elongated shaft with a first end 


 having a hand grip and a second having a club head, a two- way hinge interposed between the first and second ends permitting the club head to articulate forwardly and rearwardly relative to the grip, means operatively 5 associated with the hinge for selectively maintaining the first and second ends in longitudinal alignment, the improvement comprising: means for requiring a first force to break the hinge and allow the club head to move in a first 0 direction away from longitudinal alignment with the first end relative to a different, second force required to break the hinge and allow the club head to move in an opposite, second direction away from the longitudinal alignment with the first end. 5
23. The golf club as defined in claim 22 wherein the maintaining means includes a biasing means for retaining first and second portions of the hinge in aligned relation. 0
24. The golf club as defined in claim 23 further comprising means for altering the biasing means.
25. The golf club as defined in claim 22 wherein the requiring means is defined by a V-shaped notch having first and second surfaces disposed at different angles relative to a longitudinal axis of the elongated shaft.
26. The golf club as defined in claim 25 wherein the intersection of the first and second surfaces is offset from the longitudinal axis.
27. The golf club as defined in claim 22 wherein ' the requiring means is defined by a generally hemispherical recess that receives a ball member, the curvature of the recess being substantially less than the curvature.of the ball member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
