<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617570</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modular housing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B3300	G11B3314	G11B3312	H05K720	H05K720	G11B3300	G11B3312	G11B3314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	H05K	H05K	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B33	G11B33	G11B33	H05K7	H05K7	G11B33	G11B33	G11B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modular housing for first (20) and second (30) groups of 
replaceable functional units e.g. disk files comprises a chassis for 

supporting the units within a first compartment (110) extending along the 
length of a chassis support structure (10) and removable via opposite 

openings in the chassis. Replaceable cooling and power supply assemblies 
(50) are located within a second compartment (108) of the drawer and can 

be removed from drawer via one of the openings without removing either of 
the groups of functional units. The fan (60) of a combined cooling and 

power supply unit is arranged centrally within the second compartment 
such that it draws cooling air past the first group of units and exhausts 

air towards the second group of units. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a modular housing and more 
particularly to the packaging and cooling of replaceable electrical units 
in such a housing. From EP-A-0 442 642 there is for 
example known a multi unit electrical 
apparatus with forced air cooling, said 
apparatus having 
a housing including receiving means 
located at one side thereof, adapted 
to receive multiple interchangeable electrical 
units; 
    
fan means behind the receiving 
means for producing an air flow through the 
housing past such electrical units; and 
    
a power supply also located in the 
air flow path through the housing. A current trend in the design of electrical systems is to modular 
system configurations wherein individual electrical units of the system 
are readily accessible and in some cases customer removable. The use of 
modular designs provides a number of different advantages. Manufacture 
and assembly is made simpler in that each unit can be manufactured and 
tested separately before being assembled in the complete system. 
Furthermore, if a removable unit becomes defective, it can be readily 
removed for repair and replaced with a working device. A typical multicomponent 
system of this type is a computing system in which data storage 
devices, processing hardware, power supplies and cooling fans are 
contained within a single support structure. Although ease of removability of individual devices is facilitated 
using a modular configuration, the removal and replacement of a device 
usually requires the system to be closed down thus reducing the amount of 
time for which the system is available. It would be desirable if a 
defective device could be removed and replaced whilst the system 
continued to function. In order to achieve this the system design should 
permit easy access to removable devices while at the same time ensuring 
that the system 'life support' functions e.g. cooling and power continue 
to operate. Taking the example of disk file data storage system 
comprising removable disk files and associated power and cooling units, 
such systems are currently available which allow for the replacement of 
one or more of the disk files while maintaining operation of the 
remaining disk files. However, removal and replacement of a failed 
cooling fan or power supply generally necessitates the shutting down of 
the whole system. It is increasingly common that such modular systems are required to 
conform to a industry standard size in order that they fit within an 
larger data processing system. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A modular housing for first (20) and second (30) groups of 
replaceable heat-generating functional units, comprising: 


a support structure (10) for supporting the two groups of 
functional units in the housing comprising a chassis in the form of 

rectangular tube having first (12) and second (12) openings at opposite 
ends thereof, and including first (110) and second (108) compartments 

separated by an internal wall (106) extending longitudinally at least 
part way along the length of the chassis to accommodate the first and 

second group of functional units within the first compartment on opposite 
sides of a central compartment of the chassis so as to be respectively 

removable via the first and second openings; 
at least two replaceable cooling units (60), which are removable 
via one of said chassis openings without removing eithe
r of the groups of 
functional units, the cooling units being locatable within the second 

compartment of the support structure adjacent to the central compartment 
in such a position that in operation they serve to draw air past the 

first group of units, through the cooling units and past the second group 
of units. 
A modular housing as claimed in claim 1 further comprising at least 
two replaceable power supply units (70) arranged within the second 

compartment of the chassis and removable via one of the chassis openings. 
A modular housing as claimed in claim 2, wherein a cooling unit is 
combined with a power supply unit to form a single assembly which is 

removable via one of the chassis openings. 
A modular housing as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each 
cooling unit comprises a centrifugal fan including an air inlet (64) for 

receiving cooling air from the direction of the first group of 
replaceable units and deflection means (67) arranged at the fan outlet 

(64) to deflect a proportion of the air exiting the fan towards the 
second group of functional units.  

 
A modular housing as claimed in claim 4 wherein the deflection 
means comprises a flap hingeably mounted at the fan outlet such that it 

covers the outlet fan aperture when the fan is not operating. 
A modular housing as claimed in any preceding claim further 
comprising the first and second groups of functional units. 
A modular housing as claimed in claim 6, wherein the functional 
units of each of the first and second group are removably loaded into a 

replaceable module which is mountable within the housing. 
A modular housing as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the 
functional units of both the first and second group comprise data storage 

devices. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
