<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631640</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR APPLYING SEAMLESS FLOORING MATERIAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62D700	B62D702	B62D900	B62D900	E01C1900	E01C1918	E01C1922	E01C1922	E04F2100	E04F2124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	E01C	E01C	E01C	E01C	E04F	E04F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62D7	B62D7	B62D9	B62D9	E01C19	E01C19	E01C19	E01C19	E04F21	E04F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEEMAC IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEEMAC INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKIM ALAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKIM, ALAN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONAPPARATUS FOR APPLYING SEAMLESS FLOORING MATERIALTECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to apparatus for the application of seamless flooring materials.A typical seamless floor is an epoxy overlay, mixed with aggregate, and screeded onto a subfloor, typically concrete. Such flooring is commonly used in industrial sites and the like.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ARTConventionally, manual equipment has been used to apply the flooring material. Such manual equipment includes hand-pulled dollies having open-bottomed rectangular hoppers through which the material is dispensed. Typically the flooring material is simply dumped into the hopper from a wheelbarrow or a pail. Such manual equipment is inefficient to operate, however, and is not sufficiently sophisticated to provide an even, consistent application of the flooring material without undue labor input.Once the material is on the floor, in both the prior art and the present invention, it is compacted and finished by, for example, a hand trowel or power trowel. However, both for quality and efficiency, it is highly desirable to have the initial application be as smooth and even as possible. 

 The invention addresses the problem of efficiently and effectively applying the flooring material to the subfloor. In the prior art, this can be quite a labour intensive process. The present invention greatly reduces the manpower requirements.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the invention to provide apparatus for the efficient and effective application of seamless flooring materials. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention an applicator for applying seamless flooring material comprises a steerable chassis mounted on wheels, a dispensing hopper supported at the rear end of the chassis, and propulsion means to propel the applicator. The height of each side of the hopper bottom opening above the floor is separately adjustable. The hopper preferably is readily removable from the chassis. In accordance with another aspect of the invention, a seamless flooring material application system is provided, including the applicator of the invention, in combination with a forklift liftable dumpster, top-fillable with flooring material from mixing apparatus and positionable above the dispensing hopper of the applicator, and bottom-openable to dump the flooring material into the applicator hopper.Further features of the invention will be described or will become apparent in the course of the following detailed description. 

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED AS THE INVENTION IS:
1. An applicator for applying seamless flooring material, comprising: a steerable chassis mounted on wheels; a pair of lower pivot arms mounted on each side of the chassis extending rearwardly and pivotable vertically; a crossbar at the rear of the chassis from which project upward a hopper bracket on each side, each hopper bracket being pivotably connected to the lower pivot arm on that side; a dispensing hopper mounted on the hopper brackets and crossbar so as to be cantilevered at the rear of the chassis and pivotable vertically, the dispensing hopper having an opening and a screed blade at its bottom for dispensing flooring material; and, wherein the degree of vertical pivoting of each lower pivot arm controls the height above the floor of each side of the dispensing hopper bottom opening. 

2. The applicator as set forth in claim 1 further comprising an upper pivot arm on each side of the chassis above each lower pivot arm with each upper pivot arm being pivotably connected to the chassis and the hopper bracket on that side, the upper pivot arms remaining parallel to the lower pivot arms as the height of the dispensing hopper is adjusted so as to prevent the dispensing hopper from rocking backward by pivoting about the pivotable connection between the hopper bracket and the lower pivot arm.
3. The applicator as set forth in claim 1 wherein each hopper bracket is connected to the crossbar so as to be pivotable in a transverse plane.
4. The applicator as set forth in claim 3 further comprising a radius arm within the crossbar pivotably connected to one of the hopper brackets so as to pivot with the crossbar and pivotably connected to the chassis through an opening in a midportion of the crossbar, the radius arm serving to stabilize the hopper against laterally directed forces developing at the screed blade. 

5. The applicator as set forth in claim 1 further comprising: a wedge shaped cam on each side of the chassis and extending rearwardly, the axial position of each cam being adjustable; and a lower cam follower mounted on each hopper bracket with an upper cam follower mounted immediately below on each side of the chassis frame, wherein the wedge-shaped cam engages between each upper and lower cam follower pair so that the height of the dispensing hopper above the floor on each side is adjusted and maintained by the axial position of the wedge- shaped cam.
6. The applicator as set forth in claim 5 wherein the axial position of each wedge-shaped cam is an adjusting shaft with an end threaded into each wedge-shaped cam and the other end rotatably mounted within a bearing mounted on the chassis frame, rotation of the shaft thereby causing axial movement of the wedge-shaped cam.
7. An applicator as recited in claim 1, further comprising propulsion means in which a hydraulic pump pumps fluid in series through hydraulic motors on the wheels. 


 8. An applicator as set forth in claim 7, further comprising sensing means for sensing turning greater than a certain angle, the sensing means being connected to bypass valve means to bypass the hydraulic motor on the inside wheel of the turn.
9. A seamless flooring material application system, comprising the applicator of claim 1, in combination with a forklift liftable dumpster, top-fillable with flooring material from mixing apparatus and positionable above said dispensing hopper of the applicator, and bottom-openable to dump said flooring material into said applicator hopper.
10. The system as set forth in claim 9 wherein the dumpster further comprises a pair of carrying arms into which may be inserted the tines of a forklift, the carrying arms being pivotably mounted to the dumpster enabling the dumpster to be pivoted laterally from the forklift's direction of travel. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 17 August 1993 (17.08.93); original claims 1,3,5,6,8 and 10 amended; other claims unchanged (4 pages)]
1. An applicator for applying seamless flooring material, comprising: a steerable chassis having first and second opposite, laterally extending sides and a rear, said chassis being mounted on wheels; a first lower pivot arm mounted on the first side of the chassis extending rearwardly and pivotable vertically and a second lower pivot arm mounted on the second side of the chassis extending rearwardly and pivotable vertically; a crossbar at the rear of the chassis extending transversely from the first side of the chassis to the second side; a first hopper bracket projecting upwardly from the crossbar at the first side of the chassis and being pivotally connected to the first lower pivot arm and a second bracket projecting upwardly from the crossbar at the second side of the chassis and being pivotally connected to the second lower pivot arm; a dispensing hopper mounted on the hopper brackets and the crossbar so as to be cantilevered at the rear of the chassis and pivotable vertically, the dispensing hopper having an opening at its bottom for dispensing flooring material; a screed blade mounted on said hopper adjacent said dispenser hopper opening for distributing flooring material; and 


 wherein the degree of vertical pivoting of the first lower pivot arm controls the height above the floor of the dispensing hopper opening and the screed blade at the first side of the chassis, and the second lower pivot arm controls the height above the floor of the dispensing hopper opening and the screed blade at the second side of the chassis.
2. The applicator as set forth in claim 1 further comprising an upper pivot arm on each side of the chassis above each lower pivot arm with each upper pivot arm being pivotably connected to the chassis and the hopper bracket on that side, the upper pivot arms remaining parallel to the lower pivot arms as the height of the dispensing hopper is adjusted so as to prevent the dispensing hopper from rocking backward by pivoting about the pivotable connection between the hopper bracket and the lower pivot arm.
3. The applicator as set forth in claim 1 wherein the first hopper bracket is pivotably connected to the crossbar at the first side of the chassis, and the second hopper bracket is pivotally connected to the crossbar at the second side of the chassis, so each bracket is independently pivotable in a transverse plane.
4. The applicator as set forth in claim 3 further comprising a radius arm within the crossbar pivotably connected to one of the hopper brackets so as to pivot with the crossbar and pivotably connected to the chassis through an opening in a midportion of the crossbar, the radius arm serving to stabilize the hopper against laterally directed forces developing at the screed blade. 



 5. The applicator as set forth in claim 1 further comprising: a wedge shaped cam on each side of the chassis extending rearwardly, the axial position of each cam being adjustable; and upper cam followers mounted on each hopper bracket with lower cam followers mounted immediately below on each side of the chassis in a manner such that the wedge-shaped cams engage between the upper and lower cam followers so that the height of the dispensing hopper above the floor on each side is adjusted and maintained by the axial positioning of the wedge-shaped cams.
6. The applicator as set forth in claim 5 wherein the axial position of each wedge-shaped cam relative to said upper and lower cam followers is adjusted by an adjusting shaft having one end threaded into said wedge- shaped cam and another end rotatably mounted within a bearing mounted on the chassis so that rotation of the shaft causes axial movement of the wedge-shaped cam.
7. An applicator as recited in claim 1, further comprising propulsion means in which a hydraulic pump pumps fluid in series through hydraulic motors on the wheels.
8. An applicator as set forth in claim 7, further comprising a sensing means for sensing when a front wheel turns greater than a certain angle from a forward axis of travel, the sensing means being connected to a bypass valve means to bypass the hydraulic motor of the wheel on the side of the chassis toward which the front wheel is turned. 


 9. A seamless flooring material application system, comprising the applicator of claim 1, in combination with a forklift liftable dumpster, top-fillable with flooring material from mixing apparatus and positionable above said dispensing hopper of the applicator, and bottom-openable to dump said flooring material into said applicator hopper.
10. The system as set forth in claim 9 wherein the dumpster further includes a pair of carrying arms into which may be inserted the tines of a forklift, the carrying arms being pivotably mounted to the dumpster enabling the dumpster to be pivoted laterally from the forklift's direction of travel. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
