<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636050</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR LASER ISOTOPE SEPARATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5900	B01D5934	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D59	B01D59	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNERGETIC RESOURCES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNERGETIC RESOURCES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDREOU DOROS SYNERGETIC RESOU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDREOU, DOROS SYNERGETIC RESOURCES LIMITED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR LASER ISOTOPE SEPARATIONThe discovery of a method and the invention of a system for obtaining high selectivity with very high dissociation yield in the Molecular Laser Isotope Separation (MLIS) route of Uranium Hexafluoride (UFg) are described. The system des- cribed here will improve the efficiency (by greatly increas¬ ing the selectivity and dissociation yield) and minimize the capital and maintenance costs of the molecular laser isotope separation method by enormous factors.It had generally been accepted in the past that for a commercial separation plant the Uranium Hexafluoride (UFg) is the most attractive gas for the enrichment of Uranium and the Molecular Laser Isotope Separation (MLIS) the most desirable process. The technoeconomics of the molecularrou¬ te (MLIS) for commercially separating the UFg isotopes can be grouped into two main areas: (i) The performance of the laser systems and their capital and maintenance cost; (ii) The efficient use of photons in the selectivity and dissoc¬ iation process.In the past it has been estimated that the capital and maintenance cost of the laser systems woμld amount for half of the total expenditure (e.g. Los Alamos Science report on isotope separation 1982). My parallel International patent application . based GB 9111310.0 describes an-βxtremely sinple laser system which fulfils all the technological requirements for the MLIS method in terms of efficiency, performance and output characteristics, and in addition its capital and maintenance costs are extremely small. This very simple laser system could make the MLIS method more efficient than the AVLIS method on its own.The second area concerning the commercial realization of the MLIS method is the efficiency of the process of inter¬ action which has hitherto run into certain problems because of the poor selectivity obtained between the UFg isotopes when high laser pumping powers are used. A method for obt¬ aining high dissociation yield in a single highly selective 

step in the Molecular Laser Isotope Separation (MLIS) pro¬ cess is embodied in the present invention and it is desc¬ ribed with reference to Figures 1—9:Figure 1 shows the spectrum of the expansion supercool- ed UFg molecular gas enriched to 3# in . 
Figure 2 shows the density of the vibrational states of various polyatomic molecules as a function of vibrational energy.Figure 3a shows the standard Raman scattering process and Figure 3b shows the spectrum of the Stokes and Anti- stokes frequencies with the higher orders
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS 1. A highly selective dissociation method for Molecular Laser Isotope Separation (MLIS) where the basic concept of the invention comprises the irradiation of the molecular gas with two narrow bandwidth laser beams, one at the frequency of the absorption band of the desired isotopic species U.
j
 --. = Uo and the other corresponding to the frequency J2 
be
~ tween the ground state and the second energy excitation lev¬ el i.e. U2
β
 ^o + U
]
2 where U^ is the frequency dif- ference between the first and second energy excitation lev¬ els, their simultaneous application to the molecular gas strongly enhancing the selective absorption of the desired isotopic species, and its preferential excitation up the molecular vibrational ladder. 2. A highly selective dissociation method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the two beams are collinear and polarized in the same direction, strongly enhancing the selective ab¬ sorption of the desired isotopic species up to the dissoc¬ iation limit. 3. A highly selective dissociation method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein in the cases where the absorption bands of the two isotopic species lie very close together and at high pumping powers the splitting of the energy lev¬ els and the power broadening of the energy levels affect selectivity, the beams are applied to the molecular gas in such a way as to cancel out or avoid any splitting of the energy levels due to induced magnetic dipoles in the tran¬ sitions and any other power broadening effects, the unwant¬ ed isotopic species remaining unexcited even at high pump- ing powers and rendering an outstanding selectivity to the desired isotopic species.
4. A highly selective dissociation method for molecular laser isotope separation (MLIS) as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 or Claim 3 wherein another set of beams with ident- ical frequencies at CJ^ = LJ
0
 and U2 
β
 ^o + W
12 »
 der¬ ivable rom the first one by beamsplitting or any other pro¬ cedure, is simultaneously applied to the molecular gas with their electric field vectors parallel to the direction of 


propagation of the original exciting pumping beams, the vol¬ ume of intersection of the two sets of beams being capable of covering the whole length of the two exciting beams with¬ in the molecular gas or any required part of it. 5. A high selectivity dissociation method as claimed in Claim 3 or Claim 4 wherein no splitting of the energy levels involved in the transitions or any power broadening ef ect occur in the molecules due to their subjection to two per¬ pendicularly crossed sets of beams, derivable from the same original set of beams by using a beamsplitter or any other procedure, the molecules lying within the coherence length of the original beams with the relative timing of the two sets of beams being adjusted in order to obtain the best possible matching for the interaction, thereby enabling only the desired isotope to be accurately and precisely selected, the unwanted isotope remaining largely unexcited.
6. A highly selective dissociation method as claimed in Claim 3 or Claim 4 or Claim 5 wherein the application of the split beams, derivable from the original set of the exciting pumping beams, is achieved by placing the molecular gas be¬ tween two parallel reflectors with the pumping exciting be¬ ams travelling parallel to these reflectors and directing the split beams by repeated reflections on the reflectors in a zig-zag configuration to cover the entire length of the pumping exciting beams as they traverse the molecular gas, the direction of their electric fields at the volumes of in¬ tersection being in the direction of propagation of the pumping exciting beams.
7. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso- tope separation as claimed in Claim 3 or Claim 4 or Claim 5 wherein the two sets of beams, derivable from the same ori¬ ginal set of beams by beamsplitting or by any other proce¬ dure, are applied to the molecular gas in such a way as to arrive simultaneously at all points within the molecular gas where they cross each other perpendicularly, within a paral¬ lel mirror arrangement or in any other optical arrangement containing the molecular gas.
8. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso- 


tope separation as claimed in Claim 3 or Claim 4 or Claim 7 wherein the molecular gas simultaneously interacts with two perpendicularly crossed sets of beams, derivable from the same original set of beams by beamsplitting or by any other procedure, arriving simultaneously at the points of perpen¬ dicular intersection in any optical system which in princip¬ le is analogous to a Mach-Zehnder interferometer with the second reuniting beamsplitter removed and the molecular gas placed in its position. 9. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso¬ tope separation as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the application of two sets of beams comprising four beams supplies the same energy for absorption to the moleculargas at much less power per beam, than in one beam, the relative fluences and powers of the beams capable of being adjusted relative to each other, the two sets of beams being compl¬ imentary to each other in the induction and utilization of the dipole and quadrupole moments and wherein a third set of beams may be applied to the system to further facilitate the interaction process, rendering much easier the experim¬ ental conditions for obtaining maximum selective dissociat¬ ion of the desired isotopic species in a single pumpingstep.
10. A highly selective dissociation method as claimed in Claim 3 or Claim 4 or Claim or Claim 6 or Claim 7 wherein all the induced magnetic dipoles involved in the interaction process between the radiation and the molecular transitions at resonance are canceled out thereby eliminating all ener¬ gy level splittings and power broadening effects and where in addition full use is made of the absorption due to the induced electric quadrupoles during the interaction process, rendering an outstanding selectivity and dissociation to the desired isotopic species.
11. A high selectivity dissociation method for laser iso¬ tope separation as claimed in Claim 4 or Claim 5 or Claim 6 or Claim 7 or Claim 9 which is derivable in any way fromthe two sets of beams such as the application of any two orthree or four of the said beams to the molecular gas.
12. A highly selective dissociation method for Uranium 


Hexafluoride (UFg) laser isotope separation (MLIS) as claim¬ ed in any preceding claim and as applied to the Uranium Hexa¬ fluoride molecular gas wherein the frequencies of the two beams which are simultaneously applied to the expansion su- percooled UFg gas in the manner described in any of the pre¬ ceding claims, correspond to the absorption band of the 
2
^UFg gas at L^ = CJ
0
 =628.31 cm"
1
 and the other one to the second energy excitation level of the 
2
55UJ? 
a
t L 
™
 LJ
o
 + U.J2 near 1246.1 cm""
1
, the relative fluences and tim- ing of any of the beams which are applied to the molecular gas in any of the ways described in the preceding claims, being adjusted for maximum selective dissociation in a sing¬ le pumping step.
13. A highly selective dissociation method for Uranium Hexafluoride (UFg) laser isotope separation or any other molecular isotopic species as claimed in Claim 12 or any other preceding claim wherein an additional visible or ul¬ traviolet beam is used to drive the UFg molecules to their dissociation energy limit of 3 eV (24000 cm"
1
), or where additional infrared beams with frequencies corresponding to the frequencies between the ground and any higher energy ex¬ citation level of the molecule are applied with their pol¬ arizations in the directions of the induced moments in the molecules thus further enhancing the selectivity and dis- sociation of the desired isotopic species.
14. A high selectivity dissociation method for Molecular Laser Isotope Separation (MLIS) as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the optical pumping arrangement of the inter¬ acting beams can be repetitively applied in the direction of expansion of the supercooled molecular gas, each arrange¬ ment being fired into the molecular gas with a time delay equivalent to the time taken for the gas to expand from the position of one arrangement to the position of the follow¬ ing arrangement. 15- A highly selective dissociation method for isotope separation as claimed in Claim 7 or Claim 14 or any other preceding claim wherein in order to efficiently irradiate the whole of the supercooled molecular gas the points of 


perpendicular intersections of the two sets of beams within the molecular gas are alternatively moved at new positions for each arrangement along the direction of its expansion for uniform overall interaction with the gas, 16. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso¬ tope separation or enrichment as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the said method or part of the said method or system or concept described in any preceding claim is, or forms part of any method or system or process for the sep- aration or enrichment of isotopic species.
17. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso¬ tope separation or enrichment substantially as described herein, and with.reference to Figure 8, Figures 4 and 5a,b , or Figures 6a, and 9b, Figures 8, 4, 5a,b , 6a,b and 9b of the accompanying-drawings.
18. Apparatus for the selective dissociation, in a molecular gas containing different isotopic species, of molecules of a desired isotopic species, comprising a chamber defining a volume for containing the said gas, and first and second narrow-band width lasers, having their laser beams directed colli early through the chamber, the first laser having a frequency equal to that of the absorption band of the molecules of the desired isotopic species and the second laser having a frequency equal to the frequency between the ground state and the second energy excitation level of the molecules of the desired isotopic species.
19. Apparatus substantially as claimed in claim 18 wherein, in addition, means are provided for deriving from the said lasers respective further beams and directing these through the said volume containing the molecular gas to intersect the first mentioned beams substantially at right angles within the gas.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 9 September 1992 (09.09.92); original claims 1-19 replaced by amended claims 1-22 (5 pages)]
1. A method of preferentially exciting and selectively dissociating, in a molecular gas containing molecules of dif- ferent isotopes, molecules of a desired isotope, in which the gas is irradiated with a first narrow bandwidth laser beam at a frequency Ld
j
 equal to the frequency U
0
 of the ab¬ sorption band of the molecules of the desired isotopic spec¬ ies and simultaneously with a second narrow bandwidth laser beam at a frequency u)
2
 equal to the frequency (CJ
0
 + U
12
) between the ground state and the second energy excitation level of the molecules of the desired isotopic species, where l_)«2 is the frequency difference between the first and sec¬ ond energy excitation levels.
2. A highly selective dissociation method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the two beams are collinear and polarized in the same direction.
3- A highly selective dissociation method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein in the cases where the absorption bands of the two isotopic species lie very close together and at high pumping powers nonlinear and power broadening effects affect selectivity, the beams are applied to the molecular gas in such a way as to cancel out or avoid such effects for the unwanted isotope hindering selectivity, whilst at the same time exploiting the properties of such effects for the selective absorption of the desired isotopic species.
4. A highly selective dissociation method for molecular laser isotope separation (MLIS) as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein another set of beams with identical frequencies at U-
j
 = Uo and U2 = U
0
 + LO^ i
s
 simultaneously ap¬ plied to the molecular gas with their electric field vectors parallel to the direction of propagation of the original ex¬ citing pumping beams.
5. A highly selective dissociation method for molecular laser isotope separation as claimed in claim 4 wherein the 


two sets of beams containing the frequencies at U.. = CJ
0
 and Δ =- U
0
 + U
12
 which are crossed perpendicularly at the position of the molecular gas, are derived from the same original set of beams by beamsplitting or any other procedure.
6. A high selectivity dissociation method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the molecules lie within the coherence length of the two sets of beams with their relative timing being adjusted in order to obtain the best possible matching for the interaction, the volume of intersection of -the two sets of beams being capable of covering the molecular gas or any required part of it.
7. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso- tope separation as claimed in claim 5 or 6 wherein the two sets of beams, derivable from the same original set of beams by beamsplitting or by any other procedure, are applied to the molecular gas in such a way as to arrive simultaneously at all points within the molecular gas where they cross each other perpendicularly.
8. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso¬ tope separation as claimed in claim 7 wherein the molecular gas simultaneously interacts with two perpendicularly cros- sed sets of beams, derivable from the same original set of beams by beamsplitting or by any other procedure, arriving simultaneously at the points of perpendicular intersection in any optical system which in principle is analogous to a Mach-Zehnder interferometer with the second reuniting beam- splitter removed and the molecular gas placed in its position.
9. Apparatus for the selective dissociation, in a molec¬ ular gas containing different isotopic species, of molecules of a desired isotopic species, comprising a chamber defining a volume for containing the said gas, and first and second narrow bandwidth lasers, having their laser beams directed collinearly through the chamber, the first laser having a frequency equal to that of the absorption band of the mole
¬
 cules of the desired isoτopic species and the second laser 


having a frequency equal to the frequency between the ground state and the second energy excitation level of the molecu¬ les of the desired isotopic species.
10. Apparatus substantially as claimed in claim 9 wherein, in addition, means are provided for deriving from the said lasers respective further beams and directing these through the said volume containing the molecular gas to intersect the first mentioned beams substantially at right angles with- in the gas.
11. A highly selective dissociation system for laser iso¬ tope separation as claimed in claim 9 or 10 wherein an in¬ itial set of beams is split in two by a beamsplitter,, the resulting two sets of beams being directed through the chamb¬ er containing the molecular gas using mirrors to cross each other perpendicularly as they arrive simultaneously at the position of the molecular gas.
12. A selective dissociation system for
.
laser isotope sep¬ aration as claimed in claim 10 or 11 wherein the molecular gas is contained within two parallel reflectors, the two sets of beams being repetitively reflected at 45° to the reflect¬ ors crossing each other perpendicularly along the whole length of the molecular gas, arriving simultaneously at all points where they intersect perpendicularly.
13. A selective dissociation system for laser isotope sep¬ aration as claimed in claim 10 wherein the molecular gas is contained between two parallel reflectors, one set of beams travelling parallel to the reflectors whilst the other set of beams is repetitively reflected on the reflectors in a zig¬ zag configuration crossing the first set of beams substant¬ ially at right angles along the whole of the length of the molecular gas.
14. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso¬ tope separation as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the application of two sets of beams comprising four beams 


supplies the same energy for absorption to the molecular gas at much less power per beam than in one beam, the relative fluences and powers of the beams capable of being adjusted relative to each other, the two sets of beams being compli- mentary to each other in the induction and utilization of the dipole and quadrupole moments and wherein a third set of beams may be applied to the system to further facilitate the interaction process.
15. A highly selective dissociation method as claimed in claims 3 to 8 wherein all the induced magnetic dipoles in¬ volved in the interaction process between the radiation and the molecular transitions at resonance are cancelled out the¬ reby eliminating all energy level splittings and power broad- ening effects and where in addition full use is made of the absorption due to the induced electric quadrupoles during the interaction process.
16. A high selectivity dissociation method for laser iso- tope separation as claimed in claims 4 to 8 which is deri¬ vable in any way from the two sets of beams such as. the ap¬ plication of any two or three or four of the said beams to the molecular gas.
17. A highly selective dissociation method for Uranium He¬ xafluoride (UFg) laser isotope separation (MLIS) as claimed in any preceding claim and as applied to the Uranium Hexa¬ fluoride molecular gas wherein the frequencies of the two beams which are simultaneously applied to the expansion sup- ercooled UFg gas in the manner described in any of the pre¬ ceding claims correspond to the absorption band of the 
255
UFg gas at U-
j
 = U
0
 = 628.31 cm"
1
 and the other one to the second energy excitation level of the ^U g at U
2
 = U
0
 + ^2 
near
 1246.1 cm
"1
.
18. A highly selective dissociation method for Uranium He¬ xafluoride (UFg) laser isotope separation or any other mole¬ cular isotopic species as claimed in claim 17 or any other preceding claim wherein an additional visible or ultraviolet 


beam is used to drive the UFg molecules to their dissociat¬ ion energy limit of 3 eV (24000 cm
"
 ), or where additional infrared beams with frequencies corresponding to the frequ¬ encies between the ground and any higher energy excitation level of the molecule are applied with their polarizations in the directions of the induced moments in the molecules thus further enhancing the selectivity and dissociation of the desired isotopic species.
19. A high selectivity dissociation method for Molecular Laser Isotope Separation (MLIS) as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the optical pumping arrangement of the inter¬ acting beams can be repetitively applied in the direction of expansion of the supercooled molecular gas, each arrange- ment being fired into the molecular gas with a time delay equivalent to the time taken or the gas to expand from the position of one arrangement to the position of the follow¬ ing arrangement.
20. A highly selective dissociation method or isotope sep¬ aration as claimed in claim 7
»
 8 or 19 wherein in order to efficiently irradiate the whole of the supercooled molecular gas the points of perpendicular intersections of the two sets of beams within the molecular gas are alternatively moved at new positions for each arrangement along the direction of its expansion for uniform overall interaction with the gas.
21. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso¬ tope separation or enrichment as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the said method or part of the said method or system or concept described in any preceding claim is, or forms part of any method or system or process for the sep¬ aration or enrichment of isotopic species.
22. A highly selective dissociation method for laser iso¬ tope separation or enrichment substantially as described herein, and with reference to Figure 8, Figure 4, Figure 5, Figure 6, or Figures 8, 4, 5, 6 and 9b of the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
