<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634991</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SURFACE MODIFIED PARTICLES AND METHOD OF MAKING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09C306	C09C306	C09C122	C09C308	C04B1402	C09D544	H04Q1100	H04Q1102	C09C124	C09C308	C09D544	C04B2000	C04B1402	C04B2012	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09C	C09C	C09C	C09C	C04B	C09D	H04Q	H04Q	C09C	C09C	C09D	C04B	C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09C3	C09C3	C09C1	C09C3	C04B14	C09D5	H04Q11	H04Q11	C09C1	C09C3	C09D5	C04B20	C04B14	C04B20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to modifying the surface of particles for improved dispersion characteristics in aqueous, solvent, resinous, polymeric, cementitious or the like application systems. In particular, this invention relates to a pigment or filler particle whose surface is coated with at least one electric charge modifying agent and at least one dispersion promoting agent, which has improved dispersibility, coloring, handling, and other processing properties in application systems. The electric charge modifying agent may be selected from the group of Mg, Ca, Ba, Sr, Ti, V, Zr, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, and Al. The dispersion promoting agent may be selected from the group of stearates, acetates, alkylphenols, cellulosics, waxes, lignins, polyacrylics, polyepoxies, polyurethanes, polyethylenes, polystyrenes and polypropylenes, and polymers having functional groups of alcohols, glycols, aldehydes, amides and carboxylic acids. Iron oxide is the preferred pigment particle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARCROS PIGMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARCROS PIGMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUPPLEE WILLIAM W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILL JAMES T JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUPPLEE, WILLIAM W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILL, JAMES, T., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to modifying the surface of particles for improved dispersion
characteristics in aqueous, solvent, resinous, polymeric, cementitious, magnetic or the like
application systems. In particular, this invention relates to a pigment or filler particle whose
surface is coated with at least one electric charge modifying agent which may also be combined
with at least one dispersion promoting agent, which has improved dispersibility, coloring,
handling, and other processing properties in application systems. Even more particularly, this
invention relates to an iron oxide pigment particle whose surface is coated with at least one
inorganic electric charge modifying material and at least one dispersion promoting material.Inorganic pigments such as metal oxides, for example, iron oxides, are conventionally
used as coloring components in the construction, paint, plastic and other industries. The
inorganic pigments are incorporated for coloring into the desired application system such as,
aqueous, solvent, resinous, polymeric, cementitious or dispersion systems or the like usually
through intensive mixing. A key performance property of the pigment is the dispersibility of
the pigment throughout the application system. The dispersibility is a measure of the ease with
which the pigment particles can be uniformly and intimately mixed in the application system.
Poor dispersion of the pigment particles can cause large agglomerates of pigment particles which
may result in surface imperfections, color streaks, non uniform coloration or incomplete color
development within the end product.A problem with many inorganic pigments, for example, metal oxides, is that they
normally do not disperse well in mediums such as in paints, plastics, cements or the like. A
reason for this is that the surface of metal oxide pigments is not electrochemically compatible
with many application systems and as a result, additional time, greater mechanical energy, and
greater pigment quantities are required to properly mix the pigment in the medium to achieve
the desired color and other properties.Attempts have been made to provide a pigment particle with enhanced dispersion and
coloring properties for many application systems. Among the prior art, surface modifications 
of inorganic pigment particles by coating the particles with inorganic additives are known for
improving coloring and processing properties in several application systems. European Patent
No. 87113450.8- Burow et al. and U.S. Patent No. 5,059,250 - Burow et
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surface modified pigment particle, comprising:

a pigment particle, whose surface is coated with a first coating of at least one

electric charge modifying agent and a second coating of at least one dispersion
promoting agent.
The surface modified pigment particle according to
claim 1, wherein said pigment particle is selected from the

group of pigments consisting of minerals, organics, laked
organics, extenders, fillers, metals and metal oxides.
The surface modified pigment particle according to
claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said pigment particle is selected

from the group of pigments consisting of chromates, ferrocyanides,
sulfides, sulfoselenides, oxides, silicates,

phosphates, aluminates, titanates, carbonates, sulfates,
borates and metal pigments.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said pigment particle is

selected from the group consisting of metal oxides.
The surface modified pigment particle according to
claim 4, wherein said metal oxides are selected from the

group consisting of iron oxides, aluminum oxides, chromium
oxides, lead oxides, nickel oxides, silicon oxides, silver

oxides, tin oxides, titanium oxides, zinc oxides, zirconium
oxides, and other transition metal oxides. 
The surface modified pigment particle according to claim
4 or claim 5, wherein said metal oxides are iron oxides.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said at least one electric

charge modifying agent is an inorganic material selected from
the group consisting of Mg, Ca, Ba, Sr, Ti, V, Zr, Cr, Mn,

Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Si and Al.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said at least one electric

charge modifying agent is selected from the group of inorganic
materials consisting of Mg, Ca, Zr, Fe, Si and Al.
The surface modified pigment particle according to
claim 8, wherein said at least one electric charge modifying

agent is Mg.
The surface modified pigment particle according to
claim 8, wherein said at least one electric charge modifying

agent is Si.
The surface modified pigment particle according to
claim 8, wherein said at least one electric charge modifying

agent is Al.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said at least one dispersion

promoting agent is an organic material selected from the
group consisting of stearates, acetates, alkylphenols, cellulosics,

waxes; lignins, acrylics, epoxies, urethanes, ethylenes,
styrenes, propylenes and polymers having functional

groups of alcohols, glycols, aldehydes, amides and carboxylic
acids. 
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one dispersion

promoting agent is selected from the group of organic
materials consisting of stearates, alkylphenols, lignins,

acrylics, ethylenes and polymers having functional groups of
alcohols, glycols, aldehydes and carboxylic acids.
The surface modified pigment according to claim 13,
wherein the at least one dispersion promoting agent is

lignosulfonate.
The surface modified pigment according to claim 13,
wherein the at least one dispersion promoting agent is

polyacrylate.
The surface modified pigment according to claim 13,
wherein the at least one dispersion promoting agent is

stearate.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said electric charge modifying

coating is about 0.01 - 20% by weight of the pigment
particle.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said dispersion promoting

coating is about 0.01 - 20% by weight of the pigment
particle.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said pigment particle has

an average primary particle size of 0.01 - 100 micrometers. 
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said surface modified

pigment is in granular form.
The surface modified pigment particle according to
claim 20, wherein said granule is a bead granule.
The surface modified pigment particle according to claim
20 or claim 21, wherein said granule has an average bulk

particle size in the range of 25 to 250 µm, preferably in the
range of 100 to 200 µm.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of claims 20 to 22, wherein said granule has a water content

of less than 5%, preferably of less than 2%.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, wherein said surface modified

pigment is in powder form.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of claims 1 to 23, wherein said surface modified pigment is

in dispersion form.
The surface modified pigment particle according to one
of the preceding claims, further comprising other additives

selected from the group consisting of stabilizers,
dispersants, biocides, wetting agents, rheology modifiers,

fillers, lubricants, plasticizers, plastisols, propellants
and gas entrainment agents.
A method of coating the surface of a pigment particle,
especially for preparing a surface modified pigment particle 

according to one of the preceding claims, comprising the
steps of:


(a) providing a suspension of pigment
particles;
(b) adding at least one electric charge
modifying agent to the suspension;
(c) precipitating said at least one electric
charge modifying agent on the surface of

said pigment particles;
(d) adding at least one dispersion promoting agent to
the suspension;
(e) electrochemically attaching said at least
one dispersion promoting agent on the

surface of said pigment particles; and,
(f) recovering the surface coated pigment
particles.
The method according to claim 27, wherein said pigment
particles are metal oxides, preferably iron oxides.
The method according to claim 27 or claim 28, wherein
the at least one electric charge modifying agent is an

inorganic material selected from the group consisting of Mg,
Ca, Ba, Sr, Ti, V, Zr, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Si and Al,

and the at least one dispersion promoting agent is an organic
material selected from the group consisting of stearates,

acetates, alkylphenols, cellulosics, waxes, lignins, acrylics,
epoxies, urethanes, ethylenes, styrenes, propylenes

and polymers having functional groups of alcohols, glycols,
aldehydes, amides and carboxylic acids.
The method according to one of claims 27 to 29, wherein
said precipitating step (c) is by agitating, pH adjusting to 

alkalinity or a combination thereof until substantially
complete reaction.
The method according to one of claims 27 to 30, wherein

said attaching step (e) is by agitating until substantially
complete reaction.
The method according to one of claims 27 to 31, wherein
said recovering step (f) is by filtration and drying, batch

drying, spray roasting, spray drying or fluidized bed drying.
The method according to one of claims 27 to 32, wherein
said suspension of particles is an inprocess suspension.
The method according to one of claims 27 to 33, wherein
said suspension of particles is a redispersion of agglomerated

particles.
The method according to one of claims 27 to 34, further
comprising the step of:


(g) granulating said surface coated particles
to end product form.
The method according to claim 35, wherein said
granulating step (g) comprises spray drying with a liquid

comprising water.
A colored cementitious composition, comprising:

a cement and surface modified pigment particles according to
one of claims 1 to 26, wherein said pigment particle is

selected from the group consisting of metal oxides.
The colored cementitious composition according to 
claim 37, wherein the pigment particles are iron oxides

selected from the group consisting of red, yellow and black
iron oxides.
The colored cementitious composition according to
claim 37 or claim 38, wherein the at least one electric

charge modifying agent is an inorganic material selected from
the group consisting of Mg, Ca, Ba, Sr, Ti, V, Zr, Cr, Mn,

Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Si and Al and the al least one dispersion
promoting agent is an organic material selected from the

group consisting of stearates, acetates, alkylphenols, cellulosics,
waxes, lignins, acrylics, epoxies, urethanes, ethylenes,

styrenes, propylenes and polymers having functional
groups of alcohols, glycols, aldehydes, amides and carboxylic

acids.
The colored cementitious composition according to
claim 39, wherein the at least one electric charge modifying

agent is Mg and the at least one dispersion promoting agent
is lignosulfonate.
A magnetic toner composition, comprising:

surface modified pigment particles according to one of claims
1 to 26, wherein said pigment particle is selected from the

group consisting of metal oxides.
The magnetic toner composition according to claim 41,
wherein the pigment particles are black iron oxides.
The magnetic toner composition according to claim 41 or
claim 42, wherein the at least one electric charge modifying

agent is an inorganic material selected from the group consisting
of Mg, Ca, Ba, Sr, Ti, V, Zr, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu,

Zn, Si and Al and the at least one dispersion promoting agent 
is an organic material selected from the group consisting of

stearates, acetates, alkylphenols, cellulosics, waxes, lignins,
acrylics, epoxies, urethanes, ethylenes, styrenes, propylenes

and polymers having functional groups of alcohols,
glycols, aldehydes, amides and carboxylic acids.
The magnetic toner composition according to claim 43,
wherein the at least one electric charge modifying agent is

Al and the at least one dispersion promoting agent is a
stearate.
A coating composition, comprising:

a base, a vehicle, a binder and surface modified pigment
particles according to one of claims 1 to 26, wherein said

pigment particle is selected from the group consisting of
metal oxides.
A method of coloring cement, comprising the steps of:

(a) providing surface modified pigment
particles according to one of claims 1 to

26, wherein said pigment particle is
selected from the group consisting of

metal oxides,
(b) mixing said modified pigment particles
with cement at conditions sufficient to

form a homogeneous dispersal of said
surface modified pigment particles in

the cement; and,
(c) allowing the cementitious mixture to set.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
