<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614430</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRACK LAYING VEHICLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62D5508	B62D5512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62D55	B62D55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A track assembly suitable for use with a track laying vehicle. The pitch of the drive members (7) on the drive wheel (5) is different to the pitch of the transmission elements (11) of that section of the belt which is in engagement with the drive wheel (5) such that the maximum transmission force applied to the belt by the drive wheel (5) is at that section of the belt in engagement with the drive wheel (5) in the region where the belt leaves the drive wheel (5). One form of the drive wheel (5) comprises a hub, spaced apart outer rim sections (65) and a plurality of drive members (7) extending between the rim sections (65). The outer rim sections (65) and/or the drive members (7) include a rotatable belt contact surface portion (88, 89, respectively) which in use engage a belt or track of the track assembly.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEERE 
&
 CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEERE 
&
 CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGORCKA JAMES ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGORCKA JAMES ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TRACK LAYING VEHICLESThis invention relates generally to track laying vehicles and more particularly in one aspect to a track assembly and in another aspect a drive wheel suitable for use in such a vehicle.Track laying vehicles of this type may comprise a main body having a longitudinal axis extending between forward and rearward ends thereof and a pair of track assemblies disposed on opposite sides of the main body. Each track assembly may comprise first and second wheels which are spaced apart in the direction of the longitudinal axis with at least one of the wheels defining a drive wheel. An example of one such vehicle and track assembly therefor is described in applicant's international application no. 
According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a track assembly suitable for use with a track laying vehicle, the vehicle comprising a vehicle body having a longitudinal axis extending between forward and rearward ends of the vehicle, and having two such track assemblies which are disposed on opposite sides of the vehicle body, each track assembly comprising at least first and second wheels which, in use, are spaced apart in the direction of the longitudinal axis with at least one of the wheels defining a drive wheel, a continuous elastomeric belt or track having a ground engaging surface and an opposite wheel engaging surface with a plurality of power transmission elements projecting from the wheel engaging surface, said belt or track extending at least partially around said wheels so that a section thereof comprises an engagement section which is in engagement with drive wheel, said drive wheel comprising a hub and a plurality of circumferentially spaced apart drive members at or near the radially outer 

 periphery of the drive wheel, the space between adjacent drive members forming receiving recesses for the transmission elements in the engagement section of the belt wherein the pitch of the drive members on the drive wheel is different to the pitch of the transmission elements of the engagement section of the belt such that the maximum transmission force applied to belt by the drive wheel is at the engagement section of the belt in the region where it leaves the drive wheel.The engagement section of the belt with the drive wheel has an entry side and an exit side and the maximum driving force may be arranged to be applied to the transmission elements by the drive members on the drive wheel at or towards the exit side. The arrangement may be such that the belt and drive wheel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A track assembly suitable for use with a track laying vehicle, the vehicle comprising a vehicle body having a longitudinal axis extending between forward and rearward ends of the vehicle, and having two of the track assemblies which are disposed on opposite sides of the vehicle body, each track assembly comprising at least first and second wheels which, in use, are spaced apart in the direction of the longitudinal axis with at least one of the wheels defining a drive wheel, a continuous elastomeric belt or track having a ground engaging surface and an opposite wheel engaging surface and a plurality of power transmission elements projecting from the wheel engaging surface said belt or track extending at least partially around said wheels so that a section thereof is in engagement with drive wheel, said drive wheel comprising a hub and a plurality of circumferentially spaced apart drive members at or near the radially outer periphery of the drive wheel the space between adjacent drive members forming receiving recesses for the transmission elements in that section of the belt which is in engagement with the drive wheel, characterised in that the pitch of the drive members on the drive wheel is different to the pitch of the transmission elements of that section of the belt which is in engagement with the drive wheel such that the maximum transmission force applied to thebelt by the drive wheel is at that section of the belt in engagement with the drive wheel in the region where the belt leaves the drive wheel.
2. A track assembly according to claim 1 wherein the engagement section of the belt with the drive wheel has an entry side and an exit side and the maximum driving force is applied to the transmission elements by the drive members on the drive wheel at or towards the exit side, the arrangement being such that the belt and drive wheel are arranged so that when the belt first contacts the drive wheel the 


 transmission elements are positioned relative to the drive members that there is little or no driving force applied to the transmission members at this stage, and because of the pitch differential between the transmission elements and the drive members there will be a relative movement between the two parts until at some point along the engagement section the transmission elements will be engaged by the drive elements so as to apply a transmission force thereto.
3. A track assembly according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the pitch of the drive members on the drive is greater than that of the transmission elements on the section of the belt engaging the drive wheel.
4. A track assembly according to any preceding claim wherein said drive wheel includes spaced apart outer rim surfaces with the drive members extending therebetween said drive members comprising drive bars, which project radially outwardly from the outer rim surfaces.
5. A track assembly according to any preceding claims wherein the drive members may include a rotatable contact section which engages the belt.
6. A drive wheel suitable for use with a track assembly for a vehicle, the drive wheel comprising a hub, spaced apart outer rim sections and a plurality of circumferentially spaced apart drive members extending between the rim sections the space between adjacent drive members forming receiving recesses for the transmission elements in that section of the belt which is in engagement with the drive wheel characterised in that the outer rim sections and/or the drive members include a rotatable belt contact surface portion which in use engages a belt or track of the track assembly the belt.
7. A wheel according to claim 6 wherein the contact surface portion of the outer rim sections is rotatable relative to the wheel hub about the axis of rotation of the 


wheel and the contact sections of the drive members are rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the respective drive member.
8. A wheel according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the drive members are mounted for rotation about their respective longitudinal axes, the outer surface of each drive member defining the contact surface portions.
9. A wheel according to claim 8 wherein each drive member includes a rotatable sleeve section which can rotate relative to a main body section of the drive member, the outer surface of the sleeve of each drive member defining the contact surface portion.
10. A wheel according to claim 9 wherein each rim section may comprise an inner main body and an outer sleeve section rotatable relative thereto.
' 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
