<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629320</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND PLANT FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF PIEZOELECTRICAL RESONATORS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H300	H03H302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H3	H03H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and a manufacturing plant for producing resonators, comprising cleaning the piezoelectric discs (91) of the resonator elements to atomic purity immediately prior to applying electrodes thereto. The resonator elements (9) are transported into and out of an ultra-high vacuum chamber (3), constructed as an electrode coating station (3b), via high vacuum chambers (1, 4).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUARTZ PRO LINE HB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUARTZ PRO LINE HB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOERANSSON LARS-GOERAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASEMO BENGT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRISTIANSSON BO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINDBERG LENNART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORTNOFF GUY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOERANSSON, LARS-GOERAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASEMO, BENGT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRISTIANSSON, BO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINDBERG, LENNART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORTNOFF, GUY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for manufacturing 
resonators of the kind defined in the preamble of 
Claim 1. The invention also relates to plant for the manufacture 
resonators of the kind defined in the preamble of the 
main apparatus Claim. A resonator may comprise, for instance, a piezoelectric 
crystal plate having mounted on its main surfaces a 
number of metallic electrodes which function to excite 
the crystal. The frequency of the resonator can be 
finely adjusted, by adjusting the mass of the electrodes 
for instance. One problem with prior art technology is that it is not 
possible to series-manufacture resonators which will 
remain frequency stable over sufficiently long periods 
of time, and neither is it possible to produce resonators 
whose electrical properties can be reproduced 
sufficiently well, particularly when the resonators 
included in said series manufacture shall have mutually 
different frequencies and/or mutually different dynamic 
parameters. In recent times, the demand for long-term resonator-frequency 
stability has become more strict and at present 
often lies beneath 1 ppm per year, which in the case 
of AT-crystals which oscillate in shear mode, for instance, 
corresponds to fractions of an atom layer,  
 
calculated as mass on the crystal. The technique hitherto used is described in "Hy-Q Handbook 
of Quartz Crystal Devices, David Salt, Van Nostrand 
Reinhold (UK) Co. Ltd., 1987". This prior art technique 
comprises some twenty procedural steps, which can be 
roughly divided into six groups: 
1. Mechanical working (grinding/polishing) in various 
stages to impart a suitable configuration to the 
crystal. Upon completion of this working process, 
the crystal has the form of a thin plate whose 
thickness (typically 0.05-0.5 mm) determines the 
resonance frequency. 2. Chemical wet etching and cleaning. 3. Application of electrodes, by vapour deposition in 
vacuum of metal on each side of the crystal. 4. Removal of the crystal in air, and fitting the 
crystal on a holder and establishing electrical 
contact with electrically-conductive glue, which is 
then hardened or cured. 5. Introducing the crystal into a vacuum, so as to 
further vapourize to a desired frequency while the 
crystal is connected to an oscillator circuit. 6. Removal of the crystal in air. 7. Encapsulation. The technique described by Salt results in resonators 
which age at an unacceptably quick rate, i.e. resonators 
which have unsatisfactory long-term frequency stability. 
Furthermore, this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for manufacturing resonators, each of 
which includes a holder (93) having at least two mutually 

separate holder elements (92) which are connected to 
a respective connection conductor (94), and a piezoelectric 

disc (91) which has a centre plane between its 
mutually opposing major surfaces and which is mounted on 

and conductively fixed to the holder elements (92) such 
as to form a resonator element, wherein an electrode 

(98) is applied on each of the major surfaces of the 
disc (91) and is connected electrically to a respective 

holder element (92), said method comprising the steps of 
placing a plurality of pre-manufactured resonator elements 

(9) on a carrier device; introducing the carrier 
device (10) into a first vacuum chamber (1) for cleaning 

the carrier therein at a first vacuum level; transferring 
the carrier (10) with elements (9) directly from 

the first chamber (1) to a second vacuum chamber (3) 
which is connected to said first chamber and in which a 

second vacuum level prevails; applying electrode material 

to the resonator elements in said second chamber (3); 
finely adjusting the resonator frequency of the electrode-coated 

resonator element in said second chamber to 
a desired value; and transferring the carrier (10) 

together with said electrode-coated and frequency-adjusted 
resonator element from the second chamber (3) to 

a third chamber (4) connected to said second chamber 
(3), said third chamber forming a carrier outfeed gate valve, 


characterized
 by the further steps of 
mounting a plurality of resonator elements (9) on the 

carrier (10) in a row, with the centre plane of each 
disc (91) oriented in the longitudinal direction of said 

row; moving the carrier (10) in the longitudinal direction 
of the row in said second chamber, along a given  

 
path; stopping said longitudinal movement of the carrier 

so as to position the disc (91) of each element (9) 
temporarily in a given position (3b), wherein at least 

one stationarily mounted coating device (86) is directed 
against one associated major surface of the disc (91) in 

said given position (3b), and wherein said coating 
device is caused to apply electrode material to the 

resonator element while said element is held in said 
given position. 
A method according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 in that the first and the third chambers 
(1, 4) are high vacuum chambers; in that the second 

chamber (3) is a ultra-high vacuum chamber; and in that 
subsequent to being evacuated, gas is introduced into at 

least one of the chambers in a controlled fashion until 
a desired process pressure is reached. 
A method according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterized
 by carrying out a heat treatment process 
under vacuum or in a process gas environment in at least 

one of the chambers (1, 4) which connects with the 
second chamber (3). 
A method according to Claim 1 or 2, 
characterized
 in that the resonator elements (9) are 
etched clean in the second chamber (3) by irradiating 

said elements with atoms, ions, electrons, photons, or 
plasma, preferably atoms; and in that the radiating 

devices (85) are preferably mounted in fixed positions 
opposite one another on both sides of the movement path 

of the element discs (91) in a longitudinal position 
(3a) for the elements (9) at which said elements are 

temporarily held stationary and centered in relation 
with irradiating devices (85) during the etching 

process.  
 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-4, 

characterized
 by treating the resonator 
elements with UV-light and ozone, prior to introducing 

said elements into the second chamber (3). 
A method according to Claim 5, 
characterized
 by carrying out the UV and ozone treatment 
process in a separate pretreatment chamber (2) 

which is connected between the first chamber (1) and the 
second chamber (3) and which can be separated from said 

first and second chambers by means of feed-valves 
(52, 53). 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-6, 

characterized
 by electrode coating both 
major surfaces of the disc (91) simultaneously in the 

second chamber (3), with the aid of two mutually opposing 
coating devices (86). 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-7, 

characterized
 by monitoring the temperature 
of the resonator element during the electrode coating 

process, with the aid of a thermostat. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-8, 

characterized
 by effecting the electrode 
coating process with the aid of a sputtering process, 

and preventing electrons generated at the coating from 
impinging on the disc (91). 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-9, 

characterized
 by also applying to the 
sputtering source a positive d.c. voltage and/or a high 

frequency voltage relative to the disc (91).  
 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-10, 

characterized
 by detecting the resonator 
frequency in the electrode coating position and preferably 

electrode-coating the element in one single electrode 
coating stage. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-11, 

characterized
 by treating a plurality of 
carriers (10) each carrying a plurality of resonator 

elements (9) simultaneously in the first chamber (1); 
and transferring the carriers (10) to the second chamber, 

preferably singly and in the direction of their 
longitudinal axis. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-12, 

characterized
 in that two masking plates 
(191) provided with a number of pairs of associated 

electrode masking holes are moveably arranged in the 
second chamber (3) such as to position selected masking 

holes associated with one pair between respective major 
surfaces of the disc (91) and a corresponding coating 

device (86). 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-13, 

characterized
 by carrying out a UV-ozone-treatment 
process in either the first chamber (1) or the 

third chamber (4). 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-14, 

characterized
 in that the first chamber (1) 
and the third chamber (4) are one and the same chamber; 

and in that the carrier is removed from the treatment 
chamber through the same pretreatment chamber as that 

through which it was introduced into said coating 
chamber.  

 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-15, 

characterized
 by returning the carriers 
(10) to the first chamber subsequent to being electrode 

coated. 
A method according to Claim 16, 
characterized
 by subjecting an array of carriers (10) 
with resonator elements to a high vacuum process in the 

third chamber (4) while an array of carriers (10) with 
resonator elements treated in the first chamber (1) are 

electrode coated in the second chamber (3). 
A manufacturing plant for the production of resonators, 
each of which includes a holder (93) having at 

least two mutually separated holder elements (92) which 
are connected to respective connecting conductors (94), 

and a piezoelectric disc (91) which has its centre plane 
between its mutually opposing major surfaces and which 

is mounted on and fixed in an electrically conductive 
fashion to the holder elements (92) such as to form a 

resonator element (9), wherein an electrode (98) is 
mounted on each of the major surfaces of the disc (91) 

and is electrically connected to a respective holder 
element (92); wherein the plant includes vacuum chambers 

(1, 3, 4) in which the resonators are transported while 
carried on respective carriers (10), wherein the chambers 

(1, 3, 4) include a first treatment chamber (1) in 
which the resonator elements are cleaned; a second 

treatment chamber (3) in which electrode coatings (98) 
are applied on the resonator elements (9), said chamber 

(3) being connected with the first chamber (1) via a 
closure valve (52), and a third chamber, an after-treatment 

chamber (4) which connects with the coating chamber 
(3) via a closure valve (54) and forms a gate valve for 

the removal of carriers from the treatment chamber, 

characterized
 in that the carrier (10) is  
 

provided with means (101) for supporting a plurality of 
resonator elements (9) in a row, with the symmetry plane 

of respective crystal discs (91) oriented in the longitudinal 
direction of said row; in that transport means 

(80-82) are arranged to drive the carriers (10) in the 
electrode coating chamber in a g
iven path in the direction 
of the rows of discs (91) on the carriers (10); in 

that means (11, 104) are arranged to hold each resonator 
element (9) temporarily in a given position (3b) along 

the path in said second chamber (3); and in that electrode 
coating means (86) are arranged on at least one 

side of the disc movement path and are directed towards 
an associated major surface of a disc located in said 

given position (3b). 
A plant according to Claim 18, 
characterized
 by an externally controllable masking 
device positioned in the coating chamber (3) and comprising 

two masking plates (191) which are provided with 
a number of pairs of masking holes (192), wherein the 

resonator elements are intended to pass between the 
masking plates in said coating position for the purpose 

of aligning the masking holes with each resonator element 
disc. 
A plant according to Claim 18 or 19, 
characterized
 in that the first chamber (1) and/or 
the third chamber (4) is intended to accommodate a 

plurality of carriers (10), each carrying a plurality of 
resonator elements for simultaneous cleaning of said 

carriers and said elements; and in that means are provided 
for individually aligning a carrier (10) in a 

respective first and third chamber (1; 4); and in that 
transport devices (80) are provided for linear transfer 

of a carrier.  
 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18 and 20, 

characterized
 in that the carriers (10) are 
made of metal. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18 and 20, 

characterized
 in that the carriers (10) are 
made of an insulating material, such as a ceramic or 

glass material. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-22, 

characterized
 by spring devices (170) 
which, in said electrode coating position (3b), function 

to connect the conductors (94) of the resonator element 
(9) to a frequency detecting circuit. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-23, 

characterized
 in that the transport device 
(80) includes corresponding rollers (81, 82) which 

engage respective opposing longitudinally extending 
grooves (106, 107) in the carrier (10); and in that the 

grooves (106, 107) extend parallel with the direction of 
said row of resonator elements (9); in that at least one 

(81) of the rollers is driven; and in that at least one 
(82) of the rollers is moveably mounted such as to clamp 

the bar (10) resiliently against fixed guide rollers. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-24, 

characterized
 in that the first chamber (1) 
and/or the third chamber (4) includes a rotatable rack 

(70) which is provided with a plurality of generally 
radially extending guides (71) which function to support 

individual carriers (10); in that the guides (71) are 
intended to guide a respective carrier (10) for movement 

in the direction of the row of resonator elements; in 
that the rack (70) is rotatable to positions in which 

the individual guides (71) guide a carrier (10) towards  
 

the transport device (80); and is further characterized 
by a pushing device (61, 62) for pushing a carrier (10) 

along its guide (71). 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-25, 

characterized
 in that dry etching devices 
(85) are stationarily mounted in the second chamber (3) 

on at least one side of the path travelled by the 
resonator discs (91); and in that means (11, 104) are 

provided for holding the resonator disc (91) of each 
resonator element (9) temporarily in the position of the 

working station of said etching devices. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-26, 

characterized
 in that the electrode coating 
devices includes at least one sputter magnetron source 

which is surrounded by a preferably cooled housing (87) 
having an outlet opening (88) in which a magnet (89) is 

mounted for impeding electrones. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-27, 

characterized
 in that the electrode coating 
devices include sputter magnetron sources which are 

provided with a separate anode to which a d.c. voltage 
for a high frequency can be applied. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-28, 

characterized
 in that the electrode coating 
chamber (3) is provided with a heat exchanger for adjusting 

the temperature of the resonator elements during 
the electrode coating process. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-29, 
characterized
 in that at least one of the 
chambers (1, 4) connected to the electrode coating 

chamber (3) is provided with means for heat treating the  
 

resonator elements under high vacuum conditions or in a 
process gas environment. 
A plant according to any one of Claims 18-30, 

characterized
 in that means for effecting 
an oxidizing treatment are arranged in at least one of 

the chambers (1, 4) connected to the electrode coating 
chamber (3), said oxidizing means preferably being 

arranged in a separate, additional chamber (2) which is 
connected between the first chamber (1) and the second 

chamber (3). 
A plant according to any one of Claims 19-31, 

characterized
 in that the first chamber and 
the third chamber (4) are one and the same chamber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
