<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639710</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compression-ignition type engine and combustion method of same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B112	F02B7502	F02B300	F02M4702	F02M4702	F02B7502	F02B308	F02B306	F02B100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F02B	F02M	F02M	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B1	F02B75	F02B3	F02M47	F02M47	F02B75	F02B3	F02B3	F02B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A compression-ignition type engine in which fuel is 
injected in a combustion chamber during the compression 

stroke or intake stroke before 60 degrees before top dead 
center of the compression stroke and in which the mean 

particle size of the fuel injected at that time is made a 
size in which the temperature of the fuel particles 

reaches the boiling point of the main fuel component, 
determined by the pressure in the combustion chamber, at 

substantially the top dead center of the compression 
stroke. After the injection and until about the top dead 

center of the compression stroke is reached, evaporation 
of the fuel by boiling from the fuel particles is 

prevented and the fuel of the fuel particles boils and 
evaporates and fuel is ignited and burnt after about the 

top dead center of the compression stroke. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOYOTA MOTOR CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOYOTA JIDOSHA KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAGUCHI AKIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATO YASUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANAGIHARA HIROMICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAGUCHI, AKIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATO, YASUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANAGIHARA, HIROMICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a compression-ignition 
type engine and a combustion method of the same. In a usual compression-ignition type engine, 
fuel of a mean particle size of about 20 µm to 50 µm or 
less is injected into the combustion chamber after about 
30 degrees before top dead center in the compression 
stroke. Further, in the special compression-ignition type 
engine described in Japanese Unexamined Patent 
Publication (Kokai) No. 60-256523, an intake throttle 
valve is arranged in the intake passage or an exhaust 
throttle valve is arranged in the exhaust passage, the 
fuel injection timing is advanced to 120 degrees before 
top dead center, and at least one of the intake throttle 
valve or exhaust throttle valve is closed at the time of 
a low engine load operation. However, in an ordinary compression-ignition 
type engine wherein fuel of an average particle size from 
20 µm to 50 µm or less than that is made to be injected 
after 30 degrees or so before top dead center of the 
compression stroke, part of the injected fuel is 
immediately vaporized just when the injection is begun. 
The succeeding fuel enters into the flame of combustion 
of the vaporized fuel and thus the injected fuel is 
successively burned. If the fuel entering into the flame 
of combustion is made to be successively burned in this 
way, however, the fuel will be burned in a state of air 
shortage, so a large amount of unburnt HC or soot will be 
generated. In such a compression-ignition type engine, 
further, the fuel injection is formed in a limited region  
 
and therefore the combustion is performed in a limited 
region in the combustion chamber. If combustion is 
performed in such a limited region, the local combustion 
temperature becomes higher than compared with the case 
where combustion is carried out in the entire interior of 
the combustion chamber, and accordingly a large amount of 
NOx is produced. Further, the smaller the particle size 
of the injected fuel, the greater the fuel vaporizing 
immediately upon injection, so the severer the sudden 
pressure rise caused by the explosive combustion when the 
ignition delay time passes after the start of the 
injection and as a result the higher the combustion 
temperature, so the still greater amount of NOx which is 
produced. Further, in the compression-ignition type 
engine described in Japanese Unexamined Patent 
Publication (Kokai) No. 60-256523, the intake throttle 
valve or the exhaust throttle valve is closed at the time 
of a low engine load
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A compression-ignition type engine having a 
combustion chamber (5), comprising: 


injection means (10) for injecting fuel in the 
combustion chamber and forming fuel droplets diffused in 

the combustion chamber, the mean value of the particle 

size of said fuel droplets being larger than a 
predetermined particle size at which the temperature of 

the fuel droplets having said predetermined particle size 
reaches a boiling point of a main ingredient of said 

fuel, which boiling point is determined by pressure in 
the combustion chamber, at about the top dead center of 

the compression stroke; and 
control means (80) for controlling said injection 
means (10) to carry out an injecting operation by said 

injection means at a predetermined timing during a period 
from the start of an intake stroke to approximately 60 

degrees before top dead center of the compression stroke. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 1, wherein the mean particle size of the fuel 

droplets is more than about 500 µm. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 1, wherein said injecting means is provided with a 

fuel injector disposed in the combustion chamber, and 
said fuel injector has a fuel storage chamber (66) therein. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 3, wherein said fuel storage chamber has a capacity 

several tens of times larger than the amount of fuel 
injection at a time of maximum fuel injection. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 3, wherein said injecting means is provided with a 

fuel pump (21) for feeding fuel into said fuel storage 
chamber. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 5, wherein discharge control means (41, 45) is provided for 

controlling the amount of discharge of the fuel pump in 
accordance with the engine rotational speed so as to make  

 
the fuel pressure in said fuel storage chamber higher the 

higher the engine rotational speed. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 5, wherein discharge control means is provided for 

controlling the amount of discharge of the fuel pump in 
accordance with the engine load so as to make the fuel 

pressure in said fuel storage chamber higher the higher 
the engine load. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 7, wherein said control means maintains 

substantially constant the injection time of the fuel 
regardless of the engine operation state. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 1, wherein said control means makes the injection 

timing earlier the higher the engine rotational speed in 
accordance with the rotational speed of the engine. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 1, wherein said control means makes the injection 

timing earlier the higher the engine load in accordance 
with the load of the engine. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 1, wherein said injection means is provided with a 

fuel injector disposed in the combustion chamber and said 
fuel injector injects fuel spreading in a thin film state 

throughout the entire inside of the combustion chamber. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 11, wherein said fuel injector is disposed at the 

center of an inner wall of the cylinder head defining the 
combustion chamber and fuel in a thin conical film is 

injected from said fuel injector. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 12, wherein said fuel injector is provided with a 

needle (61) which projects outside from a front end of the 
fuel injector, a valve portion which is formed at an 

outside projecting portion of the needle, and an annular 
nozzle port formed between the valve portion and the 

front end face of the fuel injector, the nozzle port  
 

opening when the needle is made to move outward and fuel 
ejected from-the nozzle port spreading in a thin conical 

film from the valve portion. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 12, wherein said fuel injector is provided with a 

needle and a guide member (62a, 77) disposed outward of a front end 
of the fuel injector and coaxially with the needle and 

connected to the needle, the fuel injection being started 
when the needle is made to move inward and the injected 

fuel then being spread in a thin conical film by the 
guide member. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 11, wherein said fuel injector is disposed at a 

peripheral area of the inner wall of the cylinder head 
defining the combustion chamber and fuel is injected in a 

thin sector-like film from the fuel injector. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 15, wherein said fuel injector is provided with a 

nozzle port comprised of a slit of a sector-like cross-section. 
A compression-ignition type engine according to 
claim 1, wherein said injection means is provided with a 

fuel injector controlled in injection by a piezoelectric 
element (68). 
A combustion method of compression-ignition 
type engine having a combustion chamber (5), comprising the 

steps of: 

injecting fuel in the combustion chamber at a 
predetermined time during a period from the start of an 

intake stroke to 60 degrees before top dead center of the 
compressions stroke; 
forming fuel droplets dispersed in the 
combustion chamber, the mean value of the particle size 

of said fuel droplets being larger than a predetermined 
particle size at which the temperature of the fuel 

droplets having said predetermined particle size reaches 
a boiling point of a main ingredient of said fuel, which  

 
boiling point is determined by pressure in the combustion 

chamber, at almost the top dead center of the compression 
stroke; 
preventing fuel from being vaporized by boiling 
from said fuel droplets until a crankshaft reaches about 

top dead center of the compression stroke after the 
injection of fuel is started; and 
vaporizing fuel from said fuel droplets by 
boiling and starting a combustion of vaporized fuel after 

about the top dead center of the compression stroke. 
A combustion method according to claim 18, 
wherein the mean particle size of the liquid fuel 

droplets is more than about 500 µm. 
A combustion method according to claim 18, 
wherein the fuel injection rate at the start of the fuel 

injection is the highest and then the fuel injection rate 
gradually declines until the fuel injection is ended. 
A combustion method according to claim 18, 
wherein the injection timing is made earlier the higher 

the engine rotational speed. 
A combustion method according to claim 18, 
wherein the injection timing is made earlier the higher 

the engine load. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
