<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619601</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self-aligned thin-film transistor constructed using lift-off technique.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21033	H01L21336	H01L2966	H01L2978	H01L29786	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the fabrication of thin-film field-effect 
transistors, a dielectric island is first formed over 

a gate and between locations where source and drain 
contacts are to be deposited. A dielectric cap with 

an overhanging brim is formed on the island. A layer 
of SD metal which will form the source-drain contacts 

is next deposited. Because of the overhang, the SD 
metal does not coat the entire cap, but leaves part of 

the cap remaining exposed and attackable by an 
etchant. Application of an etchant etches away the 

island and the cap, thereby lifting off the SD metal 
coated on the cap, leaving the fully-formed source and 

drain contacts in place, separated by the extent of 
the island. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWASNICK ROBERT FORREST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POSSIN GEORGE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWASNICK, ROBERT FORREST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POSSIN, GEORGE EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the manufacture of 
thin-film field effect transistors and, in particular, 
concerns a process for patterning the source-drain 
contacts in such transistors. In some types of imaging and display devices, a 
thin-film field-effect transistor (TFT) is associated 
with each pixel. The TFT must be small for several 
reasons. One, it consumes space within the pixel, 
which would otherwise be devoted to light collection 
or light control. Two, the TFT must be small because 
the pixels themselves are small; over one million 
pixels may be constructed on a plate measuring 8 x 8 
inches. Three, the TFT must be small to minimize (a) 
the total gate capacitance, (b) the gate-to-source 
capacitance, and (c) the gate-to-drain capacitance. The total gate capacitance should be small in 
order to reduce the total capacitance of the address 
line (i.e., scan line) which controls a row of TFTs in 
the imaging or display device. The charging time of 
this address line is controlled by the product of the 
line resistance and line capacitance. The total gate 
capacitance is added to the line capacitance in 
determining the address line charging time. The source-to-drain and source-to-gate 
capacitances should be small to minimize the coupling  
 
capacitance between the input address line, which is 
connected to the gate, and the imaging or display 
element connected to the source or drain. In pursuit of reduced capacitances, the gate-to-drain 
and gate-to-source overlaps in the TFT should be 
kept minimal. However, it can be difficult to 
manufacture small TFTs in which the overlap is exactly 
a desired amount. One reason is that a 
photolithographic process is commonly used to form the 
source and drain. In such process, there is a typical 
positioning misalignment of about 2 microns or more 
which must be accounted for in the device layout. 
This amount of misalignment requires that the regions 
where the gate overlaps the source and drain be made 
larger than otherwise required, to allow for this 
misalignment. These enlarged sizes increase the 
capacitances discussed above, which is undesirable. One approach to reducing this misalignment is 
found in commonly-assigned G. Possin et al. U.S. 
patent 5,010,027, issued April 23, 1991. This patent, 
which discusses a self-alignment technique for 
constructing thin-film transistors, is hereby 
incorporated by reference. Reference is made to our copending International Application 
No. US 94/01737 (RD-21,412). The present invention is set forth in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In the fabrication of a thin-film 
transistor, the improvement comprising: 


a) forming a dielectric island on an 
amorphous semiconductor layer over a gate; 
b) forming source and drain electrodes 
which border the island and overlap the gate in a 

manner that causes unwanted material to accumulate on 
the island; and 
c) removing the island, together with the 
unwanted material. 
The improvement of claim 1 wherein the 
dielectric island includes a dielectric cap thereon 

carrying the unwanted material and the step of 
removing the island includes removing the cap. 
The improvement of claim 2 wherein the step 
of removing the island and the cap thereon comprises 

etching away the island and the cap. 
An intermediate structure for use in the 
manufacture of a transistor, comprising: 


a) a gate; 
b) a layer of amorphous semiconductor 
material situated above said gate; 
c) source and drain contacts formed of a 
conductive material and situated above said layer of 

amorphous silicon, each of said contacts overlapping 
said gate; and 
d) a dielectric layer 

i) bearing an accumulation of said 
material, 
ii) located between the source and 
drain contacts, and 
iii) being both configured and situated 
such that it can be etched away to cause removal of 

said accumulation. 
An intermediate structure for use in the 
manufacture of a transistor, comprising: 

   a layer of amorphous semiconductor; 
   a dielectric island located atop said layer 

of amorphous semiconductor; and 
   a dielectric cap atop said island; 

   such that when material for forming source 
and drain contacts is deposited onto the layer of 

amorphous semiconductor, a source contact and a drain 
contact are formed, which are electrically 

discontinuous. 
An intermediate structure for use in the 
manufacture of a transistor, comprising: 


a) a gate; 
b) a layer of amorphous semiconductor 

material which is insulated from the gate; 
c) a dielectric island upon the layer of 
amorphous semiconductor material; and 
d) a dielectric cap overhanging the 
island. 
In the manufacture of a thin-film 
transistor, the improvement comprising: 


a) forming a protective pattern on a first 
layer of dielectric material which is disposed over a 

second layer of dielectric material; 
b) etching an island out of the dielectric 
material of said second layer and etching a cap atop 

 
said island composed of the dielectric material of 

said first layer while said protective pattern remains 
on said first layer of dielectric material; 
c) removing said protective pattern; and 
d) forming a conductive coating which 
abuts said island, and which accumulates on said cap, 

but which does not block access of etchant to the cap. 
In the manufacture of a thin-film 
transistor, the improvement according to claim 7 

wherein the step of etching the cap comprises forming 
the cap in a self-aligned manner. 
In the manufacture of a thin-film 
transistor, the improvement comprising the steps of: 


a) forming a gate on a carrier which is 
transmissive to actinic light, said gate being 

nontransmissive to said actinic light; 
b) forming a layer of insulator over the 
gate; 
c) forming a layer of amorphous silicon 
over the insulator; 
d) forming a first layer of dielectric 
over the amorphous silicon; 
e) forming a second layer of dielectric 
over the first layer of dielectric; 
f) forming a layer of photoresist over 
the second layer of dielectric; 
g) exposing the photoresist by projecting 
actinic light through the carrier, causing the gate to 

shadow the photoresist; 
h) developing the photoresist to produce 
a protective body which inhibits etching where the 

gate shadowed the photoresist; 
i) etching the second layer of 
dielectric, except beneath said protective body, to 

leave a dielectric cap beneath the protective body; 
j) etching the first layer of dielectric, 
except beneath the cap, to leave a dielectric island 

beneath the cap; 
k) depositing a layer of doped silicon in 
a manner such that the doped silicon layer is 

discontinuous at the edge of the cap; 
l) depositing a layer of SD metal upon 
the layer of doped silicon in a manner such that the 

SD metal layer is discontinuous at the edge of the 
cap; and 
m) etching the cap and the island to 
cause the doped silicon and SD metal upon the cap to 

lift off. 
The process according to claim 9, and 
further comprising, after step (m), the step of 

applying passivation dielectric into the region 
formerly occupied by the island. 
The process according to claim 9 wherein, 
in step (k), the layer of doped silicon is deposited 

on the amorphous silicon layer and on the cap, said 
layer of doped silicon being thinner at a location 

contacting the cap than elsewhere, and wherein, in 
step (l), the layer of SD metal is deposited on the 

layer of doped silicon, said layer of SD metal being 
thinner at a location contacting the cap than 

elsewhere. 
The process according to claim 11 in which 
the doped silicon layer and SD metal layer together 

are insufficiently thick to prevent etchant from 
reaching the cap. 
The process according to claim 12 in which 
the doped silicon layer and SD metal layer together do 

not exceed about 5 nanometers in thickness where they 
contact the cap. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
