<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622630</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Feed back control deposit inhibitor dosage optimization system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3318	G01N3318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides a system and a method of 
correcting for scale deposit on the inside walls of a water 

container through which water in a circulating water system is 
flowing at a predetermined temperature comprising the steps of 

providing at least one sensing unit for sensing heat transfer 
rate or heat transfer resistance through a contact surface which 

is in contact with the water in the circulating water system, 
providing a deposit monitor station for monitoring heat transfer 

rate or heat transfer resistance and an electrical connection 
between the one sensing unit and the deposit monitor, providing 

at one area adjacent to the contact surface a first temperature 
modulator to maintain that area at a temperature which 

encourages scale deposit of the scale former on the contact 
surface, periodically monitoring the sensing unit by measuring 

at predetermined time intervals the heat transfer rate or heat 
transfer resistance being sensed by the one sensing unit, 

generating an electrical signal corresponding to the heat 
transfer rate or heat transfer resistance which is sensed and 

transmitting the electrical signal to the deposit monitoring 
station, recording the signal received by the monitoring station 

and analyzing the data signal record to determine whether 
predetermined parameters indicative of specific conditions of 

the water in the circulating water system have been met, and 
upon a determination of the parameters having been met, 

calculating a dosage of scale inhibitor determined sufficient to 
inhibit further formation of scale deposit upon the contact 

surface and imparting into the circulating water system the 
calculated dosage of scale inhibitor deemed sufficient to inhibit 

further formation of scale deposit on the contact surface as well 
as on the inside walls of the water container. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NALCO CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NALCO CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DROEGE THOMAS F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOUCHE RICHARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DROEGE, THOMAS F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOUCHE, RICHARD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the prevention of 
deposits on equipment employed in a circulating water system such 
as heat exchangers and boilers. The deposit may be an inorganic 
scale (e.g. calcium carbonate in a boiler condenser) or it may be 
an organic biofilm such as algae or bacterial growth, entrained 
in a source of natural water. More specifically, this invention 
relates to a method and system for monitoring a circulating water 
system so as to provide an indication of the amount and of the 
need to add a counteracting agent to the circulating water 
system. Control of deposits on the walls of heat-exchanging 
water circulating equipment is important for many reasons. It is 
sufficient to call to mind that the deposit can cause turbulence, 
meaning both inefficient flow and an increase on pump demand, or 
it can reduce heat transfer which means reduced efficiency in a 
heat exchanger. Consequently, deposit inhibitors are introduced into 
the water entering the circulating system. In the case of 
inorganics (CaCO₃,MgCO₃, etc.), so-called water softeners (scale 
inhibitors) are used as the treatment, stopping formation of the  
 
scale by neutralizing the offending ions; in the case of 
biofilms, biocides are used to destroy kill and prevent growth of 
microorganisms. The term "deposit inhibitor" is here used in an 
eliminative sense: addition of chemical "product", added to the 
stream of water, either to eliminate (prevent) inorganic ions 
from participating in scale formation or to eliminate (preclude) 
biofilms by destruction or prevention of the organic body. Because the chemistry of the deposits can vary so 
widely, the inhibitor may take other forms besides a water 
softener or a biocide. Acid or alkaline treatment may be 
employed to adjust pH. Indeed, the treatments (inhibitors) fall 
into major classifications: threshold inhibitors, dispersants, 
surfactants and crystal modifiers, as explained in The Nalco 
Water Handbook, Second Edition, McGraw-Hill, 1988. The present 
invention is not restricted to any particular deposit former or 
inhibitor feed product. It is consequently customary to employ some means to 
determine if a deposit of a particular kind has formed to any 
appreciable extent on the walls of the equipment in contact with 
the moving or circulating body of water. It has been proposed to determine the extent of deposit 
buildup by mimicking, as much as possible, the conditions in a 
system for which fouling is being monitored. The method includes 
the steps of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of correcting for scale deposit on the 
inside walls of a water container through which water is flowing 

in a circulating water system at a predetermined temperature, the 
method comprising: 


a. providing at least one sensing unit for sensing 
heat transfer rate or heat transfer resistance through 

a contact surface which is in contact with the water in 
said circulating water system; 
b. providing a deposit monitor station for monitoring 
heat transfer rate or heat transfer resistance and 

further providing an electrical connection between said 
at least one sensing unit and said deposit monitor; 
c. providing at one area adjacent to said contact 
surface a first temperature modulator to maintain that 

area at a temperature which encourages scale deposit of 
the scale former on said surface, 
d. periodically monitoring said sensing unit by 
measuring at predetermined time intervals the heat 

transfer rate or heat transfer resistance being sensed 
by said sensing unit, generating an electrical signal 

corresponding to the heat transfer rate or heat 
 

transfer resistance being sensed and transmitting said 
electrical signal to said deposit monitoring station; 
e. recording the signal received by said monitoring 
station and analyz
ing said data signal record to 
determine whether predetermined parameters indicative 

of specific conditions of said water in said 
circulating water system have been met; 
f. upon a determination of the parameters having been 
met, calculating a dosage of scale inhibitor 

determined sufficient to inhibit further formation of 
scale deposit upon said contact surface; and 
g. imparting into the circulating water system the 
calculated dosage of scale inhibitor deemed sufficient 

to inhibit further formation of scale deposit on said 
surface as well as on the inside walls of said water 

container. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said 
scale deposit is of a scale former which has an inverse 

relationship between solubility and temperature, and the first 
temperature modulator comprises a heat generator for providing 

heat to the contact surface thereby increasing the rate of scale 
deposit formation. 
A method according to claim 2 wherein said 
scale former comprises calcium carbonate. 
A method according to any of claims 1-3 wherein said 
water container comprises a boiler, cooling tube, or part of a 

heat exchanger. 
A method according to any of claims 1-4 wherein the step 
of imparting scale inhibitor further comprises providing a pump 

which receives an electrical signal corresponding to the 
calculated dosage of scale inhibitor, said pump having a 

controller to vary its pumping rate, said controller varying the 
pumping rate of the scale inhibitor being pumped directly into 

the circulating water system as a result of receiving said 
electrical signal. 
A method according to any of claims 1-5 further 
comprising the steps of: 

   providing a second sensing unit for sensing heat 
transfer rate or heat transfer resistance through said contact 

surface at a temperature of the contact surface which is 
equivalent to the temperature of the circulating water system; 

   periodically monitoring said second sensing unit by 
measuring at predetermined time intervals the heat transfer rate 

or heat transfer resistance being sensed by said second sensing 
 

unit, generating a second electrical signal corresponding to the 
heat transfer rate or heat transfer resistance being sensed by 

said second sensing unit and transmitting said second electrical 
signal to said deposit monitoring station; 

   recording the second electrical signal received by said 
monitoring station and analyzing said data signal record to 

determine whether predetermined parameters indicative of specific 
conditions of said water in said circulating water system have 

been met; 
   comparing the analyzed data signals from both sensing 

units for a determination of the extent to which the 
predetermined parameters associated with each sensing unit have 

been met and adjusting said calculated scale inhibitor dosage in 
accordance therewith. 
A method according to any of claims 1-6 wherein said 
contact surface comprises a surface of a probe extension portion 

being disposed directly within the stream of water flowing 
through the circulating water system. 
The method according to any of claims 1-7 further 
comprising the step of providing a conduit having a conduit wall 

which is connected in fluid communication with the circulating 
water system to permit a side stream continuous flow of the water 

through said conduit, the contact surface comprising the inside 
 

of said conduit wall, said at least one sensing unit being 
disposed on the outside of said conduit wall. 
A method of correcting for scale deposit on 
the inside walls of a water container through which water is 

flowing at predetermined temperature comprising: 

a. connecting to the container a conduit for 
withdrawing a sample of the water, the conduit 

having a conduit wall; 
b. attaching to the conduit wall a heat generator to 
maintain the skin temperature of the inside of the 

conduit wall at a temperature which encourages 
scale deposit; 
c. measuring the heat transfer through said conduit 
wall and said scale deposit which corresponds to 

the monitored scale thickness; 
d. introducing into the water source a dosage of 
scale inhibitor determined sufficient to inhibit 

further formation of scale deposit. 
A method according to claim 9 in which the 
scale inhibitor is fed by a pump, said pump having a controller 

to vary its pumping rate, said controller being activated upon 
receiving an activating signal, and a means to generate an 

activating signal when said scale deposit is determined 
excessive. 
A method of correcting for scale deposit according to any 
of claims 1-10 wherein said step for analyzing said data 

includes calculating the slope of change of heat transfer 
resistance through said contact surface and averaging the slope 

data for a period in excess of 5 hours and not in excess of 1000 
hours. 
The method according to claim 11 wherein the slope 
data is averaged for a period in excess of 50 hours and not in 

excess of 200 hours. 
A system for correcting scale deposit on the 
inside walls of a water container through which water is flowing 

in a circulating water system at a predetermined temperature, the 
system comprising: 


a. at least one sensing unit for sensing heat 
transfer rate or heat transfer resistance through a 

contact surface which is in contact with the water in 
said circulating water system; 
b. a deposit monitor station for monitoring the heat 
transfer rate or heat transfer resistance through said 

contact surface by periodically measuring at 
predetermined time intervals the amount of heat 

transfer rate or heat transfer resistance being sensed 
by said sensing unit and generating an electrical data 

 
signal corresponding to said measured amounts; 
c. an electrical connection between said at least one 
sensing unit and said deposit monitor for providing 

communication therebetween and for transmitting said 
electrical data signal corresponding to the heat 

transfer rate or heat transfer resistance being sensed 
and transmitting said electrical data signal to said 

deposit monitoring station; 
d. a first temperature modulator to maintain one 
area adjacent to said contact surface at a temperature 

which encourages scale deposit of the scale former on 
said contact surface; 
e. a recording and processing means for recording 
the data signal received by said monitoring station and 

analyzing said data signal record to determine whether 
predetermined parameters indicative of specific 

conditions of said water in said circulating water 
system have been met and for calculating a dosage of 

scale inhibitor determined sufficient to inhibit 
further formation of scale deposit upon said contact 

surface; and 
f. a means for imparting into the circulating water 
system the calculated dosage of scale inhibitor deemed 

 
sufficient to inhibit further formation of scale 

deposit on said surface as well as on the inside walls 
of said water container. 
A system according to claim 13 wherein said 
scale deposit is of a scale former which has an inverse 

relationship between solubility and temperature, and the first 
temperature modulator comprises a heat generator for providing 

heat to the contact surface thereby encouraging the formation of 

scale deposit. 
A system according to claim 14 wherein said 
scale former which the formation of which is inhibited comprises 

calcium carbonate. 
A system according to any of claims 13-15 wherein said 
water container is chosen from the set of elements comprising 

boilers, cooling tubes, heat exchangers, transfer pipes and other 
tubes or pipes susceptible to scaling. 
A system according to any of claims 13-16 wherein the 
means for imparting scale inhibitor further comprises a pump 

which receives an activating electrical signal corresponding to 
the calculated dosage of scale inhibitor, said pump having a 

controller to vary its pumping rate, said controller varying the 
pumping rate of the scale inhibitor being pumped directly into 

the circulating water system as a result of receiving said 
 

activating electrical signal. 
A system according to any of claims 13-17 further 
comprising 

   a second sensing unit for sensing heat transfer rate or 
heat transfer resistance through said contact surface at a 

temperature of the contact surface which is equivalent to the 
temperature of the circulating water system and for generating a 

second data signal corresponding thereto; 
   an electrical connection between said second sensing 

unit and said deposit monitor for providing communication 
therebetween and for transmitting said second data signal 

corresponding to the heat transfer rate or heat transfer 
resistance being sensed by said second sensing unit and 

transmitting said second data signal to said deposit monitoring 
station. 
A system for correcting for scale deposit on the 
inside walls of a water container containing a circulating water 

system through which water is circulating at a predetermined 
temperature, the system comprising: 


a. at least one sensing unit for sensing heat 
transfer rate or heat transfer resistance through a 

contact surface which is in contact with the water in 
said circulating water system; 
b. a deposit monitor station for monitoring heat 
transfer rate or heat transfer resistance and an 

electrical connection between said at least one sensing 
unit and said deposit monitor; 
c. a first temperature modualtor disposed at one area 
adjacent to said contact surface for maintaining that 

area at a temperature which encourages scale deposit of 
the scale former on said contact surface; 
d. a recording means for recording the data signal 
received by said monitoring station; 
e. an analysis means for analyzing said data signal 
record to determine whether predetermined parameters 

indicative of specific conditions of said water in said 
circulating water system have been met and for 

calculating a dosage of scale inhibitor determined 
sufficient to inhibit further formation of scale 

deposit upon said surface; and 
f. an activation means for transmitting an activation 
signal which causes imparting into the circulating 

water system the calculated dosage of scale inhibitor 
deemed sufficient to inhibit further formation of scale 

deposit on said surface as well as on the inside walls 
 

of said water container upon a determination of the 
parameters having been met. 
A system according to claim 19 wherein said 
water container further comprises a boiler, cooling tube, or part 

of a heat exchanger or transfer piping, in which said condition 
comprises scaling deposit formed on said conduit of a scale 

former having a solubility which is inversely proportional to 
temperature, said correcting agent being a scale inhibitor for 

inhibiting the formation of said scale deposit. 
A system according to claim 19 or 20 in which the 
scale inhibitor is fed by a pump, said pump having a controller 

to vary its pumping rate, said controller being activated upon 
receiving an activating signal, and a computer to generate an 

activating signal when said scale deposit is determined 
excessive. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
