<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621630</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polishstop planarization method and structure.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21304	H01L213105	H01L213205	H01L2170	H01L21768	H01L2352	H01L23522	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a method for producing a substantially 
planar surface overlying features (40) of a semiconductor 

structure (38). The method comprises forming alternating layers of 
a hard polishing material (40,48) and a soft polishing material 

(46,50) the features (40) of the semiconductor structure (38), and then 
polishing the alternating layers to form a substantially 

planar surface over the features (40). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURKE PETER AUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEACH MICHAEL ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURKE, PETER AUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEACH, MICHAEL ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a planarization method and 
structure, and more particularly to a method which utilizes 
polishstops to create a substantially planar surface. In the 
method, alternating layers of hard and soft polishing 
materials are utilized to take advantage of their respective 
polish rates so that planarization of the alternating layers 
is enhanced or controlled. Integrated circuits generally have a system of metallized 
interconnects which couple the various devices fabricated in a 
semiconductor substrate. Typically, aluminum or some other 
metal is deposited and then patterned to form interconnect 
paths along the surface of the silicon substrate. In most 
processes, a dielectric or insulative layer is then deposited 
over this first metal layer, via openings are etched through 
the dielectric layer, and a second metallization layer is 
deposited. The second metal layer covers the dielectric layer 
and fills the via openings, thereby making electrical contact 
down to the first metal layer. The purpose of the dielectric 
layer is to act as an insulator between the first metal layer 
and the second metal layer interconnects. Most often, the intermetal dielectric layer comprises a 
chemical vapor deposition (CVD) of silicon dioxide. This 
silicon dioxide layer covers the first metal interconnects 
conformably so that the upper surface of the silicon dioxide 
layer is characterized by a series of non-planar steps which 
correspond in height to the underlying first metal lines.  These step-heights in the upper surface of the interlayer 
dielectric have several undesirable features. First, a non-planar 
dielectric surface interferes with the optical 
resolution of subsequent photolithographic processing steps. 
This makes it extremely difficult to print high resolution 
lines. A second problem involves the step coverage of the 
second metal layer over the interlayer dielectric. If the 
step height is too large, there is a serious danger that open 
circuits will be formed in the second metal layer. To combat these problems, various techniques have been 
developed in an attempt to better planarize the upper surface 
of the interlayer dielectric. One approach, known as chemical 
mechanical polishing, employs abrasive polishing to remove the 
protruding steps along the upper surface of the dielectric. 
According to this method, the silicon substrate is placed face 
down on a table covered with a pad which has been coated with 
an abrasive material, also known as a polishing compound or 
slurry
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for producing a substantially planar surface 
overlying features of a semiconductor structure, which 

method comprises: 
forming alternating layers of a hard polishing material 

and a soft polishing material over features of a 
semiconductor structure, said features including raised 

and recessed portions; and 
polishing said alternating layers so as to create a 

substantially planar surface over said features. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said features of said 
semiconductor structure include an uppermost interlayer 

dielectric layer overlying said raised and recessed 
portions. 
The method of claim 2 wherein a lowermost alternating 
layer comprises said interlayer dielectric layer and 

wherein said interlayer dielectric layer comprises 
silicon dioxide. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 3 
wherein said hard polishing material is selected from the 

group consisting of silicon nitride, silicon carbide, 
diamond like carbon, alumina, tungsten, and silicon 

dioxide. 
The method of any one of the preceding claism 1 to 4 
wherein said soft polishing material comprises a 

dielectric selected from the group consisting of silicon 
dioxide, phosphosilicate glass, borophosphosilicate 

glass, sputtered quartz and polyimide. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 5 
wherein a ratio of a polish rate of said hard polishing 

material to a polish rate of said soft polishing material 
comprises at least 1:2 or 1:4. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said recessed portions 
comprise vias, said vias comprising tungsten vias. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 7 
wherein said raised portions comprise metal lines. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 8 
wherein said substantially planar surface varies to 

within about 75-100 nm. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 9 
wherein a via is etched in said alternating layers prior 

to polishing said alternating layers, said via being 
filled with tungsten. 
The method of claim 10 wherein a top surface of said 
filled via comprises a portion of said substantially 

planar surface. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 11 
wherein said alternating layers comprise: 

a conformal first layer of a hard or soft polishing 
material overlying said features of said semiconductor 

structure; 
a conformal second layer of a soft or hard polishing 

material overlying said first layer of a hard or soft 
polishing material; and 

a conformal third layer of a hard or soft polishing 
material overlying said second layer of a soft or hard 

polishing material. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said alternating layers 
further comprise a conformal fourth layer of a soft or 

hard polishing material overlying said third layer of a 
hard or soft polishing material. 
The method of claim 13 wherein said alternating layers 
further comprise: 

a conformal fifth layer of a hard or soft polishing 
mate
rial overlying said fourth layer of a soft or hard 
polishing material. 
The method of claim 14 wherein said alternating layers 
further comprise: 

a conformal sixth layer of a soft or hard polishing 
material overlying said fifth layer of a hard or soft 

polishing material. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 15 
wherein said first layer comprises silicon dioxide, said 

second and fourth layers each comprise phosphosilicate 
glass, and said third and fifth layers each comprise 

silicon nitride. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 16 
wherein said polishing comprises: 

polishing said third or fourth layer positioned over said 
raised portions so as to reveal said second or third 

layer positioned over said raised portions; and 
polishing said second or third layer positioned over said 

raised portions so as to reveal said first or second 
layer positioned over said raised portions,

 
wherein said third or fourth layer positioned over said 

recessed portions and said first or second layer 
positioned over said raised portions form the 

substantially planar surface over said features. 
The method of claim 17 further comprising polishing said 
third layer positioned over said recessed portions so as 

to reveal said second layer positioned over said recessed 
portions, wherein said second layer positioned over said 

recessed portions and said first layer positioned over 
said raised portions form the substantially planar 

surface over said features. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 14 to 18 
wherein said polishing comprises: 

polishing said fifth layer to reveal said fourth layer; 
polishing said fourth layer positioned over said raised 

portions so as to reveal said third layer positioned over 
said raised portions; 

removing said third layer positioned over said raised 
portions so as to reveal said second layer positioned 

over said raised portions; and 
polishing said fourth layer positioned over said recessed 

portions so as to reveal said third layer positioned over 
said recessed portions, and polishing said second layer 

positioned over said raised portions to reveal said first 
layer positioned over said raised portions, 

wherein said third layer positioned over said recessed 
portions and said first layer positioned over said raised 

portions form the substantially planar surface over said 
features. 
The method of claim 19 further comprising removing said 
third or fourth layer positioned over said recessed 

portions so as to reveal said second or third layer 
positioned over said recessed portions, wherein said 

second or third layer positioned over said recessed 
portions and said first or second layer positioned over 

said raised portions form the substantially planar 
surface over said features. 
The method of claim 20 wherein removing said third or 
fourth layer comprises etching selective for said third 

or fourth layer or polishing said third or fourth layer. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims 15 to 21 
wherein said polishing comprises: 

polishing said sixth layer to reveal said fifth layer; 
polishing said fifth layer positioned over said raised 

portions so as to reveal said fourth layer positioned 
over said raised portions; 

removing said fourth layer positioned over said raised 
portions so as to reveal said third layer positioned over 

said raised portions; and 
polishing said fifth layer positioned over said recessed 

portions so as to reveal said fourth layer positioned 
over said recessed portions, and polishing said third 

layer positioned over said raised portions to reveal said 
second layer positioned over said raised portions, 

wherein said fourth layer positioned over said recessed 
portions and said second layer positioned over said 

raised portions form the substantially planar surface 
over said features. 
A method of enhancing the planarity attainable with a 
polishing process, which method comprises: 

selecting a semiconductor structure, said semiconductor 
structure having features with raised and recessed 

portions; 
selecting a polishing process, said polishing process 

capable of achieving a predetermined first range of 
planarity for said semiconductor structure; 

forming alternating layers of a hard polishing material 
and a soft polishing material over said features of said 

semiconductor structure; and 
polishing said alternating layers with said selected 

polishing process so as to obtain a substantially planar 
surface over said features of said semiconductor 

structure with a second range of planarity greater than 
said predetermined first range of planarity. 
The method of claim 23 wherein said polishing process 
comprises chemical mechanical polishing. 
The method of claim 23 or 24 wherein said predetermined 
first range of planarity is 2 mm or 5 mm. 
A method of producing a substantially planar surface 
having one or more vias therein, said method comprising: 

forming alternating layers of a hard polishing material 
and a soft polishing material over features of a 

semiconductor structure, said features including raised 
and recessed portions; 

etching one or more vias in said alternating layers, said 
etched vias extending down to said features of said 

semiconductor structure;
 

filling said one or more vias; and 
polishing said alternating layers so as to create a 

substantially planar surface formed by said polished 
alternating layers and a top surface of said one or more 

filled vias. 
The method of claim 42 wherein said fill comprises 
tungsten, said raised portions comprises metal lines and 

wherein each of said one or more vias contact said metal 
lines. 
A semiconductor device having a substantially planar top 
surface thereof, said device comprising: 

a substrate having a top surface thereof; 
raised features positioned on said top surface of said 

substrate; 
one or more filled vias extending upward from said raised 

features, each of said filled vias having a top surface 
thereof; and 

alternating layers of a hard polishing material and a 
soft polishing material overlying said top surface of 

said substrate and surrounding said one or more filled 
vias, wherein said alternating layers positioned furthest 

from said top surface of said substrate and said top 
surfaces of said one or more filled vias form a 

substantially planar surface. 
The semiconductor device of claim 28 wherein said 
alternating layers comprise: 

a first layer of a soft polishing material overlying said 
top surface of said substrate and surrounding said one or 

more filled vias;
 

a second layer of a hard polishing material overlying 
said first layer of a soft polishing material; and 

a third layer of a soft polishing material overlying said 
second layer of a hard polishing material, 

wherein said third layer of a soft polishing material and 
said top surfaces of each of said one or more filled vias 

comprise said substantially planar surface. 
The semiconductor device of claim 29 further comprising a 
conformal fourth layer of a hard polishing material 

overlying said third layer of a soft polishing material, 
wherein said fourth layer of a hard polishing material, 

portions of said third layer of a soft polishing 
material, and said top surfaces of each of said one or 

more filled vias comprise said substantially planar 
surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
