<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617631</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SUSTAINED-RELEASE BACTERICIDAL CANNULA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2510	A61M2510	A61L2900	A61L2916	A61L2906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61L	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61L29	A61L29	A61L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sustained-released bactericidal cannula (4) or catheter for residence within a portion of a human body through which aqueous biological fluids can pass. The tube has polymeric matrix and antibacterial agent residing within at least a portion of the polymeric matrix. The polymeric matrix includes cured silicon rubber and the antibacterial agent is a finely divided nitrofuran compound. The preferred nitrofuran compound is soluble in water and effective to prevent proliferation of certain bacteria immediately adjacent to the catheter in an otherwise growth supporting aqueous environment when dissolved in the aqueous environment to the limit of its solubility therein at 37  DEG C. The solubility of the nitrofuran compound is preferably about 0.2 % by weight or less at a pH of about 6 and a temperature of about 25  DEG C. At least a finite portion of the polymeric matrix proximate the outer surface includes an amount of from about 10 to about 60 % by weight of the nitrofuran compound.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROCHESTER MEDICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROCHESTER MEDICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONWAY ANTHONY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONWAY PHILIP J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRYAR RICHARD D JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONWAY, ANTHONY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONWAY, PHILIP, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRYAR, RICHARD, D., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to sustained
release bactericidal cannulas or catheters which are
either implantable or insertable into a human body.
These devices have an antibacterial agent incorporated
within the device which diffuse out in situ to prevent
the proliferation or colonization of bacteria in regions
adjacent to the exterior of the cannula or catheter.
The present invention also relates to methods for making
the same, products made by these methods, and methods of
using the sustained release bactericidal cannulas or
catheters, to prevent proliferation, colonization or
continued viability of a bacterial population in regions
adjacent to the exterior of the respective cannula or
catheter.Most catheters are a cannula or tube like
device which is inserted into a portion of a person's
body in order to transport fluids or gases in or out of
that particular portion of the body. In passing
through any particular portion of the body in order to
reach its destination, the catheter will come into
contact with various tissues in the body. For example,
a catheter used to drain one's bladder (such as a
"Foley" catheter) must pass through the urethral tract
in order to reach the bladder. A nasogastric catheter
must pass through the nasal passageway and the esophagus
in order to reach the stomach. Some catheters, such as
these, are inserted through existing passageways in
order to reach their destinations, while others are
inserted through surgically created passageways.In virtually every catheterization, there is a
significant potential for microbial growth along the
exterior surface of the catheter which can lead to
serious infections such as urinary tract infections,
bladder infections and the like. Such an infection can 
be encouraged when adjacent tissues are inflamed due to
irritation from rubbing a chafing against this catheter.
This is because inflamed or irritated tissues may be
less apt to respond effectively to suppress local
bacterial infection. In such a situation the infection
can spread and intensify, placing the patient at further
risk. Such infections can lead to sepsis of the bladder
particularly in elderly patients who are incontinent and
have a chronic need for catheterization with an
indwelling self-retaining catheter such as a "Foley"
catheter. Long-term use of indwelling urinary catheters
in nursing home patients is well known as a potential
cause of significant morbidity due to such infections.This problem is widely recognized and many
solutions for this problem have been suggested
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sustained release bactericidal cannula through which aqueous biological
fluids can pass, comprising:


a tube having a surface,
the surface being coated at least in part by a polymeric material,
an antibacterial agent which is at least partially soluble in water,
diffusion permitting means for permitting said antibacterial agent to diffuse into an
aqueous biological environment,

characterized in that,
the polymeric material providing a polymeric matrix,
said matrix containing silicone rubber and said antibacterial agent,
said antibacterial agent can diffuse out of the polymeric matrix and into an aqueous
biological environment when the polymeric matrix comes into contact with such an

aqueous biological environment,
said antibacterial agent is a finely divided nitrofuran compound which is at least
partially soluble in water and effective to prevent proliferation of certain bacteria in

an otherwise, growth supporting, aqueous environment when dissolved in the
aqueous environment to the limit of its solubility therein at 37째C,
the solubility of the nitrofuran compound is about 0.2% by weight or less in water
at a pH of about 6 and a temperature of about 25째C; and
at least a finite portion of the polymeric matrix includes an amount of from about
10 to about 60% by weight of the nitrofuran compound, and the amount of the

nitrofuran compound in the finite portion of the polymeric matrix and the solubility
of the nitrofuran compound cooperate to provide a potential for a sustained release

diffusion of the anti bacterial agent into the aqueous biological fluids within the 
human body during normal therapeutic use of the cannula within the human body

so long as the aqueous biological fluids are not saturated with the antibacterial
agent, such that the antibacterial agent within the finite portion of the polymeric

matrix can continue to diffuse into the aqueous biological fluids within the human
body in an amount effective to prevent proliferation of certain bacteria immediately

adjacent to the cannula in aqueous biological environments for a period of not less
then about three weeks.
The sustained release bactericidal cannula of
claim 1 wherein the antibacterial agent is selected from

the group consisting of nitrofurazone, nitrofurantoin,
furaltadone, furazolidone, nifuradene, nidroxyzone,

nifuroxime and nihydrazone.
The sustained release bactericidal cannula of
claim 1 wherein the antibacterial agent is

nitrofurazone.
The sustained release bactericidal cannula of
claim 1 wherein the polymeric matrix includes silicone

fluid.
The sustained release bactericidal cannula of
claim 1 wherein a finite portion of the polymeric matrix

contains an amount of a water soluble anti-inflammatory
agent sufficient to diffuse into the aqueous biological

fluids and reduce inflammation within a portion of the
human body immediately adjacent to the cannula. 
The sustained release bactericidal cannula of
claim 1, said tube having an outer surface and inner

surface, the inner surface defining a first internal lumen,
said cannula further including an

expandable balloon having an expandable balloon cavity,
a second lumen in communication with the expandable

balloon cavity.
The sustained release bactericidal cannula of
claim 1, said tube having an outer surface and inner

surface, the inner surface defining an infernal lumen,
wherein the cannula further

includes a sleeve cavity encircling the internal lumen
within the cannula, said sleeve cavity being located

between the outer surface and the inner surface.
The sustained release bactericidal cannula of
claim 7 further including an expandable balloon, an

expandable balloon cavity, and a secondary lumen in
communication with the expandable balloon cavity. 
A method for making a sustained release
bactericidal cannula, the cannula being made from a

tube, the tube having an inner suface, defining an
inner lumen passing through the tube, and an uncured

silicone rubber outer surface, said method comprising
the steps of:


(a) providing an antibacterial agent
containing mixture including uncured silicone rubber, a

silicone fluid, and finely divided particles of a solid
antibacterial agent, wherein the antibacterial agent is

a nitrofuran compound having a solubility in water of
0.2% by weight or less;
(b) coating at least a portion of the outer
surface of the tube with the antibacterial agent

containing mixture to form an uncured nitrofuran
containing silicone rubber outer layer; and
(c) curing the silicone rubber of both the
uncured silicone rubber outer surface and the uncured

nitrofuran containing silicone rubber outer layer to
form a cured antibacterial agent containing silicone

rubber outer layer bonded to the silicone rubber outer
surface; wherein the step of providing includes

providing an antibacterial agent containing mixture
containing a sufficient amount of the nitrofuran

compound that the cured antibacterial agent containing

silicone rubber outer layer contains about 10 to about
60 percent by weight of the nitrofuran compound.
The method of claim 9 wherein the step of
coating includes dipping the tube in the antibacterial 

agent containing fluid mixture to form the uncured
nitrofuran containing silicone rubber outer layer.
The method of claim 9 wherein the step of
curing includes heating the tube to a temperature of at

least about 140째F to cure silicone rubbers of both the
uncured silicone rubber outer surface and, the uncured

nitrofuran containing silicone rubber outer layer to
form the controlled release bactericidal cannula.
The method of claim 9 wherein the tube
includes a second lumen and a balloon cavity between the

inner surface and the outer surface and encircling the
inner lumen, wherein the outer surface proximate the

balloon cavity defines a balloon portion and the step of
coating includes coating at least a portion of the

balloon portion with the antibacterial agent containing
fluid mixture.
The method of claim 9 wherein the finally
divided particles of the solid antibacterial agent have

a mean particle diameter of not more than about 200
microns.
The method of claim 9 wherein the
antibacterial agent is selected from the group

consisting of nitrofurazone, nitrofurantoin,
furaltadone, furazolidone, nifuradene, nidroxyzone,

nifuroxime and nihydrazone.
The method of claim 9 wherein the
antibacterial agent has a solubility in water, at a pH

of about 6 and a temperature of about 25째C, of about
0.001 to about 0.2% by weight.
The method of claim 9 wherein the
antibacterial agent is nitrofurazone.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
