<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619890</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND APPARATUSES FOR FITTING EYEWEAR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B320	G01B320	G02C1300	G02C1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G02C	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B3	G01B3	G02C13	G02C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods are provided for fitting an eyeglass frame to a wearer. The methods include the steps of providing frames which have been classified into predetermined temple to temple size ranges based on the temple to temple frame sizes of the frames. The wearer's temple to temple head size is measured using a device which indicates at least one temple to temple size range as corresponding to the wearer. Eyeglass frames are fitted to the wearer selected from the frames which fall within the temple to temple size ranges corresponding to the wearer. There is also provided a frame measurement platform for measuring the perpendicular distance between the two temples of an open eyeglass frame, and a method for using such a device. The platform includes a support, two spaced-apart reference members which are moveable with respect to each other, and means for measuring. The reference members define respective temple measuring planes which are substantially perpendicular to a reference measuring plane defined by the support. The measuring means is used to measure the perpendicular distance between temples of an open eyeglass frame.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US SHOE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNITED STATES SHOE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREMER THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIEGLER THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREMER, THOMAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIEGLER, THOMAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS AND APPARATUSES FOR FITTING EYEWEARTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates generally to methods and apparatuses for use in fitting eyewear, and is particularly directed to methods and apparatuses for fitting an eyeglass frame for a person who wears or is going to wear eyewear (herein referred to as a "wearer") based on an objective evaluation of physical attributes of the wearer and the frames. The invention will be specifically disclosed in connection with a method in which the stock of eyeglass frames offered for selection to the wearer has been identified as falling within predetermined size ranges, and the wearer's temple to temple head size is determined so as to identify frames from the corresponding size range. The invention will be further disclosed in connection with a device for measuring the temple to temple head size of a wearer. The invention will also be specifically disclosed in connection with a frame measuring platform mat facilitates the measurement of the perpendicular distance between the temples pieces of an eyeglass frame. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONSelection of properly sized eyeglasses is one of the most difficult problems in fitting eyeglasses to a wearer. The current method for selecting eyeglass frames is a subjective approach wherein the selection is based primarily on cosmetic considerations rather than proper physical fit. Even when physical fit is considered in the selection of frames, the criteria is subjective and depends very much upon the skill of the fitter. The typical criteria for judging physical fit relies on such subjective considerations as face shape, length of face and facial balance. Until the invention of the present method, there has been no objective way to ensure the proper physical fit of frames.The difficulty in fitting frames is exacerbated by the large number of 

 different frames which are available. The wearer is typically unskilled in judging which frames being offered for sale are the correct size for his or her head, and consequentially is unable to limit his or her search to those frames which are the proper physical size. Without such a limitation on the wearer's search, the wearer will typically select frames based only on cosmetic considerations and frequently selects frames which appear aesthetically pleasing as displayed but which are not the proper size for the wearer's head- Once the wearer has made such a selection of improperly sized frames, it is typically awkward and difficult for the fitter to persuade the wearer that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A method of fitting an eyeglass frame to a wearer, comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a plurality of frames, each of said frames being identified as having a respective temple to temple frame size falling within a respective one of a plurality of predetermined temple to temple size ranges;
(b) identifying from said plurality of predetermined temple to temple size ranges at least one temple to temple size range as corresponding to die wearer; and (c) fitting an eyeglass frame to the wearer selected from a plurality of frames having respective temple to temple frame sizes which fall within one of said at least one temple to temple size range corresponding to the wearer.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of identifying at least one corresponding temple to temple size range comprises the step of measuring the temple to temple head size of the wearer.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the temple to temple head size is measured between a first position and a second position located on respective sides of die head of die wearer near the ears.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein each of said temple to temple size ranges have respective upper and lower range limits, and wherein any temple to temple size range which has at least one of its respective upper and lower range limits within a predetermined fitting range of the temple to temple head size of the wearer is identified as corresponding to the wearer.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the respective spans of all temple to temple size ranges are equal, and wherein the span of said fitting range is equal to the span of said temple to temple size ranges. 


 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein one or more of the respective spans of each respective temple to temple size range and said fitting range is 4 millimeters.
7. The method according to claim 2, wherein the measuring step includes die step of providing means to measure the temple to temple head size of die wearer, said means including:
(a) a pair of measuring tips, said measuring tips being moveable with respect to each other;
(b) a scale;
(c) indicator means for indicating on said scale a location which corresponds to die distance between said measuring tips; (d) a plurality of designations carried by said scale, each respective designation identifying a respective temple to temple size range, said designations being located on said scale at respective locations such that said indicator means indicate die respective designation of the temple to temple size range within which the distance between said measuring tips falls. 8- The method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of predetermined temple to temple size ranges are continuous with each other.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the respective spans of all temple to temple size ranges are 4 millimeters.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein each of said temple to temple size ranges have respective upper and lower range limits, the dimension of each respective upper and lower range limits being divisible by 4 millimeters.
11. The method according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of predetermined temple to temple size ranges are non-continuous witii each, the respective range to range spans being located between respective sequential temple to temple size ranges. 


 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the respective spans of all temple to temple size ranges are 3 millimeters.
13. The method according to claim 11 wherein the respective spans of all range to range spans are 1 millimeter.
14. The method according to claim 11 wherein each of said temple to temple size ranges have respective lower range limits, the dimension of each respective lower range limit being divisible by 4 millimeters.
15. The method according to claim 1, where the step of providing a plurality of frames includes the steps of:
(a) assigning a respective designation to each temple to temple size range; and
(b) associating each frame with the respective designation of die temple to temple size range within which the respective temple to temple frame size of that respective frame falls.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein each respective designation is a number which designates a respective temple to temple size range.
17. The method according to claim 15, wherein each respective designation is a color which designates a respective temple to temple size range.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein each frame carries a respective tag which includes a color which is the color that designates die respective temple to temple size range within which the temple to temple frame size of the respective frame falls.
19. The method according to claim 17, wherein the step of identifying at least one corresponding temple to temple size range comprises the steps of:
(a) providing means for measuring the temple to temple head size of the wearer, said means including: (i) a pair of spaced apart measuring tips, said 


 measuring tips being moveable with respect to each other; (ii) a scale; (iii) indicator means for indicating on said scale a location which corresponds to the distance between said measuring tips; and
(iv) a plurality of colors corresponding to die color of said designations, said colors being carried by said scale, said colors being located on said scale at respective locations such diat said indicator means indicate die respective color designation of the temple to temple size range within which the distance between said measuring tips falls; and
(b) measuring the temple to temple head size of die wearer.
20. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the step of providing a plurality of frames includes the step of:
(a) establishing said plurality of temple to temple size ranges based on temple to temple frame measurements of a plurality of frames.
21. A device for measuring die temple to temple head size of a wearer, comprising:
(a) a first arm having a distal end comprising a first measuring tip, said first arm also having a first proximal end;
(b) a longitudinal member connected to said first proximal end;
(c) a second arm having a distal end comprising a second measuring tip, said second arm having a second proximal end configured to be slidably carried by said longitudinal member such that said first and second 


 measuring tips are moveable with respect to each other;
(d) a scale carried by said longitudinal member, said scale comprising a plurality of designations, each respective designation identifying a respective predetermined temple to temple size range; and
(e) indicator means for indicating on said scale a location which corresponds to die distance between said first and second measuring tips, said plurality of designations being located on said scale such tiiat said indicator means indicate d e respective designation of the temple to temple size range within which the distance between said first and second measuring tips falls.
22. A device according to claim 21 wherein said indicator means comprises an aperture formed tiirough said second proximal end, and wherein said scale is at least partially viewable tiirough said aperture.
23. The device according to claim 21 wherein said plurality of designations carried by said scale comprises a color strip having a plurality of colors arranged sequentially along said strip.
24. A device for measuring the perpendicular distance between the two temples of an open eyeglass frame, comprising:
(a) a support defining a reference measuring plane;
(b) a first reference member carried by said support, said first reference member including a reference surface which defines a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference measuring plane;
(c) a second reference member carried by said support, said second reference member including a reference surface which defines a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference measuring plane, said second reference member being spaced apart 


 from said first reference member, said first and second reference members being moveable with respect to each other;
(d) said support and first and second reference members being configured to receive an eyeglass frame such that, when said frame is open, at least a portion of each respective temple is disposed adjacent a respective reference surface of said first and second reference members; and
(e) measuring means for measuring the perpendicular distance between said temples when said temples are placed in contact with said respective reference surfaces of said first and second reference members.
25. The device of claim 24 wherein said measuring means comprise a measuring scale having first and second measuring tips which are moveable with respect to each other.
26. The device of claim 25 wherein said measuring scale comprises : (a) indicator means for indicating on said measuring scale a location which corresponds to die distance between the measuring tips; and (b) a plurality of designations carried by said measuring scale, each respective designation identifying a respective temple to temple size range, said designations being located on said measuring scale at respective locations such that said indicator means indicate the respective designation of die temple to temple size range within which the distance between said measuring tips falls.
27. The device of claim 24 wherein said first and second reference members include means for receiving and supporting said measuring means.
28. The device of 27 wherein said means for receiving and 


supporting said measuring means comprise at least one respective slot formed tiirough each respective reference surface of said first and second reference members.
29. The device of claim 28 wherein each of said at least one respective slot is substantially parallel to said reference measuring plane.
30. The device of claim 24 wherein at least one of said first and second reference members is formed integrally with said support.
31. A device for measuring the perpendicular distance between the two temples of an open eyeglass frame, comprising:
(a) a support including (i) a base; (ii) an upper portion overlying said support portion, said upper portion defining a reference measuring plane; and (iii) an intermediate portion interposed between said base and said upper portion; (b) first and second reference members carried by said support, each said first and second reference member respectively including a base portion and a reference surface extending from said base portion, said reference surface defining a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference measuring plane, said second reference member being spaced apart from said first reference member, said first and second reference members being moveable with respect to each other, each of said respective reference surfaces having at least one respective scale receiving slot formed therethrough; (c) said support being adapted to support and retain said respective base portion of at least one of said first and second reference members; 


 (d) said support and first and second reference members being configured to receive an eyeglass frame such that, when said frame is open, at least a portion of each respective temple is disposed adjacent a respective reference surface of said first and second reference members; and
(e) a measuring scale having first and second measuring tips which are moveable with respect to each other, said scale being adapted to be received by each of said at least one respective scale receiving slot whereby the perpendicular distance between said temples may be measured when said temples are placed in contact with said respective reference surfaces of said first and second reference members.
32. The device of claim 31 wherein said upper portion of said support is non-parallel to said base.
33. The device of claim 32 wherein the angle between said upper portion and said base is acute.
34. The device of claim 31 wherein said at least one scale receiving slot is substantially parallel to said reference measuring plane.
35. . The device of claim 31 wherein said measuring scale comprises :
(a) indicator means for indicating on said measuring scale a location which corresponds to the distance between the measuring tips; and (b) a plurality of designations carried by said measuring scale, each respective designation identifying a respective temple to temple size range, said designations being located on said measuring scale at respective locations such that said indicator means indicate me respective designation of the temple to temple size range within which the distance between said measuring 


 tips falls.
36. The device of claim 31 wherein said support includes a retaining portion extending from said base, said retaining portion being spaced apart from said upper portion and cooperating with said base and said upper portion to retain said base portion of at least one of said first and second reference members.
37. The device of claim 36 wherein at least one of said first and second reference members includes a slot formed therethrough which slidably receives a portion of said upper portion of said support.
38. A method of determining the temple to temple frame size of an eyeglass frame, comprising the steps of:
(a) providing means for measuring the temple to temple frame size of the eyeglass frame, said means including: (i) a support defining a reference measuring plane;
(ii) a first reference member carried by said support, said first reference member including a reference surface which defines a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference measuring plane;
(iii) a second reference member carried by said support, said second reference member including a reference surface which defines a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference measuring plane, said second reference member being spaced apart from said first reference member, said first and second reference members being moveable with respect to each other; (iv) said support and first and second reference 


 members being configured to receive an eyeglass frame such that, when said frame is open, at least a portion of each respective temple is disposed adjacent a respective reference surface of said first and second reference members; and
(v) measuring means for measuring the perpendicular distance between said temples when said temples are placed in contact with said respective reference surfaces of said first and second reference members; and (b) measuring the temple to temple frame size of the eyeglass frame.
39. A method of determining the temple to temple frame size of an eyeglass frame, comprising the steps of:
(a) providing means for measuring the temple to temple frame size of the eyeglass frame, said means including: (i) a support including a base; an upper portion overlying said support portion, said upper portion defining a reference measuring plane; and an intermediate portion interposed between said base and said upper portion;
(ii) first and second reference members carried by said support, each said first and second reference member respectively including a base portion and a reference surface extending from said base portion, said reference surface defining a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference 


 measuring plane, said second reference
20 member being spaced apart from said first reference member, said first and second reference members being moveable with respect to each other, each of said respective reference surfaces having at least one
25 respective scale receiving slot formed therethrough; (iii) said support being adapted to support and retain said respective base portion of at least one of said first and second reference
30 members;
(iv) said support and first and second reference members being configured to receive an eyeglass frame such that, when said frame is open, at least a portion of each respective
35 temple is disposed adjacent a respective reference surface of said first and second reference members; and (v) a measuring scale having first and second measuring tips which are moveable with
40 respect to each other, said scale being adapted to be received by each of said at least one respective scale receiving slot whereby the perpendicular distance between said temples may be measured when said temples are placed
45 in contact with said respective reference surfaces of said first and second reference members; and (b) measuring the temple to temple frame size of the eyeglass frame. 


 40. A method of fitting an eyeglass frame to a wearer, the wearer having a second eyeglass frame which had been previously fitted to or worn by the wearer, comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a plurality of frames, each of said frames being identified as having a respective temple to temple frame size falling witiiin a respective one of a plurality of predetermined temple to temple size ranges;
(b) identifying from said plurality of predetermined temple to temple size ranges at least one temple to temple size range as corresponding to the wearer, said step of identifying at least one corresponding temple to temple size range comprising die step of determining the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame of the wearer; and (c) fitting an eyeglass frame to the wearer selected from a plurality of frames having respective temple to temple frame sizes which fall within one of said at least one temple to temple size range corresponding to the wearer.
41. The method of claim 40 wherein said step of deterrnining the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame of the wearer comprises measuring the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame of the wearer.
42. The method of claim 41 wherein the step of measuring the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame of the wearer comprises the steps of:
(a) providing means for measuring the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame, said means including:
(i) a support defining a reference measuring plane; 


 (ii) a first reference member carried by said support, said first reference member including a reference surface which defines a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference measuring plane; (iii) a second reference member carried by said support, said second reference member including a reference surface which defines a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference measuring plane, said second reference member being spaced apart from said first reference member, said first and second reference members being moveable with respect to each other;
(iv) said support and first and second reference members being configured to receive an eyeglass frame such that, when said frame is open, at least a portion of each respective temple is disposed adjacent a respective reference surface of said first and second reference members; and
(v) measuring means for measuring the perpendicular distance between said temples when said temples are placed in contact with said respective reference surfaces of said first and second reference members; and
(b) measuring the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame of the wearer. 43. The method of claim 41 wherein the step of measuring the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame of the wearer 


comprises the steps of:
(a) providing means for measuring the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame, said means including:
(i) a support including a base; an upper portion overlying said support portion, said upper portion defining a reference measuring plane; and an intermediate portion interposed between said base and said upper portion; (ii) first and second reference members carried by said support, each said first and second reference member respectively including a base portion and a reference surface extending from said base portion, said reference surface defining a temple measuring plane which is substantially perpendicular to said reference measuring plane, said second reference member being spaced apart from said first reference member, said first and second reference members being moveable with respect to each other, each of said respective reference surfaces having at least one respective scale receiving slot formed therethrough;
(iii) said support being adapted to support and retain said respective base portion of at least one of said first and second reference members; (iv) said support and first and second reference 



 members being configured to receive an
35 eyeglass frame such that, when said frame is open, at least a portion of each respective temple is disposed adjacent a respective reference surface of said first and second reference members; and
40 (v) a measuring scale having first and second measuring tips which are moveable with respect to each other, said scale being adapted to be received by each of said at least one respective scale receiving slot whereby the
45 perpendicular distance between said temples may be measured when said temples are placed in contact with said respective reference surfaces of said first and second reference members; and
50 (b) measuring the temple to temple frame size of the second eyeglass frame of the wearer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
