<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641471</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DRIVER TRAINING SYSTEM WITH PERFORMANCE DATA FEEDBACK.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F1300	A63F1300	A63F1308	A63F1308	A63F1310	A63F1310	G06T1550	G06T1550	G09B904	G09B904	G09B905	G09B1900	G09B1916	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	G06T	G06T	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F13	A63F13	A63F13	A63F13	A63F13	A63F13	G06T15	G06T15	G09B9	G09B9	G09B9	G09B19	G09B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A driver training system (100) for a user (102) of a simulated vehicle. The system (100) includes input devices (104-112) for controlling the simulated vehicle, a video display (122) having three-dimensional graphics, a computer (114), modeling software for determining position information based on the input devices, atmospheric effects software to simulate time-of-day and weather conditions, realistic operating feedback software for simulating on the input devices the feedback normally experienced with operating the vehicle, and recursive training software to display a previous route (180) through an environment simultaneously with a present route (192) through the environment together with associated performance data (182-188). Another aspect of the recursive training software replays either the previous route (180) or present route (192) and controls one of the input devices (112) to provide ''hands-on'' feedback to the user (102). The user (102) then incrementally and recursively maximizes parameters associated with vehicle operation skill. The preferred embodiment includes a low frequency sound system (800) having a low frequency speaker (830) mounted on an enclosure (828) adjacent to the simulation user's seat (802) through which road feel cues such as hitting an object are transmitted to the user (102) in response to signals received from the computer (114). Another aspect of the invention is a system (900) for simulating the feel to the user (102) of anti-lock brakes on a brake pedal (106) in response to signals received from the computer (114). The driver training system (100) may be embodied as a vehicle simulator.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATARI GAMES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATARI GAMES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPERMAN NORMAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAY ALAN SCOTT CRESCENT AVENU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINBLAD WADE OWEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPERMAN, NORMAN, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAY, ALAN, SCOTT 416 CRESCENT AVENUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINBLAD, WADE, OWEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DRIVER TRAINING SYSTEM WITH PERFORMANCE DATA FEEDBACKField of the Invention The present invention generally relates to automated training and, more particularly, is concerned with vehicle simulators.Background of the Invention A vehicle simulator can be defined as a system that simulates the operating conditions of a vehicle in an environment. Where the vehicle simulated is an automobile, the vehicle will usually include the typical automobile controls such as a steering wheel, a gear shift, an accelerator pedal, and a brake pedal. Generally, this vehicle will be simulated in an environment .which will typically include a road. The environment in this case may also include weather conditions such as fog or snow. Besides cars, examples of other types of vehicles that may be simulated include airplanes, ships, submersibles and space vehicles. Vehicle simulators provide a means to efficiently train operators of a vehicle. The operator of a vehicle can safely learn, from the simulator, how the vehicle will operate in a given set of conditions without actually exposing the operator to any of the risks inherent in real world operation of the vehicle. The experience garnered through making mistakes on a simulator is invaluable when compared to the inherent risks of vehicle damage and operator injury associated with making a driving error in a real-life situation. For example, in a police training application, a student could learn the limits of a police cruiser or guidelines for pursuit, and be tested in these areas without the associated risks of real-life training.In some sense, a simulator achieves a balance between testing the operator's knowledge of the "rules of the road" and testing the operator's use of a vehicle. Testing the operator's knowledge is typically and conveniently accomplished through written and/or verbal examinations. 

However, examinations are of limited usefulness for operator training. For example, operator reflexes are not tested at all, and, moreover, such examinations do not adequately address the skills necessary for real-time decision-making. In addition to concerns relating to operator safety a.nd vehicle damage, training through actual vehicle operation has other pitfalls. First, the cost of instructor time may be prohibitive. Furthermore, a specific vehicle, such as a space or underwater vehicle, may simply not be available for training purposes. Lastly, there is always the risk of an accident when a student is training on an actual vehicle under realistic conditions.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A driver training system for a user of a simulated vehicle, comprising: a plurality of simulated input devices for controlling the simulated vehicle; a video display for presenting the user with a view of a simulated environment; modeling means responsive to the input devices for determining position information of the simulated vehicle in the simulated environment; means responsive to the position information for displaying on the video display a present route of the simulated vehicle through the simulated environment; and means responsive to at least one of the simulated input devices for displaying on the video display a plurality of states of the input device at selected times in the present route.
2. The system defined in Claim 1, wherein the means for displaying the input device state includes a memory from which is retrieved and simultaneously displayed the input device states from a previous route.
3. The system defined in Claim 2, wherein the means for displaying the input device state includes user selectable means for storing the input device states of the present route into the memory.
4. A driver training system for a user of a simulated vehicle, comprising: a plurality of simulated input devices for controlling the simulated vehicle; a video display for presenting the user with a view of a simulated environment; modeling means responsive to the input devices for determining position information of the simulated vehicle in the simulated environment; means responsive to the position information for displaying on the video display a present route of the simulated vehicle through the simulated environment; 


 means for storing the present route and a plurality of states of at least one input device in a memory; and means for replaying the present route on the video display and moving the input device according to the states stored in the memory.
5. A driver training system for a user of a simulated vehicle, comprising: a plurality of simulated input devices for controlling the operation of the simulated vehicle; modeling means responsive to the input devices for determining position information of the simulated vehicle in a simulated environment; a video display for presenting the user with a view of the simulated environment; means for providing feedback to the user through a selected one of the simulated input devices; and means, responsive to the position information, for providing low frequency sound to the user.
6. The driver training system of Claim 5, wherein the selected simulated input device is a brake pedal.
7. The driver training system of Claim 6, wherein the feedback means provides a sensation representative of an antilock braking system.
8. The driver training system of Claim 7, wherein the feedback means comprises: a sensor mounted on the brake pedal for sending a signal indicative of the force with which the user depresses the brake pedal to a processor for determining when the feeling of antilock brakes should be simulated; and a solenoid for vibrating the brake pedal in response to signals from the processor.
9. The driver training system of Claim 5, wherein the sound providing means comprises: means for storing signals representative of a low frequency sound; means for processing signals retrieved from the 


 signal storing means; and means for transducing signals received from the processing means into low frequency sound.
10. The driver training system of Claim 9, wherein the signal storing means includes signals representative of the physical sensation of the simulated vehicle colliding with an object.
11. The driver training system of Claim 9, wherein the stored signals comprise digital signals and the processing means comprises: a digital to analog converter receiving the digital signals from the signal storage means; a filter receiving analog signals from the converter; and an amplifier receiving a filtered signal from the filter.
12. The driver training system of Claim 11, wherein the filter is a low pass filter.
13. The driver training system of Claim 9 , wherein the transducing means comprises: a speaker providing an audio signal to a chamber; and a semi-rigid diaphragm connected to the chamber which vibrates in response to the audio signal. 14. A method of hazing a plurality of polygons in a computer having a video display, the method comprising the steps of: selecting one of the polygons; calculating a haze value as: haze value = (z*kval)/dimval where z is the distance between the camera position and the polygon, kval is a constant, and dimval is the distance for full hazing; calculating a shade value as the dot product of a sun vector and the normal to the polygonal plane; 


 indexing a dither table with the haze and shade values for dither color offsets; adding a base color to the dither color offsets for dither colors; determining a dither pattern of dither colors based on the position of the selected polygon; and drawing the selected polygon on the video display using the dither pattern.
15. A turn signal assembly for a steering wheel, comprising; a lever; a frame; a retainer plate rigidly connecting to one end of the lever and axially coupled to the frame about a pivot point; a plunger mounted in a bore in the frame wherein the plunger is biased; means in the assembly for selectively engaging detents in the retainer plate; and a cancel pin connected to a hub area, the hub area connected to the steering wheel so that the cancel pin forces the plunger into the bore when the hub area is turned one direction, and pushes against the released plunger when the hub area is turned the other direction thereby forcing detent disengagement and reengagement.
16. A low frequency sound generator, comprising: a set of input devices; a computer for receiving input signals from the input devices; a control process executed by the computer for selectively converting the input signals into output signals indicative of a simulated environment; a low pass filter for filtering the output signals; an amplifier for amplifying the filtered signals; a speaker for receiving the amplified signals and generating low frequency sounds; and a housing having a bladder filled with air wherein 


 the speaker is secured to the housing so as to be in mechanical communication with the air in the bladder.
17. A low frequency sound system, comprising: a seat; a plurality of input devices; a computer for receiving input signals from the input devices; a control process executed by the computer for selectively converting the input signals into a plurality of output signals; and a transducer for communicating the output signals to the seat.
18. A system for simulating the physical sensations of a brake pedal during operation of an antilock braking system, comprising: means for detecting when the brake pedal is depressed; means, responsive to the detecting means, for determining the activation of an antilock braking system; and means, responsive to the determining means, for providing feedback indicative of an antilock brake system to the brake pedal. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
