<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611401</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROCHEMICAL CELL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F1461	C02F1461	C25B100	C25B113	C25B130	C25B900	C25B900	C25B906	C25B906	C25B1500	C25B1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F1	C02F1	C25B1	C25B1	C25B1	C25B9	C25B9	C25B9	C25B9	C25B15	C25B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrolytic cell having first and second electrode structures in which the first electrode structure has a surface area which is in heat transfer relation with the electrolyte and part only of said surface area is electrolytically active. The first electrode structure may be an anode structure suitable for use in the production of ozone and the remaining part of the surface area of the anode structure may be rendered electrolytically inactive by masking this part from the cathode structure. The masked surface of the anode structure is maintained in heat transfer relation with the electrolyte.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ICI PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BULLEN SHAUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BULLEN, SHAUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTROCHEMICAL CELL.This . invention relates to an electrolytic cell. The invention relates in particular to an electrolytic cell in which ozone is to be produced.Electrolytic cells are known in which water is dissociated into its respective elemental species, i.e. O2 and H2 which are liberated at the anode and cathode respectively. Under appropriate conditions O3 is also produced at the anode.Thus in European Patent Specification No. 0 041 365 there is described an electrolytic process for the production of ozone in which an electrolyte comprising an aqueous solution of a very highly electronegative anion, for example the acids or salts of hexa-fluoro-anions , is electrolysed .High current efficiencies of up to 352 for the production of ozone have been reported. Current efficiency (also known as production efficiency of ozone) is a measure of actual ozone production relative to theoretical ozone production for given inputs of electrical current, i.e. 352 current efficiency means under the conditions stated, the O2-O3 gases evolved at the anode comprise 35Z (of the theoretical O3 production) O3 by weight and that 352 of the supplied current is utilised in the production of ozone.Electrolytic cells are also known for the production of ozone which comprise air cathodes and in which the cathode reaction which takes place is the reduction of ambient air to water in an acidic electrolyte, the water then being oxidised at the anode to oxygen and ozone. Consequently since hydrogen is not produced at the cathode surface, the cell voltage is substantially reduced. Furthermore the construction of the cell is less complex than cells which comprise hydrogen evolving cathodes, for example a separator between the anode and cathode is not required since hydrogen is not evolved at the cathode, and control of the overall process is simpler, namely the need for periodic additions of water is reduced. 

 Thus, in US Patent No. ,541, 989 there is described an electrolytic cell for the production of ozone which comprises a tubular anode structure, the outer surface of which functions as an anode within a tubular air cathode structure, the inner surface of which functions as a cathode. As disclosed in the aforementioned US Patent it is desirable in electrolytic cells for the production of ozone that the current density at the anode surface is greater than that at the cathode surface, in particular that the current density at the anode surface is at least about twice that of the cathode surface in order that the power
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C LAIMS .
1. An electrolytic cell comprising first and second electrode structures, at least the first electrode structure having a surface area which is in heat transfer relation with the electrolyte and part only of said surface area being electrolytically active.
2. A cell as claimed in Claim 1 in which each of said first and second electrode structures has a surface area which is in heat transfer relation with the electrolyte, a part only of said surface area of the first electrode structure being electrolytically active and the active surface area of said second electrode structure being greater than that of the first electrode structure.
3. A cell as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, said active surface area(s) being of such an extent that, in operation, the current density established at said first electrode structure is at least 202 greater than that established at the surface of the second electrode structure.
4. An electrolytic cell comprising first and second electrode structures, part only of the surface area of at least the first electrode structure being electrolytically active, and means masking the remaining part of the surface area of the first electrode structure in such a way as to render the same substantially electrolytically inactive.
5. An electrolytic cell comprising: first and second electrode structures, at least part of the surface area of the first electrode structure being exposed to interaction with the electrolyte; and means for routing the electrolyte along a path in which it is in heat exchange relation with a substantially electrolytically inactive part of the surface area of the first electrode structure. 


 6. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 5 in which the active and inactive surface areas of the first electrode structure are distributed around the periphery of the first electrode structure.
7. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6 in whicπ the first electrode structure is of elongated configuration and the active and inactive surface areas of the first electrode structure extend longitudinally of the first electrode structure.
8. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 7 comprising means for circulating a coolant in heat transfer relation with the first electrode structure in such a way that heat exchange is secured between the coolant and the electrolyte through the active and inactive surface areas of the first electrode structure.
9. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 5 to 8 in which the first electrode structure is of elongated configuration and in which said routing means provides at least one flow path extending longitudinally of the first electrode structure.
ιo. A cell as claimed in Claim 7 or either one of Claims 8 and 9 when dependent on Claim 7 in which the active and inactive surface areas extend alongside one another longitudinally of the first electrode structure.
ιι. A cell as claimed in Claim 10 in which said active and inactive surface areas are generally co-extensive with one another longitudinally of the first electrode structure.
12. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 11 including means for preventing electrolyte flow peripherally of the first electrode means from a region where the 


 electrolyte in communication with said active surface area to a region where the inactive surface area is located.
13. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 12 including means for applying electrical potential to said first electrode structure by contact with part only of a peripheral surface of the latter corresponding to the active surface area of the first electrode structure.
10
14. A cell as claimed in Claim 13 in which the first electrode structure is fabricated from a material which possesses poor electrical conductivity.
15. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 14 in which
15 said first electrode structure is of tubular configuration.
16. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 15 in which said second electrode structure is of planar configuration.
20 17. A cell as claimed in Claim 16 in which two of said second electrode structures are present and in which the first electrode structure is located between, and in spaced relation with, said second electrode structures and has separate active surface areas in confronting relation with
25 the second electrode structures.
18. A cell as claimed in Claim 17 in which said first electrode means has inactive surface areas located between said separate surface areas.
30
19. A cell as claimed in any one of the preceding claims comprising a plurality of said first electrode structures, each having active and inactive surface areas as aforesaid
•
* 35 20. A cell as claimed in Claim 18 or 19 when dependent on Claim 17 in which said first electrode structures are 


 arranged in spaced relation in a direction parallel to said second electrode structures.
21. A cell as claimed in any one of the preceding claims comprising means for supplying electrical potential to said first and second electrode structures, said means including a contact which engages said first electrode structure at a limited region thereof corresponding to said active surface area, the first electrode structure being composed of a material having poor conductivity whereby the electrical potential prevailing at the inactive surface area is reduced .
22. An electrolytic cell comprising: an anode structure of elongate configuration a cathode structure; means supporting the anode and cathode structures in spaced relation with one another; first boundary means for bounding together with said cathode structure and part only of the surface area of said anode structure a chamber for enclosure of an electrolyte whereby said part constitutes an electrolytically active surface area of the anode structure; second boundary means for bounding together with a further part or parts of the surface area of said anode structure at least one channel in fluid communication with said chamber to provide for flow of electrolyte over said further part(s) of the surface area of the anode structure, said further part(s) constituting a substantially electrolytically inactive surface area(s) of the anode structure; and means for providing at least one path for flow of coolant through the anode structure in such a way that heat transfer between the coolant and the electrolyte can take place through said active and substantially inactive surface areas. 



 23. A cell as claimed in Claim 22 in which the anode structure is of tubular configuration and in which the hollow interior of the anode structure constitutes said path for coolant flow.
24. A cell as claimed in Claim 22 or 23 in which said chamber and said channel(s) extend lengthwise of the anode structure .
25. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 22 to 24, said first and/or said second boundary means being formed integrally with said supporting means.
26. A cell as claimed in any one of Claims 22 to 25 in which the cathode structure is constituted by a planar air cathode .
27. A cell as claimed in any one of the preceding claims containing an electrolyte suitable for the electrochemical generation of ozone.
28. An electrolytic cell for the production of ozone comprising at least one tubular electrode, the outer surface. of which functions as an anode, and at least one planar cathode structure.
29. A cell as claimed in Claim 28 when modified in accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 27.
30. An electrolytic cell comprising first and second electrode structures and at least one chamber for containing electrolyte within which electrolysis occurs and which further comprises at least one re-circulation channel in fluid communication with the electrolyte but within which electrolysis does not occur. 


 31. A cell as claimed in Claim 30 when modified in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 28.
32. A method of effecting electrolysis comprising: electrolysing a liquid by the application of a potential difference between first and second electrode structures: suppressing electrolytic interaction between said second structure and part of the surface area of the first electrode structure so that the current density at one of said structures is greater than that at the other structure; and collecting a product of electrolysis resulting from interaction between said second structure and the remaining surface area of said first electrode structure.
33. A method of effecting electrolysis comprising electrolysing a liquid by the application of a potential difference between first and second electrode structures which are contained in an electrolytic cell as defined in, any one of claims 1 to 31. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
