<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632301</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hydrogen-absorbing composition for optical fiber cables and optical fiber cables incorporating such compositions
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03C1300	C03C1304	G02B644	G02B644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03C	C03C	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03C13	C03C13	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydrogen-absorbing composition for optical fiber cables 
comprises a catalyst selected from the group including the transition 

metals, their salts and organic and inorganic complexes, and a 
hydrocarbon compound including at least 90% of a substantially 

homogeneous, silicon-free hydrocarbon not obtained by polymerization 
of monomers including conjugate dienes and having double bonds 

reactive to hydrogen at room temperature in a corresponding amount to 
a iodine number in the 70 to 1,000 mg/g range and, as such:

 
   a viscosity in the 500 to 70,000 cSt range at room temperature; 

and
 

   a viscosity at room temperature lower than 70,000 cSt after 
ageing by exposure to air, in thin layer, for at least 7 days at 

100°C. 
Fiber optics cables according to the invention comprise at least 
one optical fiber (3) rece
ived in a respective housing (2) and -- in 
at least an inside volume portion -- an effective amount of said 

hydrogen-absorbing composition. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention broadly relates to optical fiber cables 
incorporating a hydrogen-absorbing composition. The invention specifically concerns a hydrogen-absorbing 
composition preferably, though not exclusively, useful in optical 
fiber cables of the so-called waterproof type, such as submarine 
cables. As is known, a particular requisite with optical fiber cables is 
that the optical fibers should be protected as best as possible 
against attenuation of the signal transmitted therethrough. A well-recognized cause for attenuation of the signal propagated 
by means of optical fibers is the hydrogen diffusion into the fibers. Hydrogen diffusion into optical fibers is to be especially 
guarded against in the instance of waterproof cables for submarine 
applications, where hydrogen may be released over the years from the 
metal or plastics sheaths provided to protect the optical fibers, or 
from the cable metal armour. It is believed, in particular, that hydrogen may originate from 
degradation processes of the plastics material used for the sheaths 
and/or from corrosion of the metal parts induced by the condensates 
which may form at the operating temperatures of the cable. In order to control the optical signal attenuation induced by 
hydrogen diffusion, the related prior art has proposed several 
different approaches based on the use of materials which may bond the 
hydrogen before it may contact the optical fibers. Substances have been used for this purpose which can physically 
adsorb the hydrogen in a reversible manner, or absorb it chemically in 
an irreversible manner. As is known from e.g. patent application GB 2,144,559, the 
hydrogen is physically adsorbed using either a palladium wire provided 
in the optical fiber receiving tube(s), or a water-impermeable grease 
introduced in such tubes and mixed with a compound which can adsorb  
 
the hydrogen physically. Polybutenes, activated charcoal, palladium, saturated or 
unsaturated hydrocarbons incorporated into said grease have been 
proposed as alternative adsorbing compounds. However, physically adsorbent systems have proved hardly 
effective to block hydrogen diffusion through the optical fibers due 
to the reversible hydrogen-to-adsorbent bond and the low ability or 
substantial inability of the adsorbent to stably bond the hydrogen 
under the pressure and temperature conditions of the cables, 
especially submarine cables. As for the absorbing systems by chemical reaction. it is known 
from US Patents 4,688,889 and 4,741,592 to respectively use,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hydrogen-absorbing composition for optical fiber cables, 
comprising: 


a hydrocarbon compound comprising at least 90% by weight of a 
silicon-free non-aromatic unsaturated hydrocarbon; 
a catalyst selected from a group including the transition 

metals, salts and organic and inorganic complexes of the 
transition metals; 
 
characterized in that said silicon-free non-aromatic hydrocarbon 

compound comprises an unsaturated hydrocarbon which is not 
obtained by polymerization of monomers including conjugate 

dienes, said unsaturated hydrocarbon having: 

i) a molecular weight distribution about a mean value 
varying within a limited range such that it will show no 

significant phase separation phenomena by decantation or 
chromatography on a fibrous support; 
ii) a viscosity at room temperature in the range of from 500 
to 70,000 cSt, 
iii) a viscosity at room temperature below 70,000 cSt, after 
ageing by exposure to air in thin layer for at least 7 days 

at 100°C; 
 
said hydrocarbon compound having double bonds reactive to 

hydrogen at room temperature, in a corresponding amount to a 
iodine value in the 7 to 100 g/100g range. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that said hydrocarbon compound has a viscosity 

at room temperature higher than 1,000 cSt. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that said hydrocarbon compound is effective to 

chemically absorb at least 0.8 Nml/g of hydrogen at room 
temperature. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that said unsaturated hydrocarbon is selected 

from the group including: polybutene; propylene-ethylene, 
propylene-butene and propylene-hexene copolymers; propylene-butene-ethylene 

terpolymers; synthetic or naturally occurring 
(castor oil) glyceryl ricinoleate; and rosin oil.  

 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 4, 
characterized in that said unsaturated hydrocarbon is 

polybutene. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 5, 
characterized in that said polybutene has a numerical mean 

molecular weight of from 500 to 1,300. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 5, 
characterized in that said polybutene has a molecular weight 

distribution within a range of ±20% with respect to said 
numerical mean molecular weight. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that it comprises an amount not exceeding 5% by 

weight of a second, unsaturated hydrocarbon selected from a 
group including unsaturated polymers obtained by polymerization 

of at least one conjugate diene. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 8, 
characterized in that said second unsaturated hydrocarbon is 

selected from the group including polymers obtained by 
polymerization of butadiene, pentadiene, methyl-butadiene, and 

2-chlorobutadiene. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 9, 
characterized in that said second unsaturated hydrocarbon is 

polybutadiene having a numerical mean molecular weight of from 
1,500 to 2,000. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that said hydrogen-absorbing composition is 

thixotropic. 
A hydrogen-absorbing composition according to Claim 11, 
characterized in that said hydrogen-absorbing composition 

comprises from 1% to 20% by weight of silica. 
An optical fiber telecommunications cable comprising a core (1) provided with at 
least one optical fiber (3) received in a respective housing (2) 

of said core (1) characterized in that the cable 
comprises, in at least a portion (Z1, Z2) of its internal 

volume, a hydrogen-absorbing composition according to anyone of 
claims 1-12. 
An optical fiber cable according to Claim 13, characterized 
in that said housing (2) for said optical fiber (3) is 

surrounded by a sheath (6,9) comprising a fibrous support.  
 
An optical fiber cable according to Claim 13, characterized 
in that said housing (2) for said optical fiber (3) comprises a 

tubular element (4) containing said optical fiber. 
An optical fiber cable according to Claim 13, characterized 
in that said housing (2) for said optical fiber (3) is defined 

between a cylindrical core (7), provided with at least one 
groove (8), and at least one closing sheath (9). 
An optical fiber cable according to Claim 14, characterized 
in that said inside volume portion including said hydrogen-absorbing 

composition comprises said fibrous support. 
An optical fiber cable according to Claim 15, characterized 
in that said internal volume portion (Z1) including said 

hydrogen-absorbing composition extends between said tubular 
element (4) and said sheath (6). 
An optical fiber cable according to Claim 13, characterized 
in that it includes tension members (10; 13), at least an 

internal volume portion (Z2) including said hydrogen-absorbing 
composition being defined between said tension members (10; 13). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
