<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627151</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DYNAMIC CORRECTION OF MICROSCOPIC IMAGE SIGNALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N1401	H04N1401	H04N1407	H04N1407	H04N5243	H04N5243	H04N5335	H04N5335	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit for correcting an image signal received from a camera (102) which includes a plurality of charge coupled devices (102) each for providing a light (112) signal indicative of the intensity of light incident thereon; the plurality of light signals are indicative of an image received by the camera (102). A correction circuit (212) includes a gain memory (206) for storing a plurality of gain correction factors each associated with a respective charge coupled device, and an offset memory (214) for storing a plurality of offset correction factors each associated with a respective one of the plurality of charged coupled devices (102). The gain memory (206) is responsive to a control circuit (210) for multiplying (208) the plurality of electric signals by the appropriate gain correction factor. Similarly, the offset memory (214) is responsive to a control circuit (210) for adding (216) the appropriate one of the plurality of offset correction factors with the signal from its respective charge coupled device (102).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEOPATH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEOPATH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYENGA JON WALLACE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMIDT ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYENGA JON WALLACE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMIDT ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DYNAMIC CORRECTION OF MICROSCOPIC IMAGE SIGNALSTechnical FieldThe present invention is directed toward apparatus for providing signals representing an image of an object and, more particularly, toward method and apparatus for dynamically correcting image signals for variations in the illumination of the image or the detection of the image by the camera. Background of the InventionSystems for providing image signals typically include a camera positioned to be focused upon an object and constructed for providing image signals representing an image of the object. Typically, these systems include cameras having an array of discrete charge coupled devices ("CCDs") , referred to as pixels, for providing electrical signals wherein the magnitude of the electrical signal is indicative of the intensity of light incident upon each pixel. By properly timing the manner that the plurality of signals are obtained from the camera, the plurality of signals can be used to represent an image of an object upon which the camera is focused.However, several factors contribute to fixed pattern variations of the plurality of discrete pixel elements imaged by the camera. One factor, referred to herein as illumination variation, results from nonuniformity in illumination caused by optical element imperfections, dust collection, and positioning variations. Another factor, referred to herein as CCD variation, results from two types of imperfections in the performance of the CCDs. One performance imperfection results from size tolerance 

variations on the active area sensitive to light for each pixel. These size imperfections result in sensitivity variations between pixels on a given sensor that are mathematically equivalent to illumination variation. Illumination variation, whether caused by nonuniformity in illumination or by CCD size variations are corrected for using gain correction.Another factor that contributes to fixed pattern variations is also caused by CCD performance imperfections. This factor is referred to as offset variation and is caused by the dark current signal within the CCD, i.e., the current signal that is present at the CCD when no light is incident on the CCD. The offset variation is determined as the magnitude of the signal from a pixel when no light is incident upon the pixel. Illumination variation and offset variation present themselves as two types of errors in the resulting signal from each pixel. It is desirable, therefore, to provide method and apparatus for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims 1. Apparatus for correcting an image signal provided by a camera (102) wherein the image signal represents the measured transmissivity of an object, said apparatus comprising: light means (112) for providing light to illuminate the object and for providing a light signal indicative of the intensity of said light; and data processing means (108) responsive to said light signal for correcting said image signal so that said image signal is corrected for variations in the intensity of said light.
2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said data processing means 108 comprises an analog-to-digital converter (222) having an analog input for receiving the image signals and a reference input for receiving said light signal, said analog-to-digital converter (222) output providing the corrected image signals.
3. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the camera (102) includes a plurality of charge coupled devices for providing a respective plurality of pixel signals and wherein the plurality of pixel signals combine to provide the image signal, said data processing means (108) comprising: offset correction means (212) for storing a plurality of offset factors, each associated with a respective one of said plurality of charge coupled devices (102) , said offset correction means (212) being further constructed to combine said plurality of offset factors with the respective ones of the plurality of pixel signals to thereby correct the image signal for variation in offsets between the 


plurality of charge coupled devices (102) .
4. The apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein said offset correction means (212) further comprises means responsive to said light signal for varying the value of said plurality of offset correction factors.
5. The apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein said offset correction means (212) further comprises: memory means for storing said plurality of offset correction factors; and a digital-to-analog converter (222) having a digital input for receiving the plurality of offset correction factors and a reference input for receiving said light signal, said digital-to-analog converter (222) output providing the plurality of offset correction factors varied in response to the light signal.
6. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the camera (102) includes a plurality of charge coupled devices (102) for providing a respective plurality of pixel signals wherein the plurality of pixel signals combine to provide the image signal, said data processing means (108) comprises: gain correction means (204) for storing a plurality of gain factors, each associated with a respective one of said plurality of charge coupled devices (102), said gain correction means (204, 208) being further constructed to multiply (208) said plurality of gain factors by the respective ones of the plurality of pixel signals to thereby correct the image signal for variations in the sensitivity 


and incident illumination (112) of the plurality of charge coupled devices (102) .
7. The apparatus as recited in claim 6, further comprising: offset correction means (212) for storing 3 plurality of offset factors, each associated with a respective one of said plurality of charge coupled devices (102) , said offset correction means (212) being further constructed to add said plurality of offset factors to the respective ones of the plurality of pixel signals to thereby correct the image signal for variation in offsets between the plurality of charge coupled devices (102) .
8. The apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said offset correction means (212) further comprises means responsive to said light signal for varying the value of said plurality of offset correction factors.
9. The apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said offset correction means (212) further comprises: memory means (214) for storing said plurality of offset correction factors; and a digital-to-analog converter (222) having a digital input for receiving the plurality of offset correction factors and a reference input for receiving said light signal, said digital-to-analog converter (222) output providing the plurality of offset correction factors varied in response to the light signal.
10. A circuit for correcting an image signal provided by a camera (102) wherein the image signal 


represents the image of an object and wherein the camera (102) includes a plurality of charge coupled devices (102) for providing a respective plurality of pixel signals wherein the plurality of pixel signals combine to provide the image signal, said apparatus comprising: memory means (206) for storing a plurality of correction factors wherein each of said plurality of correction factors is associated with a respective one of the plurality charge coupled devices (102) ; and signal processing means (200) for combining each of said plurality of correction factors with the respective one of the plurality of pixel signals with which it is associated.
11. The circuit as recited in claim 10 wherein said signal processing means (200) further comprises means (216) for adding said plurality of correction factors to the plurality of pixel signals.
12. The circuit as recited in claim 10 wherein said signal processing means (200) further comprises means (208) for multiplying said plurality of correction factors by said plurality of pixel signals.
13. The circuit as recited in claim 10 wherein said memory means (206) comprises means for storing a plurality of gain correction factors each associated with a respective one of the plurality of charge coupled devices (102) and a plurality offset correction factors each associated with a respective one of the plurality of charge coupled devices (102) . 


 14. The circuit as recited in claim 13 wherein said signal processing means (200) comprises: an adder (216) for adding said plurality of 
"
 5 offset correction factors to the plurality of pixel signals; and a multiplier (208) for multiplying the plurality of gain correction factors by the plurality of pixel signals. 10
15. The circuit as recited in claim 10, further comprising: light means (112) for providing light to illuminate the object and for providing a light 15 signal indicative of the intensity of said light, said signal processing means (200) being responsive to said light signal for altering said plurality of correction factors. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
