<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640271</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD, APPARATUS AND PRODUCT FOR SURFACE MOUNT SOLDER JOINTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H05K334	H01L2160	B23K100	B23K100	H05K334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H05K	H01L	B23K	B23K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H05K3	H01L21	B23K1	B23K1	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for the forming of a solder deposit (2) on an SMD pad (4) on a printed circuit (3) or hybrid circuit board, the formed solder deposit (2) itself as well as a circuit board with the solder so formed thereon. This formed solder deposit (2) is in a defined three-dimensional well having the proper profile and a defined solder gap. By the placement of a mesh (14) on the surface of the circuit board with the solder in place on the pads, applying a slight positive pressure on a rigid or elastic surface (13) on the other side of the mesh, and subjecting this system to a temperature just low enough to reflow the solder by means of a heat transfer fluid, thereby the laminate structure of the board and the coating thereon remain substantially unaffected, then cooling the board to solidify the solder, a product results having the above properties.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASK TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASK TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZMANN DAMIAN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZMANN, DAMIAN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a printed circuit (PCB) or hybrid circuit board 
with a formed solder deposit on a surface mount device (SMD) pad thereof, to the 
formed solder deposit itself and to an apparatus and method for the manufacture of the 
solder deposit, and to a use of a process for forming solder 
deposits on a printed circuit board. Various methods are known for applying solder selectively to PCBs in such a 
way that following the assembly of the boards with SMD components, the boards can 
be electrically and mechanically connected to the components by reflow soldering. In particular, the prior art uses a method in which solder is deposited on 
selected regions of the PCB by screen printing or stencil printing with soldering 
pastes. These selected regions, the pads, have usually been hot air solder leveled 
leaving only a thin layer of solder with consequent growth of an intermetallic phase 
preventing wetting of the SMD solder pads during reflow or wave soldering 
inadequate to form a proper joint and resulting in low mechanical and thermal load 
capacity for the solder connections based thereon. Alternatively, the copper pads may have been treated with an anti-tarnish 
material which prevents oxidation of the copper promoting adhesion of solder thereto. 
Eventually, this anti-tamish material bums off during subsequent heating. This method is in common use today but there are many problems associated 
therewith. These problems are not only those associated with screen printing such as 
investment cost, wear, plugging, set-up times and adjustments; and those associated 
with the use of these expensive solder pastes such as change of thixotropic 
properties, optoelectronic positional recognition and resolution problems due to paste 
residues, bubble formation, oxidation of the paste, fine granulation and the like which 
extend reflow heating time; but, perhaps, more importantly, the solder forms "bumps", 
that is, the solder has a more or less convex cross-sectional shape making placement 
difficult and contributing to rework. See Fig.1 wherein (1) is a solder mask, (2) is 
solder, (3) laminate, and (4) a pad. Another conventional method is immersion application of solder wherein a 
prepared PCB, that is one having solder resist thereon, is dipped into and removed  
 
from a solder bath. After removal and cool down the metallized regions of the PCB 
are provided with solder deposits, which not only suffer from the formation of "bumps" 
but oftentimes solder deposits of variable height
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for forming solder (2) deposits on surface 
mount device pads (4) of a printed circuit (3) or 

hybrid circuit board, comprising the steps of: 

a) covering said board (3) with a mesh material (14) 
with the solder (2) in place on the pads (4); 
b) applying a pressure on the mesh material (14); 
c) subjecting the compressed board (3) to a temperature 
at least high enough to reflow the solder; 
d) cooling said compressed board (3) to solidify the 
solder (2) and removing the mesh material (14) 

from said board (3) 
The process of claim 1 wherein in step b) said board 
(3) with the mesh material (14) thereon is placed 

between surfaces (9) capable of uniform compression; 
in step c) said compressed circuit board (3) is placed 

at any orientation in a heat transfer fluid medium 
maintained at an elevated temperature and then removed 

from the medium; and in step d) said circuit board (3) 
is removed from between the compressive surfaces (9) 

and the mesh material (14). 
The process of claim 1 or 2 wherein steps c) and d) 
are further characterized in that the mesh material 

(14) ensures:  
 


a) containing the molten solder (2) within the approximate 
periphery of surface mount device pads 

(4); 
b) moving the molten solder (2) upwards and 
downwards within the mesh (14); and 
c) impressing the grid pattern of the mesh (14) on 
the uppermost portion of the formed solid solder 

(2) deposit. 
A printed circuit board (3) having solder (2) deposits 
formed on surface mount device pads (4) thereof, said 

solder deposits having their top surfaces impressed with a mesh configuration. 
Use of a process of one of the claims 1 to 3 for forming 
solder (2) deposits on the printed circuit board 

of claim 4. 
Use of claim 5 wherein one of the compression surfaces 

(9) is the mesh material (14) itself stretched on a 
weighted chase (16) constructed and arranged such that 

registration is maintained while forming the softened 
solder (2). 
Use of claim 5 or 6 wherein both compression surfaces 
are mesh (14). 
Use of a process for forming solder (2) deposits on 
the printed circuit board of claim 4, the process comprising 

the steps: covering the printed circuit board 
(19) with a mesh material (14) as a first compressive 

surface stretched on a weighted or hinged chase (16) 
the latter embodying a second compressive surface (9) 

to provide uniform compression, heating said compressed 
printed circuit board (19) uniformly at an elevated 

temperature sufficient to melt said solder (2) 
deposits, cooling and removing said cooled printed  

 
circuit board (19) from between the mesh material (14) 

and the second compressive surface (9). 
An apparatus for forming solder (2) deposits on surface 
mount device pads (4) of a printed circuit or 

hybrid circuit board, comprising: 

a) means (16, 17, 18, 9) for covering said board (19) 
with a mesh material (14) with the solder (2) in 

place on the pads (4) and for applying a pressure on 
the mesh material (14); 
b) heating means for subjecting the compressed board 
(19) to a temperature at least high enough to reflow 

the solder; and 
c) cooling means to solidify the solder (2). 
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the mesh material (14) 
is associated with a frame (16) hingedly (17) connected 

and in latching (18) engagement with planar means 
(9) whereon rests said board (19). 
The apparatus of claim 10 comprising: 

a) said printed circuit board (19) having 
solder (2) deposits which are to be shaped on the 

pads (4) thereof 
b) the mesh material (14) associated with said frame 
(16) in contact with said solder (2) deposits for shaping 

said solder (2) deposits; 
c) said planar means (9) cooperating with said frame 
(16) for receiving said printed circuit board 

(19) and pushing said board (19) against the mesh material 
(14); and 
d) said heating means cooperating with said board 
(19) for reflowing said solder (2) deposits. 
A solder (2) deposit on a surface mount device pad (4) 
of a printed circuit board (3) or a hybrid circuit  

 
board characterized by having the top surface thereof 

impressed with a mesh configuration. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
