<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631420</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Simultaneous analog and digital communication.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F1312	A63F1312	H04J700	H04J700	H04J1300	H04J1300	H04L2718	H04L2718	H04L2734	H04L2734	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04M1106	H04M1106	H04N708	H04N708	H04N724	H04N724	H04N752	H04N752	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F13	A63F13	H04J7	H04J7	H04J13	H04J13	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04M11	H04M11	H04M11	H04M11	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for concurrent communication of analog information 
and digital information. In general terms, when the communication channel is viewed 

as a multi-dimensional space, the digital information signal is divided into symbols, and 

the symbols are mapped onto the signal space with a preset distance between them. 
The analog signal, generally limited in magnitude to less than the distance separating 

the symbols, is converted to component signals and added (i.e., vector addition) to the 
symbols. The sum signal is then transmitted to the receiver where the symbols are 

detected and subtracted from the received signal to yield the analog signal components. 
The transmitted analog signal is recreated from those components. Both half-duplex 

and full-duplex operation is available in accordance with the disclosure. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREMER GORDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KO KENNETH DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITHWICK LUKE J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREMER, GORDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KO, KENNETH DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITHWICK, LUKE J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to simultaneous transmission of analog and digital signals 
and, more particularly, to simultaneous transmission of analog signals and digital 
signals in a non-multiplexed manner and in a generally co-extensive frequency band. In the prior art, when voice and data is transmitted simultaneously over a 
channel, it is typically either via frequency-division multiplexing or time-division 
multiplexing. In frequency-division multiplexing, the data channel and the 
voice channel are allocated different sub-bands of the channel's bandwidth. Examples 
of that are U.S. Patent No. 4,757,495, U.S. Patent 4,672,602, and U.S. Patent 
4,546,212. In time-division multiplexing arrangements, voice signals are sampled, 
digitized and interleaved with digital data to form a single information stream which is 
communicated over the available channel. Practically every digital carrier system (e.g. the T1 carrier system) is an example of that. U.S. Patent No. 4,512,013, issued April 16, 1985, presents an interesting 
approach that is close to a frequency division multiplexing arrangement for 
simultaneous voice and data. The arrangement filters the speech signal and adds 
thereto a modulated narrowband signal to form the transmitted signal. The 
narrowband modulated signal derives from a narrowband digital input signal that is 
modulated with a carrier, thereby shifting the narrow-band up in frequency to a 
position in the spectrum where there is little speech energy. At the receiver, in reliance 
of the fact that the speech power is low in the narrowband occupied by the modulated 
digital signal, the digital signal is recovered through appropriate demodulation. 
Thereafter, the recovered digital signal is remodulated to replicated the transmitter's 
operation, adaptively filtered to account for channel characteristics, and subtracted 
from the received signal. The result is the received speech. As indicated above, one 
salient characteristic of that arrangement, as stated in col. 2, lines 13-19, is that "...an 
entire analog speech signal and a modulated data signal are capable of being 
transmitted over a normal analog channel by the multiplexing of the data signal 
within 
the portion of the normal analog speech signal frequency band where the speech signal 
is present and the power density characteristic thereof is low". As an aside, the 
4,517,013 arrangement is half duplex.  In the modem art, digital information is communicated over a channel by 
converting the digital information to analog
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for communicating a digital signal together with a bandlimited 
analog signal, comprising the steps of: 

   mapping the digital signal into a sequence of symbols containing an N plurality 
of components, where N is an integer, forming thereby an N plurality of concurrent 

component sequences; 
   mapping the analog signal into an M plurality of component signals 

representing the analog signal, where M is an integer; and 
   combining the plurality of concurrent component sequences with the plurality 

of component signals representing the analog signal, to form thereby a plurality of 
source signals. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of modulating the source 
signals with orthogonal modulation signals. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising a step of measuring the signal 
power of the analog signal. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising a step pre-emphasizing the analog 
signal. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising a step modifying the frequency 
spectrum of the analog signal. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the analog signal comprises a plurality of 
constituent analog input signals and the step of mapping the analog signal comprises 

assigning different ones of the constituent analog input signals to different ones of the 
component signals representing the analog signal. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising a step of sampling an incoming 
analog signal to form the analog signal employed in the step of mapping the analog 

signal. 
The method of claim 7 wherein the step of mapping the analog signal maps 
the samples obtained from the step of sampling. 
The method of claim 7 wherein the step of mapping the analog signal maps 
the samples obtained from the step of sampling by scrambling their order. 
The method of claim 7 further comprising a step of quantizing the analog samples 
obtained from the step of sampling. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the steps of mapping the analog signal, 
mapping the digital signal, and combining are carried out digitally. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of mapping the analog signal 
comprises sampling the analog signal and assigning successive samples to different 

ones of the component signals representing the analog signal. 
A method for transmitting a digital data signal and a bandlimited analog 
signal, comprising the steps of: 

   creating a symbol representative of a number of bits of the digital data signal, 
   mapping said symbol into a first component signal and a second component 

signal, 
   obtaining a first sample and a second sample of the bandlimited analog signal, 

   adding the first sample to the first component signal to form a first added 
signal, 

   modulating the first added signal with a first carrier signal, 
   adding the second sample to the second component signal to form a second 

added signal, and 
   modulating the second added signal with a second carrier signals, which carrier 

signal is orthogonal to the first carrier signal. 
A method for receiving signal that concurrently contains both a digital 
signal and an analog signal, comprising the steps of: 

   demodulating a received signal to form a plurality of combined component 
signals, 

   detecting digital signal components contained within the combined component 
signals, 

   de-mapping at least some of the digital signal components to form a stream of 
digital signals, and

 
   subtracting at least some of the detected digital signal components from the 

combined component signals to develop component analog signals. 
The method of claim 14 further comprising a step of adaptive filtering of 
the signals developed by the step of demodulating. 
The method of claim 15 wherein said step of filtering is a function of filter 
coefficients that are modifiable under command of control signals. 
In a system including a signal space mapper followed by a modulator, 
where a digital input symbol applied to the mapper is assigned to a constellation point 

in N-dimension space, and where the modulator modulates the constellation point with 
N mutually orthogonal carrier signals, the improvement comprises: 

   an analog port included in the mapper, for accepting a group of N analog signal 

samples, and 
   said mapper including means for altering the constellation point assignment for 

the digital input sample in response to the group of N analog signal samples. 
The system of claim 17 further including a processor coupled to the analog 
port for receiving an analog signal and for developing said group of N analog signal 

samples. 
The system of claim 18 wherein said processor pre-emphasizes said analog 
signal. 
The system of claim 18 wherein said processor encodes the analog signal 
to develop an encoded signal having a dynamic range that is smaller than the dynamic 

range of the analog signal. 
The system of claim 18 wherein said processor performs automatic gain 
control on the analog signal. 
The system of claim 17 wherein the analog samples are pulse code 
modulated. 
A modem comprising:
 

   a signal mapper having digital signals applied to the mapper at a digital port 
and analog signals applied to the mapper at an analog port, 

   a modulator, responsive to the signal mapper, for developing a modulated 
output signal at an output port of the modulator representable by a N-dimensional 

signal space that is composed of a plurality of N-dimensional volumes, with a 
predetermined point in each of the volumes associated with a digital symbol applied to 

said mapper via the applied digital signal, and other points in each of the volumes 
associated with the analog signals applied to said signal mapper, and 

   means for coupling the output port of the modulator to an output port of the 
modem. 
The modem of claim 23 where the analog signal is a sampled analog signal. 
The modem of claim 24 wherein the sampled analog signal comprises 
amplitude-quantized samples. 
The modem of claim 25 wherein said mapper and said modulator are 
digital circuits. 
The modem of claim 25 wherein said mapper and said modulator are 
digital circuits operating under stored program control. 
The modem of claim 23 further comprising selection means having inputs 
A and B and outputs A and B, where output A is an analog output that is connected to 

the analog port and output B is a digital output that is connected to the digital port, 
responsive to an analog input signal at input A and a digital input signal at input B, for 

selectively applying the signals at input A and input B to the analog input port and the 
digital input port, to form an output signal at the output port of the modem which 

represents 
   the analog signal at input A and not the digital signal at input B, 

   the digital signal at input B and not the analog signal at input A, 
   the analog signal at input A as well as the digital signal at input B. 
A modem including a transmitter carrier frequency rotator, two Hilbert 
passband transmitter filters responsive to the transmitter carrier frequency rotator, 

having their outputs summed and applied to a hybrid circuit, an echo canceller 
responsive to the transmitter carrier frequency rotator and to an output of the hybrid 

 
circuit, for developing an echo-canceled received signal, two additional Hilbert 

passband receiver filters responsive to the echo-canceled received signal, a receiver 
carrier frequency rotator responsive to the two Hilbert passband receiver filters, an 

equalizer responsive to the receiver carrier frequency rotator, and a carrier phase 
corrector responsive to the equalizer, THE IMPROVEMENT COMPRISING: 

   an analog signal mapper responsive to applied analog signals for applying a first 
input signal to the transmitter carrier frequency rotator, 

   a digital signal mapper responsive to applied digital signals for applying a 
second input signal to the transmitter carrier frequency rotator, 

   a digital signal detector responsive to output signals of said carrier phase 
corrector for developing a digital output signal and subtraction signals, 

   means for combining the subtraction signals with the output signals of the 
carrier phase corrector, and 

   a de-mapper responsive to the means for combining, for developing analog 
output signals. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
