<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627290</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for making a graphic representation on objects made of a polyolefin polymer and polypropylene membrane for implementing said method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4514	G09F304	B29C4514	G09F304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	G09F	B29C	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C45	G09F3	B29C45	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The method for making a graphic representation on objects 
made of a polyolefin polymer, consists of printing a graphic 

representation on a face of a first film made of a stretched 
polyolefin polymer, associating the first film with a second 

film having a lower melting point than that of the first 
film, in order to obtain a membrane formed by the associated 

first and second films containing the graphic representation 
between them, transferring the membrane inside an injection 

mold and injecting a polyolefin polymer in the mold for 
forming the object, obtaining at least a partial melting of 

the second film so that the membrane forms one body with 
said object. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAZIOLA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAZIOLI S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAZIOLI VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAZIOLI,VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method 
for making a graphic representation on objects made of a 
polyolefin polymer and to the polypropylene membrane for 
implementing said method. As is known, currently, for reproducing a graphic 
representation on a plastic object, for example on an object 
made of a polyolefin polymer, such as polyethylene or 
polypropylene, a film is printed with a known printing 
system (rotogravure or flexographic printing), the film 
being of, for example, a polyolefin polymer which after the 
dinking operation is manually introduced into a mold. EP 0 387 883 discloses a method for inserting labels into a 
mold, particularly a mold for blow-molding. The label 
comprises an outer transparent non-oriented plastic layer, a 
printed layer, printed on the rear side of said outer layer, 
an adhesive layer and a bonding layer suitable to be welded 
by the heat of the article being molded in contact with the 
label. This document also shows the features of the preambles 
of claims 1, 13 and 15. Japanese application 256 111/1990 discloses the printing of 
a graphic representation on a base sheet, which is covered 
by an outer transparent sheet.  
 Subsequently, in a per se known manner, plastics is injected 
into the mold (polyethylene or polypropylene) for producing 
the desired object. Drawings, signs and similar, are currently printed by this 
method on small objects of common use. This method has a considerable disadvantage: the film 
perfectly integrates in the object on which it is applied 
only in the regions which are not printed, while on the 
printed film surface, the film only rests on the object 
surface because of the inks that constitute a "barrier" to 
the molecular penetration between the film and the material 
constituting the object.  
 The above is the direct consequence of the fact that both 
the polyethylene and the polypropylene, in order to be 
printed, require an adapted flame surface treatment or high 
frequency electric discharge (crown effect) surface 
treatment, before printing with ink. For improving the 
adhesion of the inks it is also possible to use a hot 
chemical etching with a highly oxidant solution, such as 
chromic acid, oleum, and chlorosulphonic acid. As said, the above creates a "barrier" so that the printed 
portion of both the polyethylene and the polypropylene 
adhere to the material on which the representation is 
printed. As readily understood, this inconvenience causes the graphic 
representation to detach especially when the printed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for making a graphic representation on objects 
made of a polyolefin polymer, which 

consists of: printing a graphic representation on a face of 
a first film made of a polyolefin polymer, 

associating said first film through an adhesive with a second film 
having a 

melting point lower than that of said first film, in order 
to obtain a membrane formed by said associated first and 

second films containing said graphic representation between 
them, transferring said membrane inside an injection mold 

and injecting a polyolefin polymer in said mold for forming 
said object, obtaining at least a partial melting of said 

second film in order that said membrane forms one body with 
said object, 

characterised in that 
the melting point of said second film is 

comprised between 120°C and 170°C and in that said first film 
is stretched. 
Method, according to claim 1, characterized in that said 
first film is bioriented polypropylene and that said second 

film is in substantially unstretched polypropylene. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that at least said first film is 

first stabilized with additives for improving its resistance 
to the atmospheric oxygen and to solar light. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said second film has a melting 

point substantially lower than the temperature of said 
polymer injected into said mold when said polymer makes 

contact with said second film. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding  
 

claims, characterized in that said adhesive is protected 
from the ultraviolet rays. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said membrane is 

electrostatically charged before being applied to said mold. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said second film is produced 

with an unstretched polyolefin polymer, or with a polyolefin 
polymer less stretched than said first film. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said first film and said 

second film are associated by an adhesive. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said adhesive has a 

polyurethane base preferably added with a a monomeric HALS 
mixture and more preferably added with a methyl-hindered 

monomeric HALS mixture. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the melting point of said 

first film is comprised between 120°C and 190°C, and 
preferably between 140°C and 175°C and more preferably 

between 160°C and 165°C. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the melting point of said 

second film is comprised between 
135°C and 170°C and preferably  

 
between 145°C and 150°C. 
Method, according to at least one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that, during the printing step of 

said graphic representation on said first film, the regions 
of said first film which are not affected by said graphic 

representation are covered by an ink having the same color 
of said object on which the membrane is applied. 
Polypropylene membrane for making a graphic 
representation on objects made of a polyolefin polymer, which 

comprises a first 
polypropylene film, said graphic representation 

being printed on one face of said first film, said first 
film being associated, through an adhesive, with a second 

unstretched polypropylene film, having a lower melting 
point than the melting point of said first film, at least 

said first film having adapted additives for improving its 
resistance to ultraviolet rays , characterized in that the melting 

point of said 
second film being comprised between 120°C and 170°C and in 

that said first film is stretched.  

 
Membrane, according to claim 13, characterized in that 
said second film has a melting point substantially lower 

than the temperature of said polyolefin polymer injected 
into a mold, when said polymer makes contact with said 

second film. 
Injection molded object comprising an external layer 
formed by a polyolefin film, a first lower layer formed by 

at least one ink adapted to define a graphic representation, 
a second lower layer forced by an adhesive polymer, a third 

lower layer formed by a polypropylene polymer having a lower 
melting point than that of said external layer, said third 

layer adhering by melting to the body of said printed 
object , 

characterised in that 
the melting point of said third layer being comprised 

between 120°C and 170°C and in that said external layer is stretched. 
Molded object, according to clam 15, wherein the melting 
point of said external layer is comprised between 120°C and 

190°C, and preferably between 140°C and 175°C and more 
preferably between 160°C and 165°C. 
Molded object, according to clam 15, wherein the melting 
point of said third layer is comprised 

between 135°C and 170°C and 
preferably between 145°C and 150°C. 
Molded object, according to clam 15, wherein the melting 
point of the body of said molded object is lower than the 

melting point of said third layer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
