<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624190</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF FREEZING CELLS AND CELL-LIKE MATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N102	A01N102	C12N506	C12N506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A01N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N1	A01N1	C12N5	C12N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process is provided for freezing, including freeze-drying of cells, cell-membranes or cell-like materials using a cryoprotectant medium which stabilizes the cells or membranes for freezing or freeze-drying and allows for freezing or freeze-drying to be performed at -60  DEG C or higher.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRYOPHARM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRYOPHARM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNAUD FRANCIOSE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COKER SAMUEL O S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODRICH RAYMOND P JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HACKETT ROGER W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNAUD FRANCIOSE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COKER SAMUEL O S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODRICH RAYMOND P JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HACKETT ROGER W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OF FREEZING CELLS AND CELL-LIKE MATERIALSFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is directed to a method for freezing, including freeze-drying, cells or cell-like materials. In particular, the invention is directed to a method for freezing platelets for storage.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONCurrent storage of fresh human platelets in liquid form (i.e., as platelet-rich concentrate in residual plasma) is limited in the following ways:1) Platelets in liquid suspension (platelet concentrate) are generally not stored refrigerated as they suffer from a well-documented "storage lesion" involving loss of clotting function and in vivo viability (refer to AABB Technical Manual, 10th edition, 1990, pp.51-52). Platelet concentrates stored refrigerated are limited to a 72 hour shelf life due to the rapidity of the storage decay. The method used by most blood banks is to store platelet concentrate at room temperature (20-24 deg. C) with continuous agitation by mechanical rocking. Agitation is essential at these temperatures to prevent cell aggregate formation. CurrentlySUBSTITUTE SBET 

 regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) limit room temperature storage to 5 days.2) The quality of room temperature stored platelet concentrates, as .measured by aggregometry and other i vitro measures, decays after the first 24 hours of storage to some 75-85% of fresh values. Further deterioration occurs by five days of storage, such that the therapeutic value is only about 30% of fresh cells (i.e., the clotting efficacy of infused 5 day-old concentrate in patients, as measured by their bleeding time reduction, is only some 30% of a comparable dose of fresh platelets) .3) FDA limits room temperature storage of platelet concentrates to five days due to the threat of bacterial girowth in the nutrient rich plasma concentrate. Contamination of platelet concentrates by Yersinia bacteria has been associated with deaths due to platelet transfusion.4) The short shelf life means that some 25% of platelet concentrates collected by U.S. blood banks become unusable by outdating. This is a loss of a valuable voluntary resource.The current useful method of storage of platelet concentrates in frozen, form uses a 5% DMSO storage method developed by Schiffer et al (1983) Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 411, 161-169. This requires that the cells be stored at - 120 deg. C in the vapor phase of liquid nitrogen. Most blood banks do not use this method due to the expense of liquid nitrogen storage, plus the impracticality of shipping
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 HAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A process for freezing cells, cell membranes or cell-like materials comprising the steps of: freezing an aqueous mixture comprising a plurality of cells, cell membranes or cell-like materials with a cryoprotective component; wherein said aqueous mixture is characterized by a glass transition temperature of above about -60°C; said cryoprotective component comprising a first compound capable of permeating said cells, membranes, or cell-like materials and stabilizing said cells, membranes or cell-like materials for freezing; and a second water-soluble compound impermeable to said cells, membranes or cell-like materials; the amount of said second compound in said mixture being in a weight fraction sufficient to overcome the predicted depression in the glass transition temperature of said mixture due to said first compound; wherein said freezing is performed by lowering temperature of said mixture to, or less than said glass transition temperature of said mixture, to form a frozen mixture.
2. A process according to Claim 1 further comprising the step of drying said frozen mixture by sublimation or evaporation.
3. A process according to Claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. maintaining said frozen mixture at frozen storage temperatures at or below said glass transition temperature of said mixture; b. thawing said frozen mixture; c. optionally, reconstituting and/or washing said cells, cell membranes, or cell-like materials.
TITUTE SHEET 


 4. A process according to Claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a. drying said frozen mixture by either freeze- drying sublimation or evaporative drying to a dried, solid mixture; b. reconstituting and/or washing said dried solid mixture to recover rehydrated cells, cell membranes, or cell-like materials.
5. A process according to Claims 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein said cryoprotective component comprises amorphous and/or partially crystalline polymers, or mixtures of different polymers.
6. A process according to Claim 5 wherein said polymers comprise natural and/or synthetic polymers.
7. A process according to Claim 6 wherein said natural and/or synthetic polymers comprise polymers having average molecular weights greater than 300.
8. A process according to Claim 7 wherein said polymer average molecular weights are between 10,000 and 500,000.
9. A process according to Claim 8 wherein said polymers are present in said solution in weight fraction percentages ranging from 1% up to the limit of solubility of said polymer in aqueous solution.
10. A process according to Claim 9 wherein said polymer weight fraction percents are in the range of 5%- 25%.
11. A process according to Claim 6 wherein said natural polymers comprise starch and/or starch hydrolysis products.
ET 


 12. A process according to Claim 11 wherein said starch comprises hydroxyethyl starch.
13. A process according to Claim 6 wherein said natural polymers comprise .proteins, gelatin, dextran, or other polymers derived from plant, animal, or microbial sources.
14. A process according to Claim 6 wherein said synthetic polymers comprise polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyethylene glycol, or other polymers derived from organic synthesis.
15. A process according to Claims 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein said component comprises carbohydrates or mixtures of different carbohydrates.
16. A process according to Claim 15 wherein said carbohydrates or carbohydrate mixtures comprise monosaccharides and disaccharides.
17. A process according to Claim 16 wherein said monosaccharides and/or disaccharides are each present in a weight fraction percent between 0.01% up to its solubility limit in aqueous solution.
18. A process according to Claim 17 wherein said weight fraction percent is between 0.5% and 20%.
19. A process according to Claim 16 wherein said monosaccharides are selected from the group comprising 6 carbon hexose sugars.
20. A process according to Claim 17 wherein said hexose sugars comprise glucose, fructose, galactose, and mannose.
EET 


 21. A process according to Claim 16 wherein said monosaccharides are selected from the group comprising 5 carbon pentose sugars.
22. A process according to Claim 19 wherein said pentose sugars comprise ribose, xylose, arabinose, and ribulose.
23. A process according to Claim 16 wherein said disaccharides comprise maltose, lactose, sucrose, and trehalose.
24. A process according to Claims 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein said component comprises polyalcohols.
25. A process according to Claim 24 wherein said polyalcohols comprise glycerol and 1,3- propanediol.
26. A process according to Claim 24 wherein said polyalcohols are present in concentrations between
0.1% and 40% by volume.
27. A process according to Claim 26 wherein said polyalcohols are present in the range of 5%-25% by volume.
28. A process according to Claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said component comprises aqueous mixtures of carbohydrates and/or polyalcohols and polymers.
29. A process according to Claim 28 wherein said mixture of carbohydrates and/or polyalcohols and polymers comprise membrane permeable and membrane impermeable components. 


 30. A process according to Claim 28 wherein said aqueous mixtures of carbohydrates and/or polyalcohols and polymers further comprise basic salts.
31. A process according to Claim 30 wherein said basic salts comprise electrolytes, cofactors, metal cations, metabolites, buffer salts, vitamins, and protein or steroid hormones and growth factors.
32. A process according to Claim 30 wherein said aqueous mixtures of carbohydrates and polymers and basic salts are characterized by a glass transition temperature of -60°C or higher.
33. A process according to Claim 32 wherein said glass transition temperature occurs between -45°C and
+45°C.
34. A process according to Claim 33 wherein said glass transition temperature is determined by thermal analysis.
35. A process according to Claim 34 wherein said thermal analysis measurements comprises differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) .
36. A process according to Claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said mixture of cells, cell membranes, or cell-like materials and cryoprotective component is characterized by a glass transition temperature of -60°C or higher.
37. A process according to Claim 36 wherein said mixture has a glass transition temperature between - ._. 45°C and +45°C.
SHEET 


 38. A process according to Claim 37 wherein said glass transition temperature is measured by differential scanning calorimetry.
39. A process according to Claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said cells comprise mammalian cells.
40. A process according to Claim 39 wherein said mammalian cells comprise human cells.
41. A process according to Claim 40 wherein said human cells comprise solid tissues.
42. A process according to Claim 40 wherein said, human cells comprise peripheral blood cells.
43. A process according to Claim 42 wherein said peripheral blood cells comprise red blood cells, platelets, stem cells, and leukocytes.
44. A process according to Claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said cell membranes comprise mammalian cell membranes.
45. A process according to Claim 44 wherein said mammalian cell membranes comprise human cell membranes.
46. A process according to Claim 45 wherein said human cell membranes comprise membranes of peripheral blood cells, including red blood cells, platelets, stem cells, and leukocytes.
47. A process according to Claims 1, 2 , 3 or 4 wherein said cell-like materials comprise synthetic phospholipid membranes or vesicles. 


48. A process according to Claim 47 wherein said vesicles comprise liposomes and liposome encapsulated hemoglobin.
49. A cryoprotectant medium for freezing or freeze- drying cells, cell membranes or cell-like materials comprising a first compound capable of permeating and stabilizing said cells, membranes or cell-like materials for freezing or freeze-drying, and a second water-soluble compound impermeable to said cells, membranes or cell-like materials, wherein the amount of said second compound in said medium is in a weight fraction sufficient to overcome the predicted depression in the. glass transition temperature of said medium due to said first compound; said medium having a glass transition temperature of -60°C or higher.
50. A frozen-thawed composition prepared according to any of Claims 3 or 4.
51. A frozen composition prepared according to the process of Claim 1.
52. A freeze-dried composition prepared according to the process of Claim 2.
53. A composition according to Claim 52 wherein said step of drying is by sublimation.
54. A composition according to Claim 52 wherein said step of drying is by evaporative drying.
55. A medium according to Claim 49 wherein said first compound contains polyhydroxy groups.
SHEET 


 56. A medium according to Claim 55 wherein said first compound comprises polyalcohols, monosaccharides, or mixtures thereof.
57. A medium according to -Claim 49 wherein said second compound contains polyhydroxy groups.
58. A medium according to Claim 58 wherein said second compound comprises disaccharides, polymers, or mixtures thereof.
59. A medium according to Claim 58 wherein said polymers comprise natural starches, starch hydrolysis products, hydroxyethylstarch, or mixtures thereof.
60. A medium according to Claim 49 wherein said second compound comprises synthetic polymers.
61. A medium according to Claim 60 wherein said synthetic polymers comprise polyvinylpyrrolidone.
62. A frozen-thawed composition according to Claim 50 comprising human cells and/or tissues.
63. A composition according to Claim 62 comprising human red blood cells.
64. A composition according to Claim 63 wherein said human red blood cells are characterized by normal red cell indices (MCV, MCH, MCHC) , and/or osmotic stability in physiological saline of at least 70%, and/or an ektacytometric DI
maχ
 value of at least 0.500.
65. A composition according to Claim 62 comprising human platelets. 


 66. A composition according to Claim 65 wherein said human platelets are characterized by a measureable aggrego etry response to platelet agonists.
67. A composition according to Claim 66 wherein said agonists comprise collagen, ristocetin, and/or adenosine diphosphate and calcium.
68. A composition according to Claim 51 having a glass transition temperature of above about -60°C.
69. A composition according to Claim comprising human cells and/or tissues.
70. A composition according to Claim 52 found by freeze-drying said composition in a frozen state in .a temperature range of between about -45°C and 45°C.
71. A composition according to Claim 52 characterized by a residual moisture content of 50% or less.
72. A composition according to Claim 52 characterized by a residual moisture content in the range of 1% to 30%.
73. A composition according to Claim 52 characterized by a glass transition temperature that is above the glass transition temperature of said aqueous mixture.
74. A composition according to Claim 73 having said glass transition temperature of above about -40°C.
75. A frozen composition of human red blood cells or platelets comprising an aqueous mixture of polyalcohols and/or carbohydrates and polymers, having a glass transition temperature above about -60°C. 


76. A freeze-dried composition of human red blood cells or platelets comprising an aqueous mixture of polyalcohols and/or carbohydrates and polymers having a glass transition temperature of above about -60°C.
77. A freeze-dried composition according to Claim 76 having a glass transition temperature of above about
-40°C. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
