<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE AXIS ROTARY COMPRESSOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04B2708	F04B2708	F04B3900	F04B3900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04B27	F04B27	F04B39	F04B39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A new oiless air compressor and vacuum pump design features at least two synchronously rotating disks (301, 302, 500) whose rotations are at intersecting angles. As each disk rotates, it carries at least one piston (303, 304, 305, 306) or cylinder (310, 311, 312, 313) alternatively to and from its mate. Therefore, a moving piston in a cylinder is used to compress the air. The resultant compressor ideally configured has two pairs of six each centrally mounted opposing pistons (303, 304, 305, 306). It can output 120 p.s.i.g. for 50,000 hours.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVMED COMPRESSOR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVMED COMPRESSOR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHILLING THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHILLING THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONTitleMultiple Axis Rotary CompressorTechnical FieldThe present invention relates to an air compressor having synchronously rotating disks (also called rotating planes) at different axes, each disk having a piston or a cylinder.Background ArtTwo basic oil-less types of air compressors are known. They are the rotary vane and the wobl. Below follows a summary of modern versions of these compressor types and their drawbacks.U.S. Pat. No. 4,859,162 (1989) to Cox discloses an improved rotary vane compressor. Materials engineering improvements include a cast iron rotor housing and rotor, and a plastic liner in the housing. However, high heat in the resultant compressed air is still a basic design flaw to this type of compressor. Additional disadvantages include a maximum running life of approximately 8,000 hours, heavy weight, dust in the output air, noise, high power consumption, and low 15 p.s.i. output.U.S. Pat. No. 3,961,868 (1976) to Droege, Sr. et al. discloses a wobl type compressor having a traditional flexible piston head. The improvement comprises a Teflon disk, an aluminum cylinder wall having an anodized coating, and an absence of lubrication. However, traditional drawbacks of a basic wobl design include shaking, noise, heavy weight, heat, large size, 7-9000 hours useful life and low 15 p.s.i. output.U.S. Pat. No. 3,961,869 (1976) to Droege, Sr. et al. improves upon the above noted-patent with a cylinder head and O-ring. The present invention provides vastly improved operating characteristics for a compressor. The useful life exceeds 50,000 hours for a 1-50 Standard Cubic Feet per Minute volumetric output in the 10 p.s.i. to 120 p.s.i. gauge pressure output range.To envision the invention take two quarters (circular disks) and tilt them against one another. As you rotate them simultaneously and at different planes of rotation, you will notice that any two adjacent points move in an oscillatory motion toward and away from one another. Therefore, if one quarter holds a piston and the other quarter holds a cylinder, then you have an oscillating piston in a cylinder. Add valves and you have a 

compressor. Further efficiencies are gained when a third synchronously rotating disk is added at the same off axis angle as the first two disks. The central disk holds opposing pistons, thereby counter balancing vibration forces from each piston. The outer disks consist of cylinder housings. A maximum weight and size efficiency is achieved with a pair of six cylinder outer housings and a central disk
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. An axial piston gas compressor comprising: a stationary spindle assembly; said stationary spindle assembly further comprising an axial piston spindle having a central axis and a cylinder spindle having a central axis; said cylinder spindle central axis obliquely disposed to said axial piston central axis; a rotating piston disk rotatably mounted on said axial piston spindle; a rotating cylinder housing rotatably mounted on said cylinder spindle; said rotating cylinder housing having an axial limit disposed entirely above the central axis of the axial piston spindle; means for synchronously rotating said rotating piston disk and said rotating cylinder housing; said rotating piston disk having a connection means to a piston; said rotating cylinder housing further comprising a cylinder slidingly engaged with said piston; means for input of the gas into said cylinder; and means for output of the gas from said cylinder. 2. The compressor of claim 1 wherein said means for synchronously rotating said rotating piston disk and said rotating cylinder housing further comprises torque means peripheral to said rotating piston disk and linkage means from said rotating piston disk to said rotating cylinder housing.
3. The compressor of claim 2 wherein said torque means further comprises a motor and a means for transmission driving said rotating piston disk, and said linkage means further comprises peripheral gear teeth on said rotating piston disk engaged in peripheral gear teeth on said rotating cylinder housing.
4. The compressor of claim 3 wherein said means for transmission further comprises a drive shaft and a driving gear. 5. The compressor of claim 1 wherein said connection means further comprises a swivel joint and a connecting rod.
6. The compressor of claim 1 wherein said stationary spindle assembly further comprises a steel construction.
7. The compressor of claim 1 wherein said means for input of the gas into said cylinder further comprises: a stationary manifold having a stationary valve inlet port and a stationary valve exhaust port; 


 a stationary control valve disk having a sliding engagement with said rotating cylinder housing; and said stationary control valve disk further comprising a gas inlet slot.
8. The compressor of claim 7 wherein said means for output of the gas from the cylinder further comprises the stationary control valve disk further comprising a gas output slot.
9. The compressor of claim 1 wherein said stationary spindle further comprises: an opposing cylinder spindle having a central axis disposed in the opposite direction in the same housing and at the same angle to the axial piston spindle as the cylinder spindle.
10. The compressor of claim 9 further comprising: a second rotating cylinder housing rotatably mounted on the opposing cylinder spindle; said second rotating cylinder housing having an axial limit disposed entirely above the central axis of the axial piston spindle; means for synchronously rotating said second rotating cylinder housing with said rotating piston disk and said rotating cylinder housing; said rotating piston disk having a connection to a second piston; said second rotating cylinder housing further comprising a second cylinder slidingly engaged with said second piston; means for input of the gas into said second cylinder; and means for output of the gas from said second cylinder.
11. The compressor of claim 10 wherein said means for synchronously rotating said second rotating cylinder housing further comprises linkage means from said rotating piston disk to said second rotating cylinder housing.
12. The compressor of claim 10 wherein said means for input of the gas into said second cylinder further comprises: a second stationary manifold having a stationary valve inlet port and a stationary valve exhaust port; a second stationary control valve disk having a sliding engagement with said second rotating cylinder housing; and said second stationary control valve disk further comprising a gas inlet slot.
13. The compressor of claim 12 wherein said means for output of the gas from said second cylinder further comprises the second stationary control valve disk further comprising a gas output slot.
14. An axial piston gas compressor comprising: a stationary spindle assembly; 


 said stationary spindle assembly further comprising an axial piston spindle having a central axis and a first and second cylinder spindle each having a central axis obliquely opposed at equal angles from said axial piston spindle and co-planar with the axial piston spindle; a rotating piston disk rotatably mounted on said axial piston spindle; said rotating piston disk having connection means to a plurality of opposing pistons disposed distally therefrom; a pair of rotating cylinder housings rotatably mounted on said first and second cylinder spindles; said pair of rotating cylinder housings each further comprising a plurality of cylinders slidingly engaged with said plurality of opposing pistons; said pair of rotating cylinder housings each having an axial limit disposed entirely above the central axis of the axial piston spindle; means for synchronously rotating said rotating piston disk and said pair of rotating cylinder housings ; means for input of the gas into said cylinders; and means for output of the gas from said cylinders.
15. The compressor of claim 14 wherein said means for synchronously rotating said rotating piston disk and said pair of rotating cylinder housings further comprises torque means peripheral to said rotating piston disk and linkage means from said rotating piston disk to said pair of rotating cylinder housings.
16. The compressor of claim 14 wherein said means for synchronously rotating said rotating piston disk and said pair of rotating cylinder housings further comprises a drive shaft coincident with the central axis of the first member of the pair of rotating cylinder housings and linkage means for synchronously driving the rotating piston disk and the second member of the pair of rotating cylinder housings.
17. The compressor of claim 16 wherein said linkage means further comprises a universal joint communicating between said rotating piston disk and said pair of rotating cylinder housings. 18. The compressor of claim 16 wherein said linkage means further comprises interdigitating tines communicating between said rotating piston disk and said pair of rotating cylinder housings.
19. The compressor of claim 14 wherein said equal angles are each approximately 25 degrees. 20. The compressor of claim 14 wherein said means for input of the gas into said cylinders further comprises: a pair of stationary manifolds each having a stationary valve inlet port and a stationary valve exhaust port; 


 a pair of stationary control valve disks each having a sliding engagement with said rotating cylinder housings; said pair of stationary control valve disks each further comprising a gas inlet slot. 21. The compressor of claim 20 wherein said means for output of the gas from the cylinders further comprises the pair of stationary control valve disks each further comprising a gas output slot.
22. The compressor of claim 14 wherein said means for synchronously rotating said rotating piston disk and said rotating cylinder housings further comprises torque means peripheral to said rotating piston disk and linkage means from said rotating piston disk to said rotating cylinder housings.
23. The compressor of claim 22 wherein said torque means further comprises a motor and a means for transmission driving said rotating piston disk, and said linkage means further comprises peripheral gear teeth on said rotating piston disk engaged in peripheral gear teeth on said rotating cylinder housings.
24. The compressor of claim 23 wherein said means for transmission further comprises a drive shaft and driving gear.
25. The compressor of claim 1 wherein said connection means further comprises a swivel joint and a connecting rod. 26. An axial piston gas compressor comprising: a stationary mounting assembly; a rotating piston disk rotatably mounted on said stationary mounting assembly; said rotating piston disk having connection means to a plurality of opposing pistons disposed distally therefrom; a pair of rotating cylinder housings rotatably mounted on said stationary mounting assembly; said pair of rotating cylinder housings each further comprising a plurality of cylinders slidingly engaged with said plurality of opposing pistons; means for synchronously rotating said rotating piston disk and said pair of rotating cylinder housings; means for input of the gas into said cylinders; and means for output of the gas from said cylinders. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
