<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sintered electrode on a substrate
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N1362	A61N105	A61N1362	A61N105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A substrate (23) for use in a pacing lead having 
a sintered porous platinized steroid eluting electrode 

(22). The substrate has at least one raised surface 
(24) which provides an advantageous mounting portion 

for the sintered electrode. In the preferred 
embodiment the mounting portion is nailhead-shaped. 

The present invention provides an electrode produced 
with increased dimensional consistency, mechanical 

strength and impedance as compared to electrodes 
having a straight wire substrate. Also disclosed is a 

method of manufacturing such an electrode. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GATES JAMES T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GATES, JAMES T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to chronically
implanted medical leads and, in particular, to a
substrate which provides increased dimensional
consistency and impedance as well as simplifying
manufacture of e.g. a sintered porous platinized
steroid eluting electrode used in a pacing cardiac
lead.The safety, efficacy and longevity of an
implanted pacemaker system depends, in part, on the
performance of the pacing leads, the electronic
circuits and the integrity of the pulse generator, and
the capacity and reliability of the pulse generator
power source. These inter-related components of the
implanted pacemaker system optimally are matched in a
fashion that accommodates ever increasing demands on
the modes of operation and function of the system in
conjunction with an overall reduction in system size,
an increase in system longevity and an increased
expectation in system reliability. During the past
thirty years, the technology of cardiac pacing has
significantly advanced. Implantable pacing systems
offer ever increasing variety of pacing modalities,
thereby substantially broadening the indications for
pacemaker use. In conjunction with this advancement,
there has been extensive research and development
expended to optimize the performance of pacing leads
and their reliability while concurrently simplifying
their manufacture.In the past ten years, substantial improvements
in reliable stable chronic pacemaker sensing and
stimulation thresholds have been achieved which in
turn have allowed the development of smaller and
longer-lived pacemakers that can be used with leads
having excellent safety margins and reliability. As 
new circuits are developed with lower "overhead"
current drains, however, and as the circuits increase
in complexity to allow for ever increasing pacemaker
capabilities in their programmable functions, modes
and memory, pacemaker longevity depends increasingly
more on the characteristics of the lead. In addition,
many doctors who implant pacemakers prefer that pacing
lead bodies be made ever thinner, to occupy less space
in the venous system, without diminishing or
detracting from the mechanical strength and integrity
of the lead body.In the early days of cardiac pacing, pacing
leads having relatively very high geometric surface
area electrodes were employed with relatively bulky
and short-lived pulse generators. Early
investigators, including Dr. Victor Parsonnet,
advanced designs of pacing lead electrodes for
achievement of low polarization and low thresholds
while presenting a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A porous sintered drug eluting pacing and sensing
electrode comprising:


a conductive substrate (23) having a proximal end
and a distal end (50);
at least one raised surface (24) extending from
said conductive substrate (23) at said distal end (50);

and
a sintered porous conductive material (22) with a
high microscopic surface area in proportion to a

macroscopic area over at least a portion of said
macroscopic surface area enveloping said raised surface

(24) so that said porous conductive material (22) has a
non-uniform thickness about said distal end (50) of said

substrate (23), wherein said substrate
(23) has a first diameter, said raised surface (24) has

a second diameter greater than said first diameter, and
said porous conductive material (22) has a third

diameter greater than said second diameter, and wherein
said raised surface (24) comprises a nailhead-shaped

configuration, not being hemispherical in shape; and

   wherein the surface of said electrode exposed at
the distal end is generally hemispherical in shape.
The electrode according to claim 1 wherein said
electrode has a macroscopic surface area of less than

4.0 mm
2
 to said body.
The electrode according to claim 2 wherein said
macroscopic surface area of said electrode is in the

range of between 0.10 and 4.0 mm
2
.
The electrode according to any preceding claim
wherein said electrode is formed of porous metallic or

other conductive materials from the class of materials
consisting essentially of platinum, palladium, titanium,

tantalum, rhodium, iridium, carbon, vitreous carbon and 
alloys, oxides and nitrides of such metals or other

conductive materials.
A body stimulation and sensing lead comprising:

an electrode as claimed in any preceding claim;
an electrical conductor having a first end and a
second end, said first end being coupled to the proximal

end of said substrate for conducting electrical energy
to and from a body;
an insulating sleeve covering said electrical
conductor between said first end and said second end;

and
a drug dispenser coupled to said substrate to
dispense a drug in the vicinity of said body.
The lead according to claim 5 wherein said
electrical conductor comprises at least one coil of

multifilar wire.
The lead according to claim 5 or 6 wherein said
drug is an anti-inflammatory agent.
The lead according to claim 7 wherein said drug is
the sodium salt of dexamethasone phosphate.
The lead according to claim 5, 6, 7 or 8 wherein
said drug dispenser comprises a water permeable polymer

body located within said insulating sleeve and adjacent
said electrode containing a water soluble form of said

drug.
A method of manufacturing an electrode according to claim 1 for a lead
used to stimulate and sense a body, comprising the steps

of:

forming a raised surface on a distal end of a
conductive stem; the stem (23) having a first diameter,

and the raised surface having a second diameter greater 
than the first, said raised surface (24) comprising a

nailhead which is not hemispherical in shape;
preparing a slurry mixture containing at least one
conductive material;
introducing at least a portion of said raised
surface of said c
onductive stem into said slurry
mixture;
withdrawing said portion of said raised surface of
said conductive stem from said slurry mixture such that

a portion of said slurry mixture envelopes said raised
portion and covers said distal end of said stem in a

generally hemispherical shape;
and
sintering said portion of said slurry mixture
enveloping said raised surface.
The method of claim 10 wherein said forming said
raised surface on a distal end of a conductive stem

comprises deforming with heat said distal end of said
conductive stem.
The method of claim 11 wherein said deforming with
heat comprises melting said distal end of said

conductive stem.
The method of claim 10, 11 or 12 wherein said
forming said raised surface on said distal end of said

conductive stem comprises mechanically deforming said
distal end of said conductive stem.
The method of any of claims 10 to 13 wherein said
mixture comprises a slurry containing at least one

binder.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
