<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623540</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for gluing the tail edge of logs of sheet material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H1922	B65H1929	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H19	B65H19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for gluing the tail edge of sticks or logs (10) of sheet material, such as paper or 
the like, comprising a positioning assembly (2) and a gluing assembly (3). The positioning 

assembly (2) comprises two rollers (4, 5) with a fixed centre distance, that can be operated 
in synchronism to position the log (10) correctly before its transfer to the gluing assembly 

(3), also comprising a pair of rollers (11, 12) with a fixed centre distance that can be rotated 
in synchronism. The roller (11) is a suction roller, which holds the edge (29) of the log, 

while the roller (12) can be moved vertically to tip the log (10) onto a glue distributing 
nozzle (19), which applies a layer of adhesive to the log itself, before it is discharged by 

rolling between a plane (20) and a belt (22) opposite, which presses on the log (10) causing 
the tail edge (29) to adhere to the glue-coated section of the log. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a device for gluing the tail edge of sticks or logs of sheet 
material, particularly paper. Industries manufacturing toilet paper, kitchen paper and the like, make use of so-called 
rewinding 
machines which, starting from large-sized rolls, produce sticks or logs that are 
subsequently cut transversely to the required length. As the log leaves the re-winding machine, the end of the paper must be glued down. This is 
achieved with special gluing devices (see e.g. US-A-3 393 105). The gluing devices known to the art are excessively complicated and costly, and do not 
always ensure perfect positioning of the log during application of the glue, thus affecting 
the quality of the result of the gluing operation. The aim of the invention is to provide a gluing device that guarantees perfect application of 
the glue and hence optimal gluing quality. Another aim of the invention is to provide a gluing device that can work at high speeds, 
and is thus capable of gluing logs that are delivered in rapid succession. Yet another aim of the invention is to provide a gluing device that is of simple construction 
and is therefore economical. These aims are achieved by the device for gluing the end of sticks of sheet material or logs, 
as described in the attached claims.  
 Further characteristics of the invention will be made clearer by the detailed description that 
follows, which refers to a purely exemplary, and therefore non-restrictive, 
embodiment 
illustrated in the appended drawings, in which: 
Figure 1 is a schematic side view of the gluing device according to the invention; Figures 2, 3 and 4 are similar views to that in Figure 1, illustrating successive stages of the 
log-gluing operation; Figures 5 and 6 are schematic partial views with respect to those of the preceding figures, 
illustrating other two successive steps in the gluing operation. With reference to these figures, 1 indicates, as a whole, the device for gluing the tail edge 
of sticks or logs of sheet material, particularly paper. This gluing device can be situated right at the discharge point of a re-winding 
machine, in 
order to glue the tail edge of the logs as they leave the machine, or it can constitute a 
separate machine, that is fed by an accumulator where the logs are temporarily stored. The gluing device 1 comprises a log positioning assembly 2, situated upstream, and a 
gluing assembly proper 3. The positioning assembly 1 comprises a pair of rollers 4, 5 that can be operated in 
synchronism by means
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gluing device for the tail edge of sticks or logs of sheet material, particularly 
paper, to be situated at the discharge point of a re-winding machine, or downstream of a 

log accumulator-feeder, characterised in that provision is made for a gluing assembly (3) 
comprising a pair of rollers (11, 12) with a fixed centre distance, that can be operated 
in 
synchronism, one of them (11) being a suction roller to hold the tail edge (29) of the log 

(10) in a predetermined position, established by a perforated section (17) of its mantle, and 
the other roller (12) being able to move in a substantially vertical direction, to tip the log 

onto a glue applicator nozzle (19) which spreads a thin layer of glue substantially along a 
generatrix of the log (10), means (20, 22) being provided to discharge the log (10) with a 

rolling action, making the tail edge (29) adhere to the glue-coated 
surface of the log itself. 
A device according to claim 1, characterised in that said means of discharging 
the log (10) consist of a rolling plane (20) and a continuous belt (22), which presses 

with one of its branches (25) substantially parallel to the plane (20) 
on the log (10). 
A device according to claim 2, characterised in that said belt (22) is 
positionable at an adjustable distance from the plane (20). 
A device according to claim 2 or 3, characterised in that said glue distributing 
nozzle (19) is situated in the space between the mantle of said suction roller (11) and the 

leading edge of said plane (20). 
A device according to claim 1, characterised in that said mobile roller (12) 
moves along a circular path with its centre on the axis of the suction roller (11). 
A device according to claim 1, characterised in that said rollers (11, 12) are 
made to rotate intermittently in the direction of unwinding of the log (10).  

 
A device according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that 
upstream of said gluing assembly (3) is situated a positioning assembly (2), able to position 

the incoming log (10) correctly for subsequent transfer to the gluing assembly (3). 
A device according to claim 7, characterised in that said positioning assembly 
(2) comprises a pair of rollers (4, 5), with a fixed centre distance, that can be operated in 

synchronism, of which the one (5) furthest from the gluing assembly (3) is substantially 
vertically mobile to cause the log (10) to roll towards the gluing assembly. 
A device according to claim 8, characterised in that said mobile roller (5) of the 
positioning assembly (2) moves along a circular path with its centre on the axis of the other 

roller (4). 
A re-winding machine for sheet materials, particularly paper, comprising a 
device for gluing the tail edge of the log according to any one of the preceding claims. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
