<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644741</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LAPAROSCOPIC SURGICAL LIGATION, REPAIR AND ELECTROSURGICAL COAGULATION AND CUTTING DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1704	A61B1704	A61B1712	A61B1712	A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61B1804	A61B1804	A61B1814	A61B1814	A61B1820	A61B1820	A61B1822	A61F200	A61F200	A61F600	A61F620	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61F2	A61F2	A61F6	A61F6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laparoscopic surgical ligation, repair, and electrosurgical coagulation and cutting device (10) has a central passageway (16) with first (26) and second (40) parallel channels on opposite sides thereof. A suture (18) extends through the central channel passageway (16) and has a loop (20) with a slip knot (22) on the distal end and a pull (24) on the proximal end. By pulling on the pull (24) the loop (20) can be drawn tightly about a tissue (50) to be ligated. An electrosurgical wire (28), connected (36) to a power source, slidably received in the first channel (26), has an electrically insulated body (30) extending through the first channel (26) with an exposed wire hook (32) formed at the distal end thereof for grasping the tissue (50) to pull it through the suture loop (20). A ligation assist device, such as a hypodermic needle (44) for providing anesthesia to the tissue (50) to be ligated or an optical fiber (46) for carrying laser energy for fulgurating the ligated tissue (50) is slidably received in the second channel (40). In one form, a nesting tube (74) is provided in one channel (26) to receive a suture needle (72) attached to a loopless suture (18) to easily suture to a body cavity wall (75). In another form, a tapered handle (12) frictionally receives a suture needle (72) attached to a looped (20) and slip knotted (22) suture (18) to repair a tear or rupture in a body part (89) by suturing through one or more laparoscopies without tying ligature knots inside the body cavity. In a third form, a curved carrying device (92) in one channel (40) and a ligation assist device (76) in the other channel (26) permits ligation of large vessels (99) attached to a body part (110) by fibrous tissue (108).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADAIR EDWIN LLOYD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADAIR, EDWIN L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAIR EDWIN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAIR, EDWIN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LAPA OSCOPIC SURGICAL LIGATION. REPAIR AND * ELECTROSURGICAL COAGULATION AND CUTTING DEVICE*^s*<Technical FieldThis invention relates to a laparoscopic surgical 5 ligation devices and particularly ones which provide means for positioning a tissue to be ligated, repairing a tissue, completing a ligation and for coagulation and fulguration of a ligated tissue.Background Art10 There are several manufacturers of laparoscopic surgical devices for tubal ligation. These devices generally utilize a hollow plastic tube containing a pre-formed loop of suture material with a slip knot at the terminal end. The other end of the suture15 terminates in a plastic handle or puller which allows easy application of traction to the device to close the loop around the tissue to be ligated inside the patient's body. A tapered distal end on the plastic tube forces the closure of the slip knot as the20 surgeon applies pressure to the puller causing strangulation of the tissue within the loop. Once the strangulation is sufficient to satisfy the surgeon utilizing the device, scissors are inserted through another trochar and excess suture material is cut-off25 adjacent the slip knot.These devices have proven particularly helpful in endoscopically ligating blood vessels, appendix stumps and similar structures. Suture material used in the devices includes both absorbable suture material such •Λfl 30 as cat gut and non-absorbable suture materials such as ■* silk. Other proprietary types of suture material have also been used. 

 The disadvantages of these devices is that at least two additional portals, formed with trochars, are required. One is for viewing via a laparoscope and the third portal is for providing a surgical clamp and/or surgical scissors. The laparoscope is used to visually monitor the procedure being done. A surgical clamp is used to grasp the tissue to be ligated by the suture loop and the scissors are used to cut away excess suture material after the ligation has been completed.The following patents are exemplary of the prior art:Komiya, U.S. Patent No. 4,018,229, shows a rather complex tool for internally attaching a loop and securing it around an affected part in a coeloma.Shannon et al. U.S. Patent No. 3,476,114; Mulhollan et al. , U.S. Patent No. 4,602,635, and Ferguson et al., U.S. Patent No. 3,877,434, each show ligating instruments used to tie a knot to secure the structure being held.West German Patent No. 2,804,070 and USSR Patent No. 552,077 also show ligature knot tying devices.Taka atsu, U.S. Patent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS I Claim:
1. A laparoscopic surgical ligation and electrosurgical coagulation device comprising: an elongated handle having a distal end, a proximal end and a central passageway and a first channel extending along said handle on one side of said passageway from said distal end to said proximal end thereof, generally parallel thereto; a suture extending through said central passageway and having a loop with a slip knot on the distal end thereof said slip knot having a diameter larger than said central passageway, and a pull on the proximate end thereof so that by pulling on said pull, said slip knot is held by said distal end of said handle so that said loop can be drawn tightly around the tissue to be ligated; and an elongated wire slidably received through said first channel and having a hook formed on the distal end for grasping the tissue to be ligated and pulling it through said loop in said suture before the loop is pulled tight.
2. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 1, further comprising: a second channel along said handle generally parallel to said central passageway, spaced from said first channel; and at least one optical fiber slidably received in said second channel and having a distal end extending beyond the distal end of said handle, for photocoagulation or photo vaporization of the ligated tissue, and having a proximal end connectable to a source of laser light. 


 3. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 1, further comprising: insulation around said wire; and means at the proximal end of said wire for connecting it to a source of electrosurgical power so that said hook can be used as an electrosurgical device to cauterize the ligated tissue.
4. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 1, further including: a cutting blade located on said hook for cutting said suture after said loop is drawn tight through said slip knot.
5. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 1, further comprising: a recess formed in said distal end of said handle in communication with said first channel for receiving said hook in nesting relationship when said hook is not being used.
6. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 1, further comprising: a second channel along said handle generally parallel to said central passageway, spaced from said first channel; and a hypodermic needle slidably received in said second channel for injecting anesthesia into the tissue to be ligated.
7. A laparoscopic surgical ligation and electrosurgical device comprising: an elongated handle having a distal end, a proximal end, a central passageway extending therethrough, a first channel along one side of said 


passageway and generally parallel thereto and a second channel along said handle, generally parallel to said passageway and spaced from said first channel; a suture extending through said central passageway and having a loop with a slip knot on the distal end thereof, said slip knot having a diameter larger than said central passageway, and a pull on the proximal end thereof so that by pulling on the pull, said slip knot is held by said distal end of said handle so that said loop can be drawn tightly about a tissue to be ligated; an electrosurgical wire slidably received in said first channel surrounded by an electrically insulated body portion extending through said first channel, said wire having a hook formed at the distal end thereof for grasping the tissue to be ligated and pulling it through said loop in said suture and an electrical connector at the proximal end thereof for connection to a source of electrosurgical power; and a ligation assist device slidably received in said second channel.
8. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 7, wherein said ligation assist device is in the form of a hypodermic needle slidably received in said second channel, for injecting anesthesia into the tissue to be ligated.
9. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 7, wherein: the ligation assist device is in the form of at least one optical fiber slidably received in said second channel and having a distal end extending beyond the distal end of said handle, for photocoagulation or photo vaporization of the ligated 


tissue, and having a proximal end connectable to a source of laser light.
10. A method of tubal ligation comprising the steps of: introducing a trochar through the abdomen of the patient; inflating the abdomen of the patient; introducing a laparoscopic surgical ligation and surgical device through the trochar; pulling a section of the tube to be ligated though a loop formed by a slip knot in a suture; pulling the suture loop tight around the tube section to be ligated; cutting the suture adjacent the slip knot; and fulgurating the ligated tubal portion with an electrosurgical device.
11. A medical device for supplying a suture and one or more medical instruments to an operative site through a first trochar, the site being viewed by the surgeon through a second trochar, said device comprising: an elongated cylindrical body having an outer surface, a distal end and a proximal end; a central passageway extending through said cylindrical body from said proximal end to said distal end for receiving a suture; and a first channel extending generally parallel to said central passageway along the edge of said cylindrical body from said distal end to said proximal end thereof for slidably receiving a first surgical instrument, said first channel intersecting the 


surface of said body to form a first longitudinal groove.
12. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 11, further including: a second channel extending generally parallel to said central passageway along the edge of said cylindrical body from said distal end to said proximal end thereof and located opposite said first channel for slidably receiving a second surgical instrument, said second channel intersecting said surface of said body to form a second longitudinal groove.
13. A medical device for supplying a suture and one or more medical instruments to an operative site through a first trochar, the site being viewed by the surgeon through a second trochar, said device comprising: an elongated cylindrical body having an outer surface, a convex distal end and a proximal end; a central passageway extending through said cylindrical body from said proximal end to said convex distal end for receiving a suture; a first channel extending generally parallel to said central passageway along the edge of said cylindrical body from said distal end to said proximal end thereof for slidably receiving a first surgical instrument; and a traverse slot extending across said convex distal end of said body and intersecting said first channel to receive the distal end of the first surgical instrument when it is not in use. 


 14. A medical device for supplying a suture and one or more medical instruments to an operative site through a first trochar, the site being viewed by the surgeon through a second trochar, said device comprising: an elongated cylindrical body having an outer surface, a convex distal end and a proximal end; a central passageway extending through said cylindrical body from said proximal end to said distal end for receiving a suture; a first channel extending generally parallel to said central passageway along the edge of said cylindrical body from said distal end to said proximal end thereof for slidably receiving a first surgical instrument, said first channel intersecting said surface of said body; a second channel extending generally parallel to said central passageway along the edge of said cylindrical body from said distal and to said proximal end thereof and located opposite said first channel for slidably receiving a second surgical instrument; and a transverse slot extending across said convex distal end of said body and intersecting said first channel to receive the distal end of the first surgical instrument when it is not in use.
15. A laparoscopic suture device comprising: an elongated handle having a distal end, a proximal end, a central passageway and a first channel extending along said handle on one side of said passageway from said distal end to said proximal end thereof, generally parallel thereto; and a suture extending through said central passageway and having a suture needle connected to the 


distal end thereof, wherein said needle is frictionally fit into said first channel for storage, and a pull on the proximal end thereof.
16. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 15, further comprising: a nesting tube slidably received in said first channel and extending beyond said distal end of said handle, said nesting tube having an opening on the distal end thereof to frictionally receive said suture needle so that by pulling* on the proximal end of said nesting tube, said suture needle can be drawn through said first channel.
17. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 16, further comprising: a loop with a slip knot formed on said suture, said slip knot having a diameter larger than said central passageway, said distal end of said suture extending beyond said slip knot to which said suture needle is attached.
18. A laparoscopic suture device comprising: an elongated handle having a distal end, a proximal end, a central passageway, a first channel extending along said handle on one side of said passageway from said distal end to said proximal end thereof, generally parallel thereto, and a second channel along said handle generally parallel to said central passageway, spaced opposite from said first channel; a suture extending through said central passageway and having a loop with a slip knot formed on said suture, said slip knot having a diameter larger than said central passageway, the distal end of 


said suture extending beyond said slip knot and having a tab on the distal end thereof and a pull on the proximal end thereof; a ligation assist device slidably received in said first channel; and a carrier device slidably received in said second channel, said carrier device having a generally
U-shaped curved portion forming the distal end thereof with means to receive said distal extension of said loop and said tab.
19. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 18, wherein: said receiving means is a slit along an inner surface of said curved portion to receive said distal extension of said loop and said tab.
20. Apparatus, as claimed in Claim 18, wherein: said receiving means is a J-shaped portion at said distal end of said carrier, said J-shaped portion having a slotted tip to releasably hold said suture tab.
21. A method of suturing a body part through a body cavity wall, said method comprising the steps of: introducing a first trochar through the body cavity wall of the patient; introducing a second trochar through the body cavity wall of the patient; inflating the body cavity of the patient; introducing through the first trochar a laparoscopic suture device having a suture with a suture needle attached to the distal end thereof; introducing a laparoscopic forceps device through the second trochar; 


 removing the suture needle from the distal end of the laparoscopic suture device with the forceps; passing the suture through the body part; and withdrawing the laparoscopic suture device to draw the suture ends through body cavity wall.
22. A method, as claimed in Claim 21, including the further step of: tying the proximal and distal ends of the suture around a bolster.
23. A method, as claimed in Claim 21, wherein the suture has a loop formed with a slip knot, a portion of the suture extending beyond the slip knot and attached to the suture needle, said method including the further step of: drawing the suture needle through the loop; and closing the suture loop by pulling on the proximal and distal end of the suture to close the loop.
24. A method of ligation for major vessels or ducts attached along their length within a body cavity of a patient comprising the steps of: introducing a trochar through the abdomen of the patient; inflating the body cavity; introducing a laparoscopic suture carrier device through the trochar, the carrier having a suture therein with a proximal end, a loop formed by a slip knot, and a tab on a distal end of the suture extending beyond the slip knot; 


 separating the vessel from its attachment by forcing the carrier behind and around the vessel to be ligated; drawing the tab on the suture through the loop with a laparoscopic forceps device; pulling the proximal end of the suture and the tab to tighten the ligation loop; and cutting suture ends adjacent to slip knot. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
