<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633110</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for separating fibres from composite materials.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B03B900	B03B906	B07B118	B07B124	B07B400	B07B408	B29B1310	B29B1310	B29B1702	B29B1702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B03B	B03B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B07B	B29B	B29B	B29B	B29B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B03B9	B03B9	B07B1	B07B1	B07B4	B07B4	B29B13	B29B13	B29B17	B29B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A resin reinforced fibre product such as glass 
fibre impregnated with a thermosetting resin is treated 

to recover fibre by initially shredding the waste (12), 
pulverizing (24) the shredded waste and sieving (26,34,42) the pulverized 

waste to separate the free fibres. The remaining waste 
is milled (50) to produce a fine powder suitable as a filler. 

The pulverizing is completed without classification and a 
portion of the pulverized product above a nominal cut 

size recampaigned (30). Free fibres are separated by an 
airlift (20) during the sieving process. Further separation 

of shorter fibres is obtained from the throughs by 
processing by a sifter to separate dust and subsequent 

screening at a larger mesh size to separate particulate 
material. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOENIX FIBREGLASS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOENIX FIBREGLASS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOOTH CRAIG A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAKSHMANAN VAIKUNTAM IYER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMS BRYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOOTH, CRAIG A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAKSHMANAN, VAIKUNTAM IYER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMS, BRYAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of 
Application Serial No. 07/947,351 filed September 18, 
1992. The present invention relates to methods and 
apparatus for treating waste byproducts of 
fibre-reinforced plastic manufacturing processes. There is widespread use of fibre reinforced 
plastics which essentially utilize a fibre substrate 
impregnated with a thermosetting resin. One of the more 
popular fibre reinforcements is glass fibre which may be 
utilized in a mat form, either woven or random, or as 
chopped fibres distributed within the resin binder. The manufacturing techniques utilizing fibre 
reinforced plastics frequently require trimming of the 
completed product. These trimmings and improperly 
manufactured products produce a significant waste product 
which has to be disposed of as landfill. Moreover, once 
the useful life of the product is over, it has to be 
disposed of, usually by landfill. Another product used increasingly in the 
automotive industry is known as sheet molded compound 
(SMC) which is used to produce complex shapes for panels, 
bumpers and the like. These products are mass-produced 
and inevitably some of the product is not of sufficient 
quality. Again, therefore, considerable waste product 
has to be disposed of, both during manufacture and at the 
end of the product life. Attempts to utilize the waste byproducts of 
fibre reinforced plastic have not previously been 
successful. This is due in part to the fact that most 
processes that seek to reduce the size of the waste 
either damage the fibre and/or generate excessive heat 
which in turn causes the resin to melt and inhibit the 
process. It is, however, recognized that much of the 
waste product contains fibre which, if it could be  
 
separated from the resin in a relatively undamaged 
condition, could be reused. It is therefore an object of the present 
invention to provide a method and apparatus for 
separating fibres from fibre reinforced plastic material 
which obviates or mitigates the above disadvantages. According to the present invention, there is 
provided a method of separating fibres from a fibre 
reinforced plastic material comprising the steps of 
shredding said material into a plurality of discrete 
pieces, feeding said pieces into a pulverizer to impact 
said pieces, and providing an unclassified output from 
said pulverizer, separating free fibres from said output 
and feeding at least a portion of the balance of said 
output to a pulverizer for further diminution thereof. It has been found
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of separating fibres from a fibre 
reinforced plastics material comprising the steps of 

feeding discrete pieces of said material into a 
pulverizer to impact said pieces, collecting an 

unclassified output from said pulverizer, passing at 
least a portion of said unclassified output to a trommel 

to entrain free fibres in an airstream flowing through a 
sieve in said trommel, separating said fibres from 

particulate material on a screen and airlifting separated 
fibres from said screen. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein 
particulate material entrapped in said trommel by said 

sieve is fed to a pulverizer for further diminution 
thereof. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said 
pieces are carried through said pulverizer by entrainment 

in an air stream. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein material 
passing through said screen is further separated
 in a 
sifter having a plurality of cascaded screens each of 

smaller mesh than said screen. 
A method according to claim 4 wherein material 
retained on said cascaded screens is passed to a further 

screen for separation of fibres from said material. 
A method according to claim 5 wherein said 
further screen has a larger mesh than said cascading 

screens in said sifter. 
A method according to claim 6 wherein fibres 
retained on said further screen are carded to separate 

and orientate the fibres. 
A method according to claim 5 wherein material 
passing through said cascaded screens is milled. 
A method according to claim 5 wherein material 
passing through said further screen is milled. 
A method of separating fibre from a stream of 
pulverized fibre reinforced plastics material comprising 

the steps of passing said stream through a sifter having 
a plurality of screens disposed therein, collecting 

material retained by said sifter screens, sieving said 
material on a further screen having a mesh size greater 

than that of said sifter screens and collecting fibres 
retained by said further screen. 
A method according to claim 10 wherein said 
collected fibres are carded to orientate said fibres. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein said 
stream of material is screened prior to passing through 

said sifter by a preliminary screen having a mesh size 
greater than that of said sifter screens. 
A method according to claim 10 wherein said 
sifter is a gyratory motion sifter. 
Apparatus for separating fibres from a fibre 
reinforced plastics material comprising a pulverizer 

having an inlet to receive discrete pieces of said 
material, a plurality of impact elements to impact said 

pieces and an outlet to provide an unclassified stream of 
pulverized material;

 
   a trommel to receive said unclassified stream 

and having a rotatable sieve with an airstream flowing 
radially therethrough, said sieve being operable to 

permit fibres to pass through said sieve with said 
airstream to an outlet and 

   a first screen to receive from said outlet said 
fibres and particulate material that have passed through 

said rotatable sieve, said first screen having an airlift 
associated therewith to lift fibres from said first 

screen after separation from at least a portion of said 
particulate material. 
Apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said 
trommel includes a second outlet to remove material 

retained by said sieve, said second outlet being 
connected to a pulverizer for further diminution thereof. 
Apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said 
first screen includes a first screen element and a second 

screen element in series with and having a larger mesh 
size than said first screen element, said airlift being 

located above said second screen element and said fibres 
and particulate material being delivered to said first 

screen element. 
Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said 
first screen is driven in an orbital motion. 
Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said 
airlift includes a housing having an air duct extending 

therefrom and a leading flap and a trailing flap 
positioned on either side of said duct in the direction 

of movement of said material on said first screen. 
Apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said 
trailing flap is directed from said housing toward said 

second screen element. 
Apparatus according to claim 19 wherein each of 
said flaps is adjustable. 
Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said 
rotatable sieve of said trommel is cylindrical and a 

plurality of paddles contra-rotate within said sieve to 
agitate said unclassified stream delivered to the 

interior of said sieve. 
Apparatus according to claim 14 wherein 
material passing through said first screen is sifted by 

an gyratory sifter to remove the dust therefrom and 
subsequently passed to a further screen to remove 

particulate material therefrom. 
Apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said 
sifter includes a plurality of stacked screens each 

having a mesh size smaller than said first screen and 
said further screen has a mesh size greater than that of 

said stacked screens. 
Apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said 
first screen and said further screen have a common mesh 

size. 
Apparatus according to claim 22 including a 
carding machine to receive fibre retained by said further 

screen and orientate the fibres thereof. 
Apparatus for separating fibre from a stream of 
pulverized fibre reinforced plastics material comprising 

a sifter having an inlet to receive said stream, a 
plurality of sifter screens arranged in seriatum to 

separate dust from said stream, and an outlet to deliver 
material retained by said sifter screens to a secondary 

screen, said secondary screen having a mesh size greater 
than that of said sifter screens. 
Apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said 
sifter includes orbital drive means to impart a gyratory 

motion to said sifter screens. 
Apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said 
sifter screens are stacked one above the other and have a 

similar mesh size. 
Apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said 
secondary screen includes drive means to impart an 

orbital motion thereto. 
Apparatus according to claim 27 including a 
carding machine to receive fibre retained by said 

secondary screen and orientate said fibres. 
Apparatus according to claim 29 including a 
preliminary screen located in advance of said sifter to 

sieve said stream of material and to pass material 
passing through said preliminary screen to said sifter. 
Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein said 
preliminary screen and secondary screen have a common 

mesh size. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
