<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623160</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REMOVABLE ADHESIVE HAVING HIGH SHEAR AND LOW ADHESIVE TRANSFER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09J400	C09J400	C09J406	C09J406	C09J702	C09J702	C09J20100	C09J20100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09J4	C09J4	C09J4	C09J4	C09J7	C09J7	C09J201	C09J201	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pressure sensitive adhesive comprises: a first component which includes at least one unsaturated vinyl monomer and one emulsifier monomer, a second component which comprises an elastomeric microsphere and a third component which comprises a tacky resin.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GINKEL SCOTT T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORGENSEN JENS L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHULTE DANIEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GINKEL, SCOTT, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORGENSEN, JENS, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHULTE, DANIEL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 REMOVABLE ADHESIVE HAVING HIGH SHEAR AND LOW ADHESIVE TRANSFERFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to an adhesive which yields high shear and tack values with low adhesion values. More specifically this invention relates to a high shear, high tack, low adhesive transfer, removable adhesive.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONFour properties useful in characterizing the nature of pressure sensitive adhesives are tack, peel strength, shear strength and adhesive transfer. Tack or "quick stick" is the ability of an adhesive to adhere quickly to a surface. Shear strength is the pressure-sensitive adhesive's ability to maintain its position when shearing forces are applied. Peel. strength is a measure of the ability of a pressure-sensitive adhesive to resist removal by being peeled away from a surface. Adhesive transfer is the transfer of an adhesive coating to a contact surface such as a painted plaster wall.Ideally, depending upon the substrate, the adhesive must provide sufficient tack to quickly fix the adhesive to a desired contact surface such as painted drywall wallboard, adequate peel strength to prevent damage of the surface when the adhesive is removed and appropriate cohesive strength to control the transfer of adhesive to the substrate. Balancing these pressure sensitive adhesive properties, particularly in a removable adhesive, poses difficulties to the formulator. For example, some adhesives may permit the removal of a backing from a contact surface to which it had been adhered, but they do not have high shear properties. Other adhesives possess a tack which may be so aggressive as to cause the backing to tear on removal.U. S. Patent No. 3,922,464 (Silver et al.) discloses a removable adhesive. The Silver et al. adhesive is a stable viscous copolymer latex which includes major amounts of non- tertiary alkyl acrylates, minor amounts of emulsifier monomers, water and if desired, minor amounts of zwitterionic monomers. After these components are mixed, the water is evaporated from the latex leaving a tacky and pressure-sensitive adhesive. The vinyl monomer is selected from the class of non-tertiary alkyl acrylates wherein each alkyl chain has a length of at least 4, but not more than 12 carbon atoms. "Emulsifier monomer," as used herein, is any vinyl-unsaturated, homopolymerizable surfactant which has both a hydrophobic and hydrophilic moiety, contains at least 5, but no 

 more than 40 carbon atoms and is non-ionic and/or water dispersible.As in Silver et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,645,711 (Winslow
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A removable pressure sensitive adhesive comprising:
(a) a first component comprising at least one terminally unsaturated vinyl monomer and at least one vinyl, unsaturated homopolymerizable emulsifier monomer,
(b) a second component comprising at least one infusible, inherently tacky, elastomeric polymeric microsphere, and (c) a third component comprising a resin having high adhesion and high static shear.
2. The pressure sensitive adhesive of Claim 1 comprising from about 40 parts to about 97 parts of said first component, from about 3 parts to about 55 parts of said second component and from about 5 parts to about 55 parts of said third component.
3. The adhesive of Claim 1 wherein said first component comprises from 95 to 99.8 parts by weight of said terminally unsaturated vinyl monomer, 60 to 100 weight percent of said monomer being selected from the class of non-tertiary alkyl acrylates wherein each alkyl acrylate has at least half of its carbon atoms in a single alkyl chain, the average length of said alkyl chain being at least 4, but not more than 12; and from 0.2 to 5 parts by weight of said vinyl-unsaturated homopolymerizable emulsifier monomer having both a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic moiety, wherein said emulsifier monomer contains at least 5 but not more than 40 carbons atoms.
4. The adhesive of Claim 1 wherein said first component comprises from 88 to 99 parts by weight of said terminally unsaturated vinyl monomer, 70 to 100 weight percent of said monomer being selected from the class of non-tertiary alkyl acrylates wherein said alkyl acrylate has at least half of its carbon atoms in a single alkyl chain wherein the average length of said alkyl chain is at least 4, but not more than 12; and from 0.2 to 5 parts by weight of a least one vinyl-unsaturated homopolymerizable emulsifier monomer having both a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic moiety, wherein said emulsifier monomer contains at least 5 but no more than 40 carbons atoms and from 0 to 10 parts by weight of at least one zwitterion monomer having a free radically polymerizable unsaturated group. 



 5. The adhesive of Claim 1 wherein said third component comprises a hard resin having a glass transition temperature from about -130° to about -90°C.
6. The adhesive of Claim 5 wherein said hard resin is selected from the group comprising epoxies, nitrocelluloses, ethylenes and mixtures thereof.
7. The adhesive of Claim 1 wherein said third component comprises a soft resin having a glass transition temperature from about -89° to about +130°C.
8. The adhesive of Claim 1 wherein said soft resin is selected from the group comprising polyolefins, polybutylenes, polyhexenes, polyoctenes, silicones, natural rubbers, acrylates, methacrylates, vinyl acetates, vinyl ethers and the mixtures thereof.
9. The adhesive of Claim 1 wherein said second component comprises hollow, infusible, tacky elastomeric copolymer microspheres.
10. The adhesive of Claim 1 wherein said second component comprises solid, infusible, tacky elastomeric copolymer microspheres.
11. The adhesive of Claim 1 wherein said emulsifier monomer is a monovalent salt of styrene sulfonate.
12. The adhesive of Claim 1 further comprising a surfactant.
13. An article comprising a substrate having applied to at least a portion of at least one surface thereof, a coating of a pressure sensitive adhesive comprising:
(a) a first component comprising at least one terminally unsaturated vinyl monomer and at least one vinyl, unsaturated homopolymerizable emulsifier monomer,
(b) a second component comprising at least one infusible, inherently tacky, elastomeric polymeric microsphere, and
(c) a third component comprising a resin having high adhesion and high shear. 


 14. The article of Claim 13 wherein said adhesive comprises from about 40 parts to about 90 parts of said first component, from about 3 parts to about 55 parts of said second component, and from about 5 parts to about 55 parts of said third component.
15. The article of Claim 13 wherein said first component comprises from 95 to 99.8 parts by weight of said terminally unsaturated vinyl monomer, 60 to 100 weight percent of said monomer being selected from the class of non-tertiary alkyl acrylates wherein each alkyl acrylate has at least half of its carbon atoms in a single alkyl chain, the average length of said alkyl chain being at least 4, but not more than 12; and from 0.2 to 5 parts by weight of said vinyl-unsaturated homopolymerizable emulsifier monomer having both a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic moiety, wherein said emulsifier monomer contains at least 5 but not more than 40 carbons atoms.
16. The article of Claim 13 wherein said first component comprises from 88 to 99 parts by weight of said terminally unsaturated vinyl monomer, 70 to 100 weight percent of said monomer "being selected from the class of non-tertiary alkyl acrylates wherein said alkyl acrylate has at least half of its carbon atoms in a single alkyl chain wherein the average length of said alkyl chain is at least 4, but not more than 12; and from 0.2 to 5 parts by weight of a least one vinyl-unsaturated homopolymerizable emulsifier monomer having both a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic moiety, wherein said emulsifier monomer contains at least 5 but no more than 40 carbons atoms and and from 0 to 10 parts by weight of at least one zwitterion monomer having a free radically polymerizable unsaturated group.
17. The article of Claim 13 wherein said third component comprises a hard resin having a glass transition temperature from about -130° to about -90°C.
18. The article of Claim 16 wherein said hard resin is selected from the group comprising epoxies, nitrocellulose and ethylenes and mixtures thereof.
19. The article of Claim 13 wherein said third component comprises a soft resin having a glass transition temperature from about -89° to about +130°C. 


 20. The article of Claim 19 wherein said soft resin is selected from the group comprising polyolefins, polybutylenes, polyhexenes, polyoctenes, silicones, natural rubbers, acrylates, methacrylates, vinyl acetates, vinyl ethers and the mixtures thereof.
21. The article of Claim 13 wherein said second component comprises hollow, infusible, tacky elastomeric copolymer microspheres.
22. The article of Claim 13 wherein said second component comprise a solid, infusible, tacky elastomeric copolymer microspheres.
23. The article of Claim 13 wherein said emulsifier monomer is a monovalent salt of styrene sulfonate.
24. The article of Claim 13 further comprising a surfactant added to said adhesive composition.
25. The article of Claim 13 further comprising a protective release liner applied to said coated portion of said substrate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
