<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613310</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Luminance signal/color signal separator circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N978	H04N978	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A luminance signal/color signal separator circuit having an input terminal (11) 
and luminance and color output terminals (18),(17) includes a comb filter (13) connected between 

the input terminal (11) and the color output terminal (17); an amplitude detector (16) having an 
input connected to the color output terminal; a filter (12),(15) having a first input connected 

to the input terminal (11) and a second input connected to an output of the amplitude 
detector (16); and a combiner (14) having an output connected to the luminance output 

terminal (18), a first input connected to the input terminal (11) and a second input connected 
to an output of the filter (12),(15). The separator circuit processes a composite signal which 

includes an original luminance signal and an original color signal. The filter (12),(15) 
passes a gain controlled color band signal. A signal at the luminance output 

terminal (18) includes a signal component characterized by an amplitude in a color band 
frequency range, and the combiner (14) outputs the signal having a signal component 

amplitude as (1) a first amplitude when the original color amplitude is small, 
and (2) a second amplitude when the original 

color amplitude is large, 
the first amplitude being greater than the second amplitude. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns luminance signal/color signal separator circuits 
used in devices which process the picture signals of color television receivers, 
video tape recorders, etc. In devices which process the picture signals of color television receivers, 
video tape recorders (hereafter, VTR), etc., a complex composite signal, in which 
the luminance signal (hereafter, Y signal) and the color signal (hereafter, C signal) 
were previously mixed to form the complex composite signal, is used as the video 
signal. The Y signal and the C signal have to be separated from this type of video 
signal. This separation is called Y/C separation. Figure 3 is a graph of the frequency spectrum of this type of video signal. 
The vertical axis expresses amplitude, and the horizontal axis expresses frequency. 
In Figure 3, the Y signal in the video signal has a frequency spectrum or range of 
from 0 to about 4.5 MHz. The C signal also has a specified band, referred to  
 
herein as the C-band, about a color secondary carrier wave frequency of 3.58 
MHz (the secondary carrier wave is a substantially pure narrow band signal within 
the C-band of the spectrum). The Y signal and the C signal have an interleaved 
relationship, and they are to be separated, spectrum-wise, for example, 1.5 MHz 
at the low band side of 3.58 MHz and 0.5 MHz at the high band side. Figure 4 is a block diagram showing a simple luminance signal/color signal 
separator circuit which separates the Y signal and the C signal from this type of 
video signal. In Figure 4, 41 is an input terminal to which video signal a2 is 
supplied. Video signal a2 is supplied to band-pass filter (hereafter, BPF) 42 and 
low-pass filter (hereafter LPF) 43. BPF 42 passes the C-band component of video 
signal a2 including the color secondary carrier wave and all other signals in the 
C-band frequencies which are present on video signal a2. By this means, BPF 42 
extracts and supplies C signal b2 to C signal output terminal 44. LPF 43 passes 
a low band component of video signal a2 having frequencies lower than the 
frequencies of the C-band component on video signal a2. By this means, LPF 43 
extracts and supplies Y signal c2 to Y signal output terminal 45. Figure 5 is a graph showing the C signal b2 output from BPF 42. The 
vertical axis expresses amplitude, and the horizontal axis expresses frequency. As 
shown, C signal b2 output from BPF 42 covers the C-band component of video 
signal a2. Figure 6 is a graph showing the Y signal c2 output from LPF 43. The 
vertical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A separator circuit to separate a luminance 
output signal from a composite input luminance/colour 

signal comprising first circuitry (13, 16) to generate 
a colour output signal and a detection signal 

corresponding to the amplitude of the colour output 
signal, characterized in that the separator circuit 

further comprises: 

second circuitry (12, 15) to generate a 
compensation signal from the composite input signal, 

the compensation signal having a frequency range 
covering the frequency range of the colour signal and 

having an amplitude dependent on the detection signal; 
and 
third circuitry (14) to generate the luminance 
output signal from a combination of the compensation 

signal and the composite input signal. 
A separator circuit as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein: 


the colour signal component of the composite input 
signal has a first signal amplitude; 
the output luminance signal includes a signal 
component having a frequency range contained within the 

frequency range of the colour output signal; and 
the third circuitry (14) generates the output 
luminance signal in the frequency range contained 

within the frequency range of the colour signal 
component of the composite input signal having an 

amplitude which is greater when the amplitude of the 
colour signal component of the composite input 

luminance/colour signal is small than when the 
amplitude of the colour signal component of the 

composite input luminance/colour signal is large. 
A separator circuit as claimed in claim 1 or 
2, characterized in that the first circuitry (13, 16) 

includes means (13) for generating as the colour output  
 

signal the colour signal component of the composite 
input signal. 
A separator circuit as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized in that the means (13) for generating the 

colour output signal includes a comb filter. 
A separator circuit as claimed in any 
preceding claim, characterized in that the third 

circuitry (14) includes combining circuitry to generate 
the luminance output signal by subtracting the 

compensation signal from the composite input signal. 
A separator circuit as claimed in any 
preceding claim, characterized in that the first 

circuitry (13, 16) also includes an amplitude detector 
(16) to generate the detection signal. 
A separator circuit as claimed in any 
preceding claim, characterized in that the second 

circuitry (12, 15) includes: 

a filter (12) to generate an intermediate signal 
from the composite input signal, the intermediate 

signal having a frequency range covering the frequency 
range of the colour output signal; and 
an amplitude scaling circuit (15) to generate the 
compensation signal from the intermediate signal, by 

controlling an amplitude of the compensation signal 
based on a function of the detection signal. 
A separator circuit as claimed in claim 7, 
characterized in that the amplitude scaling circuit 

(15) includes a scalable attenuator, the scalable 
attenuator attenuating the intermediate signal by an 

attenuation proportional to the amplitude of the 
detection signal to produce the compensation signal. 
A separator circuit as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized in that the luminance output signal 

includes a signal component having a component 
frequency range which is contained within the frequency 

range of the colour signal, the separator circuit being  
 

arranged such that the gain of the separator circuit in 
respect of the luminance output signal over the 

component frequency range is greater when the amplitude 
of the colour signal component of the input composite 

signal compared to that of the total input composite 
signal is low than when the amplitude of the colour 

signal component of the input composite signal compared 
to that of the total composite input signal is high. 
A method of separating a luminance output 
signal from a composite input luminance/colour signal comprising 

the steps 
of: 


filtering the composite input signal to generate a 
colour output signal; 
generating a detection signal corresponding to the 
amplitude of the colour output signal characterized in that the method 

further comprises the steps of: 
filtering the composite input signal to generate a 
compensation signal, having a frequency range 

containing the frequency range of the colour output 
signal and having an amplitude dependant on the 

detection signal; and 
combining the compensation signal and the 
composite input signal to generate the luminance output 

signal. 
A method as claimed in claim 10,
 
characterized in that: 


the luminance output signal includes a signal 
component having a frequency range contained within the 

frequency range of the colour signal; 
the step of combining includes outputting the 
luminance output signal having an amplitude of the 

signal component as a first component amplitude 
when the second signal amplitude is small and a 

second component amplitude when the second signal 
amplitude is large, 
the first component amplitude being greater than  
 

the second component amplitude. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
