<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612400</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF DETERMINING THE RESOLUTION OF A LOAD MEASUREMENT VALUE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G1902	G01G1100	G01G1903	G01G1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G19	G01G11	G01G19	G01G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of determining a load measurement value in dynamic weighing of an object passing over a weighing platform supported by load-sensing means generating a load-dependent weighing signal (S) which rises from basic level to a peak level, to subsequently fall to the basic level. An at least approximative signal peak value (Speak) is determined as representing the weighed load. The weighing signal is integrated at least during a time interval (t1-t5) about the point where the signal peak value is determined in order to produce a summation result, the time interval being recorded as a measurement time factor (M). Further, a form factor (F) for the weighing signal is calculated in the form of the ratio of the summation result, i.e. the integrated area under the weighing signal (S) for the time interval (t1-t5), to a corresponding rectangular area that would be obtained in static weighing, i.e. the product of a peak value and the above time interval. Finally, the load measurement value is determined as the above signal peak value with a resolution depending on a quality factor Q = F . M . k, wherein k is a factor chosen while taking into consideration the weighing conditions.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRONTEC PAJALA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRONTEC PAJALA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLM LAURI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLM, LAURI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of determining 
the resolution of a load measurement value in dynamic weighing, 
wherein an object to be weighed passes, while in motion, 
over a weighing platform supported by load-sensing means 
which then generate a load-dependent weighing signal which 
rises from a basic level to a peak level to subsequently 
fall to the basic level, which corresponds to the object 
moving onto the weighing platform, being situated in its 
entirety on the weighing platform, and moving out from 
the weighing platform, said method comprising the step of 
determining an at least approximative signal peak value as 
representing the weighed load. The invention is especially 
applicable to dynamic weighing of vehicles travelling at a 
high speed, e.g. in traffic controls. When weighing a vehicle or other object moving over 
a weighing platform, it is extremely difficult to obtain 
reproducible and accurate measurement values. This difficulty 
is especially pronounced in traffic controls on 
roads with very high maximum speed limits, e.g. motorways 
and the like, and where different sorts of vehicles are 
to be found, ranging from light private cars to heavy 
lorries. Tests have shown that the analog weighing signal 
then becomes very irregular, involving sudden, strong signal 
variations conditioned e.g. by vibrations of the 
wheels, movements of the wheel suspensions, stones or the 
like stuck in the tyre tread, and so forth. One object of the present invention is to improve the 
above method to enable the load measurement value to be 
determined with improved accuracy and with a resolution 
reflecting the actual quality of the measuring operation.  
 Another object of the invention is to provide such 
a method, which also permits the velocity of the object 
passing over the weighing platform to be determined in an 
advantageous manner and without any special separate velocity-measuring 
equipment, as has previously been required. A further object of the invention is to provide such 
a method, which also is well-suited for low-velocity weighing. According to the invention, these objects are achieved 
by a method having the distinctive features recited in the 
appended claims. Thus, the method according to the invention is essentially 
characterised by integrating the weighing signal, 
at least during a time interval about the point where the 
signal peak value is determined, in order to produce a 
summation result, said time interval being recorded as a 
measurement time factor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of determining the resolution of a load measurement value 
in dynamic weighing, wherein an object (1) to be weighed 

passes, while in motion, over a weighing platform (7) supported 
by load-sensing means (9) which then generate a load-dependent 

weighing signal which rises from a basic level 
to a peak level to subsequently fall to the basic level, 

which corresponds to the object moving onto the weighing 

platform, being situated in its entirety on the weighing 
platform, and moving out from the weighing platform, said 

method comprising the steps of 

determining an at least 
approximative signal peak value as representing the weighed 

load, 
integrating the weighing signal, at least during a 
time interval about the point where the signal peak value 

is determined, in order to produce a summation result, 
said time interval being recorded as a measurement time 

factor, 
calculating a form factor for the weighing signal 
in the form of the ratio of the summation result, i.e. the 

integrated area under the weighing signal for said time 
interval, to a corresponding rectangular area that would 

be obtained in static weighing, i.e. the product of a dynamic weighing peak 
value and said time interval, and 
determining the load measurement value as said at 
least approximative signal peak value with a resolution 

depending on a quality factor Q = F · M · k, wherein k is 
a factor chosen while taking into consideration the weighing 

conditions. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, furthermore 
choosing k while taking into consideration 

the measured peak level. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, furthermore 
integrating the weighing signal 

during a number of successive part time intervals, the  
 

measurement time factor (M) being preferably determined 
as the number of part time intervals during which integration 

has taken place. 
A method as claimed in claim 3, furthermore 
integrating, when the weighing signal 

comprises a large number of part time intervals that 
exceeds a predetermined value, the weighing signal only 

during a certain fixed number of successive part time 
intervals occurring around the peak value of the weighing 

signal. 
A method as claimed in claim 3 or 4, furthermore 
determining, with a view to calculating 

the form factor, a peak value in the form of a part 
result obtained in the integration during a part time 

interval, or alternatively determining a peak value being 
the mean value of a number of part results around the 

highest part result obtained. 
A method as claimed in claim 5, furthermore 
using the peak value determined for the 

form-factor calculation as said at least approximative 
signal peak value. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, furthermore determining the 

point of time when the pressure surface of the object 
against the weighing platform is halfway onto the platform, 

as well as the point of time when the pressure surface 
of the object is halfway out of the weighing platform; 

calculating the time elapsing between said two 
points of time; and determining, on the basis of the calculated 

time and the length of the weighing platform in 
the direction of travel, the velocity (V) of the object 

when passing over the weighing platform. 
A method as claimed in claim 7, furthermore 
determining said points of time in the 

form of the part time interval during the rise of the 
weighing signal towards the peak level during which the 

integrated part result is half a later occurring peak  
 

value, especially the later integrated peak value part 
result, or alternatively the mean value of a number of 

part results around the peak value part result as well 
as the part time interval during the fall of the weighing 

signal towards the basic level during which the integrated 
part result again is half said peak value. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, furthermore 
storing the integrated part results at 

least until said two points of time have been determined. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 7-9, 
furthermore choosing k while taking into 

consideration also the calculated velocity (V). 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, furthermore generating a weighing 

signal having a pulse frequency that is proportional 
to the weighed load. 
A method as claimed in claim 11, furthermore 
integrating the weighing signal by 

counting its pulses. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
