<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626251</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tape laying machine and method of laying plastic tape.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C7004	B29C7038	B65H3500	B65H3500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C70	B29C70	B65H35	B65H35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved tape laying machine, more particularly an improved tape 
laying head assembly is provided for laying plastic tape onto a work surface to 

produce a reinforced plastic structure. The improvement provides means for 
transferring the vertical movement of at least one segment (502) of a stacked 

plate segmented shoe presser assembly, of the head assembly, as it engages the 
work surface (101) to a non-terminal segment (400) of the stacked plate 

segmented shoe and a sensor means (409), e.g. a linear variable differential 
transformer, sensing the movement of the non-terminal segment to produce a 

signal related to the movement of the non-terminal segment that can be employed 
to control and direct the movement of the head assembly and/or presser 

assembly. The improvement of the invention produces a smooth shimless 
transition of the presser assembly onto the work surface, from a work surface non-engaging 

position, in a tape laying operation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CINCINNATI MILACRON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CINCINNATI MILACRON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIMSHAW MICHAEL N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIMSHAW, MICHAEL N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, DAVID A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to machines for laying plastic tape, 
particularly fibre reinforced composite plastic tape, to create reinforced composite 
plastic structures. Such machines generally employ a presser assembly, such as 
a roller or skidding shoe, to apply and compress laminar plys of the plastic tape 
onto a work surface, particularly a contoured work surface. Tape laying machines are well known in the art for making various 
composite plastic structures including components for aircraft, components for 
automobiles and part for ships. These machines have a tape laying head, usually 
oriented around a tape laying path, that includes a presser assembly for applying 
force against the tape to detrude the tape onto the work surface while following 
the changing contour of the work surface (e.g. mold). Such a tape machine is 
described in US-A-4557783 and US-A-4954204, the entire disclosures of which are 
incorporated herein by reference. US-A-4954204 more specifically describes a 
presser assembly employing a segmented shoe. The tape is customarily a thermosetting or thermoplastic film often 
having fibrous (e.g. glass or carbon fibres) reinforcement embedded therein. Such 
tape is applied to the work surface by a presser assembly with some amount of 
pressure or force, in layers that are subsequently further consolidated, often with 
heat and pressure. More recent designs of tape laying machines, for making composite 
plastic structures, employ a presser assembly comprising a segmented shoe. The 
segmented shoe customarily has a plurality of individually movable parallel 
elements afforded by plates or individually movable rollers which provide the 
advantage of improved conformation of the tape to the work surface, especially 
when simultaneous multiaxial changes in contour occur on the work surface. To 
further improved the performance it is known to use a flexible skid member (e.g. 
a sheet of tough flexible material) between the shoe (i.e. the shoe segments) and 
the tape. This flexible skid can allow easier movement of the shoe over the tape. In the laying of the plastic tape onto the work surface or a previously 
laid layer of tape the tape laying machines start with the head and more  
 
particularly the presser assembly at some initial location near but spaced from the 
desired contact point with the work surface or previously laid layer of tape. 
However the exact position of the contact point with the work surface, especially 
the exact vertical axis position of the work surface
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A machine for laying plastic tape on a work surface to produce a 
plastic article, comprising: a tape laying head (102) movably mounted for 

applying tape to the work surface, said head comprising a presser assembly (200) 
comprising a housing (207) and a plurality of plate-like presser elements (321, 

322) having flat parallel opposed faces stacked in adjacent face to face array and 
movably supported in the housing (207), said presser elements including two outer 

elements (321) and a plurality of inner elements (322), said presser element 
providing a tape presser face extending from the housing and said presser 

elements each having a biasing portion extending into the housing; the presser 
assembly comprising means for independently guiding said presser elements for 

parallel movement with respect to the housing, and spring means (331, 333, 335) 
for yieldably biasing said presser elements (321, 322) away from the housing; 

characterised in that the presser assembly 200 comprises 

i) means (415) operative in response to vertical movement of any one of 
said presser elements (502) to cause movement of a single member 

(400); 
ii) sensing means (406, 409) responsive to movement of the single 
member to produce a signal in relation to such movement; and 
iii) control means responsive to the signal produced by the responsive 
means to control movement of the tape laying head and/or presser 

assembly. 
A machine according to Claim 1 wherein the operative means (415) 
detects initial engagement of the work surface by any one of the presser elements 

(502), and the control means is responsive to control the transition of the presser 
assembly (200) onto the work surface. 
A machine according to one of Claims 1 and 2 wherein the operative 
means (415) responds to movement of any one of said presser elements to cause 

 
vertical movement of a non-outer presser element (400), detecting means (409) 

being provided for detecting such movement of the non-outer presser element 
(400) to produce said control signal. 
A machine for laying plastic tape on a work surface to produce a 
plastic article, comprising: a tape laying head (102) movably mounted for applying 

tape to the work surface, said head comprising a presser assembly (200) 
comprising a housing (207) and a plurality of plate-like presser elements (321, 

322) having flat parallel opposed faces stacked in adjacent face to face array and 
movably supported in the housing (207), said presser elements including two outer 

elements (321) and a plurality of inner elements (322), said presser element 
providing a tape presser face extending from the housing and said presser 

elements each having a biasing portion extending into the housing; means for 
independently guiding said presser elements for parallel movement with respect 

to the housing, and spring means (418) for yieldably biasing said presser elements 
away from the housing; 

characterised in that the presser assembly comprises 

i) means (415, 601, 417, 406, 409) for transmitting vertical movement of 
any of said presser elements (502) to a non-outer presser element 

(400) to produce vertical movement of said non-outer presser element 
(400); and 
ii) means (406, 409) responsive to vertical movement of said non-outer 
presser element (400) to produce a signal in relation to said 

movement. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
means operative in response to vertical movement of any of said presser elements 

(502) comprises a bar (415, 703) engageable with and retractable from a 
compatible recess (503) in each of said elements. 
A machine according to Claim 5 wherein said recess (503) has upper 
and lower faces, such that the upper end of the recess of said single non-terminal 

element (400) engages the bar at substantially the same time as the lower end of 
the recesses (503) in at least one other presser element engages the bar (415). 
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
means to produce a signal is a linear variable differential transformer. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
non-terminal presser element is the central presser elements of the plurality 

thereof. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
spring means (331) comprises bladder spring means including a fluid chamber 

(335, 732) and a flexible membrane (333, 734) enclosing said chamber and 
extending into contact with the biasing portion (738) of the presser elements. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims comprising 
a non-transportable skid member (729) interposed between the tape presser face 

of the presser elements and the tape (200). 
A method of laying plastic tape onto a work surface utilising a presser 
assembly (200) comprising a plurality of wafer-like plate segments (400, 502) 

stacked in face to face array, in which the presser assembly (200) is brought into 
engagement with the tape (200) to press the tape against a work surface (101), 

characterised by the steps of 

a) bringing the presser assembly (200) into initial engagement with the 
work surface (101); 
b) transmitting vertical movement of the presser element making initial 
contact with the work surface (101) to a non-terminal presser element 

 
(400) of said plurality to produce vertical movement of the non-terminal 

element (400); 
c) detecting the vertical movement of said non-terminal element (400); 
generating a signal in response to the movement of the non-terminal 

presser element; and 
d) processing the signal to a control means for controlling and directing 
movement of the presser assembly onto the work surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
