<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645721</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hyperstories: organizing multimedia episodes in temporal and spacial displays.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	G06T1180	G06T1180	G11B2700	G11B2700	G11B27031	G11B27034	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06T11	G06T11	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for designing, creating, organizing, 
and playing multimedia stories is disclosed. After defining a 

story with episodes scheduled on a temporal layout, the 
invention separates the organization of the story episodes 

into two parts: 1. a temporal organization of story episodes 
using temporal cliques, and 2. a spatial organization which 

spatially organizes the members of each temporal clique 
independently of the members of other temporal cliques. The 

invention reduces a complicated multimedia problem that exists 
in time and space to a number of smaller problems that exist 

only in space. Stories that are organized according to the 
invention can be related by a directed graph into a 

hyperstory. Using the directed graph, different stories in the 
hyperstory can be played by satisfying defined asynchronous 

conditions. The conditions are used in the graph to define the 
relationships among the stories in the graph. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM MICHELLE YOONKYUNG LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM, MICHELLE YOONKYUNG LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of creating, organizing, 
and playing multimedia documents on a computer system. More 
specifically, the invention relates to organizing multimedia 
objects in a multimedia documents so that they are presented 
correctly in space and time. Multimedia documents are known in the computer arts. The user 
of a multimedia document typically presents or receives 
multimedia information called fragments, segments, multimedia 
objects, or episodes through the computer input or output, 
respectively. Generally, these multimedia episodes include 
information having a sensory quality that can take the form of 
audio and visual information like audio and video clips, 
musical recordings, speech, typed text, still pictures, 
drawings, animation, choreographed dance steps, etc. 
(Episodes that are presented as output of the computer are 
said to be "played." A visual output is played as a display.) To create or play (display) a multimedia document, the 
computer user must select one or more episodes and play them 
in a particular order. Multimedia documents are called stories 
when they have related episodes that are organized and/or 
played with some sort of spatial relationships and order in 
time.  While creating or playing stories with a few number of 
episodes may be easy, the prior art methods fail to create or 
play stories with a very large number of episodes. This 
failure occurs because large numbers of story episodes, each 
having different characteristics, such as start points, end 
points and durations in time, are difficult to organize so 
that they can play together without interfering with one 
another. The prior art has failed to effectively spatial 
organize large numbers of story episodes as the story is 
played over time. Spatially organization determines how played episodes in a 
story are presented to the user with respect to one another. 
Typically, spatially organization relates to the size and 
position of a playing episode on a computer display like a 
screen. (Note, however, that audio clips can be organized 
spacial with respect to one another by adjusting the volume of 
each clip or tying the audio clip to a visual display.) Since 
a story episode has a spacial requirements with respect to 
other episodes during its duration, the spacial requirements 
of playing the story change each time an episode starts or 
ends. If these changing spacial requirements are not initial 
accounted for in the design of the story, the story is likely 
to be played
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of organizing multimedia segments to play 
without clashes, comprising the steps of: 

selecting one or more multimedia segments from a 
plurality of segments, the selected segments each having 

a temporal components including a start, an end, and a 
duration, the selected segments being episodes of a 

story; 
scheduling the story episodes in sequence that defines 

the story; 
grouping the story episodes into one or more temporal 

cliques, each episode in each clique overlapping one or 
more of the other episodes in the clique; 

spatially organizing the episodes in each temporal clique 
independently of the episodes in other temporal cliques; 

and 
playing the episodes of the story in the schedule 

sequence with the spatial organization of the temporal 
cliques. 
A method of organizing multimedia story episodes, as in 
claim 1, where the schedule is a temporal layout. 
A method of organizing multimedia story episodes, as in 
claim 1 or 2, where the temporal layout schedules the 

episodes in the sequence according to one or more 
relationships among the episodes. 
A method of organizing multimedia story episodes, as in 
claim 2 or 3 , where each episode in a temporal clique 

overlaps every other episode in the temporal clique. 
A method of organizing multimedia story episodes, as in 
claim 4, where one or more temporal cliques is spatially 

organized by initially placing the episodes in the 
temporal clique in an initial spatial organization and 

then negotiating the space requirements among the 
episodes to obtain a final spatial organization. 
A method of organizing multimedia story episodes, as in 
claim 4, where the spatial organization is done by a user 

using a graphical interface. 
A method of organizing multimedia story episodes, as in 
claim 4, where the spatial organization of one or more 

temporal cliques is played as a visual display. 
A method of organizing multimedia story episodes, as in 
claim 7, where the visual display is a computer screen. 
A method of organizing and playing two or more multimedia 
stories as a hyperstory comprising the steps of: 

creating the multimedia stories by selecting one or more 
multimedia segments as a set of story episodes for each 

story; 
scheduling the episodes of each story according to a 

temporal layout that defines the story; 
grouping the episodes of each story into one or more 

temporal cliques, the episodes in each temporal clique of 
the story overlapping other episodes in their respective 

temporal clique; 
spatially organizing the episodes in each temporal clique 

independently of the episodes in the other temporal 
cliques;

 
placing each story in a node of a directed graph, the 

nodes having relationships among one another established 
by one or more arcs of the graph, the relationships 

defined by asynchronous conditions, whereas a story node 
on the directed graph is played if the asynchronous 

conditions of an arc establishing relationships with the 
story node are satisfied. 
A method of organizing and playing stories in a 
hyperstory, as in claim 9, where the directed graph is a 

petri net. 
A method of organizing and playing stories, as in claim 
9 or 10 , where the relationship between two or more 

nodes is a branch relationship where control is passed 
from a story in a first node to a story in a second node. 
A method of organizing and playing stories, as in claim 
9, 10 or 11, where the relationship between two or more 

nodes is a call relationship where control is passed from 
a story in a first node to a story in a second node and 

then back to the story in the first node after part or 
all of the story in second node finishes. 
A method of organizing and playing stories, as in claim 
9, 10, 11 or 12 where one or more conditions is enabled 

by a button. 
A method of organizing and playing stories, as in claim 9 
to 13, where the conditions are satisfied to dynamically 

change the playing of the stories in the nodes. 
A method of organizing and playing stories, as in claim 
9 to 14, where controls enable conditions that are used 

to browse the hyperstory. 
A method of organizing and playing stories, as in claim 
9 to 15 where the stories are played to educate a user. 
A method of playing a multimedia story, comprising the 
following steps: 

selecting one or more multimedia segments from a 
plurality of segments, the selected segments being 

episodes of the story; 
scheduling the story episodes in a sequence that defines 

the story; 
grouping the story episodes into one or more temporal 

cliques, each episode in each clique overlapping all of 
the other episodes in the clique; 

spatially organizing the episodes in each temporal clique 
independently of the episodes in other temporal cliques; 

and 
playing the episodes of the story in time according to 

the schedule sequence and in space according to the 
spatial organization of the temporal cliques. 
An apparatus for playing multimedia stories, comprising: 
a computer means having a means for storing a plurality 

of multimedia segments; 
a means for selecting a sub set of multimedia segments, 

the sub set of segments being episodes in a story; 
a temporal layout means for scheduling the story episodes 

in time to define the story; 
a means for organizing the story episodes into temporal 

cliques, each temporal clique containing episodes that 
overlap one or more other episodes in their respective 

temporal clique;
 

a means for spatially organizing the story episodes of 
each temporal clique independently of the spatial 

organization of the story episodes in other temporal 
cliques; and 

a computer playing means for playing the episodes in time 
as defined by the temporal layout schedule and in space 

according to the spatial layouts of the temporal cliques. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
