<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619880</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED NON-INVASIVE NEAR-INFRARED QUANTITATIVE MEASUREMENT INSTRUMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2131	G01N33487	G01N2135	G01N33483	A61B500	A61B500	A61B5145	A61B5024	G01N33483	G01N33487	A61B5145	A61B5024	A61B51455	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N33	G01N21	G01N33	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G01N33	G01N33	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument is disclosed comprising a removable finger insert which facilitates properly aligning and fitting and individual user's finger into the optical system of the analysis instrument. The finger insert according to the present invention also prevents the analysis instrument's optical system from being damaged by foreign matter typically introduced by a user's finger. The finger insert can also be provided with filters which will enable the insert to be used as an optical standard for the analysis instrument.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUTREX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUTREX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRISCHMANN JOSEPH KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASTROTOTARO JOHN JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTHAL ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRISCHMANN, JOSEPH, KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASTROTOTARO, JOHN, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTHAL, ROBERT, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to instruments for the non-invasive 
quantitative measurement of constituents in 
blood, such as blood glucose levels. Specifically, 
this invention relates to an improved analysis 
instrument utilizing a removable insert which 
facilitates positioning of an individual user's finger 
and improves the internal cleanliness of the 
instrument. Information concerning the chemical composition of 
blood is widely used to assess the health 
characteristics of both people and animals. For 
example, analysis of the glucose content of blood 
provides an indication of the current status of 
metabolism. Blood analysis, by the detection of above  
 
or below normal levels of various substances, also 
provides a direct indication of the presence of certain 
types of diseases and dysfunctions. A current type of blood glucose analytical 
instrumentation is available for the specific purpose 
of determining blood glucose levels in people with 
diabetes. This technology uses a small blood sample 
from a finger poke which is placed on a chemically 
treated carrier and is inserted into a portable battery 
operated instrument. The instrument analyzes the blood 
sample and provides a blood glucose level reading in a 
short period of time. A different class of blood glucose analytical 
instruments is the near-infrared quantitative analysis 
instrument which noninvasively measures blood glucose, 
such as the type described in U.S. Patent No. 5,077,476 
(Rosenthal published on Dec. 31, 1991, namely after the priority date 
and before the filing date of the present application). 
The noninvasive blood glucose measurement 
instrument analyzes near-infrared energy following 
interactance with venous or arterial blood, or 
transmission through a blood-containing body part. The 
instrument measures a change in light absorption that 
occurs, in part, due to the glucose content of the 
blood stream. Non-invasive measurement instruments of this type 
have broad applications for the diabetic community. 
For example, people with diabetes have wide changes in 
their blood glucose content during the day which often 
require multiple measurements per day for good disease 
control. The ability to make these near-infrared blood 
glucose level measurements noninvasively means that 
more measurements will likely be made per day than 
would be made using the more painful blood drawing 
approach. An example of a non-invasive measurement 
instrument is disclosed in the '476 patent wherein an  
 
individual user places the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument for non-invasive 
measurement of a blood analyte present in a body part 

of a subject, the said analysis instrument comprising: 

(a) introducing means including a near-infrared energy 
source (5,6) for introducing near-infrared energy into blood 

present in a body part of a subject; 
(b) detecting means (8) for detecting near-infrared energy 
emerging from the body part; 
(c) processing means (10) for calculating an electrical signal from 
the said detection means into a signal indicative of the quantity of 

the blood analyte present in the blood of the subject; 
(d) a housing means (11) for housing at least the 
introducing means and the detecting means, 

characterized in that 
the said housing means 

comprises a chamber means (18) for enabling the body part of the 
said subject to be exposed to the near-infrared energy, the 

introducing means and the detecting means being positioned about 
the said chamber means such that near-infrared energy emitted by 

the introducing means is receivable by the detecting means; 
 
the instrument further comprising: 


(e) an insert means (20) for receiving the body part of the 
subject and for engaging the chamber means, the said insert means 

comprising window means (24) for permitting the near-infrared 

energy emitted from the introducing means to pass through the 
insert means and to be receivable by the detecting means. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 1, 
wherein the insert means (20) removably engages the chamber means 

(18). 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 1 or 
2, wherein the insert means (20) is disposable. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claims 1, 
2 or 3 wherein the window means (24) comprises at least one  

 
optical opening (24) which is transparent to near-infrared 

energy. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the window means (24) comprises two 

optical openings (24) which are transparent to near-infrared 
energy. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the housing means (11) further 

comprises a temperature sensing means (7) for sensing the 
temperature of the subject's body part. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the insert means (20) further 

comprises a conduction means (25) for transferring energy 
representative of the subject's body part temperature to the 

temperature sensing means (7). 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the insert means (20) has a 

constant outside diameter and an inner diameter selected to 
securely engage the subject's body part. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the analysis instrument further 

comprises a light protection means for shielding stray light from 
interfering with blood analyte calculations. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 9, 
wherein the light protection means comprises a light opaque 

bellows (26) which covers a portion of the subject's body part 
which extends outside the analysis instrument. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 10, 
wherein the bellows (26) is mounted on the housing means (11).  

 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 10, 
wherein the bellows (26) is mounted on the insert means (20). 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the insert means (20) further 

comprises an alignment means for guiding the insert means into 
the chamber means (18). 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 13 
wherein the alignment means comprises alignment rails positioned 

on the insert means (20). 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the analysis instrument further 

comprises a safety means (28) for inactivating the analysis 
instrument after the insert means (20) has been operated for a 

predetermined period of use. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 15, 
wherein the safety means (28) comprises an electrical circuit 

connecting' at least a useful life regulation means inside the 
insert means (20) with a means for controlling operation of the 

instrument. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 16, 
wherein the useful life regulation means comprises a filament 

which expends after a predetermined period of use. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the insert means (20) is 

substantially opaque to light except through the window means 
(24). 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein the insert means (20) further 

includes a holding means for properly positioning an individual's 
body part in the insert means.  

 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 19, 
wherein the holding means comprises a lining (22) which engages 

the body part. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 19 
or 20, wherein the holding means further includes an abutment 

means (23) for preventing further insertion of the body part into 
said insert means (20). 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
claims 15 to 21 insofar as claims 18 to 21 depend from claims 15 to 17, 

wherein the safety means (28) further comprises 
means for storing a first empty chamber measurement and comparing 

the first empty chamber measurement with a subsequent empty 
chamber measurement and means inactivating the analysis 

instrument if a value of the first empty chamber measurement is 
different from a value of the subsequent empty chamber 

measurement by a predetermined amount. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, further comprising means for providing an 

optical standard for the analysis instrument, the means for 
providing an optical standard comprising the said insert means 

(20) having an optical filter means (30,31) for passing near-infrared 
energy from the source to the detection means. 
A near-infrared analysis instrument according to claim 23, 
wherein the optical filter means (30,31) comprises a first 

optical filter (30) and a second optical filter (31) wherein the 
first and second optical filter are positioned 180 degrees from 

one another. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
