<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622830</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Housing for converting an electrospray to an ion stream
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J4902	H01J4904	G01N3072	G01N3000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J49	H01J49	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A housing (11) is provided for converting an electrospray into a 
desolvated ion stream for analysis. The housing (11) is positioned 

between an electrospray device and an ion stream analytical device. The 
housing is heated and includes a passageway (1-3) within which a moving 

electrospray is converted to the ion stream. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for converting a
solution containing a solute sample into ionized molecules
for analysis of the sample.A liquid flowing through a capillary jet or orifice may
be converted to a spray of small charged droplets (of the
order of 1 µm in diameter) by applying a strong electric
field to the liquid as it emerges from the tip of the
capillary. For a sufficiently high applied field, the
electrostatic stress imposed by the field and the surface-induced
electrical charge is sufficient to overcome the
surface tension forces on the liquid. Breaking apart into a
large number of small charged droplets is a way for the
liquid to disperse the charge and reach a lower total energy
state. This process of forming a spray is commonly known as
electrospray.
At the present time apparatus are available for forming an
electrospray of a sample solution such as a liquid stream
effluent from a liquid chromatography separation step and
subsequently analyzing the electrospray with a mass analyzer
such as a quadrupole mass spectrometer, an ion trap, a time-of-flight
mass spectrometer or a magnetic sector mass
spectrometer or the like. Interposed between the apparatus
for forming the electrospray and the analytical apparatus is
means for desolvating the droplets forming the electrospray
so as to form a stream of intact ions which are to be
analyzed. In a liquid chromatograph, a stream of solvent,
containing a mixture of chemical species in solution, is
passed at elevated pressure through a chromatographic column.
The column is so designed that it separates the mixture, by
differential retention on the column, into its component
species. The different species then emerge from the column
as distinct bands in the solvent stream, separated in time.
Coupling the output of a liquid chromatograph to a mass
spectrometer via an electrospray interface gives the analyst
a powerful tool since it can provide molecular weight and 
structural information about the separated species as they
emerge from the liquid chromatograph.It has been proposed in US-A-4,977,320 to interpose a
heated capillary tube between the electrospray apparatus and
the analytical apparatus to desolvate the electrospray
droplets thereby to form the intact ion stream. The
apparatus is undesirable since it is difficult to uniformly
heat the thin walled tube. This may result in local "hot
spots" which can cause sample degradation. In addition, the
capillary can become clogged due to sample deposition therein
and it is difficult to clean for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for converting a solution containing a
solute sample into ionized molecules for analysis of the

sample, comprising: a first passageway (10) having an orifice
for passing said solution therethrough, said first passageway

(10) having an exit (27) to discharge said solution from said
first passageway (10) in the form of an electros
pray,

a voltage source (9) connected to said first passageway
orifice,
an analytical apparatus (22) for measuring charge and
mass of ionized molecules,
an electrically and thermally conductive housing (11)
including a second passageway (1) extending therethrough,

said housing (11) being interposed between said exit (27) of
said first passageway (10) and a chamber (14) such that the

electrospray passes from said exit (27) through said second
passageway (1) into said chamber (14), wherein said chamber

(14) is maintained under substantial vacuum, wherein said
second passageway (1) is formed in the thickness of said

housing (11) and comprises two regions (2,3) of differing
diameter, where the region (3) of larger diameter has an

entrance orifice (12) and receives said electrospray from
said exit (27) of said first passageway (10) and where the

region (2) of smaller diameter has an exit orifice (28) which
transmits said electrospray into said chamber (14),
said housing (11) forming part of said chamber (14) and
said chamber (14) including a skimmer (15) interposed between

said housing (11) and said analytical apparatus (22),
wherein said second passageway (1) can be heated by a
heater (31) or by internal conduits for heat exchange fluid

such that heat is transferred to the electrospray as it
passes through the second passageway (1), wherein said 

housing (11) has a mass sufficient to transmit heat uniformly
to said second passageway (1), and wherein the varying

diameter of said second passageway (1) increases the
residence time of said electrospray within said second

passageway (1), to increase thermal transfer to said
electrospray to promote desolvation and ion evaporation of

said electrospray to a desolvated ion stream.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first passageway
orifice comprises a capillary tube (10).
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said capillary tube
(10) is formed of an electrically non-conducting material.
The apparatus of any one of claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein
said housing (11) and said skimmer (15) are electrically

insulated from each other.
The apparatus of any one of claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein
said housing (11), said skimmer (15) and said analytical

apparatus (22) are electrically insulated from each other.
The apparatus of any one of the claims 1 to 5, wherein
said region (3) of larger diameter of said second passageway

(1) has a diameter 2-5 times larger than said region (2) of
smaller diameter.
The apparatus of any one of the claims 1 to 6, wherein
the region (13) between said exit (27) and said entrance

orifice (12) is at atmospheric pressure and said chamber (14)
is at a pressure less than atmospheric pressure.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
