<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637871</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surface acoustic wave device mounted module
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H925	H03H902	H03H905	H03H910	H03H902	H03H900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	H03H	H03H	H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H9	H03H9	H03H9	H03H9	H03H9	H03H9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides a surface acoustic wave device 
mounted module which is miniature, light, and highly reliable. 

The surface acoustic wave device mounted module also has 
excellent frequency characteristics. The surface acoustic wave 

device mounted module includes a multilayer substrate 8 which has 
at least one layer of a shield pattern 12, input-output 

electrodes 10, grounding electrodes 11, via holes 9 used for 
connecting electrodes, and a surface acoustic wave element 1. 

The surface acoustic wave element has metallic bumps 5, which are 
transfer-coated with a conductive resin 6, on electrode pads; an 

insulating resin 7 around the surface acoustic wave element; and 
an inter-digital transducer 4. The electrode pads are input-output 

terminals 2 and grounding terminals 3 formed on the 
surface acoustic wave element. Continuities between the input-output 

terminals and the input-output electrodes, and between the 
grounding terminals and the grounding electrodes are established 

by the via holes. An electrode pattern 14 is formed on the 
surface of the multilayer substrate facing and surro
unding the 
surface acoustic wave element. A metallic lid 13 is attached to 

the electrode pattern by a solder or conductive resin 15 so that 
the surface acoustic wave element is sealed in an airtight 

condition. The electrode pattern is connected to the grounding 
electrodes by the via holes. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a surface acoustic wave device
mounted module for mobile communication equipment.Along with the recent development of mobile communication
technologies, the need for a miniature and lightweight surface
acoustic wave device mounted module with improved electrical
characteristics, which is used as an interstage reception filter,
an interstage transmission filter and an antenna filter for
mobile communication equipment, has been increasing.A conventional surface acoustic wave (SAW) device mounted
module, for example, is described in IEEE Transactions on
Vehicular Technology, vol. 38, No. 1 (1989), pp.2-8. This
conventional SAW device mounted module has a surface acoustic
wave element mounted on a can-like package. An aluminum wire
provides continuity across the input-output terminals of the
package and the surface acoustic wave element. Or, instead of a
can-like package with protruding input-output terminals, a
package which can be mounted on plates such as a ceramic package
has recently been requested, particularly for mobile
communication equipment. For this type of package and a can-like
package, however, a bonding wire is required to establish
continuity with surface acoustic wave element. Therefore, the
miniaturization of a SAW device mounted module is limited when 
one of these packages is used for the SAW device mounted module,
since the height of the bonding wire is limited and a land for
the bonding wire is required on the package.Face down bonding (or flip chip bonding) is used as a
method of miniaturizing a SAW device mounted module. In this
method, the surface acoustic wave element faces a circuit
substrate and conductive bumps are used to establish continuity
across the element and the substrate. In other words, a bonding
wire is not required in this method.Use of the face down bonding method for a surface acoustic
wave element is mentioned in Proceedings on 1984 Ultrasonics
Symposium (1984), pp. 36-39. However, when this method is
applied to a mobile communication equipment, the equipment cannot
be miniaturized or kept in an airtight condition. Another
applied example of the face down bonding method is mentioned in
Proceedings on IMC Symposium (1992), pp. 99-103. The problems
typical to a surface acoustic wave element make it difficult to
apply the face down bonding method to a SAW device mounted
module. For example, a surface acoustic wave element applied to
mobile communication equipment, in particular, uses a
piezoelectric substrate with high pyroelectricity, so
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surface acoustic wave device mounted module,
comprising:


a multilayer substrate comprising at least one layer of
shield pattern, input-output electrodes, grounding electrodes and

via holes used for connecting electrodes; and
a surface acoustic wave element placing an inter-digital
transducer to face said multilayer substrate, said surface

acoustic wave element having metallic bumps, which are transfer-coated
with a conductive resin, on electrode pads and an

insulating resin disposed around said surface acoustic wave
element;
wherein said electrode pads are input-output terminals
and grounding terminals formed on said surface acoustic wave

element;
wherein continuities between said input-output terminals
and said input-output electrodes, and between said grounding

terminals and said grounding electrodes are established by said
via holes;
wherein an electrode pattern is formed on a surface of
said multilayer substrate facing and surrounding said surface

acoustic wave element;
wherein a metallic lid is attached to said electrode
pattern by a solder or a conductive resin so that said surface 

acoustic wave element is sealed in an airtight condition by said
metallic lid; and
wherein said electrode pattern is connected to said
grounding electrodes by said via holes.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to claim 1, wherein the surface acoustic wave element

is a piezoelectric substrate, and wherein said piezoelectric
substrate is at least one material selected from the group

consisting of lithium tantalate, lithium niobate, lithium borate
and quartz.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the multilayer substrate

comprises an electrode pattern on its surface facing an inter-digital
transducer of the surface acoustic wave element, said

electrode pattern having continuity with the grounding electrodes
or the shield pattern by the via holes.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the surface acoustic

wave element comprises a conductive film on a surface opposite a
surface facing the multilayer substrate to establish continuity

between the metallic lid and said surface by said conductive

film.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the metallic lid has a 

continuity with a surface of the surface acoustic wave element
opposite a surface facing the multilayer substrate by a

conductive resin.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the bumps are made of

at least one metal selected from the group consisting of gold and
aluminum.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the surface acoustic

wave element is mounted on a flat surface of the multilayer
substrate.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the surface acoustic

wave element is mounted in a depression formed in the multilayer
substrate.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the multilayer

substrate comprises a circuit element to match input-output
impedances of an outside circuit.
A surface acoustic wave device mounted module,
comprising;


a multilayer substrate comprising at least one layer of
shield pattern, input-output electrodes, grounding electrodes and

via holes for connecting the electrodes; 
a surface acoustic wave element comprising an inter-digital
transducer facing said multilayer substrate, said surface

acoustic wave element having metallic bumps, which are transfer-coated
with a conductive resin, on electrode pads and an

insulating resin partially or entirely disposed around said
surface acoustic wave element; and
active components or passive components;
wherein said electrode pads are input-output terminals
and grounding terminals formed on said surface acoustic wave

element;
wherein said surface acoustic wave element and said
active components or passive components are integrated into one

body on said multilayer substrate;
wherein an electrode pattern is formed on said multilayer
substrate to surround said surface acoustic wave element;
wherein a metallic lid is formed on said electrode
pattern by a solder or a conductive resin to seal said surface

acoustic wave element in an airtight condition by said metallic
lid; and
wherein said electrode pattern is connected to said
grounding electrodes by said via holes.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to claim 10, wherein the surface acoustic wave element

is mounted in a depression of the multilayer substrate. 
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to claim 10 or 11, wherein the electrode pattern is

formed on the multilayer substrate so as to surround the surface
acoustic wave element and the active components or passive

components in one body.
The surface acoustic wave device mounted module
according to any of claims 10 to 12, wherein the bumps are made

of at least one metal selected from the group consisting of gold
and aluminum.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
