<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629141</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REMOVING VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS FROM GROUNDWATER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1702	B01D1702	B01D17035	B01D1900	B01D1900	B09C100	B09C100	B09C102	C02F120	C02F120	E21B4300	E21B4330	E21B4334	E21B4340	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B09C	B09C	B09C	C02F	C02F	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D17	B01D17	B01D17	B01D19	B01D19	B09C1	B09C1	B09C1	C02F1	C02F1	E21B43	E21B43	E21B43	E21B43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for removing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from groundwater. A compressor (18) injects gas into a well (10) through a gas line (16) to cause rising bubbles and a water flow toward and up the well (10). A water and bubble mixture (20) flows upward in an annular space (21). Water flows to an unsaturated zone (24) through a series of drains (25). A deflection plate (30) helps guide vapor to an extraction line (33) which ultimately leads to a vapor treatment device (34).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORELICK STEVEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GVIRTZMAN HAIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORELICK STEVEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GVIRTZMAN HAIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RE OVING VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS FROM GROUNDWATERBackground of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to procedures for cleaning contaminated groundwater, and more particularly to in-situ procedures for removing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from groundwater.During the last decade, over 1200 hazardous waste sites in the U.S. have been placed on the EPA National Priorities List for remedial investigation and cleanup. However, current remediation methods are often very expensive, and alternative concepts and techniques are needed. The present invention is particularly concerned with VOCs which pose a significant threat to groundwater supplies and are commonly detected in groundwater.The most common class of VOC pollutants are petroleum products, such as gasoline and jet fuels. The U.S. EPA estimates that there are more than 2 million underground tanks in the United States and that 20 percent of them leak and contaminate groundwater. Such tanks leak benzene, toluene and their derivatives which become dissolved in groundwater. Another important group of VOC pollutants is chlorinated hydrocarbons, notably TCESUBSTITUTE S 

 (trichloroethylene, CHC1=CC12) and its degradation products.One challenge for hydrologists and environmental engineers is to develop new in-situ remediation methods for removing the dissolved organic contaminants in a simple, cheap and efficient manner. At many contaminated sites, it is common for the majority of the organic pollutants to exist as separate liquid phases. A portion may dissolve into groundwater or may evaporate into the gas phase of the unsaturated zone. Once in the groundwater, the dissolved organic contaminants are transported as plumes. During aquifer remediation, the main body of organic liquid is usually removed from groundwater by skimming or pumping with subsequent above ground treatment. A portion of the liquid phase that is retained by capillary forces may continue to slowly dissolve. Remedial action may also include forced vacuum extraction through the unsaturated zone to remove the gas phase of the toxic substances.Unfortunately, the dissolved portion is not treated in-situ, because remediation technologies are limited to 'pump-and-treat' (i.e., above ground) methods.The newly-developed method of biorestoration may provide an alternative for some specific cases. This method is aimed at enhancing biodegradation of organic compounds through the introduction or stimulation of natural microorganisms along with injection of nutrients and oxygen.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
only. Furthermore, the single well system analyzed here can be a component in a larger system consisting of many wells connected to a complex reinfiltration network.
In addition to the mass transfer that occurs in the well, VOCs will also be released during infiltration through the unsaturated zone while the pumped water is returned to the water table. The VOCs that are released there can be removed by venting the soil. The combination of the in-well mass transfer and venting of the vadose zone will give the total rate of VOC removal using this system.
In summary, a method aimed at removing VOCs dissolved in groundwater has been disclosed. The idea is to drive the VOCs from the dissolved phase into the gas phase by gas injection into a well using combined gas-lift pumping with a form of in-situ gas- stripping. The lifted water, free of a portion of VOCs, infiltrates through the vadose zone back to the water table. As water circulates through the in-situ treatment system, the VOC concentrations are gradually reduced. The VOCs that are released into the gaseous phase in both the well and the vadose zone can be removed at the top of the well and through forced air ventilation. This technique is very simple and would avoid pump-and-treat restoration. It would reduce above-ground treatment. Using this system, it is not necessary to bring the contaminated water to the ground surface.
The feasibility of this method was shown through mass transfer calculations and flow simulations. Mass-transfer calculations considered equilibrium and non-equilibrium effects. Calculations indicate it is likely that vapor
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 saturation occurs within air bubbles when they reach the top of the well. The flow simulations assume a homogeneous and isotropic medium, without sources and sinks (e.g., entrapped NAPL ganglia and unequilibrated soil adsorption, respectively.) In field cases more complex factors have to be considered.
Modifications of the proposed system can improve its efficiency. For example, problems of oxidation, chemical precipitation and biofouling may be overcome by recirculating the gas after VOCs are removed. In addition, the in-situ vapor stripping method can be applied when removing dissolved VOCs, or when the organic liquid occurred in a separate phase as a floating substance or a submerged one.
Usually a contaminated aquifer is much larger than the influence zone of a single well. For practical purposes, several wells may be needed. The optimum design of the well field and its optimal operation conditions have to be determined separately for any remediation site according to its characteristics. The relevant parameters for such a design will be the aquifer characteristics (thicknesses of the saturated and unsaturated zones, the regional flow regime, and horizontal and vertical permeabilities) , the remediation requirements (final permitted VOC concentrations, and required time frame for cleanup) , and the well characteristics (screened interval, and rate of air injection) .
Although embodiments of the invention have been described in detail, the invention is not to be limited to such embodiments, but rather by the appended claims. 


 What is Claimed is:
1. A system for removing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from groundwater, comprising: means for injecting a gas into a well, the well extending into a saturated zone, to force groundwater flow towards the well and to cause VOCs to be transferred from the groundwater to rising gas bubbles inside the well; and at the top of the well, means for collecting the VOC vapor contained within the gas bubbles.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein said collecting means includes: a separation means for separating the gas bubbles from the groundwater; and vapor extraction means for removing the VOC vapor.
3. An in-situ system for removing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from groundwater, comprising: means for injecting gas into a well to cause groundwater to flow towards and up the well, and to cause VOCs to be transferred from the groundwater to rising gas bubbles in the well; means at the top of the well for separating the gas bubbles including VOC vapor from the groundwater rising in the well; extraction means at the top of the well for collecting the VOC vapor after separation from the groundwater; and drainage means for infiltrating the groundwater from the top of the well into a vadose zone.
4. The system of claim 3 further including a well screen along a portion of the well for allowing groundwater flow into the well.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 5. The system of claim 4 wherein a well screen extends along the portion of the well in the vadose zone.
6. The system of claims 3 or 5 further including means for extracting VOCs from the vadose zone.
7. The system of claim 3 wherein said extraction means includes: a vapor extraction line extending from a location above said separating means; and means connected across said vapor extraction line for drawing VOC vapor from the top of the well.
8. The system of claim 7 further including means for treating or destroying the VOC vapor.
9. The system of claim 3 or 7 wherein said gas injection means includes: a gas line extending into the well; and a compressor means for injecting gas into said well via said gas line.
10. The system of claim 3 wherein said drainage means includes a plurality of pipes emanating from said separating means.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein said pipes feed into a ring around the well to form an infiltration gallery.
12. The system of claim 3 further including means for preventing the injected gas from entering a saturated zone.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said preventing means includes an eductor conduit extending into the well from the said separation means to the saturated zone so that an annular space is formed between said eductor conduit and the wall of the well.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein said eductor conduit includes slot and baffle means at the end thereof extending into the saturated zone to prevent the injected gas from entering said annular space.
15. The system of claim 13 wherein said eductor conduit directs groundwater and gas bubbles to the separation means.
16. The system of claim 13 further including a well screen means along a portion of the well in the vadose zone and the saturated zone.
17. The system of claim 16 further including means for venting VOC vapor from the vadose zone through said well screen means.
18. A method for removing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from groundwater, comprising: injecting a gas into a well extending into a saturated zone to force groundwater flow towards the well and to cause VOCs to be transferred from the groundwater to rising gas bubbles inside the well; and near the top of the well, collecting the VOC vapor contained within the gas bubbles.
19. The method of claim 18 further including returning water to a vadose zone. 


 20. A method of removing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from groundwater, comprising:
(a) injecting gas into a well to cause groundwater to flow towards the well and to cause VOCs to be transferred from the groundwater to rising gas bubbles in the well;
(b) near the top of the well, separating the gas bubbles including VOC vapor from the groundwater rising in the well; and (c) after separation from the groundwater, collecting and extracting from the well VOC vapor.
21. The method of claim 20 further including: (d) after said collecting and extracting, directing the groundwater into a vadose zone.
22. The method of claim 21 further including repeating steps (a) - (d) to establish circulating cycles to reduce the concentration of VOCs in the groundwater.
23. The method of claim 21 further including venting VOC vapor from the vadose zone.
24. The method of claim 20, 21 or 22 further including preventing the injected gas from entering a saturated zone.
25. A method of removing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from groundwater, comprising:
(a) injecting gas into a well to cause groundwater to flow towards the well and to cause VOCs to be transferred from the groundwater to rising gas bubbles in the well;
(b) near the top of the well, separating the gas bubbles including VOC vapor from the groundwater rising in the well; 


(c) after separation from the groundwater, collecting the VOC vapor.
(d) treating or destroying the VOC vapor; and
(e) after said collecting, directing the groundwater into a vadose zone.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
