<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632720</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HYDROXYETHYLCELLULOSE-BASED SUSTAINED-RELEASE ORAL DRUG DOSAGE FROMS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4738	A61K920	A61K916	A61K920	A61K916	A61K4738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K47	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Sustained release oral drug dosage forms that comprise a tablet or capsule of a plurality of particles of a solid-state drug dispersed in alkyl cellulose such as hydroxyethylcellulose or hydroxypropylcellulose. Once ingested the tablet or capsule disintegrates to disperse the particles into the stomach where they imbibe water to cause them to swell and also to become slippery, thus enhancing their retention in the stomach. Imbibed water from the gastric fluid dissolves the drug entrapped in the particles and the resulting solution diffuses from the dispersed particles, assuring that no solid drug, which is more irritating, contacts the mucosal tissue. A number of embodiments of the dosage form utilizing different drugs are exemplified and the benefits are explained. Aspirin is one example.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEPOMED SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEPOMED SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHELL JOHN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHELL, JOHN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is in the general field of
pharmacology and relates specifically to alkyl-substituted
cellulose-based sustained-release drug
dosage forms whose rate of drug release and
dissolution is not dependent upon crosslinking and
that may be made by direct compression and other
procedures without binders.It is known to use hydrophilic polymers such as
hydroxyalkyl celluloses in the preparation of
sustained release pharmaceutical compositions for oral
administration. Such use is described for example in
FR-A-2304354 and WO 92/04013.The present invention is an improvement on the
sustained-release oral drug dosage forms described in
U.S. Patent No 5,007,790. Those dosage forms consist
of a plurality of solid particles composed of a solid
drug dispersed in a hydrophilic water-swellable
crosslinked polymer. The polymers of the particle
imbibe water, causing the particles to swell and the
drug contained in the particle to dissolve and leach
from the particle. After the drug has leached from
the particles, the crosslinks of the polymer cleave to
allow the polymer to dissolve.In contrast to the polymers described in U.S.
Patent No. 5,007,790, the polymers used in the present
invention are not crosslinked. They are thus
inherently safer in that possible toxicity from any
residual crosslinking agent is avoided. In addition,
the particles made from the present polymers may be
formed into solid bodies (e.g., tablets) by direct
compression without binders. Binders had to be added
to the polymers of the prior patent in order to
compression-mold the particles. This lack of binder
makes the dosage 
forms easier to fabricate and less expensive. Finally, once
the particles have been ingested and they imbibe water, they
swell to a size which promotes retention, and they become
exceptionally soft and slippery. As a consequence of the
latter, they tend to resist expulsion from the stomach by the
peristaltic motion of the stomach walls better than the
particles of the prior patent.Hydroxyalkylcelluloses have been used commercially
as binders for sustained release tablets, and as ingredients
in ophthalmic preparations.The invention is a sustained-release oral drug
dosage form for releasing a solution of a drug into the
stomach comprising
a solid-state drug dispersed within non-crosslinked
hydroxyethylcellulose particles that (i) swell unrestricted
dimensionally via imbibition of gastric fluid to increase the
size of the particles to promote maintenance of the "fed mode in
the patient, with consequent increase in gastric
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sustained release oral drug dosage form
for releasing a solution of a drug into the stomach

comprising a solid-state drug dispersed within
hydroxyethylcellulose particles that (i) swell

unrestrained dimensionally via imbibition of water
from gastric fluid to increase the size of the

particles to promote maintenance of the fed mode in
the stomach with consequent increase in gastric

retention time of the particles, and makes the
particles slippery which also promotes their retention

within the stomach, (ii) permits dissolution of the
dispersed drug by imbibed gastric fluid while the drug

is within the particles and release of the resulting
solution, thus assuring that only drug in solution

contacts the gastric mucosa, (iii) protects
undissolved drug in the particles from stomach enzymes

or pH effects so that undegraded drug is delivered to
the stomach and duodenum, and (iv) maintains its

physical integrity over at least a substantial portion
of the time period during which the drug is released

into the stomach and then dissolves.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein the dosage form is in the form of a tablet or

capsule that maintains the particles in a packed mass
prior to their ingestion and then rapidly

disintegrates in the gastric fluid to permit the
particles to disperse in the stomach.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein the drug is aspirin, the sustained drug

delivery time period is 10-14 hours and the total dose
of aspirin delivered is 800 to 1400 mg. 
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein the drug is aspirin, the sustained time period

is 4 to 14 hours and the dose of aspirin is 20 to 100
mg.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein the drug is a 
Helicobacter pylori
 eradicant.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 5
wherein the eradicant is a bismuth salt,

metronidazole, amoxycillin, or a combination thereof.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 5
wherein the eradicant is amoxycillin or a bismuth salt

plus omiprazole, an H-2 antagonist, or an antacid.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein the particles are 1-5 mm in diameter in

maximum dimension.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein the particles are 2-4 mm in diameter in

maximum dimension.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 2
wherein the dosage form is a tablet, the particles are

spherical and 1-5 mm in diameter, and number 5-20 in
one tablet.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 2
wherein the dosage form is a capsule, the particles

are spherical and 1-5 mm in diameter, and number 10-200
in one capsule.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 10
wherein the dosage form is a tablet, the particles are

spherical and 2-4 mm in diameter. 
The dosage form in accordance with claim 11
wherein the dosage form is a capsule, the particles

are spherical and 2-4 mm in diameter.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
and including sufficient ionizable swelling agent to

osmotically cause imbibition of water and thereby
increase the rate and extent of swelling in water.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 14
wherein the swelling agent is sodium chloride and is

present in the particles at a concentration of 1 to 5
percent by weight.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 2
wherein the particles in said tablet or capsule

contain a first drug and wherein said tablet or
capsule also includes particles containing a second

drug which differs from said first drug dispersed
within said hydroxyethylcellulose particles.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 16
wherein the number of said first drug particles

differs from the number of said second drug particles,
said numbers of particles being selected to provide

the desired delivered dose of each of said first and
second drugs.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 16
wherein said first drug particles comprise

hydroxyethylcellulose and said second drug particles
comprise a second cellulose polymer different from

hydroxyethylcellulose, said second polymer being
selected to provide the desired release rates of said

second drug. 
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein said drug has a release rate greater than

desired because of its water solubility and including
sufficient long chain fatty acid ester of glycerin to

reduce the release rate of said drug to a lower rate.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 19
wherein the drug is potassium chloride.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 19
wherein the drug is a peptide.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 19
wherein the glyceryl ester is selected from glyceryl

monooleate, glyceryl behenate and glyceryl
monostearate, the selected ester/drug ratio being .5

to 4 moles of ester per mole of drug.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein said drug is cisapride.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein said drug is calcium carbonate.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein said drug is bismuth subsalicylate.
The dosage form in accordance with claim 1
wherein said drug is naproxen.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
