<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640191</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A DISC BRAKE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16D5500	F16D5500	F16D65853	F16D6500	F16D6578	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16D	F16D	F16D	F16D	F16D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16D55	F16D55	F16D65	F16D65	F16D65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A disc brake caliper which includes a cooling fluid gallery (23) which at least partially surrounds the or each brake operating piston and cylinder assembly (16, 17, 18) to cool the hydraulic fluid of the assembly. The gallery (23) is constructed to provide thin side walls for the piston and cylinder assemblies to maximise the cooling of the assemblies. The invention also provides a method for the casting of a caliper which includes such a cooling gallery.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to disc brake calipers 
and in particular but not exclusively to disc brakes calipers for 
high performance cars. In a typical disc brake caliper the caliper straddles the 
outer peripheral margin of a brake disc, the caliper having 
at least one hydraulic cylinder therein for applying 
friction pads to each side of the disc. With disc brakes of the type fitted to motor cars the 
friction pads engage opposed sectors of the disc over arcs 
of varying circumferential extent depending upon the 
braking requirements. When the brakes are applied, the 
pads grip onto the disc and friction heat is generated so 
that the brake disc can become red hot. In extreme 
applications, such as in racing cars, the calipers 
themselves may become overheated which can cause boiling of 
the hydraulic brake fluid. Various attempts have been made to reduce overheating of 
the brake fluid. For example, DE-A-1903437 discloses 
circulating coolant within a caliper and brake applying 
piston corresponding to the preamble of claim 1 to cool the brake fluid.  
 It is an object of the present invention to provide an 
improved form of disc brake caliper in which problems of 
overheating are still further mitigated. Thus according to the present invention there is provided a 
disc brake caliper having two limbs which in use straddle a 
brake disc to support friction pads on each side of a brake 
disc for engagement with opposed sectors of the disc, a 
hydraulic piston and cylinder assembly for operation of 
the brake via a brake applying circuit, a cooling fluid 
circuit, separate from the brake applying circuit, at least 
partially encircling the assembly, for the circulation of 
coolant within the caliper via pumping means for said 
caliper being characterised in that both limbs include two 
or more hydraulic piston and cylinder assemblies for 
operation of the brake, and in that the cooling circuit 
comprises an internal gallery in each limb, the two 
galleries being interconnected and each gallery partially 
encircles the cylinder of each assembly. By providing such a construction the galleries ensure 
improved heat transfer from each piston and cylinder 
assembly to the coolant fluid within the associated 
gallery.  
 Preferably each gallery weaves around the associated 
cylinders passing over and under adjacent cylinders. Conveniently the two caliper limbs are joined by 
circumferentially spaced bridges which pass over the outer 
periphery of the brake disc, and the galleries in the two 
limbs are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disc brake caliper (10) having two limbs (11,12) 
which in use straddle a brake d
isc to support 
friction pads (22) on each side of a brake disc for 

engagement with opposed sectors of the disc, a 
hydraulic piston and cylinder assembly (16, 17, 18) 

for operation of the brake via a brake applying 
circuit, a cooling fluid circuit (23A, 23B, 23C, 23D) 

separate from the brake applying circuit, at least 
partially encircling the assembly, for the 

circulation of coolant within the caliper via pumping 
means said caliper being characterised in that both 

limbs (11, 12) include two or more hydraulic piston 
and cylinder assemblies (16, 17, 18) for operation of 

the brake and in that the cooling circuit comprises 
an internal gallery (23A, 23B) in each limb, the two 

galleries being interconnected and each gallery 
partially encircles the cylinder of each assembly (16, 

17, 18) 
A disc brake caliper according to claim 1 
characterised in that each gallery (23) weaves around 

the associated cylinders (16, 17, 18) passing over 
and under adjacent cylinders.  

 
A disc brake caliper according to claim 1 or claim 2 
characterised in that the two caliper limbs (11,12) 

are joined by circumferentially spaced bridges 
(14A,14B) which pass over the outer periphery of the 

associated disc, and the galleries (23A,23B) in the 
two limbs are interconnected by passage means (23C) in 

either or each bridge. 
A disc brake caliper according to any one of claims I 
to 3 characterised in that one of the limbs (11) has 

an inlet (24) and outlet (25) for the interconnected 
galleries (23A,23B). 
A method of casting a disc brake caliper constructed 
according to claim 1 or a part of such a caliper, said 

method being characterised by comprising the steps of 
forming a female mould impression of the required 

external shape of the caliper or caliper part in a 
casting medium, forming a male core or cores shaped to 

define the cooling gallery or galleries which at least 
partially surrounds the region of the caliper or 

caliper part which is to include the piston bores, 
supporting the core in the correct relationship 

relative to the mould impression to provide the 
desired cooling gallery or galleries, pouring a 

casting material into the mould void formed between 
the impression and core or cores, allowing the  

 
casting material to solidify, removing the cast 

caliper or caliper part from the mould impression, 
and removing the core or cores from within the 

caliper or caliper part. 
A method according to claim 5 characterised in that 
the core or cores is removed from the caliper or 

caliper part by a chemical process. 
A method according to claim 5 or 6 characterised in 
that the gallery-forming core or cores is or are 

supported within the mould impression by core support 
pins which leave holes in the external surface of the 

cast caliper or caliper part when the caliper or 
caliper part is removed from the mould, said holes 

providing access to the gallery or galleries for the 
removal of the core or cores. 
A method according to claim 7 characterised by 
inserting locating probes through two or more of the 

holes to contact the inside surface of the cooling 
gallery or galleries thus locating the caliper or 

caliper part relative to the gallery or galleries, and 
forming one or more datum formations in the caliper or 

caliper part for location of the caliper or caliper 
part during subsequent machining.  

 
A method according to claim 7 or 8 characterised in 
that said holes are subsequently plugged either by the 

insertion of a plug into each hole or by a welding 
process. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
