<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613900</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Triazolopyrimidine derivatives with fungicidal activity
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N4390	A01N4390	C07D48700	C07D48704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A01N	C07D	C07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N43	A01N43	C07D487	C07D487	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to certain triazolopyrimidine 
derivatives of the general formula 


in which R¹ represents an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, 
alkynyl, alkadienyl, cycloalkyl, bicycloalkyl or heterocyclyl 

group; R² represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group; or R¹ and 
R² together with the interjacent nitrogen atom represent an 

optionally substituted cycloalkyl or heterocyclic ring; R³ 
represents an optionally substituted cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl 

group; and R⁴ represents a hydrogen or halogen atom or a group 
-NR⁵R⁶ where R⁵ represents a hydrogen atom or an amino, alkyl, 

cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl group and R⁶ represents a hydrogen atom 
or an alkyl group; processes for their preparation; compositions 

containing such compounds and their use as fungicides. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHELL INT RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHELL INTERNATIONALE RESEARCH MAATSCHAPPIJ B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEES KLAUS-JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEES, KLAUS-JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to certain triazolopyrimidine 
derivatives, a process for their preparation, compositions 
containing such compounds and their use as fungicides. Applicant's co-pending European application no. 92204097.7 
(Publication No. EP-A-550 113) 
discloses compounds of the general formula 
 
in which R1 represents an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, 
alkynyl, alkadienyl, cycloalkyl, bicycloalkyl or heterocyclyl 
group; R2 represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group; or R1 and 
R2 together with the interjacent nitrogen atom represent an 
optionally substituted heterocyclic ring; R3 represents an 
optionally substituted aryl group; and R4 represents a hydrogen or 
halogen atom or a group -NR5R6 where R5 represents a hydrogen atom 
or an amino, alkyl, cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl group and R6 
represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group. These compounds are 
fungicidally active, especially against fungi which are members of 
the ascomycete class such as Venturiainaequalis, Botrytiscinerea 
and Alternariasolani. It has now been discovered that certain cycloalkyl and 
heterocyclic analogues of the compounds of formula A also exhibit 
fungicidal activity. According to the invention there is therefore provided a  
 
compound of the general formula: 
 
in which R1 represents an optionally substituted alkyl, 
alkenyl, alkynyl, alkadienyl, cycloalkyl, bicycloalkyl or 
heterocyclyl group; R2 represents a hydrogen atom or an 
alkyl group; or R1 and R2 together with the interjacent 
nitrogen atom represent an optionally substituted 
heterocyclic ring; R3 represents an optionally 
substituted cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl group; and R4 
represents a hydrogen or halogen atom or a group -NR5R6 
where R5 represents a hydrogen atom or an amino, alkyl, 
cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl group and R6 represents a 
hydrogen atom or an alkyl group. When the compounds of this invention contain an 
alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl or alkadienyl substituent group, 
this may be linear or branched and contains up to 12, 
preferably up to 6 and especially up to 4, carbon atoms. 
A cycloalkyl group contains from 3 to 8, preferably 3 to 
6, carbon atoms. A bicycloalkyl group contains from 4 to 
12, preferably 4 to 8, carbon atoms. An aryl group may 
be any aromatic hydrocarbon group, especially a phenyl or 
naphthyl group. A heterocyclic ring may be any saturated 
or unsaturated 3- to 6-membered ring system containing at 
least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen and 
sulphur, with 5- and 6-membered rings being preferred.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A compound of the general formula 
 

in which 
   R¹ represents an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, 

alkynyl, alkadienyl, cycloalkyl, bicycloalkyl or heterocyclyl 
group; 

   R² represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group; or 
   R¹ and R² together with the interjacent nitrogen atom 

represent an optionally substituted heterocyclic ring; 
   R³ represents an optionally substituted cycloalkyl or 

heterocyclyl group; and 
   R⁴ represents a hydrogen or halogen atom or a group -NR⁵R⁶ 

where R⁵ represents a hydrogen atom or an amino, alkyl, cycloalkyl 
or bicycloalkyl group and R⁶ represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl 

group. 
A compound according to claim 1 in which R¹ represents a C₁₋₁₂ 
alkyl, C₂₋₆ alkenyl, C₂₋₆ alkynyl, C₄₋₁₂ alkadienyl, C₃₋₈ 

cycloalkyl or C₄₋₈ bicycloalkyl group or a 3- to 6-membered 
heterocyclic ring, each group or ring being optionally substituted 

by one or more substituents selected from halogen atoms, nitro, 
cyano, hydroxyl, C₁₋₄ alkyl, C₁₋₄ haloalkyl, C₁₋₄ alkoxy, C₁₋₄ 

haloalkoxy, amino, C₁₋₄ alkylamino, di-C₁₋₄ alkylamino, formyl, 
C₁₋₄ alkoxycarbonyl, carboxyl, phenyl, C₁₋₄ haloalkylphenyl, 

di-C₁₋₄ alkoxyphenyl, furyl and dihalo-C₃₋₆ cycloalkyl groups or, 
in the case where R¹ represents a C₃₋₈ cycloalkyl group or a 3- to 

 
6-membered heterocyclic ring, optionally ortho-fused with a benzene 

ring. 
A compound according to claim 1 or claim 2 in which R² 
represents a hydrogen atom or a C₁₋₄ alkyl group. 
A compound according to any one of the preceding claims in 
which R³ represents a C₃₋₈ cycloalkyl group or a 3- to 6-membered 

heterocyclic ring, each group or ring being optionally substituted 
by one or more substituents selected from halogen atoms, nitro, 

cyano, hydroxyl, C₁₋₄ alkyl, C₁₋₄ haloalkyl, C₁₋₄ alkoxy, 
C₁₋₄ haloalkoxy, amino, C₁₋₄ alkylamino, di-C₁₋₄ alkylamino, 

formyl, C₁₋₄ alkoxycarbonyl, carboxyl, phenyl, phenoxy and 
benzyloxy groups. 
A compound according to any one of the preceding claims in 
which R⁴ represents a hydrogen or halogen atom or a group -NR⁵R⁶ 

where R⁵ represents a hydrogen atom or an amino C₁₋₄ alkyl, C₃₋₆ 

cycloalkyl or C₄₋₈ bicycloalkyl group and R⁶ represents a hydrogen 
atom or a C₁₋₄ alkyl group. 
A compound according to any one of the preceding claims in 
which R¹ represents a propyl, cyclopentyl or bicycloheptyl group; 

R² represents a hydrogen atom; R³ represents a thienyl group; and 
R⁴ represents a chlorine atom. 
A compound according to claim 1 as named in any one of 
Examples 1 to 3. 
A process for the preparation of a compound of formula I as 
defined in any one of the preceding claims which comprises 


(a) reacting a compound of the general formula 
 

in which R³ is as defined in any one of the preceding claims and 
Hal represents a chlorine or bromine atom, with a compound of the 

 
general formulaHNR¹R²   (III)

 
in which R¹ and R² are as defined in any one of the preceding 

claims, to produce a compound of formula I in which R⁴ represents a 
chlorine or bromine atom; 
(b) if desired, reacting the compound of formula I formed in (a) 
with a fluorinating agent to produce a compound of formula I in 

which R⁴ represents a fluorine atom; 
(c) if desired, reacting the compound of formula I formed in (a) 
with a reducing agent to produce a compound of formula I in which 

R⁴ represents a hydrogen atom; 
(d) if desired, reacting the compound of formula I formed in (a) 
with a compound of the general formulaHNR⁵R⁶   (IV)

 
in which R⁵ and R⁶ are as defined in any one of the preceding 

claims, to produce a compound of formula I in which R⁴ represents a 
group -NR⁵R⁶; and 
(e) if desired, reacting a compound of formula I formed in (d) in 
which R⁵ and R⁶ both represent a hydrogen atom with diiodomethane 

in the presence of a diazotising agent to produce a compound of 
formula I in which R⁴ represents an iodine atom. 
A process according to claim 8 substantially as hereinbefore 
described and with reference to Example 1. 
A compound of formula I whenever prepared by a process 
according to claim 8 or claim 9. 
A fungicidal composition which comprises a carrier and, as 
active ingredient, a compound of formula I as defined in any one of 

claims 1 to 7 and 10. 
A composition according to claim 11 which comprises two 
carriers, at least one of which is a surface-active agent. 
A method of combating fungus at a locus which comprises 
treating the locus with a compound of formula I as defined in any 

 
one of claims 1 to 7 and 10 or with a composition as defined in 

claim 11 or claim 12. 
A method according to claim 13 in which the locus comprises 
plants subject to or subjected to fungal attack, seeds of such 

plants or the medium in which such plants are growing or are to be 
grown. 
The use as a fungicide of a compound of formula I as defined 
in any one of claims 1 to 7 and 10 or a composition as defined in 

claim 11 or claim 12. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
