<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634351</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Web imprinting apparatus and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H23188	B65H23188	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H23	B65H23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved printer (10) is disclosed which has upright and 
inverted printers (25,30) for printing either or both faces of a 

flat web. A stepper motor driven nip (40,42) is provided to feed 
the web along a path of travel past the two imprinters. The web 

is driven at a relatively high feed speed until sections of the 
web to be imprinted are registered with the imprinters, whereupon 

the feed speed is reduced to a slower imprinting speed. Upon 
completion of the imprinting, web feed is returned to the higher 

rate providing a downstream dancer (35) is in condition to accept 
the web at the higher rate. If the amount of web accumulated in 

the downstream dancer exceeds a predetermined level, the motor 
(44) is stopped until the dancer is in condition to receive the 

web at the higher feed speed rate. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTOMATED PACKAGING SYST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTOMATED PACKAGING SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEHRMANN RICK STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEHRMANN, RICK STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to web processing 
equipment and more particularly, but not exclusively, to a method 
and apparatus of imprinting a web for subsequent use in packaging 
or other applications. In packaging and other operations, it is often desirable to 
imprint information on a section of a web before that section is 
made into a package or put to other use. The information may be 
such things as a part number, instructions for use of a product 
to be packaged or identification of applications where a packaged 
product is suitable for use. Thermal imprinters for imprinting such information on a web 
are now well known. One such imprinter is described and claimed 
in the present applicants' co-pending European Patent Application 
No. 93302583, filed April 1, 1993 under the title "Packaging 
Machine with Thermal Imprinter and Method", the content of which 
is herein incorporated by reference (the Teeter-Totter 
Imprinter). With the Teeter-Totter Imprinter, a web is fed from 
a supply along a path of travel to an output until registration 
of a section to be imprinted with an imprinter is achieved and 
then the feed is stopped. Thereupon a rocking mechanism--the 
teeter-totter--is actuated to feed the web section past the 
imprinter while feed of the web is otherwise stopped. Next, the 
web is again advanced until another section to be imprinted is 
registered with the imprinter and feed is again stopped. While the Teeter-Totter device has enjoyed commercial 
success and is ideal for certain applications, it nonetheless has 
certain drawbacks. One of these is that the feed is an on-off 
feed. Each time the feed is stopped, there is some amount of 
delay before a supply dancer mechanism reaches an equilibrium 
achieving desired tension on the web. Further, on initiation of 
feed, inertia of rest of the supply must be overcome and further 
dancer delay in response may result in momentary tension on the 
web at levels in excess of the desired tension. The Teeter-Totter device due to its start and stop mode of 
operation is relatively slow and can limit the cycling rate of, 
for example, a packaging machine such as that described and  
 
claimed in the present applicants' European Patent Application 
No. 93306802, filed August 26, 1993 under the title "Packaging 
Machine and Method" (the HS-100 application) the content of which 
is also incorporated herein by reference. It is an object of the present invention to provide an 
improved web imprinting apparatus and method of web imprinting.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A machine (10) for processing a web, including performing a 
work operation on the web, the machine comprising 


a) a mechanism (25,30) for performing a work operation 
cyclically on a web; 
b) structure delineating a path of travel (14,18,20,27, 
40,48,50) from a supply (16) past the mechanism to an output 

location (35); 
c) the structure including a web feed drive means (40,42) 
along the path and downstream from the mechanism for pulling the 

web to feed it from the supply along the path; characterized by 
d) position sensing means (38) along the path and adapted 
to sense registration of a web section to be worked on with the 

mechanism and to emit a drive feed control signal upon sensing 
such registration; and, 
e) said drive means being responsive to such control 
signal to reduce the speed of web travel from a relatively high 

feed speed to a relative low work performance feed speed and 
re-establish the relatively high feed speed upon completion of a 

work cycle. 
A machine according to Claim 1, wherein the mechanism (25, 
30) is an imprinter. 
A machine according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, further 
including a web slack-absorbing means (35) downstream from the 

feed drive (40,42) for tensioning a web between the feed drive 
and the output. 
A machine according to Claim 3, further including slack-sensing 
means (51) connected to the slack-absorbing means (35) 

and operatively connected to the drive means (40,42) the sensing 
means being adapted to sense a condition of the slack-absorbing 

means (35) and emit a feed control signal to the drive means upon 
sensing the slack-absorbing means condition. 
A machine according to any of Claims 2 to 4, wherein there 
are two imprinters (25,30) respectively positioned on opposite 

sides of the path for imprinting opposed faces of a web. 
A machine according to Claim 5, wherein one of the 
imprinters is upright (30) and the other is inverted (25). 
A machine according to Claim 5 or 6, wherein each of the 
imprinters (25,30) is responsive to said signals to initiate 

concurrent imprinting of the opposed faces of such a web as such 
web is fed at the slower feed rate. 
A machine according to any of the preceding Claims, wherein 
a path length adjustment means (48,50) is positioned along the 

path for adjusting the path length. 
A machine according to any of the preceding Claims, wherein 
an output da
ncer (35) is positioned along the path and wherein an 
output dancer condition sensor (51) is connected to the output 

dancer and the web feed drive means (40,42) for emitting drive 
means feed control signals when a predetermined output dancer 

condition is sensed. 
A machine according to Claim 9, wherein the sensed output 
dancer condition is that the length of web in the output dancer 

is relatively long such that the output dancer cannot accommodate 
a high feed rate, and the output signal is a disabling signal. 
A method of processing an elongate web, comprising: 

a) feeding the web along a path of travel (14,17,25,30, 
48,50) at a relatively high feed rate; 
b) sensing registration of a web section to be processed 
relative to a processing mechanism (25,30) positioned along the 

path; characterized by 
c) slowing the web feed to a processing speed and 
imprinting the web section with a predetermined display; 
d) sensing the completion of the imprinting step; and, 
e) thereafter re-establishing the high feed rate. 
A method according to Claim 11, further including the step 
of collecting portions of a web with an accumulator (35) near an 

output end of the path downstream from a location where the web 
is imprinted and delaying the re-establishment of the high feed 

rate when the quantity of web collected exceeds a predetermined 
amount. 
A method according to Claim 11 or 12, further including the 
step of concurrently imprinting opposed faces of the web. 
A method according to Claim 13, wherein the concurrent 
imprinting is performed at spaced locations along the path. 
A method according to any of Claims 11 to 14, further 
including adjusting the length of the path between a location 

where registration is sensed and a location where the web is 
imprinted to provide appropriate registration of the web at the 

imprinting location. 
A method according to any of Claims 11 to 15, further 
including the steps of: 


a) threading the web along a path of travel (14,17,25,30, 
48,50) through the machine to set up the machine for operation; 
b) jogging a powered nip (40,42) until at least one 
registration indicium is detected by a detector (38); 
c) adjusting the length of the web path to bring a 
section of one face of the web to be imprinted into registration 

with an upright imprinter (30) and to bring a section of a lower 
face of the web to be imprinted into registration with an 

inverted imprinter (25); and 
d) thereafter repetitively feeding the web at a high 
rate of speed until a registration condition is sensed, slowing 

the web feed to an imprinting speed, imprinting the web and 
 

thereafter cyclically and sequentially returning to the high and 
then the low feed rate for repetitive imprintings. 
A method according to any of Claims 13 to 16, wherein the 
slower imprinting speed is maintained until each of the 

imprinters (25,30) has completed its application of printing to 
the web. 
Any novel subject matter or combination including novel 
subject matter disclosed, whether or not within the scope of or 

relating to the same invention as any of the preceding claims. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
