<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635161</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-BEAM ELECTRON GUN FOR MONOCHROME CRT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J2954	H01J2948	H01J2948	H04N568	H04N310	H01J2954	H04N568	H04N328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H04N	H04N	H01J	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J29	H01J29	H01J29	H04N5	H04N3	H01J29	H04N5	H04N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-beam electron gun for use in a monochrome cathode ray tube (CRT) such as used in a black and white television receiver, a projection television receiver, or a computer monitor includes (G1) control (46) and (G2) screen grids (48) each having a plurality of vertically aligned apertures for forming electron beams which are deflected in unison across the CRT's display screen to simultaneously trace a plurality of vertically spaced, horizontal scan lines with each display screen sweep. The electron beams are deflected across the screen in a raster-like manner with each beam containing video information for each adjacent scan line. The (G1) control grid includes a plurality of discrete conductive portions each including a respective beam passing aperture and each coupled to a respective video signal source, with the video signal sources including memory for storing video signal information for subsequent display.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHUNGHWA PICTURE TUBES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHUNGHWA PICTURE TUBES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN HSING-YAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, HSING-YAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to monochrome
cathode ray tubes (CRTs) and is particularly directed to a
multi-beam electron gun for use in a monochrome CRT.Over the past three decades, due to increasing
advances in and general acceptance of color television,
monochrome CRT design and development efforts have been
directed almost exclusively toward use in computer monitors,
projection television receivers, and very high resolution
medical applications. A color CRT employs a plurality of
electron beams, each beam providing a primary color, whereas a
monochrome CRT makes use of a single electron beam. However in
both cases the electron beam, or beams, are horizontally
swept across the CRT's display screen in a raster-like manner.
The most important operating criteria for a monochrome
CRT display are typically high video image resolution and
brightness. Unfortunately, these two operating criteria are
inter-related such that improvement in one performance parameter
generally has an adverse effect on the other.Other important monochrome CRT performance
criteria relate to the magnetic deflection yoke scan frequency
and cathode electron emission density. A high
deflection yoke scan frequency is generally required for
high video image resolution, while high electron emission
density is required to provide a high level of video image
brightness and resolution. Increased deflection yoke scan
frequencies not only require increased input power, but also
substantially increase the cost of the CRT deflection yoke.
To maintain a high level of video image brightness without
diminishing image resolution, a dispenser cathode is sometimes
incorporated in the CRT. Dispenser cathodes are expensive,
however, costing approximately 50 times more than a
conventional oxide cathode. Video image brightness is also a concern in projection
television receivers. A conventional electrostatic
focusing electron gun cannot meet both the beam spot size
(resolution) and brightness operating criteria because of
the large size of a projection television receiver display.
A combined electrostatic and magnetic focusing arrangement
is typically employed in a high definition television (HDTV)
system, which increases the complexity and cost over that of
a conventional electron gun and deflection yoke system. In
addition, in a high resolution electron gun due to a high
video drive frequency, the capacitance of the cathode has to
be reduced to 2 pf, or less, which requires a specialized
design of increased cost. In the past, multi-beam electron
gum
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus in the form of an electron gun (36) for a
monochrome cathode ray tube (CRT) including a display screen

(57) whereon a video image is formed by sweeping an incident
electron beam generally horizontally over a plurality of

successive vertically spaced, horizontal scan lines in a
raster-like manner, said electron gun comprising: cathode

means (38) for providing energetic electrons; a beam forming
region (BFR) (43) disposed adjacent to said cathode means (38)

and including first and second charged grids (46, 48)
respectively having first and second arrays of spaced apertures

(46a, 46b and 48a, 48b) for forming said energetic electrons
into a plurality of beams (42, 44), wherein each of said first

and second arrays of apertures are aligned generally vertically
and wherein each aperture of said first array is aligned with a

respective aperture in said second array so as to form the
energetic electrons into a plurality of spaced, generally

vertically aligned electron beams (42, 44); and lens means (45)
including third and fourth charged grids (50,52) disposed

intermediate said BFR (43) and the CRT's display screen (57)
for receiving said vertically aligned, spaced electron beams

(42, 44) and focusing the electron beams as vertically aligned,
spaced spots on the display screen, wherein each electron beam

is simultaneously swept over a respective scan line in forming
a video image on the display screen, characterized in that said

third and fourth charged grids (50,52) respectively include
first and second vertically elongated apertures (50a, 52a) for

passing and focusing the electron beams (42, 44) on the display
screen (57).
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that
each of said first and second arrays of apertures includes two

vertically aligned apertures (46a, 46b and 48a, 48b).
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that
each of said first and second arrays of apertures includes

three vertically aligned apertures (80a, 80b, 80c and 94a, 94b,
94c). 
Apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in
that said first grid (46) includes a plurality of vertically

aligned, charged portions (60, 62) each including a respective
aperture (46a, 46b) of said first array of apertures and

wherein each charged portion has an essentially equal

capacitance.
Apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in that
said first grid (46) further includes means for defining one or

more non-conductive insulating gaps (64) each disposed
intermediate adjacent charged portions.
Apparatus according to claim 5, characterized in that
said charged portions (60, 62) are comprised of metal.
Apparatus according to claim 6, characterized by a
plurality of video signal sources (32a, 32b) each coupled to a

respective charged portion of said first grid (46) for
providing respective video signals thereto.
Apparatus according to claim 7, characterized by
respective memory means (33a, 33b) in each of said video signal

sources (32a, 32b) for storing a received video signal for
subsequent display on the display screen (57) by a

corresponding electron beam (42, 44).
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that
said third grid (50) further includes a third vertically

elongated aperture (50b) aligned with said first and second
elongated apertures (50a, 50b) and wherein said first and third

elongated apertures are disposed in opposed surfaces of said
third grid.
Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said first grid
(46) is comprised of a cup-shaped ceramic body (106) having a

first open end in facing relation to the cathode (38) and a
second, opposed closed end including said charged portions

(60,62) and said one or more insulating gaps (64).
Apparatus according to claim 10, characterized in that
said apertures (46a, 46b) are spaced on the order of 50 mils

apart center-to-center.
Apparatus according to claim 11, characterized in that
said first charged grid (46) is comprised of a ceramic

substrate (47) having upper and lower brazed metal portions
(60, 62) on the second closed end thereof. 
Apparatus according to claim 12, characterized in that
said insulating gap (64) is formed by etching said upper and

lower brazed metal portions (60, 62).
Apparatus according to claim 13, characterized in that
said grid is comprised of a ceramic substrate (47) having upper

and lower crimped-on metal portions (60, 62).
Apparatus according to claim 14, characterized in that
said insulating gap (64) is formed by etching said upper and

lower crimped-on metal portions (60, 62).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
