<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631670</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHOTOLUMINESCENT RETROREFLECTIVE SHEETING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B3714	B32B3720	B32B3804	B32B3804	B32B3806	B32B3806	B32B3814	B32B3814	F21K200	F21K200	G02B512	G02B5124	G02B5128	G09F1316	G09F1316	G09F1320	G09F1320	G09F1922	G09F1922	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	F21K	F21K	G02B	G02B	G02B	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B37	B32B37	B32B38	B32B38	B32B38	B32B38	B32B38	B32B38	F21K2	F21K2	G02B5	G02B5	G02B5	G09F13	G09F13	G09F13	G09F13	G09F19	G09F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting (10) for use in structures when a power outage occurs. Guidance systems are made from this sheeting to mark exits and escape routes as well as possible hazards and safety devices. The novel sheeting includes photoluminescent (14) properties that glow in the dark as well as retroreflective (12) properties that retroreflect light incident upon the same sheet such that only one sheet has to be used rather than individual sheets with separate properties.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STIMSONITE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STIMSONITE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SZOPINSKI ALEX A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAMPA DANIEL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SZOPINSKI, ALEX, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAMPA, DANIEL, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONPHOTOLUMINESCENT RETROREFLECTIVE SHEETINGTECHNICAL FIELDThe invention relates generally to a photoluminescent retroreflective sheet material for use as a guide marker and which has particular utility in buildings when a power outage occurs. Specifically, the present invention relates to a photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting combining both photoluminescent and retroreflective properties in a single product to be used to form a marker system to help indicate exits, doorways, hazards, OSHA markings, pipe markings, high voltage areas, fire hoses and extinguishers and the like, when it is dark in the building, perhaps when caused by a power outage.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe term "building" as used throughout this application is intended to include any structure such as an aircraft, boat or other moveable and non-moveable conventional structures. It is well known that within buildings at night or especially when the power has been lost, it is difficult to find ones way along the necessary corridors to the building exits. Similarly, in some emergencies, the location of important fixtures such as fire alarms, extinguishers, shut-off valves and the like are difficult to find. 

 In the prior art, a photoluminescent material is utilized as a guide for such purposes. The luminous material is attached to doorways, hallways, and the like, so that in the event of a power outage, the photoluminescent material will glow in the dark and guide a person to an exit or along a prescribed path. Of course, it is only useful to those individuals in the building that have adjusted their eyes to the darkness. Further, the luminescence produced is significantly lost within the first 20 minutes of an "outage." This makes it virtually useless to anyone entering the building after a short period of time.The present invention overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art by providing a single sheeting material having both photoluminescent and retroreflective properties. The sheeting should exhibit the same photoluminescent properties as the current product being used, and it has significant retroreflective properties. Thus it is an important object of the present invention to provide a photoluminescent retroreflective sheet material that is designed to provide both photoluminescence and retroreflection of light.It is also an object of the present invention to provide a photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting in which a phosphorescent pigment is added to the retroreflective layer.It is a further object of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising:
(a) a first layer of film having front and rear surfaces;
(b) a second layer of retroreflecting elements juxtaposed with said rear surface to retroreflect light impinging on said front surface of said first layer; (c) a third layer overlying said rear surface and adhered thereto in a pattern over portions of said rear surface while being essentially out of contact with portions of said retroreflecting elements, so as to define a pattern of cells containing said retroreflecting elements;
(d) an adhesive fourth layer applied to said third layer to adhere said sheeting to an underlying associated surface; and
(e) a phosphorescent pigment contained within one or more of said first, second, third or fourth layers to cause said sheet material to glow in the dark.
2. The sheeting of Claim 1, and further including a layer of hydrophobic silica disposed within said cells.
3. The sheeting of Claim 2, in which said third layer is a clear adhesive.
4. The sheeting of Claim 3, in which said phosphorescent pigment is provided in said clear layer. 


 5. The sheeting of Claim 1, and further including a fifth opaque layer disposed between said third layer and said fourth layer.
6. The sheeting of Claim 5, wherein said opaque fifth layer is white.
7. The sheeting of Claim 1, wherein said film of said first layer is generally transparent and in which the retroreflecting elements of said second layer are comprised of cube corner elements integrally formed on said rear surface of said first layer.
8. The sheeting of Claim 7, in which said phosphorescent pigment is provided in said first layer.
9. The sheeting of Claim 8, in which said film is flexible and said cube corner retroreflecting elements are formed by embossing.
10. The sheeting of Claim 1, in which said retroreflective elements constitute cube corner retroreflective elements formed by casting against said first layer.
11. The sheeting of Claim 1, in which at least a portion of said retroreflecting elements are metalized and said adhesive layer is applied to portions of said metalized surfaces.
12. The sheeting of Claim 1, wherein said retroreflective elements comprise a matrix of microshperea beads. 


 13. In a cube corner retroreflective sheeting comprising a relatively transparent and flexible film having a plurality of cube corner retroreflective elements on the rear surface thereof and having one or more additional layers of backcoating or metallizing and adhesive applied thereto, the improvement consisting of a phosphorescent pigment within one or more of said layers so that said sheeting will glow in the dark for a limited time.
14. A photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising: a first layer of retroreflective film having a first side and a pattern of cube corner retroreflector elements formed on the reverse side to retroreflect light when illuminated by a light source; a second layer of clear adhesive screen printed in a pattern and cured on said cube corner elements; a third layer of film adhered to the printed pattern and otherwise spaced from said uncoated cube corner elements; an adhesive layer formed on said film for attaching the sheet to a surface; a release liner removably secured to the adhesive layer to prevent inadvertent contact of the adhesive layer with a surface; and a phosphorescent pigment contained in at least one of said first, second or third layers to cause the sheeting to glow in the dark, and coloration pigmentation contained within one or more layers disposed behind said layer containing said phosphorescent pigment. 


 15. The photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting as in claim 14, wherein said phosphorescent pigment is in said second layer of clear adhesive.
16. The photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting as in claim 14, wherein said phosphorescent pigment is in said first layer of retroreflective film.
17. The photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting as in claim 14, wherein the screen-printed pattern of adhesive creates air cells that are sealed by the pigmented film layer.
18. Photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising: a transparent film having cube corner retroreflectors embossed on the reverse side thereof for retroreflecting light incident on said film; a layer of hydrophobic silica screen printed in a pattern on the cube corner elements; a clear back coating containing phosphorescent pigment formed over the hydrophobic silica layer and the exposed cube corner elements to cause the sheeting to glow in the dark; an adhesive secured to the back coating for attaching the sheet to a surface. 


 19. Photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising: a layer of transparent extruded film embossed on the rear surface with retroreflective cube corner elements that retroreflect light incident on said film; a phosphorescent pigment contained in the extruded film so said layer will be photoluminescent and will glow in the dark; hydrophobic silica screen-printed in a predetermined pattern on the extruded cube corner elements; a white pigmented adhesive formed over the silica pattern and the exposed cube corner elements for attaching the sheet to a surface; and a release liner attached to said adhesive to prevent inadvertent contact of said adhesive with a surface.
20. Photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising: a first layer of transparent thermoplastic film embossed on the rear surface thereof with retroreflective cube corner elements for retroreflecting light; a phosphorescent pigment included in the film to form a photoluminescent composition such that said first layer glows in the dark; hydrophobic silica screen printed on the phosphorescent pigment in a predetermined pattern; a white pigmented water-based back coating formed over the hydrophobic silica pattern; 


 a layer of adhesive attached to the back coating for attaching the sheet to a surface; and a release liner attached to the layer of adhesive to prevent accidental contact of the adhesive with a surface.
21. A method of forming a photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising the steps of: embossing cube corner retroreflector elements on the reverse side of a thin flexible film to form a retroreflective layer that will produce retroreflective illumination upon receiving incident light; screen printing a second layer of clear adhesive in a predetermined pattern on said layer of embossed cube corner elements; curing said second layer; laminating a third layer of film on the printed pattern; applying an adhesive fourth layer to the third film layer for attaching the sheeting to a surface; removably securing a release liner to the adhesive layer to prevent inadvertent contact of the adhesive layer with a surface; and including a phosphorescent pigment in at least one of said first, second or third layers to cause the sheeting to glow in the dark.
22. The method as in claim 21, further including the step of placing the phosphorescent pigment in the second layer of clear adhesive. 


 23. The method as in claim 21, further comprising the step of placing the phosphorescent pigment in the retroreflective film first layer.
24. The method as in claim 21, further including the step of placing the phosphorescent pigment in the third film layer laminated on the printed pattern.
25. The method as in claim 21, further including the step of creating air cells with the screen-printed adhesive pattern that are sealed by the third film layer.
26. A method of forming a photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising the steps of: embossing cube corner retroreflectors in the reverse side of a transparent flexible film to form a retroreflective layer for retroreflecting incident light; screen-printing a layer of hydrophobic silica in a predetermined pattern on the cube corners; forming a clear water-based back coating containing phosphorescent pigment over the hydrophobic silica layer to cause the sheet to glow in the dark; applying a pigmented adhesive to the back coating for attaching the sheet to a surface; and removably attaching a release liner to the pigmented adhesive to prevent inadvertent contact of the adhesive with a surface. 


 27. A method of forming a photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising the steps of: phosphorescent pigment containing film to form a photoluminescent film layer that glows in the dark; embossing cube corner retroreflectors on the rear surface of a layer of film for the purpose of retroreflecting incident light; screen printing hydrophobic silica in a pattern on the extruded film cube corners; forming a pigmented adhesive over the silica pattern for attaching the sheet to a surface; and securing a release liner to the pigmented adhesive to prevent inadvertent contact of the adhesive with a surface.
28. A method of forming a photoluminescent retroreflective sheeting comprising the steps of: embossing a layer of extruded transparent thermoplastic film including a phosphorescent pigment with cube corner retroreflector elements on the rear surface thereof for retroreflecting light, and which provides a photoluminescent film layer that glows in the dark; screen-printing a hydrophobic silica on the embossed cube corner retroreflectors in a predetermined pattern; forming a white pigmented water-based back coating over the hydrophobic silica pattern; applying a layer of adhesive to the back coating for attaching the sheet to a surface; and attaching a release liner to the layer of adhesive to prevent accidental contact of the adhesive with a surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
