<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644580</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A wafer processor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B726	G11B726	H01L2100	H01L2100	H01L2167	H01L21687	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B7	G11B7	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wafer processor includes a portable processing head that can be a portable module 
or a movable unit mounted to a supporting machine frame. The processing head has 

movable fingers adapted to grip a wafer. The fingers protrude from a protective wafer 
plate. Indexing and rotation monitoring assemblies are provided for automation of the 

wafer processing steps. A complementary processing base includes an upwardly-open 
bowl that receives a wafer held by the portable processing head. It has a full-diameter 

movable bottom wall for rapid draining purposes. Liquid and/or gas jets and nozzles 
supply fluids required within the bowl for processing of wafers. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMITOOL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMITOOL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OWCZARZ ALEKSANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON RAYMON F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OWCZARZ ALEKSANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON RAYMON F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The technical field of this invention relates to single wafer processors for 
holding, transporting and processing individual semiconductor wafers in conjunction 
with fluid treatment of at least one wafer surface. Chemical processing of semiconductor wafers and similar substrates is often 
carried out with respect to relatively large batches of wafers. Typically as many as 
twenty or thirty wafers are simultaneously immersed in a fluid (liquid or gas) or are 
subjected to fluid sprays. While this is highly effective for rinsing and drying of 
wafers, as well as for many conventional high volume manufacturing applications, it 
is of questionable economy where more expensive wafers or substrates are being 
processed, particularly during more complex or critical processing conditions. Such 
large-scale batch treatments of wafers multiply potential loss due to malfunction in the 
processing steps. Batch handling of wafers also interrupts the normal individualized 
handling and development of more expensive and exotic wafers or substrates. Individual handling and processing of wafers has also been increasingly dictated 
by the greater size of wafers coming into use today, as compared to earlier wafers. 
Where wafers once were 5 to 7.5 cm (2 or 3 in) in diameter, some are now as large 
as 20 cm (8 in) in diameter, and wafers having a diameter of 30 cm (12 in) are being 
used experimentally. This increase in size drastically increases the number of devices 
on each wafer, and correspondingly increases their potential value. Manufacturers can 
no longer economically risk the loss of such large numbers of devices to the many 
unpredictable variations encountered in batch processing operations. US-A-4788994 (Shinbara) discloses apparatus for surface treating a wafer, 
having a rotatable processing head allowing the wafer to be lowered into a treatment 
chamber and then raised out of it. The wafer is held above a wafer plate forming part 
of the processing head by upright, radially movable pillars or similar elements for 
holding the periphery of the wafer. It is an object of the invention to minimize the economic losses associated with 
use of prior processes.  According to one aspect of this invention, there is provided a single wafer 
processor, including a processing head which is centred about a first reference axis and 
includes: a wafer plate coaxially centred about the first reference axis at one axial end 
of the processing head, ad having oppositely facing inner ad outer surfaces; drive 
means operably
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A processor for semiconductor wafers or similar articles, including: 
   a processing bowl (70); 

   a wafer holder (40) for holding a wafer or other article within the 
processing bowl; 

and characterised in that: 
   the processing bowl has a movable wall (72) which seals against other 

portions of the processing bowl (71) and can be controllably removed therefrom 
to allow processing fluids to pass. 
A processor according to claim 1, and further characterised by an actuator 
means (84) for controllably moving the movable wall (72). 
A processor according to claim 1, and further characterised by said movable 
wall being a bottom wall of the processing bowl. 
A processor according to claim 1, and further characterised by a drain (85) 
which is accessed when the movable wall is placed in an open condition. 
A processor according to claim 1, and further characterised by a bellows (80) 
which is connected to the movable wall. 
A single wafer processor, including a processing head (12) which includes: 
   a wafer support (30) mounted for movement relative to the processing 

head (12), and having inner and outer surfaces (31, 32); 
   drive means (34) operably connected to the wafer support (30) for 

selectively moving the wafer support relative to the processing head; and 
   a plurality of gripping fingers (40) arranged for selectively holding a 

wafer (10) adjacent the outer surface (32) of the wafer support (30); 
   the processor being characterised by:

 
   a processing base (70), including a bowl having a side wall (71) a 

sealing surface (41) and a movable bottom wall (72) which can be engaged 
with the sealing surface (41), the side wall (71) and the bottom wall (72) 

together forming an upwardly-open bowl interior. 
A processor according to claim 6, characterised in that the processing base (70) 
further comprises: 

   an annular trough (78) about the side wall (71) for collecting liquid that 
escapes outward over the side wall (71). 
A processor according to claim 6 or claim 7, characterised in that the 
processing base (70) further comprises: 

   an enclosure a wall having a lower wall (82) extending across the 
bottom of the cylindrical wall (71); and 

   an annular bellows (80) interposed between the lower wall (82) of the 
enclosure and the bottom wall (72) of the bowl for movably supporting the 

bottom wall (72) during axial movement relative to the side wall (71) of the 
bowl. 
A single wafer processor including a processing head (12) which includes: 
   a wafer support (30) mounted for movement relative to the processing 

head (12), and having inner and outer surfaces (31, 32); 
   drive means (34) operably connected to the wafer support (30) for 

selectively moving it relative to the processing head; 
   a plurality of gripping fingers (40) connected to the wafer support for 

holding a wafer (10) adjacent the outer surface (32) of the wafer support (30); 
and 

   characterised in that: 
   the gripping fingers (40) protrude from the outer surface of the wafer 

support (30); 
   actuator means (50, 51) for selectively moving the gripping fingers (40) 

by angular deflection between closed positions and open position. 
A processor according to claim 9, characterised by a shroud (18) including a 
peripheral flange (19) surrounding the wafer support (30), the flange being 

adapted to engage a complementary peripheral surface (75) presented about a 
supporting processing base (70) for the processing head (12). 
A processor according to claim 9 or claim 10, characterised in that each finger 
(40) is individually mounted in the wafer support (30) within a flexible 

supporting diaphragm (42). 
A processor according to any of claims 9 to 11, characterised in that the 
actuator means comprises: 

   an annular ring (50) and 
   at least one linear actuator (51) located within the processing head (12) 

and connected to the annular ring (50). 
A processor according to any of claims 9 to 11, characterised by yieldable 
biasing means (53) operably connected to the fingers (40) for normally urging 

them to their closed positions. 
A processor according to claim 13, characterised in that the actuator means 
comprises: 

   an annular ring (50) and 
   at least one linear actuator (51) located within the processing head (12) 

and connected to the annular ring (50). 
A processing base (70) for use with a movable processing head (12) for a single 
semiconductor wafer, the processing base including a stationary processing 

bowl within which at least one surface of a wafer (10) held by a portable 
processing head (12) is to be subjected to contact with a processing fluid, 

characterised in that the bowl includes a stationary circumferential side wall 
(71) having a sealing surface and an axially movable bottom wall (72) adapted 

 
to sealingly engage the sealing surface of the side wall (71), the side wall (71) 

and the bottom wall (72) together forming an upwardly-open bowl interior. 
A processing base according to claim 10, characterised by: 
   an enclosure having a lower wall (82) 

   an annular bellows (80) interposed between the lower wall (82) of the 
enclosure and the bottom wall (72) of the bowl for movably supporting the 

bottom wall (72). 
A processing base according to claim 11, further characterised by actuator 
means (84) within the bellows (80) for moving the bottom wall (72). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
