<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642910</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INSERT MOLDED ARTICLE, AND APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING THE INSERT MOLDED ARTICLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4514	B29C4514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C45	B29C45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for producing an insert molded article involves the steps of pre-forming a patterned 
insert material (7) clamped at an end portion thereof by clamp means (13) into a predetermined shape corresponding 

to a cavity formation surface (5,6) of a male or female die (2,3) of an injection molding die (1) by pre-forming 
means (10), triming unnecessary portions of the patterned insert material thus pre-formed by trimming means (20) 

let it swell out from the peripherical edge of the surface of a cubic molded article (60) formed by a molding resin 
(9), fitting the patterned insert material thus trimmed into the cavity formation surface of the male or female die of 

the injection molding die, clamping the male and female dies to form a cavity (8) by the cavity formation surfaces, 
injecting the molding resin into the cavity, and removing the insert molded article from the injection molding die after 

cooling and solidification of the molding resin. When pre-forming described above is carried out, the patterned insert 
material can be pre-formed in such a manner as to profile the shape of a protuberance portion of a pre-forming die 

using the fre-forming die having a protuberance the shape of which corresponds to that of the cavity formation surface 
of the injection molding die. Before the patterned insert material is pre-formed, it is possible to heat and soften the 

patterned insert material before, after, or while, the top surface of the protuberance portion of the pre-forming die is 
brought into contact with the patterned insert material, and to preform the patterned insert material in such a manner 

as to profile the shape of the protuberance portion of the pre-forming die. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NISSHA PRINTING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NISSHA PRINTING CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKUNO SHIROH NISSHA PRINTING C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAZAKI SEIICHI NISSHA PRINTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKUNO, SHIROH, NISSHA PRINTING CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAZAKI, SEIICHI, NISSHA PRINTING CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an insert molded 
article to be used as front panels or buttons of AV (audio-visual) 
devices or instrument panels of automobiles, and an 
apparatus and a method for producing the insert molded 
article. There have been employed such apparatuses and 
methods (1) as disclosed in Japanese Laid-Open Patent 
Publication Nos. 57-102328 (102328/1982), 59-202834 
(202834/1984) and such apparatuses and methods (2) as 
disclosed in Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 63-25012 
(25012/1988) to obtain insert molded articles. According to the apparatus and method (1) above, 
a patterned insert material of a preformed plastic film is 
set in a female die of an injection molding die for insert 
molded article. An unnecessary portion of the patterned 
insert material is cut within the injection molding die. According to the apparatus and method (2), meanwhile, 
the apparatus consists of a pair of dies defining a 
cavity in the shade of a to-be-formed product, a cutting  
 
means for operating to cut a blank from a long insert film, 
and a transferring means for supplying the blank from the 
cutting means to the pair of dies and then setting the 
blank in the cavity in preparation for a molding process. 
After the long insert film is cut to a suitable length by 
the cutting means of the apparatus, notches are formed in 
the film, thereby to form a blank with a flange in development. 
Then, the blank is reed and introduced into the 
completely prepared dies by the transferring means, and 
then the die clamping and insert molding are performed. 
The blank is introduced in the dies while the blank is flat 
without being preformed at this time. The introduced blank 
is once brought in tight contact with the male die to bend 
the flange for a preforming process. After the dies are 
clamped, the preformed blank is pressed from the male die 
to the female die by the pressure of molding resin injected 
from the male die. The above-described conventional arts have some 
drawbacks as follows. In the arrangement (1) , since the unnecessary 
portion of the patterned insert material is cut and removed 
by utilizing the edges of the male and female dies in the 
injection molding die, the film refuse produced in the 
cutting of the insert material is accumulated and become 
hard lump in the periphery of the edges of the dies, so  
 
that the surface of each die in the periphery of the edge 
is hurt by the lump. The dies are accordingly required to 
be frequently exchanged, which increases
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A producing method of an insert molded article, 
characterized by comprising the steps of: 

   preforming a patterned insert material (7) 
clamped by a clamping means (13) at end parts thereof into 

a predetermined shape corresponding to a cavity formation 
face (5, 6) of a male die (2) or a female die (3) of an 

injection molding die (1); 
   trimming an unnecessary portion of the preformed 

patterned insert material not to project from a peripheral 
edge of a surface of a cubic molded article (60) to be 

formed of molding resin (9); 
   setting the trimmed patterned insert material to 

the cavity formation face of the male die (2) or female die 
(3) of the injection molding die; 

   clamping the male and female dies thereby to 
constitute a cavity (8) by the cavity formation faces; and 

   injecting the molding resin to the cavity, and 
taking out the insert molded article from the injection 

molding die after the molding resin is cooled and 
solidified. 
The method according to claim 1, wherein in the 
preforming step, the patterned insert material is preformed 

by using a preforming die having a projecting part 
corresponding in shape to the cavity formation face of the 

 
injection molding die so as to trace a shape of the 

projecting part of the preforming die. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein prior to 
the preforming of the patterned insert material, the 

patterned insert material after being heated and softened 
is brought in touch with the top face of the projecting 

part of the preforming die, and the patterned insert 
material is preformed to agree in shape with the projecting 

part of the preforming die. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein prior to 
the preforming of the patterned insert material, the 

patterned insert material is heated and softened after 
being brought in touch with the top face of the projecting 

part of the preforming die, and the patterned insert 
material is preformed to agree in shape with the projecting 

part of the preforming die. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein prior to 
the preforming of the patterned insert material, the 

patterned insert material is brought in touch with the top 
face of the projecting part of the preforming die while 

being heated and softened, and the patterned insert 
material is preformed to agree in shape with the projecting 

part of the preforming die. 
The method according to any one of claims 3-5, 
wherein the clamping means clamping the end parts of the 

 
patterned insert material is moved close to the preforming 

die when the patterned insert material is brought in touch 
with the top face of the projecting part of the preforming 

die. 
The method according to any one of claims 1-6, 
wherein the unnecessary portion of the patterned insert 

material is trimmed by casting of laser beams. 
A producing apparatus of an insert molded 
article, characterized by being provided with: 

   a preforming means (10) for preforming a 
patterned insert material (7) through thermal molding to 

correspond to a shape of a cavity formation face (5, 6) of 
a male die (2) or a female die (3) of an injection molding 

die (1); 
   a clamping means (13) for clamping end parts of 

the patterned insert material before preforming; 
   a trimming means (20) for trimming an unnecessary 

portion of the preformed patterned insert material not to 
project from a peripheral edge of a surface of a cubic 

molded article (60) to be formed of molding resin (9); and 
   injection dies (1, 2, 3) constituting a cavity 

(8) for molding of the cubic molded article by clamping the 
male and female dies with the trimmed insert material set 

at the cavity formation face of the male or female die. 
The apparatus according to claim 8, which is 
further provided with a transferring/setting means for 

transferring the preformed and trimmed insert material to 
the injection molding dies from the trimming means and 

setting the material to the cavity formation face of the 
male or female die of the injection molding dies. 
The apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, which is 
provided with a patterned insert material feeding means 

(40) for rewinding the patterned insert material 
intermittently before preforming or trimming and winding 

the material after the material is preformed and trimmed. 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 8-10, 
wherein the preforming means and trimming means are 

integrally coupled thereby to constitute one 
preforming/trimming means, whereby preforming and trimming 

of the patterned insert material clamped by the clamping 
means are simultaneously carried out by the 

preforming/trimming means. 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 8-11, 
wherein the preforming means is a preforming die having 

a projecting part corresponding in shape to the cavity 
formation face of the male or female die of the injection 

molding dies. 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 8-12, 
wherein the preforming means has a cavity die of a 

 
preforming die which corresponds in shape to the cavity 

formation face (5, 6) of the male die (2) or female die (3) 
of the injection molding dies, and is provided with a 

suction means (14) for sucking the patterned insert 
material to a surface of the cavity die of the preforming 

die which is in touch with the patterned insert material. 
The apparatus according to any one of claims 8-13, 
wherein the trimming means is a laser casting means for 

trimming the unnecessary portion of the patterned insert 

material by casting of laser beams. 
An insert molded article characterized by 
including a skirt portion (63) extending generally downward 

from a peripheral end of a top face (62), a flange portion 
(64) extending in a periphery of a lower end of the skirt 

portion, and a second skirt portion (65) extending 
generally downward from a peripheral end of the flange 

portion, having a surface covered with a patterned insert 
material (7) from the top face to the second skirt portion, 

wherein the patterned insert material has a pattern formed 
on a top face part thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
