<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637880</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical successive modulation-multiplexing for fiber optical network.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1004	H04B1004	H04B1006	H04B1006	H04B10142	H04B10142	H04B10152	H04B10152	H04J1400	H04J1400	H04J1402	H04J1402	H04J1404	H04J1404	H04J1406	H04J1406	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04J14	H04J14	H04J14	H04J14	H04J14	H04J14	H04J14	H04J14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple-access network communication system (300) employs a 
single continuous-wave optical carrier (from 301) which is successively modulated 

and multiplexed at a plurality of data access nodes. The data access nodes are 
cascaded along an optical propagation path (302), and at each such node, the optical 

carrier is impressed (by 304, 305, 306) with an modulated electrical signal (from 
310, 311, 312) which corresponds to an electrical subcarrier having a subcarrier 

frequency which is uniquely responsive to its associated data access node. Local 
data at each such node is modulated electrically in accordance with a known 

modulation scheme, such as FSK modulation, the resulting modulated subcarrier 
being conducted to a respective optical modulator (304, 305, 306) which impresses 

same upon the optical carrier. The optical carrier is periodically, with respect to the 
data access nodes, amplified by an optical amplifier (315), and ultimately conducted 

to a receiver (320) where the optical carrier is detected and converted to a 
corresponding electrical signal. Th
e electrical signal is then demultiplexed, 
illustratively by filters (321, 322, 323) tuned to the subcarrier frequencies, each of 

which is then demodulated (e.g., by 325), whereby the original data signal is 
recovered. The invention can be implemented in bidirectional embodiments which 

permit modulated optical carrier to be propagated in opposite directions. In addition, 
a bidirectional embodiment can be provided with both optical carriers from a single 

laser source. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEKAWI MOHAMED M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHI YAN-CHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEKAWI, MOHAMED M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHI, YAN-CHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to systems for 
transmitting data along optical paths, and more 
particularly, to a multiple access network wherein a single, 
continuous-wave optical carrier which propagates through 
fiber optic cable is successively modulated at plural data 
access nodes by respective optical modulator stages in 
response to respectively associated local data streams. Known multiplexing multiple-access communication 
networks are complicated and expensive to build and operate. 
One typical system is shown in Fig. 1, and is of the 
multiplexing regenerator type wherein the optical carrier is 
regenerated at each node. As shown in Fig. 1, this known 
system employs multiplexer/regenerator nodes 10 through 13, 
at each of which digital data from multiple sensors (not 
shown) is supplied to a multiplexer which conducts the 
multiplexed digital data to a regenerator. Each regenerator 
receives, in this known arrangement, an optical signal which 
is converted to an electrical signal. The electrical signal 
is then multiplexed with the electrical multiplexed data 
from the multiplexer. The electrical signal having the 
combined information is converted to an optical signal and 
transmitted by an optical fiber to the next successive 
regenerator. There is clearly a need for a system which eliminates 
the optical/electrical and electrical/optical conversions as 
prerequisites to the multiplexing of node data. Each such 
conversion, in addition to requiring the use of expensive 
and complex hardware, also requires significant consumption  
 
of electrical energy, thereby requiring a high capacity 
electrical conductor to be provided in conjunction with the 
optical fiber for remote sensing. The high supply voltages 
complicates the cable design. It is, therefore, an object of this invention to 
provide a multiple-access communications network which 
propagates a single, continuous-wave optical carrier which 
is successively modulated without the need for 
electrical/optical conversion at each access node of the 
network. It is another object of this invention to provide a 
multiple-access communications system wherein the expense of 
optical carrier regeneration is avoided. It is also an object of this invention to provide a 
multiple-access communications system which affords a 
significant improvement in overall data throughput over that 
afforded by time-division multiplexing (TDM) arrangements. It is a further object of this invention to provide a 
multiple-access communications system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multiple-access network communication system of 
the type which employs continuous-wave electromagnetic 

energy as a carrier, the multiple-access network 
communication system comprising: 

   a single source of continuous-wave electromagnetic 
energy for forming the carrier; 

   conduit means for defining a carrier path along which 
the carrier is propagated; 

   a plurality of data access nodes arranged sequentially 
along said carrier path for accessing the carrier, each of 

said plurality of data access nodes having associated 
therewith a respective; 

   splitter means for dividing the carrier into first and 
second carrier portions, said first portion of the carrier 

being propagated along said carrier path and said second 
portion being extracted from said carrier path; 

   modulator means for modulating said first portion of 
the carrier in response to a respectively associated data 

stream, each of said modulator means in said plurality of 
data access nodes having a respectively associated 

subcarrier frequency; and 
   receiver means for detecting said second portion of the 

carrier modulated in response to said data streams 
associated with other of said plurality of data access 

nodes; and 
   optical coupling means for coupling said single source 

of continuous-wave electromagnetic energy to said conduit 
means, whereby the carrier is propagated through said 

splitter means and said modulator means associated with each 
of said plurality of data access nodes along said carrier 

path. 
The multiple-access optical network communication 
 

system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said data acces 
nodes is further provided with an electrical filter means 

coupled to said receiver means and responsive to a 
respective one of said subcarrier frequencies. 
The multiple-access optical network communication 
system of claim 2 wherein there is further provided: 

   a plurality of modulator means coupled to respective 
ones of said data access nodes for encoding a respective one 

of the subcarriers in response to a respective one of the 
data streams; and 

   a plurality of demodulator means coupled to respective 
ones of said filter means, each for decoding a respective 

modulated subcarrier. 
The multiple-access optical network communication 
system of claim 1 wherein there is further provided optical 

modulator means arranged at each data access node for 
impressing a respective modulated subcarrier on the carrier. 
The multiple-access optical network communication 
system of claim 1 wherein there is further provided optical 

amplifier means for amplifying the modulated carrier. 
The multiple-access optical network communication 
system of claim 5 wherein there is provided an optical 

amplifier means for every four data access nodes. 
A method of modulating a single continuous-wave 
optical carrier at a plurality of locations along a 

propagation path, the method comprising the steps of: 
   installing an optical modulator at each of the 

plurality of locations along the propagation path of the 
continuous-wave optical carrier;

 
   carrier receiving at each of the plurality of locations 

by detecting at least a portion of the single continuous-wave 
optical carrier; and 

   carrier modulating the single continuous-wave optical 
carrier at each of the plurality of locations at a 

respective, different subcarrier frequency. 
The method of claim 7 wherein prior to performing 
said step of carrier modulating, there is provided the step 

of data modulating a respective electrical subcarrier having 
a respective subcarrier frequency associated with one of the 

optical modulators. 
The method of claim 8 wherein said step of data 

modulating comprises the step of FSK data modulating the 
respective subcarrier at the respective subcarrier 

frequency. 
The method of claim 8 wherein there is provided 
the further step of isolating each electrical subcarrier. 
The method of claim 10 wherein said step of 
isolating each electrical subcarrier comprises the step of 

filtering the electrical subcarriers using filters which are 
respectively responsive to the various subcarrier 

frequencies. 
The method of claim 11 wherein there is further 
provided the step of demodulating electrically each isolated 

subcarrier. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said step of 
demodulating electrically comprises the step of FSK 

 
demodulating. 
A method of communication between 1 through n 
communication stations and a receiving station, the method 

comprising the steps of: 
   optically interconnecting the 1 through n communication 

stations and the receiving station for forming an optical 
path through which a single continuous-wave optical carrier 

is propagated successively through the 1 through n 
communication stations and to the receiving station; 

   carrier modulating the single continuous-wave optical 
carrier successively at each of the 1 through n 

communication stations at a respectively associated one of 
1 through n different subcarrier frequencies. 
The method of claim 14 wherein there is further 
provided the step of amplifying the modulated single 

continuous-wave optical carrier. 
The method of claim 15 wherein said step of 
amplifying is performed periodically after every k 

communications stations, where k 
<
 n. 
The method of claim 14 wherein there is further 
provided the step of isolating each of said 1 through n 

electrical subcarrier frequencies. 
The method of claim 17 wherein there is further 
provided the step of extracting data from said electrical 

subcarriers at respective 1 through n subcarrier 
frequencies. 
The method of claim 18 wherein during performance 
of said step of carrier modulating, there is provided the 

step of data modulating at least selected ones of the 1 through n subcarrier frequencies with a respectively 
associated one of 1 through n data streams associated with 

respective ones of the 1 through n communication stations. 
The method of claim 19 wherein said step of 
extracting data comprises the further step of demodulating 

said selected ones of the 1 through n data streams employing 
a FSK demodulation scheme. 
A bidirectional multiple-access network 
communication system comprising: 

   a single source of continuous-wave electromagnetic 
energy for forming first and second optical carriers; 

   a plurality of data access nodes for modulating the 
first and second optical carriers in response to a 

respectively associated data stream, each of said plurality 
of data access nodes having a respectively associated 

modulated subcarrier having a respective subcarrier 
frequency; 

   first and second receiver means for detecting the first 
and second optical carriers, respectively, each being 

modulated in response to said respectively associated data 
streams at said respective subcarrier frequencies associated 

with said data access nodes; and 
   first and second optical coupling means for propagating 

respectively the first and second optical carriers, the 
first and second optical carriers being propagated through 

said plurality of data access nodes to said first and second 
receiver means in opposite directions in respective ones of 

said first and second optical coupling means. 
The bidirectional multiple-access network 
communications system of claim 21 wherein said first and 

second receiver means produce respective first and second 
electrical data signals. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
