<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621721</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Document  surrogates
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N132	G06T100	H04N121	G06F1730	G06F1730	H04N132	G06T100	H04N121	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G06T	H04N	G06F	G06F	H04N	G06T	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	G06T1	H04N1	G06F17	G06F17	H04N1	G06T1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention involves a novel form and methods for creating and using such 
forms. These forms are summaries (hereinafter "document surrogates") of associated objects, 

such as original documents, processes, or their copies, stored in a document processing system. 
A document surrogate made in accordance with the principles of the present invention 

comprises at least one sheet of a information storing substrate material that has a human 
readable area and a machine readable area. The human readable area may contain at least 

one area of material which summarizes the associated object. Such a summary may either be 
made manually by the user or created automatically by the document processing system. The 

machine readable area comprises a document reference code (32) that is readable and 
recognizable by the document processing system. The code (32) is located by the system and 

recognized from an image of the entire page. The reference code (32) encodes an indicator to 
the storage location of the associated object. Upon encountering a document surrogate, the 

system may interpret the surrogate to be the equivalent of its associated object and uses the 
indicator to access the appropriate object. A mechanism may be provided to the system to 

either enable or disable this equivalence. If disabled, the system would treat the document 
surrogate like a typical page in a document. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON WALTER A L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLOTZ LEIGH L JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAO RAMANA B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITHGOTT M MARGARET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, WALTER A.L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLOTZ, LEIGH L. JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAO, RAMANA B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITHGOTT, M. MARGARET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to the creation and use of document
summary sheets and, in particular, to document summary sheets that have a machine readable
code that indicate the associated document in a storage area.Prior to the advent of computer-based systems, paper was the primary medium of
office communication. Reports were manually typed and filed away in filing cabinets. If
duplicates were required, carbon paper copies were made. Interoffice communication was
conducted primarily by way of written notes. These notes would merge with outside mail
delivered by the Post Office in office "mail rooms" for subsequent distribution.The introduction of copiers helped to automate some office work. For example,
copiers obviated the need to manually type carbon copies to obtain copies of documents. This
incremental increase in automation did not, however, diminish the reliance of paper as the
primary medium of communication in the office. In fact, copiers made the wide distribution of
documents easy; which, in turn, increased the volume of paper consumed in the office.The nature of office work has changed considerably since the introduction of
computer systems. Many office functions, such as wordprocessing, information management,
form processing, and interoffice communications, have become streamlined due to the use of
automated systems. Computer systems, in some cases, have succeeded in decreasing the
amount of paper consumed in the office. For example, many interoffice communications occur
on electronic mail systems. Unwanted communications may then be written and disposed of
without the use of paper.With the increasing use of electronic media, the demise of paper as a communication
medium seemed plausible. However, the promise of the "paperless" office has not yet come to
pass. This fact underlies the basic truth that both paper and electronic media have opposite
strengths and weaknesses as communication media.Among its disadvantages, paper is, in some respects, inflexible. For example,
inscriptions written on paper are fixed and cannot be moved around. Additionally, paper is
passive. Words cannot be automatically rearranged within paragraphs nor can misspellings be
automatically detected and corrected. Large, paper documents are cumbersome and difficult
to transport, as compared to files stored and transported on a floppy disk or transmitted
electronically. These qualities are exactly the strengths that electronic media possess.Among its advantages, paper is relatively cheap to manufacture,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system comprising:

a storage area (14) for storing electronic files;
hardcopy media (30) for representing electronic files stored in said storage
area, said hardcopy media bearing marks thereon, said marks including;
a machine recognizable code (32) comprising an indicator to at least one
said electronic file, a surrogate flag (34) for indicating that said hardcopy media

represents an electronic file and human readable information (36) for indicating
the contents of said at least one electronic file;
a means (16) for inputting images of said hardcopy media;
a digital processor (12) connected to said storage area (14) and to said
means (16) for inputting images, 
characterised in that
 said digital processor
performs selected processing tasks on instances of said hardcopy media images

such that said processor determines whether said surrogate flag is present in said
hardcopy media image, and, if present, substitutes said at least one electronic

file indicated in said hardcopy media image as the object on which said selected
processing task is performed, and if said surrogate flag is not present in said

hardcopy media image, using said hardcopy media image as the object on which
said selected processing task is performed.
A system as claimed in claim 1, 
characterised in that
 said at least one
electronic file is of an original document or process, or their copies accessible to said

digital processor (10).
A system as claimed in claim 1, 
characterised in that
 said hardcopy media
further includes an area for human readable material.
A system as claimed in claim 3, 
characterised in that
 said human readable
material contains at least one summary of said at least one electronic

file.
A system as claimed in claim 4, 
characterised in that
 said summary is user
supplied, or is automatically generated, or is partially user supplied and partially

automatically generated; and/or is a reduced image of a page of said at least one
electronic file (36), and/or is a list of keywords (42), and/or is a list of section headings

(52).
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, 
characterised in that
 said 
hardcopy media further includes:


at least one selection area corresponding to individual electronic files such
that a user may select any subset of said individual electronic files; and/or an

override selection area such that a user may instruct said system to select said
hardcopy media image instead of said at least one electronic file for further

processing.
A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, 
characterised in that
 said
combination further comprises:


a disable mechanism for instructing the digital processor to select said
hardcopy media image instead of said electronic file for further processing, or

comprises an enable mechanism for instructing said digital processor to select
said electronic file instead of said hardcopy media image for further processing.
A method for creating an instance of a hardcopy medium (30) representing
an electronic file received by a document processing system, said document processing

system having an input device (16), an output device (18), a processor (12) for executing
document processing functions upon an input object, and a storage area (14) for storing

said electronic file, the steps of said method comprising:

receiving an electronic file;
storing said electronic file in said storage area (14); and being

characterised by
outputting at least one piece of hardcopy medium (30) representing said
electronic file, said hardcopy medium having thereon a machine readable code

(32), said code (32) comprising an indicator to said electronic file stored in said
storage area, a flag (34) adapted to enable said document processing system to

retrieve said electronic file and use instead of said hardcopy medium (30) as an
input object for a document processing function and human readable information

(36) for indicating the contents of said electronic file when said hard copy medium is inputted into said document
processing system.
A method for specifying documents stored in a document processing
system as the object of a document processing function, said method comprising the

steps of;

generating an electronic representation of a document for storing in said
document processing system;
storing said electronic representation in said document processing system;
generating a hardcopy form for accessing said stored electronic document,
said form having thereon machine readable information comprised of a flag for 

indicating that said form represents a stored electronic document, and file identifier
information for accessing said stored electronic document, said form further

comprising human readable information for indicating the contents of the stored
electronic document that said form represents;
requesting a first document processing function in said document
processing system;
inputting said form as the object of said first document processing
function;
said document processing system detecting that said form represents said
stored electronic file;
said document processing system retrieving said electronic file
represented by said form based on said file identifier information; and
said document processing system performing said first document
processing function on said retrieved electronic file.
The method as recited in claim 9, wherein said step of inputting said
form as the object of said first document processing function is further comprised of the

steps of:

scanning said form to create a bitmap representation of said form; and
providing said bitmap representation to said document management
system as input.
The method as recited in claim 10 wherein said step of said document
processing system determining that said form represents said stored electronic file is

further comprised of the step of detecting that said bitmap representation of said form
contains said flag for indicating said form represents a stored electronic document.
The method as recited in claim 11 further comprising the steps of:

said document processing system detecting that said bitmap
representation of said form does not contain said flag for indicating said form

represents a stored electronic document; and
said document processing system performing said first document
processing function on said bitmap representation of said form.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
