<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620661</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical transmitter with light emitting element driven by distortion generating circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F132	H03F132	H04B10152	H04B10155	H04B1018	H04B1018	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F1	H03F1	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A distortion generating circuit of the present 
invention comprises a linear attenuator (27) which has an input 

impedance substantially coincident with an impedance of a 
transmission path of input signal and an output impedance 

substantially coincident with an impedance of a 
transmission path of output signal; and at least one diode (D11,D21) 

which is connected in an alternating current manner in 
parallel with the linear attenuator with respect to the 

input signal into the linear attenuator and which generates 
nonlinear distortion for a component in the input signal 

input thereinto; which outputs an AC sum of an output from 
the linear attenuator and an output from the diode. By this 

arrangement, desired distortion can be well given in a 
simple circuit arrangement while suppressing generation of 

unnecessary intermodulation distortion. An optical 
transmitter, an optical receiver or an amplifier can be 

constructed using the distortion generating circuit of the 
present invention, obtaining a signal with reduced 

distortion. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UESAKA KATSUMI C O YOKOHAMA WO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UESAKA, KATSUMI, C/O YOKOHAMA WORKS OF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a distortion 
generating circuit which provides distortion for canceling 
nonlinearity of input/output characteristics of a high-frequency 
signal output stage (for example a nonlinear 
device such as a nonlinear amplifier as an output stage in 
transmitter or a semiconductor laser) to linearize an 
analog signal output therefrom. More particularly, the 
invention relates to a distortion generating circuit 
suitable for multiple analog image transmission such as 
CATV. It is a normal operation that the negative feedback is 
effected for improving the linearity of amplifier in the low 
frequency region, but the negative feedback cannot normally 
improve the linearity in the high frequency region because 
of rotation of phase caused by a signal delay. Thus, in 
case high linearity is required in a broad region, the 
linearity is normally improved by providing a circuit 
having input/output characteristics to cancel the 
nonlinearity (i.e., a distortion generating circuit). A 
distortion generating circuit is provided before an output 
stage or a semiconductor laser in transmitter and has a  
 
nonlinear element such as a diode or a transistor. The 
circuit generates distortion by its nonlinearity to 
linearize an object circuit having nonlinearity. Specific examples are described for example in Japanese 
Utility Model Publication No. 2-30192 and ELECTRONICS 
LETTERS Vol. 28 No. 20, 1992, pp 1875-1876. The circuits as 
described in these references are so arranged as to use two 
diodes as nonlinear elements, which are connected opposite 
to each other with respect to a signal and which are 
operated as nonlinear elements at a predetermined bias 
point. The multiple analog image transmission such as the CATV 
requires transfer characteristics of very low level 
distortion to obtain a high quality image. The distortion 
correcting circuit in multiple analog image transmission 
needs to have the following characteristics: (1) Second-order 
and third-order distortions components, which could 
cause a problem in analog image transmission, can be 
independently corrected; and (2) the distortion can be 
corrected while also compensating a frequency dependency of 
a nonlinear device, because wide band transmission is 
required. There are distortion correcting circuits 
developed for correcting the nonlinearity of transmission 
device, which could be a cause to produce distortion in 
analog signal. For example, US Patent No.4,992,754, US 
Patent No. 5,132,639 and US Patent No.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A distortion generating circuit comprising: 
   a linear attenuator which has an input impedance 

substantially coincident with an impedance of a 
transmission path of input signal and an output impedance 

substantially coincident with an impedance of a 
transmission path of output signal; and 

   at least one diode which is connected in parallel with 
the linear attenuator with respect to said input signal into 

said linear attenuator and which generates nonlinear 
distortion for a component in said input signal input 

thereinto; 
   which outputs a sum of an output from said linear 

attenuator and an output from said diode. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, wherein a resistor is connected with one of said at least 

one diode, and a pair of said resistor and the diode is 
connected in parallel with said linear attenuator. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, wherein said at least one diode comprises one or more 

pairs of diodes connected in mutually opposite polarities 
with respect to said input signal into said linear 

attenuator, which provide said input signal with odd-order 
distortion to output a resultant signal. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, wherein said at least one diode comprises one or more 

 
diodes for generating even-order distortion substantially 

of second-order or higher-order for said input signal into 
said linear attenuator, which provide said input signal 

with the even-order distortion to output a resultant 
signal. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, wherein said linear attenuator is arranged to comprise 

a plurality of resistors. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
4, wherein said linear attenuator is a π resistor 

attenuator. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
4, wherein said linear attenuator is a T resistor 

attenuator. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
4, wherein part of resistors in said linear attenuator is 

part of a bias circuit for said diode. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
2, wherein said paired diodes are adjustable in bias point 

independently of each other. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
2, wherein said paired diodes are connected in a direct 

current manner in series with a bias power supply thereof 
and bias points of the diodes are adjustable. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, wherein at least one of said diodes is a pin diode. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, wherein at least one of said diodes is a Schottky diode. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, further comprising a capacitor connected in parallel 

with said diode. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, wherein said diodes are connected in parallel to each 

other with respect to the input signal. 
A distortion generating circuit according to Claim 
1, wherein said diodes comprise a pin diode and a Schottky 

diode connected in a same polarity with respect to the input 
signal into said linear attenuator. 
An optical transmitter comprising: 
   a distortion generating circuit as set forth in Claim 

1, for providing an input signal with nonlinear distortion; 
and 

   a light emitting element driven by a signal output from 
said distortion generating circuit. 
An optical transmitter according to Claim 16, 
comprising: 

   a first distortion generating circuit as set forth in 
Claim 3, for providing an output signal with odd-order 

distortion to output a resultant signal; 
   a second distortion generating circuit as set forth in 

Claim 4, for receiving the signal output from said first 
distortion generating circuit and providing the signal with 

 
even-order distortion to output a resultant signal; and 

   a light emitting element driven by the signal output 
from said second distortion generating circuit. 
An optical transmitter according to Claim 16, 
wherein said light emitting element is a semiconductor 

laser diode. 
An optical receiver comprising: 
   a light receiving element for receiving light to 

convert it into an electric signal; and 
   a distortion generating circuit as set forth in Claim 

1, for receiving the electric signal output from said light 
receiving element and providing the electric signal with 

nonlinear distortion. 
An optical receiver according to Claim 19, 
comprising: 

   a light receiving element for receiving light to 
convert it into an electric signal; 

   a first distortion generating circuit as set forth in 
Claim 3, for receiving the electric signal output from said 

light receiving element and providing the electric signal 
with odd-order distortion to output a resultant signal; and 

   a second distortion generating circuit as set forth in 
Claim 4, for receiving the signal output from said first 

distortion generating circuit and providing the signal with 
even-order distortion to output a resultant signal. 
An optical transmitter for unmodulated input light 
 

by a signal input from the outside and outputting modulated 
light, comprising: 

   a distortion generating circuit as set forth in Claim 
1, for receiving a modulation signal and providing the 

modulation signal with nonlinear distortion to output a 
resultant signal; and 

   an optical modulator for unmodulated input light by the 
signal output from said distortion generating circuit to 

output modulated light. 
An optical transmitter according to Claim 21, which 
is an optical transmitter for unmodulated input light by a 

signal input from the outside and outputting modulated 
light, comprising: 

   a first distortion generating circuit as set forth in 
Claim 3, for receiving a modulation signal and providing the 

modulation signal with odd-order distortion to output a 
resultant signal; 

   a second distortion generating circuit as set forth in 
Claim 4, for receiving the signal output from said first 

distortion generating circuit and providing the signal with 
even-order distortion to output a resultant signal; and 

   an optical modulator for unmodulated input light by the 
signal output from said second distortion generating 

circuit to output modulated light. 
A low-distortion amplifier comprising: 
   a distortion generating circuit as set forth in Claim 

 
1, for providing an input signal with nonlinear distortion; 

and 
   an amplifier for receiving a signal output from said 

distortion generating circuit to amplify the signal. 
A low-distortion amplifier according to Claim 23, 
comprising: 

   a first distortion generating circuit as set forth in 
Claim 3, for providing an input signal with odd-order 

distortion to output a resultant signal; 
   a second distortion generating circuit as set forth in 

Claim 4, for receiving the signal output from said first 
distortion generating circuit and providing the signal with 

even-order distortion to output a resultant signal; and 
   an amplifier for receiving the signal output from said 

second distortion generating circuit to amplify it. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
