<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0299990</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BIPOLAR ELECTRODE FORMATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M402	H01M402	H01M404	H01M404	H01M448	H01M454	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system (10) and a method useful in the formation of electrodes for use in electrochemical cells. The system includes a pair of conductive end electrodes (12) (14) spaced apart from one another and situated in an aqueous electrolyte (16). A pair of precursor electrodes (20) (22) are placed in the electrolyte (16), between the end electrodes (12) (14). Each of these precursor electrodes (20) (22) comprise a material (24) to be selectively reduced or oxidized disposed on a conductive substrate (26). The precursor electrodes (20) (22) are in a configuration substantially precluding contact between the electrolyte (16) and the substrates (26) thereof. The end electrodes (12) (14) and the precursor electrodes (20) (22) are in electrical contact with a power supply (27) to effect a current flow in the electrolyte thereby reducing or oxidizing the material (24) of the precursor electrodes (20) (22) to substantially maintain the dimensions thereof during the electrode charging process. The system includes a separator (36) effective in permitting the electrolyte (16) to contact the precursor and terminal electrodes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOULD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOULD INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEIGER HARVEY N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEIGER, HARVEY, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BIPOLAR ELECTRODE FORMATIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates generally to electro¬ chemical cells and, more particularly, this invention relates to bipolar electrodes and methods of formation thereof.Description of Related ArtElectrochemical cells utilizing bipolar electrode designs having reactive metal electrodes supported on substrate current collectors are well known. See, for example, Momyer et al, U.S. Patent No. 4,269,907 (May 26, 1981) , the disclosure of which is hereby -incorporated by reference, wherein cells including an aqueous electrolyte, an anode of an alkali metal, such- as -lithium+_for-example a cathode spaced from the anode, and an intercell electrical connector are disclosed. In such cells, the cathode may comprise an electrochemically- _active material, _ .such as silver oxide, and the electrolyte may comprise an aqueous alkaline solution.Momyer et al also disclose an electrochemical cell stack comprising a plurality of bipolar electrodes connected in series.The preparation of bipolar electrodes wherein a cathode and an anode are disposed on opposite sides of an electrically conductive metallic substrate typically involves the oxidation or reduction (charging) of a precursor electrode material. For example, the preparation of a bipolar electrode with a cathode of silver oxide typically involves oxidation of elemental silver. Generally, the elemental silver of such precursor electrodes is sintered and then hot forged onto a substrate current 

collector. Nickel foil plated with silver, so as to facilitate adherence of elemental silver thereto, is commonly used as a substrate current collector for such bipolar electrodes.In the Oxidation of these precursor battery electrodes, the hot forgings of elemental silver are assembled into a stack in which the elemental silver and counter electrodes of nickel foil are' alternated, with the elemental silver electrodes in the charging stack electri¬ cally connected in parallel for attachment to the positive post of a DC power supply. Further, all the nickel foil substrates of the counter electrodes are electrically connected in parallel for attachment to the negative post of the DC power supply.- The stack is then placed into an electrolyte solution- .which-... permits the electrical contact between the precursor electrodes and the counter electrode that is ^necessary for the^ reduction or oxidation of the material of the precursor electrodes-,--In principle, no precursor electrode will exhibit a voltage
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A system useful in the formation of elec¬ trodes for use in electrochemical cells, said system comprising: a power supply; a pair of conductive end electrodes spaced apart from one another and disposed in an, aqueous electrolyte during operation of said system, said end electrodes being in electrical contact with said power supply to effect current flow in said electrolyte; a pair of precursor electrodes each comprising an electroactive material to be reduced or oxidized disposed on a conductive substrate, said precursor electrodes being disposed in said electrolyte in a configuration substantially precluding contact between said electrolyte and said substrates and orientated relative to said end electrodes so as to permit said reduction or oxidation of said material, said substrates being in electrical contact with said power supply to effect current flow in said electrolyte; restraining means for applying restraining forces to said precursor electrodes substantially maintaining the dimensions of said precursor electrodes during said reduc¬ tion or oxidation; and, a separator disposed between said precursor electrodes and said end electrodes permitting said precursor electrodes and said end electrodes to contact said electrolyte and permitting a substantially uniform applica¬ tion of said restraining forces to said precursor elec¬ trodes . 


 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said substrates are generally planar and said material to be reduced or oxidized comprises a layer of generally uniform thickness disposed on one planar side of said substrate, and said restraining forces are sufficient to maintain said substrate of the first of said precursor electrodes in direct contact with said substrate of the second of said precursor electrodes and insufficient to impair the structure of said material to be reduced or oxidized.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein said pair of precursor electrodes are in register.
4. The system _of claim 1_ wherein said material to be oxidized comprises elemental silver^- - -
5. The system of claim 4 wherein said substrate comprises nickel foil.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein said electro¬ lyte-comprises a hydroxide of an alkali metal.
7. The system of claim 6 wherein said electro¬ lyte is selected from the group consisting of NaOH, KOH and LiOH..
:
 --.' 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said separator comprises a rigid, non-conductive porous member.
r 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said rigid porous -member comprises a plastic screen. 


 10. The system of claim 9 wherein said plastic comprises polypropylene. 

11. A system useful in the formation of elec¬ trodes for use in electrochemical cells, said system comprising: a power supply; a pair of conductive end electrodes spaced apart from one another and disposed in an aqueous electrolyte during operation of said system, said end electrodes being in electrical contact with said power supply to effect current flow in said electrolyte; a pair of precursor electrodes each comprising an electroactive material to be reduced or oxidized disposed on a conductive substrate, said precursor electrodes being disposed in said electrolyte In a configuration substantially precluding contact between said electrolyte and said substrate-S- _and orientated relative, to said «nά electrodes so as to permit said reduction or oxidation of said"material," said substrates- being- im—electrical contact with said power supply to effect current flow In said electrolyte; restraining^ means"for— pplying, restraining- forces to said precursor electrodes substantially maintaining the dimensions of said precursor electrodes during said reduc¬ tion or oxidation; a separator disposed between said precursor electrodes and said end electrodes permitting said precursor electrodes and said end electrodes to contact said electrolyte and permitting a substantially uniform applica¬ tion of said restraining forces to said precursor elec¬ trodes; and, a semi-permeable membrane disposed between each of said end electrodes and said precursor electrodes effective in preventing migration of said material to be reduced or oxidized while permitting ionic charge transport therethrough. 


 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said substrates are generally planar and said material to be reduced or oxidized comprises a layer of generally uniform thickness disposed on one planar side of said substrate, and said restraining forces are sufficient to maintain said substrate of the first of said precursor electrodes in direct contact with said substrate of the second of said precursor electrodes and insufficient to impair the struc¬ ture of said material to be reduced or oxidized.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein said pair of precursor electrodes are in register.
14. The system of claim 11 wherein said material to be oxidized comprises elemental ,silver.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein said substrate comprises nickel foil.
16. The system of claim 11 wherein said electro¬ lyte comprises a hydroxide of an alkali metal.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein said electro¬ lyte is selected from the group consisting of NaOH, KOH and LiOH.
18. The system of claim 11 wherein said separator comprises a rigid, non-conductive porous member.
19. The system of claim 18 wherein said rigid porous member comprises a plastic screen. 


 20. The system of claim 19 wherein said plastic comprises polypropylene.
21. The system of claim 11 wherein said separator is disposed between said membrane and each of said end electrodes and between said membrane and each of said precursor electrodes.
22. The system of claim 11 wherein said material to be oxidized comprises elemental silver and said semi-permeable membrane comprises a material selected from the group consisting of cellophane, silver treated cellophane and fibrous sausage casing. 

23. A method of reduction/oxidation useful in electrode formation for use in the electrochemical cells, comprising the steps of: a) providing a, system comprising; a power supply; a pair of conductive end electrodes spaced apart from one another and disposed in an aqueous electrolyte during operation of said system, said end electrodes being in electrical contact with said power supply to effect current flow in said electrolyte; a pair of precursor electrodes each comprising an electroactive material to be reduced or oxidized disposed on a conductive substrate, said precursor electrodes being disposed in said electrolyte in a configuration substantially precluding contact between s.aid electrolyte and said substrates and orientated relative to said end electrodes so as to permit said reduction or oxidation of said material, said substrates being in electrical contact with said power supply to effect current flow in said electrolyte; and a separator disposed between said precursor electrodes and said end electrodes permitting said precursor electrodes and said end electrodes to contact said electrolyte and permitting a substantially uniform application of said restraining forces to said precursor electrodes; b) applying restraining forces to said precursor electrodes to substantially maintain the dimensions of said precursor electrodes during said reduction or oxidation; and, c) effecting current flow through said aqueous electrolyte of said system to reduce or oxidize said material of said precursor electrodes. 


 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said sub¬ strates of said precursor electrodes are generally planar and said material to be reduced or oxidized comprises a generally uniform layer disposed on one planar side of said substrate, and said restraining forces are sufficient to maintain said substrate of the first of said precursor electrodes in direct contact with said substrate of the second of said precursor electrodes and insufficient to impair the struc¬ ture of said material to be reduced or oxidized.
25. The method of claim 23 wherein said pair of precursor electrodes are in register.
26. The method of
"
claim 23 wherein said material to be oxidized comprises elemental silver.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein said substrate comprises nickel foil.
28. The method of claim 23 wherein said electro¬ lyte comprises a hydroxide of an alkali metal.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein said electro¬ lyte is selected from the group consisting of NaOH, KOH and LiOH.
30. The method of claim 23 wherein said separator comprises a rigid, non-conductive porous member.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein said rigid porous member comprises a plastic screen. 


 32. The method of claim 31 wherein said plastic comprises polypropylene. 

33. A method of reduction/oxidation useful in electrode formation for use in the electrochemical cells, comprising the steps of: a) providing a system comprising; a power supply; a pair of conductive end electrodes spaced apart from one another and disposed in an" aqueous electrolyte during operation of said system, said end electrodes being in electrical contact with said power supply to effect current flow in said electrolyte; a pair of precursor electrodes each comprising an electroactive material .to be reduced or oxidized disposed on a conductive substrate, said precursor electrodes being disposed- - in said electrolyte -in a -configuration substantially precluding 
"
contact -between said - electrolyte and said substrates and orientated relative to said end electrodes so as to permit said reduction or oxidation of said material, said substrates being in electrical contact with said power supply to effect current flow in said electrolyte; a separator disposed between said precursor electrodes and said end electrodes permitting said precursor electrodes and said end electrodes to contact said electrolyte and permitting a substantially uniform application of said restraining forces to said precursor electrodes; and, a semi-permeable membrane disposed between said end electrodes and said precursor electrodes effective in preventing migration of said material to be reduced or oxidized while permitting ionic charge transport therethrough; b) applying restraining forces to said precursor electrodes to substantially maintain the dimensions of said precursor electrodes during said reduction or oxidation; and, 


 c) effecting current flow through said aqueous electrolyte of said system to reduce or oxidize said material of said precursor electrodes.
34. The method of claim 33 wherein said sub¬ strates of said precursor electrodes are generally planar and said material to be reduced or oxidized comprises a generally uniform layer disposed on one planar side of said substrate, and said restraining forces are sufficient to maintain said substrate of the first of said precursor electrodes in direct contact with said substrate of the second of said precursor electrodes and insufficient to impair the struc¬ ture of said material to be reduced or oxidized.
35. The method of claim 33 wherein said pair of precursor electrodes are in register.
36. The method of claim 33 wherein said material to be oxidized comprises elemental silver.
37. The method of claim 36 wherein said substrate comprises nickel foil.
38. The method of claim 33 wherein said electro¬ lyte comprises a hydroxide of an alkali metal.
39. The method of claim 38 wherein said electro¬ lyte is selected from the group consisting of NaOH, KOH and LiOH.
40. The method of claim 33 wherein said separator comprises a rigid, non-conductive porous member. 


 41. The method of claim 40 wherein said rigid porous member comprises a plastic screen.
42. The method of claim 41 wherein said plastic comprises polypropylene.
43. The method of claim 33 wherein said separator is disposed between said membrane and each of said end electrodes and between said membrane and each of said precursor electrodes.
44. The method of claim 33 wherein said material to be oxidized comprises elemental silver and said semi-permeable membrane comprises a material selected from the group consisting of _ cellophane, silver treated cellophane and fibrous sausage casing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
