<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639121</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPACT DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25D900	B25D914	E02F304	E02F340	E02F340	E02F396	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25D	B25D	E02F	E02F	E02F	E02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25D9	B25D9	E02F3	E02F3	E02F3	E02F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTTESTAD JACK BENTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTTESTAD, JACK, BENTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPACT DEVICEFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention pertains to an impacting device, and in particular, to an impact bucket. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONImpact devices are often used in demolition, excavation, mining and the like endeavors, to break and separate material for easier removal. One common impact device is an impact hammer, such as illustrated in U.S. Patent No. 3,363,512 to Ottestad. Impact hammers generally include a fluid-driven, reciprocal piston which is struck against a spike or spade shaped tool element to penetrate and break up the material. Although these hammers can be hand manipulated, they are usually mounted on the end of a boom of a carrier, such as a back hoe. These hammers are effective in penetrating hard materials, such as concrete or stone. However, the hammers generally only form a small bore or opening with each pass into the material. As a result a number of passes are often required to effectively break and separate the material. Moreover, after the material is sufficiently broken, it must be removed by a bucket. The use of a bucket requires that the hammer be exchanged for the bucket or that an independent carrier with a bucket be used. These options undesirably increase the downtime and cost of the operation.As can be appreciated, ordinary buckets do not form good devices for the break up and separation of hard material. Although the buckets can be struck against the material, it cannot match the speed or force of a conventional impact hammer. Further, buckets are not ordinarily fabricated to withstand these types of impact loads. To increase the penetration capacity of buckets, some artisansSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

have coupled vibration inducing mechanisms to the front teeth of the bucket. Two examples of this type of construction are illustrated in U.S. Patent No. 3,645,021 to Sonerud and West German Patent No. 24 37 468. These devices, however, have little effect when encountering a hard material.Impact buckets were specifically developed to perform the dual role of an impact hammer and a bucket. More particularly, impact buckets are buckets which have impact hammer units incorporated in their construction. The hammers are operatively connected to a movable front edge which acts as the impact tool element. Examples of such impact buckets are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,892,358 and 4,892,359 to Ottestad. These tools can effectively penetrate and separate pieces from a hard material. Further, the tool element is an elongated member which can quickly cut across
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows.
1. An impact device comprising: a tool element adapted to engage an item to be impacted; a reciprocal head for striking the tool element with each reciprocation; a first chamber filled with a fluid, said first chamber being positioned to one side of said reciprocal head such that said reciprocation of said head moves said fluid in said first chamber; a movable first piston positioned to one side of said chamber such that said first piston is moved by said movement of said fluid in said chamber; a movable second piston; a second chamber filled with a gaseous component, said second chamber being associated with said first and second pistons such that said second chamber has a variable volume due to the movement of said pistons; a third chamber fillable with said fluid, said third chamber being positioned to one side of said second piston; a conduit interconnecting said first chamber with said third chamber so that said first and second pistons are each movable to compress said gaseous component in said second chamber; and an actuator for initiating expansion of said gas to drive said head against said tool element.
2. An impact device in accordance with claim 1, in which said conduit selectively interconnects said first and third chambers so that a portion of said fluid in said first chamber is selectively directed into said third chamber to provide a coordinated movement of said pistons.
3. An impact device in accordance with claim 2, in which said conduit interconnects said first and third chambers after an initial movement of said first piston to compress said gaseous component. 


 4. An impact device in accordance with claim 3, wherein said initial movement of said first piston is caused by said movement of said head into said first chamber.
5. An impact device in accordance with claim 4, in which said fluid is substantially incompressible.
6. An impact device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said actuator includes a probe positioned in said first chamber to interact with said head as it moves into said first chamber.
7. An impact device in accordance with claim 6, in which said head further includes a poppet movable between a closed position and an open position, wherein said probe selectively engages and moves said poppet to said open position as said head is moved into said first chamber to thereby initiate said expansion of said gas.
8. An impact device comprising: a tool element adapted to engage an item to be impacted; a movable head which moves to cyclically strike said tool element, said head being movable in return and advance directions; a space filled with a gaseous component; a piston assembly including a plurality of pistons associated with said head and said space so that each said piston is selectively moved to compress said gaseous component upon movement of said head in said return direction; and an actuator to cause said gaseous component to expand and drive said head in said advance direction to strike said tool element.
9. An impact device in accordance with claim 8 , which further includes a housing defining at least one opening filled with a substantially incompressible fluid, wherein said head and said pistons are operatively associated with said fluid such that movement of said fluid causes the movements of said head and said pistons.
10. An impact device in accordance with claim 9, wherein said head includes a poppet movable between a closed position and an open position, and wherein said actuator includes a probe operatively associated with said poppet such 


 that said probe selectively opens said head to initiate said expansion of said gaseous component.
11. An impact device in accordance with claim 9, in which said head and one of said pistons are operatively associated such that said one piston is moved to compress said gaseous component when said head is moved in said
• return direction.
12. An impact device in accordance with claim 11, in which the other of said pistons is operatively associated with said one piston such that said other piston is moved to compress said gaseous component after said one piston has moved to compress said gaseous component.
13. An impact device in accordance with claim 12, in which a conduit is provided to selectively direct said fluid from a side of said one piston to a side of said other piston to effect said movement of said other piston.
14. In an impact bucket having a bottom wall, side walls, and a rear wall collectively defining a cavity and an open front edge, and an impact unit for delivering a series of impacts to a material along at least a portion of said front edge, the improvement comprising the impact unit having: a tool element extending beyond said front edge for impacting said material; a reciprocal head positioned along one of said walls of said bucket for striking the tool element with each reciprocation; a first chamber filled with a substantially incompressible fluid, said first chamber being positioned to one side of said reciprocal head such that said reciprocation of said head moves said fluid in said first chamber; a movable first piston positioned to a side of said chamber other than said side occupied by said head such that said movement of said fluid caused by said reciprocation of said head causes said first piston to move; a movable second piston; a second chamber filled with a compressible gaseous component, said second chamber being defined between said first and second pistons such that said second chamber has a variable volume due to the movement of said pistons; 


 a third chamber fillable with said fluid, said third chamber being positioned to one side of said second piston opposite said second chamber; a conduit selectively interconnecting said first chamber with said third chamber so that said first and second pistons are each selectively movable to compress said gaseous component in said second chamber; and an actuator for initiating expansion of said gas to drive said head against said tool element.
15. In an impact bucket in accordance with claim 14, wherein said pistons each defines a hollow interior which is filled with said gaseous component to form a part of said second chamber.
16. In an impact bucket in accordance with claim 14, wherein said actuator includes a probe positioned in said first chamber to interact with said head as it moves into said first chamber.
17. In an impact bucket in accordance with claim 16, in which said head further includes a poppet movable between a closed position and an open position, wherein said probe selectively engages and moves said poppet to said open position as said head is moved into said first chamber to thereby initiate said expansion of said gas.
18. In an impact bucket in accordance with claim 14, wherein said head is generally positioned along said bottom wall and said pistons are positioned generally along said rear wall.
19. An impact bucket comprising: a bucket structure having a bottom wall, side walls, and a rear wall collectively defining a cavity and a front edge; and an impact unit for delivering a series of impacts to a material along said front edge member having: a tool element adapted to engage said material to be impacted; a movable head which moves cyclically to strike said tool element, said head being movable in return and advance directions; a space filled with a gaseous component; 



 a piston assembly including a plurality of pistons associated with said head and said space so that each said piston is selectively moved to compress said gaseous component upon movement of said head in said return direction; and an actuator to cause said gaseous component to expand and drive said head in said advance direction to strike said tool element.
20. An impact bucket in accordance with claim 19, in which said impact unit further includes a housing defining at least one opening filled with a substantially incompressible fluid, wherein said head and said pistons are operatively associated with said fluid such that movement of said fluid causes the movements of said head and said pistons.
21. An impact bucket in accordance with claim 20, wherein said head includes a poppet movable between a closed position and an open position, and wherein said actuator includes a probe operatively associated with said poppet such that said probe selectively opens said head to initiate said expansion of said gaseous component.
22. An impact bucket in accordance with claim 20, in which said head and one of said pistons are operatively associated such that said one piston is moved to compress said gaseous component when said head is moved in said return direction, and in which the other of said pistons is operatively associated with said one piston such that said other piston is moved to compress said gaseous component after said one piston has moved to at least partially compress said gaseous component.
23. An impact bucket in accordance with claim 19, wherein said pistons each defines a hollow interior which is filled with said gaseous component to form a part of said space filled with said gaseous component.
24. An impact bucket in accordance with claim 19, wherein said head is generally positioned along said bottom wall and said piston assembly is positioned generally along said rear wall.
25. An impact bucket comprising: 


 a bucket structure including a bottom wall, side walls and a rear wall collectively defining a cavity and an open front; and a fluid driven impact unit including: a tool element extending along said front end of said bucket structure for engaging an item to be impacted; a reciprocal head which moves cyclically to strike said tool element, said reciprocal head being positioned for movement generally along said bottom wall between said rear wall and sad tool element; a piston cylinder positioned transversely to said head such that it extends generally along said rear wall of said bucket structure; at least one piston in said cylinder, said at least one piston dividing said cylinder into at least one fluid filled chamber and at least one gas filled chamber, said piston being movable to compress said gas under sufficient fluid pressure and movable to drive said head to strike said tool element under the force exerted by expansion of said gas; and an actuator for initiating said expansion of said gas.
26. An impact bucket in accordance with claim 25, which further includes a plurality of pistons in said cylinder, wherein said pistons are each movable to compress said gas.
27. An impact bucket in accordance with claim 26 in which said pistons each has a hollow interior filled with said gas to thereby partially form said gas filled chamber. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
