<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610701</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and circuit arrangement for transforming an interlaced video signal into a non-interlaced video signal or for doubling its field frequency.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N544	H04N544	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
When a digital video signal with the interlace ratio 2:1 is converted into a progressive 
video signal or into a video signal with the double field frequency new 

lines are interpolated between the original lines of each received field (t) by using 
some linear interpolation to generate each new pixel. However, the picture quality 

is not the best possible, because high frequency information is lost due to the 
characteristics of the interpolation. The picture can be essentially improved by 

supplying to a high-pass filter, for each interpolated pixel of the interpolated picture, 
that pixel (X
i,j
) in the previous original field (t-1) having a position corresponding 
to the position of the interpolated pixel and the pixels (X
i,j-2
, X
i,j+2
) 
above and below it. The filtered signal component obtained from the high-pass 

filter is added as high frequency information (X
high
(i,j,t-1)) to the value of the 
interpolated pixel, obtained e.g. by averaging. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA TECHNOLOGY GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA TECHNOLOGY GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AHO OUTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUHOLA JANNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AHO, OUTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUHOLA, JANNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method and a circuit arrangement for converting a 
digital video signal with the interlace ratio 2:1 into a progressive (interlace ratio 
1:1) video signal keeping the field frequency, or into a video signal with a field 
frequency of 100 Hz keeping the same interlace ratio (2:1). Both conversions require 
interpolation of new lines. When a picture is conversed into a progressive 
picture new lines are interpolated between the original lines of each received field 
using a well-known intra-field interpolation or an inter-field interpolation to generate 
the new pixels, whereby the number of lines in the resulting transformed 
field is doubled, but the field frequency is the same as in the received field. 
Correspondingly, when the field frequency is doubled, completely new fields 
must be generated, and the lines of these can be interpolated by any known 
method. In other words, in both transformations new pixels are interpolated from 
the original pixels. A video signal according to current standards, such as PAL, SECAM, NTSC, 
HD-MAC, has an interlace ratio of 2:1 which means that the television picture 
comprises of two fieldsin which the lines are scanned on the screen in an interlaced 
fashion. Typical inconveniences of an interlaced scanned picture, such as 
line drift, line flicker, and internal aliasing of a field picture areas containing motion, 
cannot be obviated in other ways than converting, the picture into a progressive 
one. Then the field is same as the frame, and thus the line frequency is 
the double compared to the original. It is possible to reduce the flicker of large bright areas, and also the line flicker, 
by doubling the field frequency. In a 50 Hz system the frequency is thus increased 
to 100 Hz. Then the field scanning time is 10 ms instead of 20 ms. In this 
version completely new fields must be interpolated between the received fields. 
Several interpolation methods have been presented, and any of these can be used 
with this invention. The principle could be for example that when successive odd 
fields A and even fields B are received, a new even field A* is interpolated from 
the original odd field A, and correspondingly a new even field B* is interpolated 
from the original even field. The fields are displayed successively in the order A, 
A*, B*, B, and each field is scanned in 10 ms.  Below we discuss in more detail how the picture is transformed into a progressive 
picture. When an interlaced video signal is converted into a progressive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for converting the interlace ratio or the field frequency of a digital 
video signal with the interlace ratio 2:1, in which method new lines are interpolated 

between the original lines of each original field (t) using a well-known interpolation 
to generate each new pixel, whereby a progressive video signal is obtained 

by placing the new lines alternating with the lines of the original field (t), 
and a video signal with the double field frequency is obtained by placing the new 

lines into a field of their own,characterized in that 

for each interpolated pixel a high-pass filter is supplied with that pixel (Xi,j) in 
the previous original field (t-1) having a position corresponding to the position of 

the interpolated pixel and with a number of neighboring pixels, 
at least a part of the filtered signal components obtained from the high-pass filter 
are added as high frequency information (Xhigh(i,j,t-1)) to the value of the 

interpolated pixel. 
The method of claim 1, characterized in that the filtered signal component is 
first scaled. 
The method of claim 1, characterized in that the set of neighboring pixels 
comprises the immediately adjacent pixels (Xi,j-2, Xi,j+2) in the vertical directions. 
The method of claim 1, characterized in that a number of known neighboring 
pixels of the interpolated pixel are supplied to an edge detector circuit, which 

examines whether there is a horizontal edge immediately above or below the 
interpolated pixel, and which, according to the steepness of the edge, decides how 

large part of the filtered signal component (Xhigh(i,j,t-1)) is added to the pixel 
value. 
Method according to claim 4, characterized in that the edge detector circuit is 
supplied with two original pixels (Xi,j-3, Xi,j-1) above the interpolated pixel and 

two original pixels (Xi,j+1, Xi,j+3), and that the edge detector circuit compares 
the differences of the pixels to a given threshold value (Kthresh), whereby the 

following holds true for the circuit: 

Method according to claim 2, 4 and 5, characterized in that there are several 
threshold values and that the scaling is determined according to the amount a certain 

threshold value is exceeded. 
Method according to claim 1, characterized in that the signal containing the 
high frequency information is sub-sampled by two before supplying it to the field 

memory, and that the size of the field memory is half of a full-sized memory. 
Method according to claim 1, characterized in that a new pixel is intra-field 
interpolated using averaging, whereby the interpolated pixel is the average of the 

original pixels (Xi,j-1, Xi,j+1) immediately above and below it. 
Circuit arrangement for converting the interlace ratio or the field frequency of 
a digital video signal with the interlace ratio 2:1 and comprising at least a first 

(61), a second (62) and a third (63) line memory in cascade and interpolation 
means providing interpolated pixels to form new lines, which can be placed between 

the original lines of a received field (t) or into a field of their own, whereby 
the interlaced input video signal is supplied to the input of the first line memory 

(61), characterized in that it further comprises: 

a first means comprising at least a high-pass filter (65, 66, 67, 64) and a field 
memory (610) connected in series and to which pixels of the received field (t) are 

supplied and whose output provides a high frequency component (Xhigh(i,j,t-1)) 
for each pixel of the previous received field (t-1), 
a second means connected to the first means and to said interpolation means, the 
second means adding to the value of the interpolated pixel a high frequency component 

(Xhigh(i,j,t-1)) obtained from the first means and connected to a pixel of 
the previous field (t-1) in a position corresponding to that of the interpolated 

pixel. 
Circuit arrangement according to claim 9, characterized in that in the first 
means the field memory (610) is connected behind the high-pass filter (65, 66, 

67, 64), whereby the high-pass filter is supplied with the currently received video 
 

signal and the delayed video signals obtained from the first (61) and the second 
(62) line memories. 
Circuit arrangement according to claim 9, characterized in that in the first 
means the field memory (610) is connected in front of the high-pass filter (65, 66, 

67, 64), whereby the high-pass filter is supplied with the currently received video 
signal. 
Circuit arrangement according to claim 9, characterized in that 

the second means comprises and adding means (611) and a controllable switch 
(613) between the adding means and the first means, 
the control input of the switch (613) is connected to an edge detector circuit 
(612) having as inputs the current interlaced video signal and the output signals 

(Xi,j-3,t, Xi,j-1,t, Xi,j+1,t, Xi,j+3,t) of at least three line memories (61, 62, 

63), whereby the output signal of the edge detector circuit depending on its state 
controls the controllable switch (613) either to connect the adding means (611) to 

the first means or to disconnect the adding means from it. 
Circuit arrangement according to claim 10 or 11, characterized in that a 
scaling means (614) is connected after the high-pass filter to control the level of 

the component value obtained from the filter. 
Circuit arrangement according to claim 12, characterized in that the edge detector 
circuit (612) comprises calculation means for comparing the differences of 

the pixels with a given threshold value (Kthresh), whereby the following holds 
true for the circuit: 


Circuit arrangement according to claims 12 and 13, characterized in that the 
edge detector circuit (612) is also connected to the scaling means (614) whose 

scaling factor varies in accordance with the control signal supplied by said circuit. 
Circuit arrangement according to claim 10, characterized in that the high-pass 
filter (65, 66, 67, 64) has as inputs the interlaced video signal and the output 

signals (Xi,j-2, Xi,j+2) of the first (61) and the second (62) line memories, and 
that the output signal (Xi,j) of the first line memory (62) is scaled with the factor 

2 and the two other output signals (Xi,j-2, Xi,j+2) are scaled with the factor -1, 
whereby the high-pass filter is of the form [-1 2 -1]
T. 
Circuit arrangement according to claim 9, characterized in that the interpolation 
means for generating new pixels is an averaging intra-field means and comprises 

a first adder (68) and at least one divider (69) by two, whereby the inputs 
of the interpolation means are connected the outputs of the first and second line 

memories and the output is connected to the input of a further adder (611). 
Circuit arrangement according to claim 9, characterized in that in front of 
the field memory there is connected a sub-sampling means, which sub-samples by 

two the signal supplied to it, whereby the size of the field memory (610) can be 
reduced to the half of a full-sized memory. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
