<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630160</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dynamic gamma contrast control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N5202	H04N969	H04N5202	H04N969	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N9	H04N5	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Ordinarily, television signals are subjected to gamma correction at the 
source to compensate for non-linearities in CRT-based displays in accordance with set 

standards. However, it has been found in practice that all CRT-based displays do not 
exhibit the same amount of non-linearity. Hence, some television receivers include 

gamma correction circuitry which compensate for the difference between the particular 
CRT display and that assumed by the transmission system standard. In addition the 

above, circuitry is added for adapting this correction to local areas on the display 
thereby achieving dynamic range equalization. The input video signal is first low-pass 

filtered (41) and then subjected (43) to a normalization between 0.0 and a first 
predefined maximum value A. A second predefined value B is then added (43) to this 

normalized signal generating a gamma exponential. At the same time, the input video 
signal is normalized (45) for the range 0.0 and 1.0. This normalized input signal is then 

raised (47) to an exponential power equivalent to the gamma exponential. Finally, this 
resultant signal is re-scaled (49) back to the dynamic range of the input video signal. 

The resultant video signal on display then has the dark portions thereof more visible 
without the bright parts looking washed out. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERMAN STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERMAN, STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The subject invention relates to controlling the contrast in a television
receiver.Presently, the contrast of television displays is controlled in four ways.
The first two are user controls which the user sets based on his/her own preferences.
The last two are built into the television receiver by the manufacturer. These four
controls include:
(1) The "Contrast" control on the television receiver varies the gain of the
display; increasing the gain increases contrast. However, too much gain can
cause clipping of the image highlights.(2) The "Brightness" control adjusts the DC level of the blackest part of the
image. Increasing the brightness control does give the sensation of a brighter
image, but at the cost of lower color saturation and lower contrast.(3) "Gamma correction" is usually built in by the manufacturer. CRT-based
displays have a non-linear relationship between the applied signal voltage and
the resulting image intensity. Gamma correction seeks to compensate for the
distortions caused by such non-linearities by pre-distorting the signal in the
opposite direction. This linearization of the image often improves image
contrast. It is possible to provide additional low-level contrast by increasing the
gamma correction.(4) "Edge enhancement" steepens the transitions in the signal at detected edges 
which enhances the visibility of features in an image.These conventional methods of contrast control are normally applied to
the entire image uniformly. Since the dynamic range of displays is limited, it is not
possible to simultaneously perceive small variations in image intensity, i.e. small
details, in the bright and dark regions simultaneously. US-A-4 829 381 (SONG & AL.) discloses a system and method provided for continuously
enhancing electronic image data received in a continuous stream of electronic information
signals wherein the electronic information signal corresponding to each pixel of the image
recorded is selectively transformed as a function of the average value of electronic
information signals for a select plurality of pixel values in the immediate area of the pixel
value being transformed. The electronic information signal transformations are provided on a
pixel-by-pixel basis to increase contrast in localized areas that may be either exceptionally
light or dark as a result of varying scene lighting conditions. US-A-4 667 228 (KAWAMURA
& AL.) discloses a system in which a contrast correction signal is generated to compensate
for the limited contrast range of known image converters.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of providing dynamic gamma contrast control of an input video

signal in a television receiver comprising the steps:

low-pass filtering the input video signal so that processing only occurs on the
low frequency components therein;
normalizing, pixel-by-pixel, the low-pass filtered video signal so that the value
thereof extends from 0 to a predetermined maximum value A, thereby forming a

normalized signal;
adding a predetermined parameter B to the normalized signal thereby forming a
gamma exponent;
normalizing the input video signal so that the values thereof lie between 0 and
1.0;
raising the normalized video signal, pixel-by-pixel, to an exponent equal to the
gamma exponent forming a corrected normalized video signal; and
rescaling the corrected normalized video signal to the full dynamic range of the
input video signal.
A method of providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a video signal
as claimed in Claim 1, wherein A is chosen in the range 1.2 and 2.5.
A method of providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a video signal
as claimed in Claim 2, wherein A is 1.34.
A method of providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a video signal
as claimed in Claim 1, wherein B is chosen from the range of values 0.1 and 0.9.
A method of providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a video signal
as claimed in Claim 4, wherein B is 0.45.
A method of providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a video signal
as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said low-pass filtering of the video signal comprises

convolving the video signal with a square window of uniform unit weight and size 31-by-31.
A method of providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a video signal 
as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said video signal is a color video signal and said method

is performed on each of the R, G and B components in the color video signal
individually.
A circuit for providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a video signal
in a television receiver, said circuit comprising:


an input for receiving an input video signal;
means for low-pass filtering said input video signal;
means for normalizing said low-pass filtered video signal between the range of
0.0 and a first predetermined quantity A, providing a normalized output signal;
means for adding a second predetermined quantity B to said normalized output
signal, forming a gamma exponential signal;
means coupled to said input for normalizing said input video signal between the
range of 0.0 and 1.0;
means for raising said normalized video signal by a quantity indicated by said
gamma exponential signal, forming a corrected normalized video signal; and
means for re-scaling said corrected normalized video signal back to the full
dynamic range of the input video signal.
A digital circuit for providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a video
signal in a television receiver, said circuit comprising:


input means for receiving input R, G, B signals;
means for digitizing said input R, G, B signals forming R
in
, G
in
, B
in signals
;
means for determining, pixel-by-pixel, a maximum of said R
in
, G
in
, B
in signals

thereby forming a signal g(t);
storing means for storing the signal g(t);
means coupled to an output of said storing means for normalizing g(t) forming
an output signal g
norm
(x,y) which ranges in value from 0.0 to 1.0;
convolving means for performing a two-dimensional averaging and rescaling on
g
norm
(x,y) thereby forming the signal h
1
(x,y) in accordance with the equation

h1(x,y)=g
low
(x,y)*A/maximum(g
low
(x,y)),

where A is a constant selected from the range 1.2 to 2.5;
subtracting means for subtracting 1.0 from h
1
(x,y);
a first multiplier for multiplying an output of the subtracting means by
g
norm
(x,y); 
adding means for adding 1.0 to an output of said first multiplier;
a look-up table for receiving the signal g
norm
(x,y) and for implementing a
function r in accordance with the equation


g
2
(x,y)=r(g
1
(x,y),c)=ln{cg
1
(x,y)+sqrt(cg
1
(x,y))^2+1}

where c is a constant selected from the range 2.0 to 15.0;
a second multiplier coupled to the output of the adding means and the look-up
table forming the signal g
out
(x,y);
a divider coupled to an output of the second multiplier and an output of the
normalizing means for forming the factor z(x,y) in accordance with the equation


z(x,y)=g
out
(x,y)/g
norm
(x,y)

; and
multipliers coupled respectively to outputs of said digitizing means and each
receiving the function z(x,y) thereby forming the output signals R
out
, B
out
, G
out
.
An analog circuit for providing dynamic gamma contrast control of a
video signal in a television receiver, said circuit comprising:


an input for receiving input R, G, B signals;
means for determining a maximum, pixel-by-pixel of the input R, G, B signals
forming the signal g(t);
means for low-pass filtering the signal g(t);
means for sampling an output of the low-pass filtering means;
delaying means for delaying an output of said sampling means, said delaying
means having a plurality of stages each of which having an output;
means for summing the outputs from said plurality of stages in said delaying
means;
a first multiplier having a first input coupled to the output of said summing
means and a second input coupled to the output of said maximum determining means;
a nonlinear circuit having an input coupled to the output of said maximum
determining means;
a second multiplier having a first input coupled to an output of said first
multiplier and a second input coupled to an output of said nonlinear circuit;
a divider coupled to an output of said second multiplier and the output of said
maximum determining means for forming the function z(x,y); and
means for receiving the input R, G, B signals and for multiplying these signals
by the function z(x,y).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
