<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625301</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TAPE PACKAGING SYSTEM WITH REMOVABLE COVERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K1302	H05K1302	B65B1504	B65B1500	H05K1304	H05K1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	B65B	B65B	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K13	H05K13	B65B15	B65B15	H05K13	H05K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JACO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JACO, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALVITE JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALM TROY THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALVITE, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALM, TROY, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to multi-walled tape component carriers, e.g. for odd components (i.e. size, 
geometry or production run length), and a tape component packaging system apparatus and, in 
particular, to a wound tape, component feeder assembly for 
packaging single or multiple small components, especially 
electronic components at seriatim covered, tape storage locations 
in indexed relation to each other and the tape. Varieties of tape media have been developed for storing and 
conveying components within varieties of packaging systems which 
sequentially remove or mount the components to the tape carrier. 
Many of the tape carriers provide a substrate that includes one 
or more rows of apertures which mate with system conveyor drive 
sprockets (see WO-A-9 004 915). The system driver thereby appropriately conveys the 
tape contents to particular sites within the system. The packaged components of many prior systems have been 
limited to components of uniform size and shape. In some systems 
components are secured to the tape carrier with removeable 
fastener or binding strips which longitudinally coincide with the 
tape carrier and which are secured to the carrier at either side 
of each component. The binding strips can be mounted to one or 
both of the upper and lower tape surfaces. Typically, the 
binding strips are treated as waste, although they may be re-used 
in certain arrangements. Examples of some of such systems and 
tapes can be found upon directing attention to U.S. Patent Nos. 
3,135,375; 3,129,814; 3,140,773; 3,920,121; and 4,852,737. Applicant is also aware of systems wherein the tape carrier 
includes flap portions which are hinge coupled along one edge to 
the tape carrier. An opposite or other edges either permanently 
or detachably mount to the carrier. The contained components are 
thus insertable either from the side or vertically from above the 
tape. Various of such assemblies can be found upon directing 
attention to U.S. Patent Nos. 4,621,486; 4,631,897; and 
4,867,308. Although these latter systems provide advantages by way of 
containing the component fastener mechanism to the tape carrier,  
 
the component accessing portion of the user system must 
accommodate the fastener media. This, oftentimes and 
necessarily, implies greater spacing between components. A variety of tape systems have also been developed which 
provide component storage compartments. The compartments are 
formed either by way of thickened tape substrates or cavities 
which are formed into
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-walled tape component carrier comprising: 

a) a film substrate (110) including a plurality of seriatim 
apertures (148), wherein each aperture extends through said substrate 

and is surrounded by a plurality of sidewalls (234) integrally 
projecting from at least one surface of said substrate; 
b) a plurality of pallet means (146) for each supporting at 
least one component at one of said apertures, each of said pallet 

means removably mounted between said sidewalls at one aperture 
to form a bottom wall and means (158) for securing said pallet means 

between said sidewalls; 
c) a plurality of covers (134) and means (240) for securing each 
of said covers to said sidewalls at each aperture; and 
d) wherein upon securing one of said pallets and one 
of said covers at each aperture a plurality of component storage 

housings (135) are defined for containing at least one component in a 
cavity space thereof. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
substrate includes a plurality of apertures longitudinally 

extending along at least one of the lateral edges of said 
substrate and whereby said substrate is removed from a reel 

containing a spooled quantity of said substrate. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the sidewalls 
of each housing include a plurality of portions which taper 

inward from the sidewalls and wherein the peripheral edges of 
said sidewalls include a plurality of tabs which are coplanar to 

said first surface, which extend inward of the aperture and which 
are vertically spaced apart from a peripheral edge of the tapered 

projections and wherein upon inserting said pallet between the 
sidewalls, said pallet is constrained in the space between said 

tapered projections and said tabs. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said cover 
includes a top wall and from which depends a plurality of 

sidewalls and wherein the sidewalls include a plurality of 
projections which taper inward such that the tapered cover 

projections align with the tapered sidewall projections of the  
 

substrate and resiliently mount beneath a pallet secured to said 
substrate. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said cover 
includes a plurality of apertures aligned to said pallet to 

receive fingered projections which flex said pallet and cover to 
release said cover from said housing. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said pallet 
includes a raised platform portion and whereon a component rests. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 6 wherein said pallet 
includes a plurality of apertures surrounding said platform 

portion and ones of which apertures align with electrical 
terminations of a stored component. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said pallet 

includes a plurality of resilient projections for restraining a 
component thereto. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein a top surface 
of said cover includes a depressed portion projecting inward of 

said housing to contact an upper surface of a contained 
component. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said pallet 
includes a plurality of raised projections which are spaced apart 

from one another and between adjacent ones of which projections 
components are individually supported in aligned relation to one 

another and wherein a channel extends relative to said 
projections. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein a portion of 
said pallet includes a depression for receiving a component. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein one end of 
said substrate includes a first coupler and further comprising 

cartridge means including leader means having a second coupler 
and means for detachably mating with said first coupler and 

whereby a length of said substrate can be stored in wound 
relation to a center spool of said cartridge. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 12 wherein said 
cartridge means comprises an enclosed housing having a plurality 

of side, end, top and bottom walls, wherein one of said walls  
 

includes a slide channel and another of said walls includes a 
door, and means for slidably securing the door to the other wall 

and for biasing said door into a normally closed position to 
restrain said second coupler between the door and the wall 

containing the slide channel. 
A tape component packaging system apparatus 
comprising: 


a) means for restraining first and second tape 
cartridges to a frame housing (28), wherein a take-up cartridge (9) 

contains a leader tape and a supply cartridge contains a wound 
tape carrier including a plurality of component storage 

compartments (135) projecting from at least one surface of the tape 
carrier wherein each storage compartment is defined by an integral 

annular raised portion of a film substrate (110), a detachable 
component support pallet (146) and a detachable cover (134); 
b) means (60,70) for drivingly engaging said tape carrier 
to extract tape from the supply cartridge and collect the 

extracted tape at the take-up cartridge; 
c) means (130) for removing and retaining each cover at a 
location displaced from a cover removal location during an 

accessing of each compartment and resecuring the cover to each 
component storage compartment; 
d) means (136) for selectively restraining each of said 
pallets and a component stored thereon at a predetermined 

reference location; and 
e) tool head means (33) indexed relative to said 
reference location for positionally accessing one or more 

components supported therefrom. 
Apparatus as forth in claim 14 wherein said tape drive 
means comprises a first portion including a drive wheel engaging a 

reel containing said tape carrier at each of said cartridges and a 
second portion including a plurality of pin projections which mate 

with drive apertures longitudinally extending along the tape 
carrier. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 14 including means 
engaging a door of each of take-up and supply cartridges for  

 
raising and lowering said door relative to coupler means secured 

to each of said leader tape and tape carrier. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 16 including means for 
coupling the tape coupler connected to said leader tape to coupler 

of the tape carrier. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 16 wherein said 
coupling means is longitudinally extensible between said door 

raising means and the second portion of said tape drive means. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 14 wherein the cover 
removal and resecuring means is longitudinally and vertically 

extensible relative to the pallet restraint means for extending 
and lowering to remove said cover before retracting with said 

cover to permit access to the component storage compartment by 
said tool head means. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 14 wherein said tool 
head means includes: 


a) screw follower means for longitudinally and 
vertically extending a carrier support coupled to a lead screw; 
b) tool head means including a plurality of facets, 
wherein each facet supports a predetermined tool, for rotating 

each facet and a tool secured thereto to a work position; and 
c) means for coupling said tool head means to said 
carrier support. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 20 wherein the tool 
head coupling means includes: 


a) a coupler portion secured to a projection of said 
carrier; 
b) means for latching at least one pivotally mounted 
arm of the coupler portion to a mating retainer at a coupler plate 

secured to a rotatable portion of said tool head means including 
said facets; and 
c) means for coupling motion control signals between 
the coupler portion and the coupler plate. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 21 wherein said coupler 
portion is secured to a vertically actuable means.  

 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 20 wherein each of said 
facets removeably couple to an axle including a radial projection 

counterbalancing the weight of said facets and including means for 
selectively rotating said axle and means for restraining said axle 

and each facet to said work position. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 20 including a 
plurality of gripper means each coupled to one of said facets and 

each comprising: 

a) a vertically actuated piston; and 
b) first and second head portions and means 
including at least one slot in one of said head portions and a pin 

extending from the piston and between the head portions for 
translating vertical piston movement to lateral movement of said 

first and second head portions. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 22 wherein each facet 
includes one of said gripper means and a tool having a plurality 

of fingers, wherein movement of said first and second head 
portions transversely manipulates said fingers. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 22 wherein said gripper 
means includes sensor means for controlling movement of said head 

portions. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 14 including means for 
testing ones of said components when restrained to said reference 

location. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 14 wherein said pallet 
includes a plurality of apertures which align with mating pins and 

pivoting clamp means of the restraining means. 
Apparatus as set forth in claim 28 wherein ones of said 
pins are coupled to means for testing ones of the components 

stored in said housings without removing said covers.  
 
A multi-walled tape component carrier comprising: 

a) a film substrate (110) including a plurality of 

seriatim apertures (148), wherein each aperture extends through said 
substrate and is surrounded by a plurality of sidewalls (234) integrally 

projecting from at least a first surface of said substrate, wherein 
the sidewalls include a plurality of portions which taper inward 

and wherein the peripheral edges of said sidewalls include a. 
plurality of tabs (158) which are coplanar to said first surface, which 

extend inward of the aperture and which are vertically spaced 
apart from a peripheral edge of the tapered sidewall projections; 
b) a plurality of pallet means (146) including a 
plurality of apertures (194) for each supporting at least one component 

at one of said apertures and receiving connector leads of the 
component through the pallet apertures, each of said pallet means 

removably mounting between said sidewalls in the space between 
said tapered sidewall projections and said tabs to form a bottom 

wall; 
c) a plurality of covers (134), each cover including a 
top wall and from which depends a plurality of sidewalls and 

wherein the sidewalls include a plurality of projections (240) which 
taper inward such that the tapered cover projections align with 

the tapered sidewall projections of the substrate and resiliently 
mount beneath a pallet secured to said substrate; and 
d) wherein upon securing one of said pallets and 
one of said covers at each aperture a plurality of component 

storage housings (135) are defined for containing at least one component 
in a cavity space thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
