<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624181</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A SINGLE- OR MULTICOLOURED WATER PAINT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09D500	C09D502	C09D502	C09D500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09D5	C09D5	C09D5	C09D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The single- or multicoloured water paint, particularly for wall coverings which simulate decorations in plasterwork or decorative materials, does not need to be applied by a skilled painter. The paint is constituted by an aqueous dispersion of agglomerations produced by reacting one or more macromolecular colloids with one or more insolubilising agents, in the presence of a water dispersion of elemental particles obtained by insolubilising a macromolecular colloid in a water dispersion of solid pigments or filler and a film forming emulsion polymer. During application, the agglomerations break up into small particles and react with each other as they break up. The paint is applied by brush, roller, spatula or even by spraying, to produce decorative effects which differ in pattern and colour shading in dependence on the tool used and the method of application.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPETRA SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPETRA S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSETTI EDOARDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSETTI, EDOARDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a single- or multicoloured water 
paint, particularly for simulation, that is, a 
paint which does not have organic solvents and thus is 
ecologically acceptable, and which is particularly 
suitable for simulating the special aesthetic effects 
of plastering or coverings which can be produced with 
the use of materials of a decorative nature, that is, a 
paint which, when applied, can simulate coverings of 
plasterwork, wood, paper, marble, ornamental stones, 
leather, plastics materials and other materials. Water paints comprising a dispersion or emulsion of an 
insolubilised macromolecular colloid in water are known 
from US-3,458,328, US-4,476,654 and EP-A-0 182 962 
whose description is incorporated herein by reference. The prior art comprises no paints with which anyone who 
is not a skilled painter can produce, in a simple and 
repeatable manner, aesthetic effects simulating coverings 
which up to now could generally be produced in a 
satisfactory manner only by the application of plaster 
or by the use of wood, paper, marble, ornamental stones, 
leather, plastics material or other material which, 
by its nature, is suitable to produce decorative surface 
effects due to patterns, colours or bas-relief; 
moreover, these effects could not be produced with the 
use of a single paint nor, on the other hand, could 
different effects be produced with the use of the same 
paint. At the moment, in order to attempt to produce similar  
 
aesthetic effects, it is necessary to use two or more 
single-coloured paints of different colours and to make 
use of professionals in the field who, what is more, 
should have wide experience and artistic sensitivity; 
this involves considerable cost with a risk of obtaining 
results which do not conform to the effects originally 
envisaged and which, sometimes, cannot even be 
repeated to an appreciable extent from one wall to another. As a result of the foregoing, there is a need to solve 
the technical problem of finding a paint which, during 
application and in dependence on the methods and tools 
used, can form coverings which simulate surfaces formed 
with plasterwork, wood, paper, marble, ornamental stones, 
leather, plastics materials and other materials 
without the need for any particular skill to achieve 
the desired aesthetic result; these effects should also 
be obtainable even with the use of a single paint. The invention solves the aforesaid technical problem 
by providing a paint comprising a dispersion of a macromolecular 
colloid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A single- or multicoloured water paint comprising 
a dispersion of a macromolecular colloid in water, characterized 

in that said colloid is in the form of agglomerations 
with dimensions of from 0.5- to 10 mm, 

which are obtainable by insolubilising a second macromolecular 
colloid in a water dispersion 

of elemental particles obtained by insolubilising 
a first macromolecular colloid in 

water in the presence of solid particles and a film 
forming emulsion polymer, said agglomerations being susceptible 

to break up into said elemental particles, 
when subjected to shear stress conditions of usual 

paint application means. 
A water paint according to Claim 1, wherein said 
first and second macromolecular colloid are selected 

from anionic and non-ionic colloids. 
A water paint according to Claim 2, wherein the 
anionic colloid is selected from the group consisting 

of sulphated, sulphonated and carboxylated synthetic 
and/ or natural linear polymers. 
A water paint according to Claim 3, wherein said 
anionic colloid is a carboxylated cellulosic material 

selected from the group consisting of water soluble 
carboxyalkyl cellulose and carboxyalkyl hydroxypropil 

cellulose. 
A water paint according to Claim 2, wherein said 
non-ionic colloid is selected from the group consisting 

of hydroxyalkyl ethers of polysaccharides, polygalactoglycanes, 
ethoxylated and propoxylated polygalactoglycanes.  

 
A water paint according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein said 
solid particles have a dimension of from 0.2 to 40 micron 

and are selected from the group consisting of silicates, 
barium sulphate, aluminum oxide, titanium dioxide, 

silica, Ca carbonate, Fe oxide, Cr oxide and solid 
organig pigments. 
A water paint according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said 
film forming emulsion polymer is selected from the 

group consisting of modified vinyl polymer and acrylic 
polymers. 
A water paint according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein said 
film forming emulsion polymer is selected fro
m the 
group consisting of styrene-acrylic resins, vinyl-acrylic 

resins, pure acrylic resins, chloro-vinyl polymers 
and vinyl-versatic resins. 
A process for preparing a water paint according to 
any of Claims 1 to 8, comprising the steps of: 


a) contacting in water, a first macromolecular colloid 
or mixture thereof with an insolublising agent for 

said colloid, in the presence of solid particles and of 
a film forming emulsion polymer, thereby to cause gelification 

or at least partial insolubilisation of said 
colloid on said solid particles and obtain a dispersion 

of elemental particles in water, and 
b) insolubilising a second macromolecular colloid or 
mixture thereof with an insolubilising agent therefor 

in the presence of said water dispersion of elemental 
particles. 
A process according to Claim 9, wherein said solid  
 

particles in step a) have a dimension of from 0.2 to 40 
micron and are selected from the group consisting of 

silicates, barium sulphate, aluminum oxide, titanum dioxide, 
silica, Ca carbonate, Fe oxide, Cr oxide and solid 

organic pigments. 
A process according to Claim 9 or 10, wherein said solid 
particles are dispersed in water in the presence of a 

non-ionic wetting agent, selected from the group consisting 
of products of condensation of ethylene or propylene 

oxides and alkyl phenols, derivatives of ethoxylated 
or propoxylated fatty acids and ethoxylated acetilene 

derivatives in concentration of from 0.1 to 0.5% 
by wt. 
A process according to any of claims 9 to 11, wherein in step a) 
said film forming emulsion polymer is selected from the 

group consisting of modified vinyl polymers and acrylic 
polymers in concentration of from 10 to 35% by wt. 
A process according to Claim 12, wherein said 
emulsion polymer is selected from the group consisting 

of styrene-acrylic resins, vinyl-acrylic resins, pure 
acrylic resins, chloro-vinyl polymer and vinyl-versatic 

resins. 
A process according to any of claims 9 to 13, wherein in step a) 
said colloid is present in concentration of from 0.5 to 

7% by wt. and is selected from the group consisting of 
sulphonated, sulphated and carboxylated synthetic and/or 

natural linear anionic polymers. 
A process according to Claim 14, wherein said 
anionic polymer is selected from the group consisting 

of carboxyalkyl cellulose and carboxyalkyl hydroxyalkyl  
 

cellulose. 
A process according to any of claims 9 to 15, wherein said first 
colloid is a non-ionic colloid which is present at a 

concentration of from 0.5 to 7% by wt. and is selected 
from the group consisting of alkyl and hydroxyalkyl 

ethers of polysaccharides, polygalactoglycanes and 
ethoxylated or propoxylated polygalactoglycanes. 
A process according to Claim 14, wherein the insolubilising 
agent comprises an organic or inorganic salt 

of Al, Fe, Cu, Ca, Ag or heavy metals. 
A process according to claim 16, wherein the colloid 
is a polygalactoglycane or derivatives thereof and 

the insolubilising agent is selected from boric acid, 
alkanolamine or acetylacetonate titanate or zirconate. 
A process according to any of claims 9 to 18, wherein the colloid 
in step b) has the same chemical nature of that 

used in step a). 
A process according to any of claims 9 to 19, wherein in step a) 
said solid particles are in concentration in water of 

from 10 to 40% by wt. and the colloid has a molecular 
weight below 100,000. 
A process according to any of claims 9 to 19, wherein in step a) 
said solid particles are present in concentration of 

from 0.5 to 5% by wt. and the colloid has a molecular 
weight above 500,000. 
A process according to any of claims 9 to 21, wherein in step b) 
said second colloid has a molecular weight above 

500,000.  
 
A process according to claim 22, wherein in step 
b) said colloid is present in a concentration of from 

0.5 to 5% by wt. 
A process according to claim 23, wherein a film 
forming emulsion polymer is added in step b). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
