<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612291</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POWER CONDUCTOR RAIL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60M100	B60M130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60M	B60M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60M1	B60M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INESSCON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INESSCON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLICHTA DIETMAR G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLICHTA, DIETMAR, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention generally relates to power conductor 
rails used for electrical rail transportation systems such as 
metro transit rail vehicles, people movers, heavy rail 
commuters and the like. Electrically powered rail vehicles have long been 
used for mass transit systems. Electric rail systems typically 
employ a three-rail configuration, the rail system having two 
running rails to support the vehicle and a third rail to 
conduct the necessary electrical power. In early electric rail 
systems, all three rails were made of standard steel, each rail 
being identical in configuration In the late 1960's, metro 
transit authorities and supporting manufacturing companies 
began experimenting with different rail structures for third 
rails in an effort to reduce electrical resistance and reduce 
weight for ease of handling and installation. One of the first improvements was the use of an 
aluminum cladded rail whereby prefabricated extruded aluminum 
sections were bolted or clamped onto each side of a 
conventional steel rail web. An electrical conductor rail 
having non-ferrous metal extrusions secured to both sides of 
the steel web of the rail using bolts is disclosed in U.S. 
Patent No. 3,730,310.  
 In particular this document discloses a power conducter rail for 
use in an electrically powered rail vehicle system, the power 
conductor rail comprising a steel portion having an upper flange 
a lower flange and a web disposed there-between, the upper 
flange forming a generally convexed contact surface, the lower 
flange having a generally flat support sur-face and the web 
including a first side, a second side and a plurality of 
apertures connecting said first side to said second side, a 
first high conductivity layer bonded to said first side, a 
second high conductivity layer bonded to the second side, and 
aluminum about said web sandwiching the first high conductivity 
layer and the second conductivity layer between the aluminum and 
the steel portion. In this structure, the aluminum cladding was preselected and 
secured to the steel rail web in the field by the installation 
personnel. Although this structure improved the electrical 
conductivity over prior art solid steel rails, the rail suffers 
inherent problems associated with the bolted construction 
including corrosion, electrical hot spikes, and excessive 
voltage loss. Bolted-on aluminum cladding structures also suffer 
from high weight, due to the amount of aluminum needed to 
provide enhanced conductivity, and high  
 
power loss due
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power conductor rail comprising a steel 
portion (4) having a web (16) and an aluminum portion (6) cast 

about the web of the steel portion thus making said steel 
portion and said aluminum portion an integral structure (2), 

characterized in that a high conductivity layer (8, 10) is 
mechanically attached to the web (16) and positioned between 

the web and the aluminum portion (6), the high conductivity 
layer (8, 10) having an electrical conductivity and a 

coefficient of thermal expansion greater than the steel 
portion (4) and the aluminum portion (6) and a thickness of at 

least about 0.25 mm. 
The power conductor rail of claim 1 
characterized in that the steel portion (4) includes a contact 

surface (18) configured to provide electrical contact with an 
electrical contact shoe (20). 
The composite rail of claim 1 characterized in 
that the high conductivity layer (8, 10) is made substantially 

of copper. 
The power conductor rail of claim characterized 
in that the high conductivity layer (8, 10) is made 

substantially of brass. 
A power conductor rail comprising a steel 
portion (4
) having a contact surface (18), a support surface 
(22) and a web (16) disposed therebetween, the web having a 

first side, a second side and a plurality of apertures (24) 
connecting said first side to said second side and aluminum 

cladding (6) casted about said web and substantially filling 
said apertures (24), characterized by a first copper sheath 

(8) disposed between the first side of the web (16) and the 
aluminum cladding (6) and mechanically bonded to said first 

side of the steel portion and said aluminum cladding, the 
first copper sheath having a plurality of holes (26) generally  

 
corresponding to the apertures (24), the aluminum cladding 

(34) substantially filling said holes and apertures. 
The power conductor rail of claim 5 
characterized by a second copper sheath (10) generally 

disposed between said second side of the web (16) and the 
aluminum cladding (6) and mechanically bonded to said second 

side of the web and the aluminum cladding, the second copper 
sheath having a plurality of further holes (26) generally 

corresponding to the apertures (24), and the aluminum cladding 
(34) substantially filling said further holes and apertures. 
The power conductor rail of claim 5 
characterized in that said contact surface (18) is provided by 

an upper flange (12) and the support surface (22) is provided 
by a lower flange (14), the upper flange having a thickness 

greater than the thickness of the lower flange. 
The power conductor rail of claim 5 
characterized in that said contact surface (18) is generally 

convex and the support surface (22) is substantially flat. 
The power conductor rail of claim 5 
characterized in that said first copper sheath (8) is a 

prefabricated copper mesh, positioned adjacent the web (16) 
prior to the casting of the aluminum cladding (6) about said 

web, said copper mesh (8) being cold rolled against the web 
(16) to flatten the mesh into a substantially uniform layer 

prior to the casting of the aluminum cladding about said web. 
The power conductor rail of claim 5 
characterized in that said copper sheath (8) has a thickness 

of at least 0.25 mm. 
The power conductor rail of claim 5 
characterized in that said aluminum cladding (6) includes a 

heater hole (36) disposed longitudinally along said rail.  
 
The power conductor rail of claim 11 
characterized in that said heater hole (36) is positioned 

adjacent the first side of the web (16) generally below the 
contact surface (18). 
A power conductor rail for use in an 
electrically powered rail vehicle system, the power conductor 

rail comprising a steel portion (4) having an upper flange 
(12), a lower flange (14) and web (16) disposed therebetween, 

the upper flange forming a generally convexed contact surface 
(18), the lower flange having a generally flat support surface 

(22) and the web (16) including a first side, a second side 
and a plurality of apertures (24) connecting said first side 

to said second side, and aluminum (6) casted about said web 
(16) substantially filling the apertures (24), characterized 

by a first high conductivity, structurally independent layer 
(8) bonded to said first side and a second high conductivity, 

structurally independent layer (10) bonded to the second side, 
the casted aluminum (6) sandwiching the first high 

conductivity layer (8) and the second high conductivity layer 
(10) between the aluminum (6) and the steel portion (4), the 

aluminum (6) bonding to the first high conductivity layer (8) 
and the second high conductivity layer (10) to form an 

integral, multi-metallic structure. 
The power conductor rail of claim 13 
characterized in that the first high conductivity layer (8) is 

substantially made of copper. 
The power conductor rail of claim 13 
characterized in that the first high conductivity layer (8) is 

substantially made of brass. 
The power conductor rail of claim 13 
characterized in that the first high conductivity layer (8) is 

prefabricated and cold rolled onto the steel portion (4) prior 
to a casting of the aluminum (6) about said web (16).  

 
A power conductor rail comprising a steel web 
portion (4), an aluminum portion (6) cast about the steel web 

portion to make said power conductor rail an integral 
structure, and means (34) mechanically securing the aluminum 

portion (6) to the steel web portion (16), characterized by a 
high conductivity layer (8, 10) positioned between the steel 

web portion (16) and the aluminum portion, the high 
conductivity layer having an electrical conductivity greater 

than the steel web portion and the aluminum portion and a 
thickness of at least 0.25 mm. 
The power conductor rail of claim 17 
characterized by a contact surface (18) connected to said 

steel web portion (16) and configured to provide electrical 
contact with an electrical contact shoe (20). 
A power conductor rail comprising a steel rail 
(4) including a web (16) and an aluminum portion (6) connected 

to the web, characterized in that a high conductivity metallic 
layer (8) is pressed into intimate contact with a side of the 

web (16) to thereby secure the layer to the web and 
electrically couple the layer and the web, and in that the 

aluminum portion (6) is applied to the layer (8) by pouring 
molten aluminum onto the layer to secure the aluminum portion 

to the layer and electrically couple the layer and the 
aluminum portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
