<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623930</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor integrated circuit having a function of reducing a consumed current.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C700	G11C700	G11C722	G11C11401	G11C11401	G11C11407	G11C11407	G11C1141	G11C1141	G11C11417	G11C11417	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C7	G11C7	G11C7	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An IC (10) is divided into four circuit blocks 
(11 to 14) These four circuit blocks have the same 

function. While one of the circuit blocks is not functioning, 
a mode setting circuit (15) generates mode 

control signals (CTRL1 to CTRL4) for selecting a mode in 
which the operation frequency of the circuit block is 

set lower than in a normal operation mode. A main 
control circuit (16) controls the entire operation of 

the IC (10), and generates clock signals (CLK1 to CLK4) 
for defining the operations of the circuit blocks (11 to 

14). Sub-control circuits (17-20) are arranged so as to 
correspond to the circuit blocks (11 to 14) and receive 

their respective mode control signals (CTRL1 to CTRL4) 
and clock signals (CLK1 to CLK4). Upon receiving the 

mode control signals, the sub-control circuits (17 to 
20) controls their corresponding circuit blocks as to 

whether the circuit blocks are operated in the normal 
operation mode or at a frequency lower than that in the 

normal operation mode. In the normal operation mode, 
the sub-control circuits (17 to 20) each set the amount 

of direct current of a direct current supply circuit 
arranged in its corresponding circuit block to a normal 

value, in response to the mode control signals. In the 
special operation mode, the sub-control circuits each 

make the amount of direct current smaller than in the 
normal operation mode. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO SHIBAURA ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIGEHARA HIROSHI C O INT PROP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIGEHARA, HIROSHI, C/O INT PROP DIV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor 
integrated circuit having a function of reducing a consumed 
current and, more particularly, to a semiconductor 
integrated circuit having a function of setting the 
operation frequency of one of a plurality of circuit 
blocks lower than in a normal operation mode, while the 
circuit block is not functioning. In general, there are two methods for reducing 
power consumed by an LSI (large scale integrated 
circuit): One is to use a power save mode for 
decreasing the operation frequency in, for example, a 
waiting state, and the other is to set the frequency of 
a clock signal of one of a plurality of circuit blocks 
lower than in a normal operation mode, while the circuit 
block is not functioning. According to the latter 
method, the power ( 
f × C × V  
: f = frequency, C = load 
capacity, V = power supply voltage) consumed by an 
alternating current due to the charge and discharge of a 
load capacity of the circuit block, is reduced. To increase the operation speed of an LSI such as a 
memory LSI, a technique of constantly pulling up a bit 
line connected to a memory cell and decreasing a signal 
amplitude of the bit line when data is read out from 
the memory cell is known. FIG. 1 shows a circuit 
arrangement of one column of a memory LSI using this 
technique. As shown in FIG. 1, a number of memory  
 
cells, e.g., SRAM cells MC are connected between paired 
bit lines BL and BL. A sense amplifier SA is also 
connected between these bit lines. P-channel MOS 
transistors TP for pulling up the bit lines are each 
connected between each of the bit lines and the node of 
each power supply Vcc. The gates of the MOS transistors 
TP are connected to the node of a ground Vss and biased 
so that the MOS transistors are always in an on-state. When data is read out from the memory LSI, one of 
the SRAM cells MC is selected in response to a signal 
from a corresponding word line (not shown). In each of 
the SRAM cells MC, an N-channel MOS transistor in one of 
two CMOS inverters (not shown) is turned on, based on 
data stored in the SRAM cell. If a certain SRAM cell MC 
is selected, a current flows into the node of the ground 
Vss through one of the bit lines, for example, a bit 
line BL connected to the N-channel MOS transistor which 
is in the on-state in the selected SRAM cell, and the 
potential of the bit line BL reaches a low level. In 
this case, a direct current flows between the power 
supply Vcc and ground Vss via the bit line BL, and the 
low level of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor integrated circuit having a 
function of reducing a consumed current, characterized 

by comprising: 
   a plurality of circuit blocks (11 to 14) each 

having a direct current supply circuit (31, 32; 52); 

   mode setting means (15) for generating a mode 
control signal for, while one of said plurality of circuit 

blocks is not functioning, setting an operation 
frequency of said one of the circuit blocks lower than 

in a normal operation mode; and 
   control means (16, 17-20; 27; 37; 47) for making an 

amount of direct current of the direct current supply 
circuit of said one of the circuit blocks smaller than 

in a normal operation mode, in response to the mode 
control signal generated from said mode setting means, 

and making the operation frequency of said one of the 
circuit blocks lower than in the normal operation mode. 
The circuit according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said control means controls the circuit such 

that a lower limit of a rate at which the amount of 
direct current of the direct current supply circuit of 

said one of the circuit blocks is decreased coincides 
with a lower limit of a rate at which the operation frequency 

of said one of the circuit blocks is lowered. 
The circuit according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said direct current supply circuit includes a 

plurality of current sources (TP1, TP2), and said 
control means selectively turns on and turns off the 

current sources in response to the mode control signal. 
The circuit according to claim 3, characterized 
in that said mode setting means outputs mode control 

signals (CTRL1 to CTRL4) corresponding to the operation 
frequency of said one of the circuit blocks, and said 

control means selectively turns on and turns off said 
current sources in response to the mode control signals 

 
corresponding to the operation frequency, thereby 

controlling the amount of current of the direct current 
supply circuit at a plurality of stages. 
The circuit according to claim 3, characterized 
in that said plurality of current sources are each 

constituted by a P-channel MOS transistor (TP1, TP2). 
The circuit according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said direct current supply circuit includes a 

single current source (TP1). 
The circuit according to claim 6, characterized 
in that said mode setting means outputs mode control 

signals (CTRL1 to CTRL4) corresponding to the operation 
frequency of said one of the circuit blocks, and said 

control means controls a voltage value of a current 
control signal for determining the amount of current of 

the direct current supply circuit in response to the 
mode control signals corresponding to the operation frequency. 
The circuit according to claim 6, characterized 
in that said single current source is constituted by a 

P-channel MOS transistor. 
The circuit according to claim 6, characterized 
in that said control means controls a voltage value of 

the current control signal at a plurality of stages in 
response to the mode control signals corresponding to 

the frequency operation, and controls the amount of 
current of the direct current supply circuit at a plurality 

of stages. 
The circuit according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said control means includes: 

   a first control circuit (41) for receiving a first 
clock signal (CLK1) and the mode control signal (CTRL1), 

and outputting one of the first clock signal or a second 
clock signal (CLK1I) whose frequency is lower than a 

frequency of the first clock signal in response to the 
mode control signal; 

   a second control circuit (42) for receiving the 
 

mode control signal, and outputting a current control 
signal (CTRL1I) for controlling an operation of the 

direct current supply circuit in response to the mode 
control signal; and 

   a third control circuit (43) for receiving the mode 
control signal (CTRL1) and an activation control signal 

(SE1) for activating an operation of each of the circuit 
blocks, and delaying and outputting the activation 

control signal in response to the mode control signal. 
The circuit according to claim 1, characterized 
in that each of said plurality of circuit blocks is a 

memory circuit block including memory cells (MC), bit 
lines (BL, BL), and a sense amplifier (SA1), and said 

direct current supply circuits (31, 32) are bit line 
potential setting circuits for setting potentials of the 

bit lines to predetermined values. 
The circuit according to claim 11, characterized 
in that said direct current supply circuits each 

include a plurality of current sources (TP1, TP2), and 
said control means selectively turns on and turns off 

the current sources in response to the mode control 
signal. 
The circuit according to claim 12, characterized 
in that said current sources are each constituted by a 

P-channel MOS transistor. 
The circuit according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said plurality of circuit blocks each include a 

ROM-Logic circuit block (51) operated in synchronism 
with a clock signal, said ROM-Logic circuit block having 

a data readout node (N20), and said direct current 
supply circuit (52) supplies a current to the data 

readout node of said ROM-Logic circuit block and sets a 
potential of the data readout node to a predetermined 

value. 
The circuit according to claim 14, characterized 
in that said direct current supply circuit includes a 

plurality of current sources (TP31, TP32), and said 
 

control means selectively turns on and turns off the 
current sources in response to the mode control signal. 
The circuit according to claim 15, characterized 
in that said current sources are each constituted by a 

P-channel MOS transistor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
