<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626860</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENZYME CASTRATION OF ANIMALS AND TUMOR TREATMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3843	A61K3848	C12N996	C12N996	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C12N9	C12N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOVO TECHNOLOGIES CORP DE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DE NOVO TECHNOLOGIES CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOPKINS ROBERT E II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SILVER JULES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOPKINS, ROBERT E., II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SILVER, JULES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ENZYME CASTRATION OF ANIMALS AND TUMOR TREATMENTBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONAs described in a commentary on pages 192-194 of the Journal of the American Veterinary Medicine Association (JAVMA) , Vol. 197, No. 2 (July 15, 1990), the population growth of unwanted pets represents a significant problem in the United States.The problem of pet overpopulation in the United States reflects a similar problem with feral dogs and cats in developing and third world nations. As the JAVMA article describes, there are surgical methods for sterilizing dogs, cats, and other pets, but these methods are too expensive to be widely used at effective levels and have associated risks (e.g., anesthesia, infection and hemorrhage). Various products for non-surgical sterilization are currently under investigation, as indicated in the July 15, 1990 article, but none have proven to be entirely satisfactory.Also, Stagg et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,356,189 discloses the sterilization of male animals by injection 

 of a weak acid such as lactic acid, or a weak base, into the spermatic cords. A product based on this invention was licensed for cattle by the Food and Drug Administration/Center for Veterinary Medicine, and was being evaluated for dogs, but the license was withdrawn in August of 1990 due to evidence of non-efficacy as a result of variability in administration of the drug. Additionally, this drug was not efficacious in dogs. Another product under development, zinc tannate, has shown promise in laboratory tests with rodents and rabbits. However, this product has yet to be tested in species intended for treatment, namely, dogs and cats. This agent is not intended for use in food production animals. See U.S. Patent Nos. 4,156,427 and 4,339,438.Methods used for castration of livestock present different types of problems. The procedures are performed by non-veterinarians, and are traumatic on the animals, causing a high incidence of infection, poor growth, hemorrhage and death.For example, about two percent of the hogs which are castrated every year develop severe disease or die from castration-associated infection. Others are sickened for a period of weeks, which causes their growth to temporarily slow. The actual number of hogs that become sick or die yearly in the United States from castration-associated infection is believed to be on the order of two million. Also, because of undetectable 

 abscesses caused by these infections, a large portion of the carcasses or parts of carcasses from hogs which do reach slaughter cannot be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
1. The method of chemically castrating male animals which comprises injecting into the testes or into the spermatic cords a castratingly effective amount of a protease enzyme preparation.
2. The method of chemically castrating male animals which comprises injecting into the testes or into the spermatic cords a castratingly effective amount of chymopapain-rich enzyme preparation.
3. The method of Claim 2 in which said enzyme preparation has a buffered pH of about 7.2 to 8.2.
4. The method of Claim 2 in which said enzyme preparation comprises a chymopapain activity-stabilizing amount of EDTA and cysteine.
5. The method of Claim 2 in which said enzyme preparation comprises a fluorescent marker material in effective concentration to be detectable in the animal's urine if the enzyme preparation escapes from the region of the testes. 



 6. The method of Claim 2 in which said enzyme preparation comprises an effective concentration of a local anesthetic.
7. The method of Claim 2 in which said enzyme preparation comprises a vasoconstrictor in sufficient concentration to cause constriction of precapiUary arterioles in the testes upon injection of said preparation into the testes, whereby migration of said enzyme from the testes is further inhibited.
8. The method of Claim 7 in which said vasoconstrictor comprises epinephrine or lidocaine.
9. The method of Claim 2 in which at least a portion of said enzyme preparation is injected into the epididymis of the testes.
10. The method of Claim 2 in which said enzyme preparation comprises a chymopapain activity-stabilizing amount of EDTA and cysteine, said enzyme preparation also comprising a vasoconstrictor in sufficient concentration to cause constriction of precapiUary arterioles in the testes upon injection of said preparation into the testes, whereby migration of said enzyme from the testes is inhibited. 


 11. The method of Claim 10 in which said enzyme preparation has a buffered pH of about 7.2 to 8.2.
12. The method of Claim 11 in which said enzyme preparation comprises a fluorescent marker material in effective concentration to be detectable in the animals's urine if the enzyme preparation escapes from the region of the testes or tumor.
13. The method of Claim 12 in which said enzyme preparation comprises an effective concentration of a local anesthetic.
14. The method of Claim 13 in which said vasoconstrictor comprises epinephrine or Lidocaine.
15. The method of Claim 1 in which said enzyme is substantially free of collagenase activity.
16. An injectable preparation which comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable, aqueous suspension of essentially 20 to 400 units per ml. of a protease enzyme preparation, and a vasoconstrictor in sufficient concentration to cause constriction of nearby precapiUary arterioles upon injection of said preparation into an animal in a clinically effective amount. 


 17. The preparation of Claim 16 in which said protease enzyme preparation comprises chymopapain.
18. The preparation of Claim 17 which comprises from 0.2 to 20 mg. of a fluorescent marker material per ml. of said preparation, to be detectable in the urine of an animal after injection of said preparation if the enzyme preparation escapes from the region of injection.
19. The preparation of Claim 17 which comprises an effective concentration of a local anesthetic when a castratingly effective amount of such preparation is injected into a testicle.
20. The preparation of Claim 17 in which said vasoconstrictor comprises epinephrine.
21. The preparation of Claim 17 which comprises a chymopapain activity-stabilizing amount of EDTA and cysteine.
22. The preparation of Claim 17 which has a buffered pH of about 7.2 to 8.2.
23. The method of injecting into tumor tissue an effective amount of a protease enzyme preparation, 


 whereby a sufficient number of tumor cells are destroyed to cause the size of the tumor to be reduced.
24. The method of Claim 23 in which said protease enzyme is substantially free of collagenase activity.
25. The method of Claim 23 in which said enzyme preparation has a buffered pH of about 7.2 to 8.2.
26. The method of Claim 23 in which said enzyme preparation comprises chymopapain.
27. The method of Claim 23 in which said enzyme preparation comprises a vasoconstrictor in sufficient concentration to cause constriction of precapiUary arterioles in the vicinity of the tumor upon injection of said preparation, whereby migration of the enzyme from the tumor area is inhibited.
28. The method of Claim 27 in which said enzyme preparation comprises a local anesthetic to desensitize neurons in the vicinity of the tumor upon injection of said preparation.
29. The method of Claim 23 in which a calculated, tumor-effective close of ionizing 


 irradiation is administered prior to, concurrently with or following an effective amount of protease enzyme preparation whereby an additional number of tumor cells are destroyed to cause the size of the tumor to be reduced.
30. The method of Claim 23 in which a dose at regional hyperthermia (41-46°C) is administered prior to concurrently with, or following an effective amount of protease enzyme preparation whereby an additional number of tumor cells are destroyed to cause the size of the tumor to be reduced.
31. The method of Claim 23 in which a calculated, tumor effective dose of chemotherapeutic agent is administered prior to, concurrently with, or following an effective amount of protease enzyme preparation whereby an additional number of tumor cells are destroyed to cause the size of the tumor to be reduced. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
