<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642490</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF PURIFIED TEREPHTHALIC ACID.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C5142	C07C5143	C07C6300	C07C6326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C51	C07C51	C07C63	C07C63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for the production of purified terephthalic acid comprises subjecting an aqueous solution of crude terephthalic acid to hydrogenation to reduce impurities therein, crystallising the resulting solution to produce a slurry of purified terephthalic acid in aqueous liquor and carrying out an integrated terephthalic acid separation and washing process without a reslurrying stage between separation and washing. In one form of the invention, the integrated separation and washing process is implemented at elevated pressure by means of a belt filtration system (100, Figure 2) in which the pressure on the downstream side of the filter belt is no less than that prevailing following pressure let-down in the crystallisation process. Other implementations of the invention may be achieved by means of centrifuge apparatus incorporated arrangements for the application of wash liquor to the cake formed during centrifuging (Figures 3 and 4).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ICI PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINDMARSH ERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILNE IAN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNER JOHN ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINDMARSH, ERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILNE, IAN, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNER, JOHN ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF PURIFIED TEREPHTHALIC ACIDThis invention relates to the production of terephthalic acid.Purified terephthalic acid (PTA) is commonly produced by purification of crude terephthalic acid (CTA) obtained by the liquid 5 phase air oxidation of p-xylene. It may also be produced by the hydrolysis of a polyalkylene terephthalate, for example polyethylene terephthalate.Such purification typically comprises adding an aqueous medium to the CTA to form a slurry thereof which is then heated to dissolve the ,Q CTA in the medium to provide an aqueous solution of terephthalic acid. This solution is then passed to a reduction step in which the solution is contacted with hydrogen under reducing conditions in the presence of a heterogeneous catalyst to reduce chemically organic impurities, for example 4-carboxybenzaldehyde (4-CBA). The hydrogenated solution is . _. passed to pressure let-down vessels in which PTA crystals form to provide a slurry of PTA in aqueous medium. PTA is recovered from the aqueous medium.It is known to recover PTA from the aqueous medium by separating the PTA and medium in a decanter centrifuge in a first separation -n stage, reslurrying the PTA with fresh water, separating the reslurried PTA and fresh water in a decanter centrifuge in a second separation stage to produce a PTA cake and then drying the cake in a drier.These steps involve special equipment which incur significant capital costs and variable costs of operation. The recovery stage requires large quantities of water in the centrifuge and reslurry steps. Therefore a large quantity of aqueous waste effluent must be treated and may present problems of disposal. Further, dissolved PTA and other valuable materials in the waste effluent stage may be lost.The present invention seeks to provide improvements in the production of terephthalic acid.According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for the purification of crude terephthalic acid, comprising:(a) dissolving the crude terephthalic acid in an aqueous medium to produce a terephthalic acid-containing solution;(b) contacting the terephthalic acid solution with hydrogen under reducing conditions and at elevated temperature and pressure to 

 reduce chemically at least some of the impurity present in the crude terephthalic acid; (c) reducing pressure and temperature to obtain a slurry comprising crystallised pure terephthalic acid in aqueous medium; 5 (d) in a first zone effecting separation of the PTA crystals from the aqueous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A process for the purification of crude terephthalic acid, comprising:
(a) dissolving the crude terephthalic acid in an aqueous medium to produce a terephthalic acid-containing solution;
(b) contacting the terephthalic acid solution with hydrogen under reducing conditions and at elevated temperature and pressure to reduce chemically at least some of the impurity present in the crude terephthalic acid; (c) reducing pressure and temperature to obtain a slurry comprising crystallised pure terephthalic acid in aqueous medium; (d) in a first zone effecting separation of the PTA crystals from the aqueous medium by filtration of the slurry to remove aqueous medium through a filter surface to obtain a wet mass of crystals; (e) transferring said wet mass of crystals to a second zone without reslurrying said mass and supplying aqueous wash liquor to said mass while effecting filtration whereby the wash liquor is displaced through the mass and through a filter surface in the second zone; and (f) maintaining a differential pressure across the filter surface in at least one of said zones such that, on the lower pressure side of the filter surface, the pressure is substantially the same as or greater than the pressure prevailing following step (c).
2. A process as claimed in Claim 1 in which steps (d), (e) and (f) are carried out by discharging said slurry on to a filter material which is movable to transport the terephthalic acid through said first zone in which filtration of said aqueous medium from the slurry is effected, to the second zone in which said mass of crystals is washed by displacement of said aqueous wash liquor through said mass. 3. A process as claimed in Claim 2 in which the filter material lies in a generally horizontal plane during traverse of said first and second zones.
4. A process as claimed in Claim 2 or 3 in which the filter material is driven along an endless path so that it repeatedly traverses said first and second zones.
5. A process as claimed in Claim 4 in which the filter material is configured as a loop. 


6. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 5 in which aqueous medium separated in step (d) and/or wash liquor displaced through said mass is step (f) is recycled for use in step (a).
7. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 5 in which aqueous medium separated in step (d) is evaporated or cooled to produce a less pure terephthalic acid precipitate and the residual liquid is recycled for use in step (a).
8. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 7 in which said crude terephthalic acid is derived from the liquid phase oxidation of paraxylene in a carboxylic acid solvent in the presence of a heavy metal catalyst.
9. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 7 in which said crude terephthalic acid is derived from hydrolysis of a polyalkylene terephthalate. 10. A process for the production of terephthalic acid comprising:
(a) effecting oxidation of paraxylene in a reaction medium comprising an aliphatic carboxylic acid to produce a first slurry of crude terephthalic acid in the reaction medium;
(b) subjecting said first slurry to a separation and washing process in which the reaction medium is removed from the crude terephthalic acid;
(c) dissolving the crude terephthalic acid from step (b) in an aqueous medium to produce a terephthalic acid-containing solution;
(d) contacting the terephthalic acid solution with hydrogen under reducing conditions and elevated temperature and pressure conditions to reduce chemically at least some of the impurity present in the crude terephthalic acid;
(e) reducing pressure and temperature to obtain a second slurry comprising crystallised purified terephthalic acid in aqueous medium containing reduced impurities in solution; and
(f) subjecting the second slurry to a separation and washing process in which said aqueous medium is removed from the purified terephthalic acid with the aid of an aqueous wash liquor and without reslurrying the purified terephthalic acid prior to washing thereof with the aqueous wash liquor; 


the separation and washing process carried out in each of steps (b) and (f) being implemented under elevated pressure conditions using a respective belt filter system.
11. A process for the production of terephthalic acid comprising: (a) effecting oxidation of paraxylene in a reaction medium comprising an aliphatic carboxylic acid to produce a first slurry of crude terephthalic acid in the reaction medium;
(b) subjecting said first slurry to an integrated separation and washing process in which the reaction medium is removed from the crude terephthalic acid and the crude terephthalic acid is washed with aqueous wash liquor;
(c) dissolving the crude terephthalic acid from step (b) in an aqueous medium to produce a terephthalic acid-containing solution;
(d) contacting the terephthalic acid solution with hydrogen under reducing conditions and elevated temperature and pressure conditions to reduce chemically at least some of the impurity present in the crude terephthalic acid;
(e) reducing pressure and temperature to obtain a second slurry comprising crystallised purified terephthalic acid in aqueous medium containing reduced impurities in solution;
(f) subjecting the second slurry to an integrated separation and washing process in which said aqueous medium is removed from the purified terephthalic acid and the purified terephthalic acid is washed with aqueous wash liquor; (g) treating the aqueous medium removed in step (f) to produce a less pure precipitate of terephthalic acid and a residual aqueous mother liquor; and (h) recycling said less pure precipitate to the oxidation step (a) and/or recycling said residual mother liquor for use in step (c). 12. A process as claimed in Claim 11 in which the separation and washing process carried out in each of steps (b) and (f) is implemented under elevated pressure conditions using a respective belt filter system.
13. A process as claimed in Claim 10 or Claim 12 in which each belt filter is operable to transport the respective slurry on the upper run thereof through a first separation zone in which displacement of the reaction or aqueous medium from the terephthalic acid component of the 


respective slurry is effected to leave a wet mass of crude or pure terephthalic acid on the belt filter and a second washing zone in which aqueous wash liquor is passed through said mass of terephthalic acid.
14. A process as claimed in Claim 10, 12 or 13 in which each belt filter traverses a third zone in which the washed terephthalic acid is removed from the belt filter and in which the belt filter itself is washed to remove adhering deposits during its return travel from said third zone to the first zone.
15. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 10 and 12 to 14 in which the belt filter used for carrying out the separation and washing process of step (f) is operated with a pressure differential such that the pressure prevailing on the low pressure side of the filter is no less than said pressure prevailing following step (e).
16. A process as claimed in Claim 11 in which the separation and washing process carried out in each of steps (b) and (f) is implemented in the case of the separation stage in a first zone involving deposition of the terephthalic acid on a solid inner surface of a rotatable hollow vessel, and in the case of the washing stage a filter surface forming a second zone of the vessel. 17. A process as claimed in Claim 16 in which the solid surface and the filter surface are arranged such that the mass of terephthalic acid crystals is transported along the inner surface across the filter surface to a third zone from which it is recovered and the liquor from the terephthalic acid stream is transported away from the solid inner surface without crossing the filter surface.
18. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 10 and 12 to 17 in which the washing operation of step (b) is carried out in a number of stages in counter-current fashion such that the terephthalic acid is contacted with aqueous wash liquor of increasing purity as it is progressed through the washing operation.
19. A process as claimed in Claim 18 in which the washing operation of step (f) is also carried out in a number of stages in counter-current fashion such that the terephthalic acid is contacted with aqueous wash liquor of increasing purity as it is progressed through the washing operation. 


 20. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 10 to 19 in which reaction medium and aqueous wash liquor recovered from step (b) is recycled to the oxidation reaction of step (a).
21. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 10 to 20 in which, prior 5 to step (d), the aqueous solution of crude terephthalic acid is subjected to oxidation to increase conversion of terephthalic acid precursor compounds into terephthalic acid.
22. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 10 to 21 in which the heat of reaction generated in step (a) is removed by withdrawing vapour
10 containing carboxylic acid and water from the reaction and processing the vapour to derive a water component and a carboxylic acid component.
23. A process as claimed in Claim 22 in which water component derived from said vapour is employed in step (c).
24. A process as claimed in Claim 22 or 23 in which water component 15 derived from said vapour is employed as aqueous wash liquid in step
(f).
25. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 10 to 24 in which carboxylic acid component derived from said vapour is recycled to step (a).
20 26. A process as claimed in Claim 10 or any one of Claims 13 to 25 when dependent on Claim 10 in which liquor derived from step (f) is evaporated or cooled to recover a less pure terephthalic acid precipitate which is recycled to step (a).
27. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which 25 the pressure differential established between upstream and downstream sides of the filter medium is created by means of a pressurised fluid constituted at least in part by a solvent component of the liquor, which component is in its vapour phase whereby flashing of the solvent component actually present in the liquor is substantially suppressed 0 during filtration of the terephthalic acid/liquor slurry.
28. A process as claimed in Claim 27 in which the partial pressure of said solvent component in or forming the pressurised fluid on the downstream side of the filter medium is maintained substantially at or above the vapour pressure of the solvent component actually present in the slurry fed to the upstream side of the filter medium. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
