<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614151</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Information management process for cable network with automatic generation of graphic applications.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1750	G06F1750	H04L1224	H04L1224	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is an information management method implemented in 
a data processing system and designed specifically for telecommunication or 

power networks. The heart of the system is a relational Database (151) structured 
according to a logical representation of the network. This logical representation 

or Data Model (152) determines all the rules which govern the 
different types of components and their Relationships in the network. In this 

unique and consitent Database (151) is stored all the information about the 
location and content of the outside plant, the background geographic maps, 

detailed drawings, alpha-numeric descriptive data ..etc. This Database structure 
allows the user to design and create, by means of an apropriate interface 

(154), his own telecommunications business applications (153). The user can 
scan existing maps or drawings by means of a scanner (155) or manually 

digitize data with the help of a graphic mouse or pen (156). It can manipulate 
data in a number of way and represent the network in different contexts, for 

example in the form of a network map, schematic view, report or work order 
on a graphic display (157), a printer (158) or a plotter (159). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTEIL GERARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTEIL, GERARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for managing private or public 
telecommunication or power outside plant networks, and more particularly to 
a method in a data processing system for describing and modelizing a cable 
network and for automatically generating applications to design, represent, 
analyse and simulate the network. Telecommunications companies, private and public, today see two trends and 
one fact related to their outside plant network : 
Trends : 
The outside plant has become increasingly complex, with much higher 
density and a much more varied cable structure. In addition, greater 
cable capacity and network traffic makes more important than ever 
that a network is fully operational and fully utilized. Service demands increase. Throughout the world, the competitive 
threat for old and new telecommunications companies increases on all 
fronts. As telecommunications usage increase, national regulatory 
agencies, business and personal customers demand and need quicker 
response times, less down-time, and new products and services. Fact : 
The outside plant represents the largest investment of a telecommunications 
company. Thus, the outside plant must be used and maintained 
for maximum utilization and return. The information, in term of elements and connectivity, describing the telecommunication 
cable networks are exploited by the telecommunication companies 
at two levels : 
The physical level of the network, which represents the route taken by the 
cables, either underground or aerial. The logical level of the network which provides information for cable split 
and cables connections at the pair level. A normal network is a "live network", in permanent evolution, from both 
technical reasons due to the technological progress and sociological reasons 
such as population evolution and need of new services. Due to the increasing 
size and the complexity of their network, most companies today see several 
problems relating to the management, manual or even computer assisted, of 
the growth and the maintenance of their outside plant : 
The current paper drawings are out-of-date and never reflects the network 
reality. There are large backlogs in the mapping or engineering departments 
for updates. The manual cross-checking of information between drawings leads to inconsistency. The cost of brocken lines has increases drastically on the new, higher capacity 
network lines. There is a need for more accurate data on the exact 
location of the plant to avoid breakage. If a line is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information management method for an outside plant network, operating 
in a data processing system, said outside plants comprising edges (11) 

and nodes (12), edges connecting nodes, and said processing system being 
endowned with a common and unique database (151), a user interface 

(154), one or more interconnected workstations (157) with input and output 
devices such as keyboard, scanner (155), pointing device (156), printer 

(158), display (157), plotter (159), characterized in that it involves the steps 
of : 


a, defining network object types and associating said real outside plants 
to said object types, 
b, defining attributes belonging to each object type and relationships 
between said different object types, 
c, defining network levels and hierarchical relationships between object 
types, 
d, associating said objects to said network levels, each of said objects 
being associated to only one network level, 
e, determining geographical position of said objects, 
f, defining quantitative relationships between said objects, 
g, defining presentation rules for said objects, 
h, determining validation rules, 
i, storing the information generated in all preceding steps in said common 
and unique database (151). 
The information management method according to claim 1 characterized 
in that said position of said objects is determined through the own geographical 

position of the object or in relation to the position of other objects. 
The information management method according to claim 2 characterized 
in that geographical positions are given for nodes objects located at the 

highest network level and in that all objects inherit their position from the 
geographical position of said node objects. 
The information management method according to anyone of the preceding 
claims characterized in that said quantitative relationships, defined in 

said step f, between said objects are expressed in term of maximum and 
minimum values. 
The information management method according to anyone of the preceding 
claims characterized in that said presentation rules, defined in said step 

g, are related to the selection of graphic elements such as symbols, area 
patterns, colors, line types, text fonts, said selection being made in function 

of attributes of said objects and type of document. 
The information management method according to anyone of the preceding 
claims characterized in that said validation rules, defined in said step 

h, implies the checking of said object types, attributes and relationships. 
The information management method according to anyone of preceding 
claims characterized in that it involves a further step j of selecting said 

objects according to their position, type, attributes or relationships. 
The information management method according to anyone of preceding 
claims characterized in that it involves a further step k of checking errors 

and the consistency of the network compared with physical observations. 
The information management method according to anyone of preceding 
claims characterized in that it involves a further step l of automatically 

 
generating statistics indicating the total capacity and free capacity of the 

network from said objects quantitative Relationships defined in said step 
f. 
The information management method according to anyone of preceding 
claims characterized in that it involves a further step m of automatically 

tracing objects within a specific path at a given network level. 
The information management method according to anyone of preceding 
claims characterized in that it involves a further step n of automatic generation 

of documents and reports from said database 
The information management method according to anyone of preceding 
claims characterized in that it involves the further step o of defining an 

alternative network and storing correponding objects in said database with 
a distinctive attribute. 
The information management method according to anyone of preceding 
claims characterized in that the further step p of automatically generating 

graphics, said generation comprising the three steps of : 

q, defining layout objects from objects previously defined and stored in 
claim 1, 
r, building an internal layout structure, 
s, representing drawings on a screen or on paper by means of a printer 
or a plotter. 
The information management method according to claim 13 characterized 
in that said automatic graphic generation implies that the layout objects 

 
and structure are temporarily stored during the graphic application session 

and are then removed when the session terminates. 
The information management method according to claim 14 characterized 
in that said automatic generation in step p includes the representation of 

the network in different forms : 

position oriented drawings such as geographical drawings (Figure 6), 
orthogonal drawings (Figures 7 
&
 8) or semi-geographical drawings 
(Figure 9), 
logical oriented drawings Figure 10), 
expanded views, 
cross-section views (Figure 11), 
network maps. 
The information management method according to anyone of the preceding 
claims characterized in that said outside plant network is a telecommunication 

network. 
The information management method according to claim 16 characterized 
in that the network levels, defined in said step c of claim 1 comprise a track 

network level (31) - with track nodes and track sections (34) - , a duct 
network level (32) - with duct nodes and duct sections (35) -, a cable network 

level (33) - with cables and cable nodes (37) -, a link network level. 
The information management method according to claim 17 characterized 
in that the objects inherit their geographical position from node objects at 

said track network level. 
The information management method according to claim 18 characterized 
in that said step q in c
laim 13 implies the definition of a layout network 
 

with netnode (121), connection (124) and connection point (125) layout 
objects. 
The information management method according to claim 19 characterized 
in that said automatic generation of position oriented drawings includes, 

in said step r of building an internal layout stucture, the steps of : 

finding for all cables the corresponding track section, 
calculating the areas of track nodes and clipping the track sections, 
sorting the cables, 
making a layout data structure, 
assigning coordinates to the layout data structure. 
The information management method according to claims 13 to 20 characterized 
in that said step p of automatically generating graphics involves 

the further step of merging geographical drawings with a geographical map 
(basemap) previously stored in the database. 
The information management method according to anyone of claims 13 to 
21 characterized in that said automatic generation of logical oriented 

drawings includes in said step r of building an internal layout stucture, the 
steps of : 


dividing the network into disjoint networks, 
making and ordering all possible ways of passing through the network, 
building a layout matrix for each network, 
assigning locations for labels and text. 
The information management method according to claims 13 to 22 characterized 
in that said automatic generation of expanded views includes in 

said step r of building an internal layout stucture, the steps of : 
locating nodes, 
rotating nodes, 
determining size of nodes, 
building a layout matrix, 
routing cables, 
determining size of groups of parallel cables, 
calculating final coordinates for all cables and cable nodes. 
The network information management method according to claims 1 to 15 
characterized in that said outside plan network is a power network. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
