<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646241</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMMUNOASSAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33564	G01N33564	G01N33569	G01N33569	G01N33576	G01N33576	G01N3368	G01N3368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for determining antibodies to two or more different pathogens in a liquid test sample, which comprises capturing the antibodies on a solid phase on which are immobilized antibodies to one or more classes of immunoglobulins, especially a mixture of anti-IgG and anti-IgM antibodies, and determining any antibodies captured. The method may be applied to the determination of other non-crossreacting antibodies and may also be applied to the simultaneous but separate determination of antibodies to different pathogens.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT MUREX TECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL MUREX TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKFORD URSZULA MUREX DIAGNOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNCAN RICHARD JULIAN STUART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKFORD, URSZULA, MUREX DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNCAN, RICHARD, JULIAN, STUART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMMUNOASSAYThe present invention relates to immunoassays.Testing of samples of body fluids and of solid samples, for example, of cells or tissue, obtained from a body for the presence of various organisms, in particular bacteria, viruses, parasites and other pathogenic (infectious) organisms, is carried out routinely. Testing is carried out in two main contexts. One is testing of samples of body fluids and of solid samples for the purpose of diagnosing disease, monitoring the course of disease and/or monitoring treatment in an individual. This type of testing is often called "clinical" testing. A clinical laboratory typically carries out tests for a large number of different organisms. The term "pathogen" is used herein to denote a disease-causing organism.Another major type of testing is the screening of donated blood in order to maintain a supply of blood and blood products free from pathogenic contamination. The regulatory authorities in each country specify the pathogens for which testing is to be carried out. In most countries, screening is currently mandatory for HIV, hepatitis C (non-A non-B hepatitis), hepatitis B and syphilis. In some countries there is a further requirement to test for HTLV. In most countries it is currently mandatory to test for both HIV-1 and HIV-2. Blood to be used for transfusion to patients who are to or who have received a transplant or are otherwise immuno-compromised is generally tested for the presence of CMV (cytomegalovirus) . As new pathogens and new sub-types of known pathogens that pose a threat to the blood supply are discovered, the mandatory requirements for testing donated blood are extended to those pathogens.The most widely used tests for blood screening are immunoassays. For most blood viral pathogens, it is more difficult to obtain the required sensitivity when testing blood for the presence of antigens than it is when testing for the presence of antibodies. Generally the tests for HIV, HTLV, HCV and CMV are antibody tests. There are two tests for hepatitis B: an antigen assay for 

hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) , and a test for antibodies to hepatitis B core antigen (HBc) . At present, HBsAg testing is mandatory in most countries? testing for hepatitis B core anti¬ bodies is mandatory in some countries and may be introduced in more. There are both antibody and antigen tests for syphilis.Blood screening is carried out on a large scale, and it is par¬ ticularly important that the results are obtained quickly, since blood has a relatively short
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A method for determining specific antibodies to two or more different pathogens in a liquid test sample, which comprises
(i) contacting the sample with a solid phase on which are immo- bilized antibodies to one or more classes of immunoglobulin, whereby immunoglobulins of the respective class or classes present in the sample are captured on the solid phase,
(ii) simultaneously or sequentially contacting the solid phase, on which immunoglobulins from the sample have been captured, with two or more different antigens, each antigen being capable of binding selectively to an antibody specific for one of the pathogens under investigation, each antigen being provided with means capable of providing, directly or indirectly, a detectable signal, and
(iii) determining any resulting immunoglobulin-antigen complex formed on the solid phase.
2. A method as claimed in claim l, wherein the immobilized anibodies are anti-IgG, anti-IgM or anti-IgA antibodies, or are a mixture of two or more thereof.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a mixture of anti- IgG and anti-IgM antibodies are immobilized on the solid phase.
4. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the immobilized antibodies are affinity purified polyclonal antibodies or monoclonal antibodies.
5. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein each antigen is labelled directly with means capable of providing a detectable signal.
6. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the 


 means capable of providing a detectable signal for an antigen comprises
(i) an antibody Abl that is capable of binding to that antigen, the antibody Abl being itself provided with means capable of 5 providing a detectable signal or
(ii) comprises an antibody Abl that is capable of binding to that antigen, and a second antibody Ab2, which is capable of binding to antibody Abl, which antibody Ab2 is provided with means capable of providing a detectable signal.
10 7. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the sample under investigation is a sample of donated blood.
8. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the two or more pathogens under investigation are selected from HIV, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, HTLV, cytomegalovirus,
15 Epstein Barr virus and syphilis.
9. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the two or more pathogens under investigation are selected from Rubella, measles. Herpes (simplex and genitalis), Chlamydia, Gonorrhoeae, hepatitis A virus, chickenpox, mumps, human
20 parvovirus, Mycobacteria tuberculosis, Mycobacteria leprae, Mycobacteria avium, Staphylococcus aureus, Listeria monocytogenes. Bacillus anthracis (antigen/toxins), Actinomycetes Salmonella typhi, Yersinia enterocolifica, Helicobacter pylori, Campylobacter jejuni, Pseudomonas mallei and pseudomallei,
25 Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Legionella pneumophila and spp, Francisella tolarensis, Brucella melitenis, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Leptospira interrogans, Borelia spp, Treponema pallidum, Candida albicans, and diseases caused by protozoal pathogens.
30 10. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the two or more pathogens under investigation are selected from rubella, toxoplasmosis, cytomegalovirus and herpes virus. 


 11. A method for determining simultaneously but separately, antibodies individually specific to two or more different pathogens in liquid test samples, which comprises
(i) bringing each sample into contact with one of a plurality of units in a single module, each unit comprising a solid phase having immobilized antibodies to one or more classes of immuno¬ globulin, whereby immunoglobulins of the respective class or classes present in each sample are captured on the solid phase, the immobilized antibodies being of the same class or classes in all units of the module,
(ii) contacting each unit of the module that has previously been contacted with sample with an antigen capable of binding selectively to an antibody specific for one of the pathogens under investigation, each antigen being provided with means capable of directly or indirectly providing a detectable signal, and
(iii) determining any resulting i munoglobulin-antigen complex om the solid phase.
12. A method as claimed in claim 11, wherein at least one unit comprises a solid phase having immobilized anti-IgG antibodies, at least one unit comprises a solid phase having immobilized anti-IgM antibodies and, optionally, at least one unit comprises a solid phase having immobilized anti-IgA antibodies.
13. A method as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the samples under investigation are aliquots of a single sample.
14. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the solid phase comprises beads, or the wells or cups of microtitre plates, or solid or hollow rods or pipettes, or particles; or comprises membranes, sheets, strips, films or coatings of a porous, fibrous or bibulous material, optionally incorporated in an assay device. 


 15. A module comprising two or more units for use in a simul¬ taneous but separate assay for different pathogens, the units comprising immobilized antibodies against immunoglobulins, at least one unit having having immobilized antibodies directed
5 against a different class of immunoglobulins from the immobilized immunoglobulins in the other units.
16. A module as claimed in claim 15, which comprises one unit having immobilized anti-IgM and one or more units having immobilized IgG.
10 17. A module as claimed in claim 15, which comprises three units, one unit having immobilized anti-IgG, one unit having immobilized anti-IgM and the third unit having immobilized anti- IgA.
18. A solid phase suitable for use in an immunoassay, on which 15 is immobilized a mixture of anti-IgG and anti-IgM antibodies.
19. A solid phase as claimed in claim 18, on which anti-IgA antibodies are also immobilized.
20. A solid phase as claimed in claim 18 or claim 19, which comprises beads, or the wells or cups of microtitre plates, or 0 solid or hollow rods or pipettes, or particles; or comprises membranes, sheets, strips, films or coatings of a porous, fibrous or bibulous material, optionally incorporated in an assay device.
21. A method for determining specific antibodies to two or more different antigens in a liquid test sample, which comprises
5 (i) contacting the sample with a solid phase on which are immo¬ bilized antibodies to one or more classes of immunoglobulin, whereby immunoglobulins of the respective class or classes present in the sample are captured on the solid phase,
(ii) simultaneously or sequentially contacting the solid phase, 


 on which immunoglobulins from the sample have been captured, with two or more different antigens, each antigen being capable of binding selectively to an antibody specific for one of the pathogens under investigation, each antigen being provided with 5 means capable of providing, directly or indirectly, a detectable signal, and
(iii) determining any resulting immunoglobulin-antigen complex formed on the solid phase.
22. A method for determining, simultaneously but separately, 10 antibodies specific to two or more different antigens in liquid test samples, which comprises
(i) bringing each sample into contact with one of a plurality of units in a single module, each unit comprising a solid phase having immobilized antibodies to one or more classes of immuno- 15 globulin, whereby immunoglobulins of the respective class or classes present in each sample are captured on the solid phase, the immobilized antibodies being of the same class or classes in all units of the module,
(ii) contacting each unit of the module that has previously been 20 contacted with sample with an antigen capable of binding selectively to an antibody specific for one of the pathogens under investigation, each antigen being provided with means capable of directly or indirectly providing a detectable signal, and
25 (iii) determining any resulting immunoglobulin-antigen complex om the solid phase.
23. A method as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22, wherein the antibodies under investigation are non-pathogen associated antibodies.
30 24. A method as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22, wherein the 


antibodies under investigation are autoimmne antibodies or antibodies associated with allergies.
25. A method as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 24, having the parameters defined in any one of claims 2 to 6, 11 and 12. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
