<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622901</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Signal processing circuit and control method with switch capable of reducing insertion loss
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B140	H04B118	H03K17693	H03K1706	H04B140	H03K1706	H03K17693	H04B118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H03K	H03K	H04B	H03K	H03K	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H03K17	H03K17	H04B1	H03K17	H03K17	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high frequency power amplifier is implemented by a GaAs 
FET and is supplied with a positive and a negative power supply. 

The amplifier amplifies the power of an input signal and delivers 
the amplified signal to a high frequency switch (1). The high 

frequency switch is supplied with switch control voltages in the form 
of the positive and negative voltages. Since the switch control 

voltages are implemented as the positive and negative voltages, 
a great difference in level between the switch control voltages 

is achievable which improves insertion loss. While the high 
frequency switch may also be implemented by GaAs FETs, the 

insertion loss will be further reduced if the negative voltage 
is applied to the high frequency switch only during transmission. 

In this case, current consumption will also be reduced if the 
generation of the negative voltage is controlled at the negative 

voltage source side. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORIMATSU HIDEHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORIMATSU, HIDEHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a signal processing circuit
with a switch capable of reducing insertion loss and, more
particularly, to a signal processing circuit with a switch capable
of reducing insertion loss in a portable radio communication
apparatus capable of increasing conversation time and of reducing
weight. It also relates to a corresponding method.A portable radio communication apparatus needs a high
frequency switch capable of switching high frequency signal paths
between at least one high frequency power amplifier and antennas,
because the portable radio communication apparatus uses an
external antenna when it is set in a mobile mode and an internal
antenna when it is carried by a person.In the portable radio communication apparatus, a
prerequisite of the high frequency switch is to minimize an
insertion loss of the high frequency switch in order to increase
conversation time and reduce weight. The minimizing of the
insertion loss leads to reducing an output power of the power
amplifier. As a result, current consumption is reduced, while
conversation time is increased. Moreover, since a high power 
output is not needed from the power amplifier, a small and light
power amplifier is available.A conventional high frequency switch is implemented by a
combination of transistors, diodes or similar semiconductor
devices to promote light weight and small size configuration.
Such a high frequency switch is described in, for example,
Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 80974/1984 (JP-A-59-80974). This
high frequency switch has a gate switch FET implemented by an
GaAs FET between a switch FET and a terminating FET to have a
small insertion loss and enhanced isolation. The high frequency
switch uses a zero voltage and a negative voltage as a high
voltage and a low voltage for switch control signals.Therefore, the use of the high frequency switch described
in JP-A-59-80974 has been considered for use in the portable
radio communication apparatus in order to achieve small insertion
loss. However, in the portable radio communication apparatus,
it is difficult to provide a negative voltage generator
exclusively for the high frequency switch due to limitations in,
for example, packaging constraints.US-A-3,872,325 relates to an R-F switching circuit. It
comprises a switch having a plurality of routes to pass a
signal and a further switch which is controlled by a
frequency-selection circuit to select one of the routes. In
response to a control signal a positive voltage or a
negative voltage are provided as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A signal processing circuit comprising:

a switch (1) having a plurality of routes to pass a signal; and
a first controller (3), to select one of the routes, for
supplying a first positive voltage and a second voltage as switch

control signals to said switch in response to a control signal,
wherein said first

controller (3) supplies a negative voltage (-V) as the second voltage during a conversation
state and a waiting state for transmission,

characterized in that said first controller (3) supplies a zero voltage
as the second voltage

during a state other than the conversation state and the waiting
state.
The circuit as claimed in claim 1, said circuit further
comprising:


at least one amplifier (2), supplied with the negative voltage
and the positive voltage, for supplying an amplified signal to

said switch (1);
at least one negative voltage generator (12) for generating the
negative voltage for said amplifier (2);
at least one positive voltage generator (11) for generating the
positive voltage; and
a second controller (13) for supplying the control signal to
select one of the routes.
The circuit as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first
controller (3) supplies the negative voltage or the zero voltage

selectively to said switch (1) in response to the control signal.
The circuit as claimed in claim 3, wherein said first
controller (3) supplies the negative voltage during a communication

state or the zero voltage during a state other than the
communication state. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 2, said negative voltage
generator (12) further comprising:

   a zero voltage generator for generating the zero voltage in
response to the control signal from said second controller (13).
The circuit as claimed in claim 5, wherein said negative
voltage generator (12) supplies the negative voltage during a

communication state or the zero voltage during a state other than
the communication state.
The circuit as claimed in claim 5, wherein said negative
voltage generator (12) supplies the negative voltage during a

conversation state and a waiting state for transmission or the
zero voltage during a state other than the conversation state and

waiting state.
The circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7, wherein said switch (1)
comprises GaAs FETs.
The circuit as claimed in any of claims 2 to 8, wherein said
amplifier (2) comprises a GaAs FET.
The circuit as claimed in any of claims 1 to 9, wherein said switch
comprises:


a plurality of switching transistors (101, 104), responsive to the
switch control signals to gates thereof, for selectively passing

the signal;
a plurality of terminating transistors (102, 105) connected between
said plurality of switching transistors and a high-frequency ground, and

responsive to the switch control signals to gates thereof and the
positive voltage to the sources thereof; and 
a plurality of capacitors (103, 106) connected between said source of
said terminating transistors and the ground.
The circuit of claim 1 for a
communication apparatus comprising:


amplifying means (2) for supplying amplified signals;
positive voltage generating means (11) for generating said positive
voltage and supplying said positive voltage to said amplifying

means (2) and said switch (1);
negative voltage generating means (12) for generating the negative
voltage and supplying said negative voltage to said amplifying

means (2) and said switch (1); and
second control means (13) for supplying said control
signal.
The circuit as claimed in claim 11, said first controller (3)

further comprising:

   supplying means for supplying the zero voltage instead of said
negative voltage as said switch control signals in response to

a second control signal from said second control means (13).
The circuit as claimed in claim 11, said negative
voltage generating means (12) further comprising:
 
   zero voltage generating means (12) for supplying said zero voltage

instead of said negative voltage in response to a second control
signal from said second control means (13).
The circuit as claimed in any of claims 11 to 13, wherein said
positive voltage generating means (11) supplies the positive voltage

to said amplifying means (2) and said switch (1) selectively in response
to said first ccntroller (3).
A method for controlling a signal processing circuit
for a switch, the method comprising the steps of;


switching one of a plurality of routes to pass a signal;
supplying, to select one of the routes, a first positive
voltage and a second voltage as switch control signals in

response to a control signal;
supplying a negative voltage
as said second voltage during a conversation state and a waiting state for transmission, characterized by
supplying a zero voltage as said second voltage
during a state other than the conversation state and the waiting state.
A method for controlling a signal processing circuit in
a communication apparatus as claimed in claim 15, the method further comprising the following

steps of:

amplifying input signals; and
switching one of said plurality of routes to pass said
amplified signals.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
