<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632740</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE TREATMENT OF GAS STREAMS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D4624	B01D4624	B01D5326	B01D5326	B01D4642	B01D4600	B01D4600	B01D4642	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D46	B01D46	B01D53	B01D53	B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	B01D46	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCESS SCIENT INNOVATIONS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCESS SCIENTIFIC INNOVATIONS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNTER ALEX GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNTER GEORGE SHERWOOD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OAKTON JOHN LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNTER, ALEX GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNTER, GEORGE SHERWOOD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OAKTON, JOHN LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for the 
production of compressed air or for the treatment of gas 
streams at elevated temperature to cool them to 
temperatures near or below ambient temperature, so that 
once this cooling has taken place further condensation of 
vapour present as a contaminant of the gas streams does 
not occur or does so only to a negligible extent. Condensed water vapour can reduce the performance of oil 
removal filters, membrane filters and other fine 
tolerance devices. The invention is also concerned with 
the removal of liquid contaminant e.g water, together 
with less volatile contaminants such as the oil from an 
oil-lubricated compressor and liquid and/or particulate 
contaminants from an oil-free compressor. Relatively small on-site compressors powered by mains 
electricity (or other sources of power) are required to 
deliver streams of contaminant-free dry compressed gas 
for a variety of uses. Such compressors are typically 
rated up to 2KW and deliver compressed gas at a pressure 
of up to 1.2MPa (12 bar) and at flow rate up to 
0.142m3/min (5 scf/min). The compressed gas finds 
application, for example, in spray painting in small 
factories and vehicle repair, in supply of compressed gas 
for dentistry, in compressed air systems for hospitals 
and laboratories, and in the catering industry. The 
compressed gas may be contaminated with oil in the form 
of both mist and vapour and with water from the air. For 
efficient removal of oil mist, it is known that water 
needs to be removed first, because it will otherwise  
 
interfere with the action of the conventional 
oil-coalescing filter and oil-vapour removal cartridge 
variously described, for example in GB-A-1236396, 
GB-A-1557821, GB-A-1603519, US-A-3841484 and 
EP-B-0081297. Water can be removed by passing the stream 
of compressed gas through a desiccant drier or a 
refrigerator drier. The former method involves 
regeneration or disposal of the desiccant medium, and the 
latter method requires disposal of relatively large 
volumes of contaminated liquid waste. One such application for a compressor is in the supply of 
compressed air to a membrane air separation system which 
can deliver 99.5% pure nitrogen for mixing with carbon 
dioxide in the dispensing of beer in public houses. A 
system of this kind is sold by Calor Gas Limited, Air 
Separation Division, Slough, UK. The air fed to the 
membrane has to be clean, dry and contaminant free, 
otherwise the performance of the separator may be 
interfere
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for providing a supply of compressed gas, 
comprising: 


means (10,50) for providing a compressed gas stream 
at an elevated temperature containing water vapour and 

other contaminants; 
cooling means (18,77,81) for cooling the compressed 
gas stream to near or below ambient temperatures such 

that some of the water vapour within the gas stream 
condenses to form liquid water, said cooling means 

comprising a heat exchanger (18,77) having an inlet for 
receiving the stream of compressed gas containing water 

vapour and other contaminants, an outlet for outputting 
the stream of compressed gas and liquid water and other 

contaminants and a heat exchanging conduit, located 
between said heat exchanger inlet and outlet, through 

which said compressed gas stream and contaminants can 
flow and to which heat contained in the compressed gas 

stream can pass; 
cleaning means (79) having an inlet for receiving 
the compressed gas stream from the outlet of said heat 

exchanger (18,77), a first outlet for providing an output 
stream (26) of relatively clean gas, a second outlet for 

providing a waste stream (42) comprising the liquid water 
and a filter (83) for filtering water droplets from the 

output stream (26); and 
a conduit (42) connecting said second outlet of said 
cleaning means (789) with said cooling means (18,77,81);
 
   characterised in that; 


(1) said second outlet of said cleaning means (79) 
is arranged for providing a waste stream of gas carrying 

the liquid water and the other contaminants; 
(ii) said cooling means (18,77,81) further comprises 
a housing (81) having a wall defining an interior space  

 
of the housing arranged such that the interior space is 

in communication with the atmosphere and a flow 
restricting inlet (44) to said interior space; 
(iii)said heat exchanger (18,77) is positioned 
within the interior space of said housing; and 
(iv) said conduit connects said second outlet of 
said cleaning means (79) with said flow restricting inlet 

(44) of said housing (81). 
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the 
means for providing a compressed gas stream is an 

oil-lubricated compressor (10). 
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the 
means for providing a compressed gas stream is an 

oil-free compressor (50). 
Apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, wherein a 
filter (52) is provided between the compressor (10) and 

the heat exchanger (18) for reducing contaminants 
entering the compressed gas stream. 
The apparatus according to claim 2, 3 or 4, wherein 
there is provided a pre-cooler (14, 75, 78) through which 

the compressed gas stream is arranged to pass before it 
reaches the heat exchanger (18) and which is arranged to 

cool the gas most of the way towards ambient temperature. 
The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the 
pre-cooler (14) is disposed so as to surround the 

heat-exchanger (18). 
The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the pre-cooler 
(75, 78) is located adjacent to the compressor.  

 
The apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the wall of said housing is provided for 

shielding the heat-exchanger (18) from the ambient air. 
The apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the flow restriction means (44) is disposed below 

the heat-exchanger (18) and the flow restriction means 
discharges its emergent waste stream upwardly into 

contact with the heat-exchanger. 
The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said 
other contaminants include relatively involatile liquids 

which collect at the base of said housing (81) after 
exiting said flow restriction means (44). 
The apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the flow restriction means (44) is a valve or an 

orifice plate. 
The apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said cleaning means further comprises a baffle 

(82) for preventing impingement of water droplets in the 
compressed gas stream entering the cleaning means (79) 

onto the filter (83). 
The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein a 
second filter (85) is provided at the second outlet of 

the cleaning means for reducing contamination of the 
waste stream. 
The apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the waste stream is discharged continuously from 

the cleaning means. 
The apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 13,  
 

wherein the waste stream is discharged intermittently 
from the cleaning means. 
A method for providing a supply of compressed gas, 
comprising: 


providing a compressed gas stream at an elevated 
temperature containing water vapour and other 

contaminants; 
cooling the compressed gas stream to near or below 
ambient temperatures with the result that some of the 

water vapour within the gas stream condenses to form 
liquid water; 
cleaning the compressed gas stream after cooling to 
separate the liquid water and the other contaminants from 

the compressed gas and to provide (a) an output stream 
of relatively clean gas, and (b) a waste stream 

comprising the liquid water which is arranged to contact 
a heat exchanger (18), used in said cooling step, and 

through which the compressed gas stream flows so that the 
discharged waste stream cools the compressed gas stream 

flowing through the heat exchanger (18);
 
   characterised in that: 


(i) said waste stream also comprises a minor 
portion of the gas stream and the other 

contaminants; 
(ii) said waste stream is discharged to atmosphere 
through a flow restriction device (44), the 

waste stream becoming cooled on expansion to 
atmospheric pressure and on atomisation and 

evaporation of the liquid water held therein; 
and in that 
(iii) the waste stream containing atomised or 
evaporated liquid contacts said heat 

exchanger (18) after expansion to atmospheric 
pressure. 
The method according to claim 16, wherein an 
oil-lubricated compressor (10) is used to produce said 

compressed gas stream. 
The method according to claim 16, wherein an 
oil-free compressor (50) is used to produce said 

compressed gas stream. 
The method according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the 
output of the compressor is filtered to reduce 

contaminants entering the compressed gas stream. 
The method according to claim 17, 18 or 19, wherein 

the compressed gas stream is pre-cooled most of the way 
towards ambient temperature before it reaches the heat 

exchanger. 
The method according to any of claims 16 to 20, 
wherein the heat-exchanger (18) is shielded from the 

ambient air by a shroud (81). 
The method according to claim 21, wherein the flow 
restriction device (44) is disposed below the 

heat-exchanger (18) and discharges its emergent waste 
stream upwardly into contact with the heat-exchanger. 
The method according to claim 22, wherein the other 
contaminants include relatively involatile liquids which 

collect at the base of said shroud (81) after exiting 
said flow restricting device (44). 
The method according to any of claims 16 to 23, 
wherein the flow restriction device (44) is a valve or 

an orifice plate.  
 
The method according to any of claims 16 to 24, 
wherein a chamber (79) is used in said cleaning step and 

has an inlet for the compressed gas stream, a first 
outlet (84) for the output stream of relatively clean 

gas, a second outlet for the waste stream, a filter (83) 
for filtering water droplets from the output stream, and 

a conduit (42) leading from the second outlet to the flow 
restriction device (44). 
The method according to claim 25, wherein a baffle 
(82) is provided in the chamber (79) for preventing 

impingement of water droplets in the compressed gas 
stream entering the chamber (79) onto the filter (83). 
The method according to claim 25 or 26, wherein the 
waste stream is filtered when exiting the chamber (79). 
The method according to any of claims 16 to 27, 
wherein the waste stream is discharged to atmosphere 

continuously. 
The method according to any of claims 16 to 27, 
wherein the waste stream is discharged to atmosphere 

intermittently. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
