<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611900</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dynamic vibration absorber
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F1503	F16F1503	F16F1500	F16F1500	F16F710	F16F710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F15	F16F15	F16F15	F16F15	F16F7	F16F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dynamic vibration absorber comprises a 
movable weight portion (1), a movable portion magnet means (2) 

provided for the movable weight portion (1), the movable 
portion magnet means comprising a magnet train (2) including a 

plurality of cylindrical magnets disposed coaxially in such 
a manner that adjacent cylindrical magnets have different 

magnetic poles, a fixed portion (4,5) provided in opposed 
relation to the movable weight portion (1) and a fixed portion 

magnet train (6) provided on the fixed portion (4,5) and comprising a 
plurality of magnets having magnetic poles different, in a 

stationary state, from magnetic poles of the cylindrical 
magnets disposed. The movable weight portion (1) is disposed 

in a vessel (3). The magnetic means are substituted with coil 
spring elements (17) for supporting the movable weight portion (1) 

horizontally. A fluid is filled up in an inner hollow 
portion of the movable weight portion. A magnetic damper 

means (10 to 13) is further disposed, which has a plurality of 
conductor plates (10) mounted on an outer peripheral surface of 

the movable weight portion (1) and a plurality of yokes (11) 
secured to an inner surface of the peripheral side portions (3a) 

of the cylindrical vessel at portions corresponding to the 
conductor plates (10), each of the yokes (11) having a pair of yoke 

portions facing each other, and a pair of magnets (12) are 
provided on the facing surfaces of the paired yoke portions  

 
with gap (13) into which the corresponding conductor plates (10) are 

inserted with gap. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a dynamic 
vibration absorber capable of suppressing vibrations in 
horizontal two-dimensional directions of a target or object 
structure. Generally, a dynamic vibration absorber includes 
an additional weight portion which is subjected to a force 
of inertia by vibrations, a rigidity element for generating 
a reaction force to the inertia force applied to the 
additional weight portion and a damping element for 
absorbing vibration energy. A conventional dynamic vibration absorber is 
constructed such that vibrations in a specified direction 
of a target structure are suppressed by vibrating an 
additional weight portion. Hence, if there are a plurality 
of directions in which vibrations are to be controlled, the 
vibration controlling equipment must contain the same 
number of dynamic vibration absorbers as that of 
directions of vibrations. A dynamic vibration absorber according to the preamble of the appended main 
claim is known from GB-PS 744041 which discloses an absorbing or damping system in 
a machine tool part lyable to self-induced vibration during operation. In this known 
damping system a movable weight is supported by spiral springs so that the movable 
weight can vibrate in any radial direction, i.e. in any direction of a vertical plane. The use  
 
of spiral springs means limited flexibility with respect to the effective spring constant. 
Furthermore, the installation of the spiral spring needs some effort when installing the 
vibration absorber. In US-A-4,471,331 there is disclosed a magnetically supported work fixture including a 
support for supporting a printed circuit board which has to be worked on. The support can 
be easily rotated within a horizontal plane. This is achieved by constructing the support 
with a downwardly projecting truncated cone section with circumferential steps in which 
permanent toroidal magnets are embodid. A mount is constructed with a cavity 
complementary to the projecting cone section and is provided with circular steps in which 
are embodid permanent toroidal magnets. When the projecting section of the support is 
placed in the mount cavity, the magnets in the support and in the mount are laterally alined 
while certain of the magnets in the support also are positioned to overlay the magnets in 
the mount. The polarity of the magnets is selected so that the overlaying magnets act to 
repel each other and hold the support sidely spaced on the mount. Adjacent magnets of the 
movable portion magnet means as well as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dynamic vibration absorber comprising: 

a movable weight portion (1) serving as a dynamic vibration absorber; and 
a fixed portion (3) provided in opposed relationship to the movable weight 
portion, 
characterized by
a movable portion magnet means provided for the movable weight portion (1), 
said movable portion magnet means comprising a magnet train (2) including a plurality of 

cylindrical magnets disposed coaxially in such a manner that adjacent cylindrical magnets 
have different magnetic poles; 
a fixed portion magnet train (6) provided on the fixed portion and comprising 
a plurality of magnets having magnetic poles different, in a stationary state, from magnetic 

poles of the cylindrical magnets disposed to oppose respectively the corresponding magnets 
on the fixed portion with a predetermined gap (7) therebetween, 
wherein said movable weight portion is horizontally supported by a magnetic 
force which acts between the movable weight portion and the fixed portion. 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 1,
 
   
characterized in
 that the predetermined gap (7) is adjustable. 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 1,
 
   
characterized in
 that
 
   said movable weight portion (1) has a cylindrical outer appearance and is 

disposed in a cylindrical vessel (3) having top and bottom portions and a peripheral side 
portion disposed between the top and bottom portions and said fixed portion magnet train 

(6) is disposed on each of the top and bottom portions of the cylindrical vessel.  
 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 3,
 
   
characterized in
 that
 
   a plurality of bearings (8) are disposed on top and bottom surfaces of the 

movable weight portion (1) and a plurality of bearing receptacles (9) are disposed on inner 
surfaces of the top and bottom portions of the cylindrical vessel (3) so as to receive 

corresponding bearings to thereby maintain the gap (7) between the movable portion 
magnet train (1) and the fixed portion magnet train (6). 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 4,
 
   
characterized in
 that
 
   bearings (8) and bearing receptacles (9) are disposed and separated with equal 

angles, respectively, in a horizontal plane. 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 3,
 
   
characterized in
 that
 
   it further comprises a magnetic damper means (10, 12) having a plurality of 

conductor plates (10) mounted on an outer peripheral surface of the movable weight 
portion (1) and a plurality of yoke means (11) secured to an inner surface of the peripheral 

side portions of the cylindrical vessel (3) at portions corresponding to the conductor plates, 
each of said yoke means having a pair of yoke portions facing each other, and a pair of 

magnets (12) are provided on the facing surfaces of the paired yoke portions with gap (13) 

into which the corresponding conductor plates are inserted with gap. 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 6,
 
   
characterized in
 that
 
   the conductor plates (10) and the yoke means (11) are provided with equally 

spaced angles, respectively, in a horizontal plane.  
 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 7,
 
   
characterized in
 that the numbers of the condutor plates (10) and 
the yoke means (11) are adjustable. 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 6,
 
   
characterized in
 that
 
   each of said yoke means (11) comprises a pair of a yoke portions (11a, 11b) 

and a yoke portion fixing member (7), said yoke portion fixing member having an inner 
surface to which one ends of the paired yoke portions contact slidably and said yoke 

portions having other one ends facing each other. 
A dynamic vibration absorber according to claim 9,
 
   
characterized in
 that
 
   the one ends of the yoke portions (11a, 11b) are secured to the yoke portion 

fixing member (54) by means of screw (53) to be adjustable. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
