<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613031</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods for making optical fiber connectors
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B636	G02B638	G02B640	G02B638	G02B640	G02B644	G02B644	G02B6245	G02B636	G02B6245	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A middle portion of an optical fiber encapsulation of an optical 
fiber ribbon is selectively removed, while leaving intact separated 

ribbon portions 
and optical fiber portions extending between the separated ribbon 

portions. The exposed optical fiber portions are next contained between 
a pair of 

first optical fiber support members on opposite sides of the fiber 

portions. 
The support members are then preferably contained and encapsulated by 

injection molding plastic around them, which additionally reinforces 
the adjacent 

optical fiber ribbon portions. The optical fiber ribbon (33) is cut for 
use by cutting 

transversely through the first support members and the optical fiber 
portions. This 

exposes optical fiber ends which are polished for alignment and 
abutment to 

other optical fiber ends. The optical fiber support members also define 
an alignment 

aperture that extends substantially parallel to the optical fiber 
portions. Second 

optical fiber support members supporting second optical fibers are then 
aligned with 

the optical fiber portions by an alignment pin inserted into the 
alignment 

aperture. Connectors (34) can be mounted at periodic intervals on an 
entire reel (35) of optical fiber ribbon. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAHID MUHAMMED AFZAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAHID, MUHAMMED AFZAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical fiber interconnections and, more
particularly, to techniques for interconnecting optical fiber ribbons.Optical fibers are coming into increasingly widespread use as an
alternative to copper conductors for high-capacity transmission of information. One
popular form in which optical fibers are marketed is as optical fiber ribbons, each
ribbon comprising a parallel array of optical fibers joined and encapsulated by a
plastic encapsulation. Optical fiber ribbons are mass-produced and are often
marketed in the form of reels, that is, a length of optical fiber ribbon wound around a
cylinder or spool.Optical fiber ribbon is normally used by cutting a length of ribbon from
the reel, stripping the encapsulation from the ends, and manually attaching optical
fiber connectors to the fibers protruding from the ends of the ribbon. One example of
an optical fiber connector is described in the United States patent of Bonanni,
No. 4,818,058, granted April 4, 1989, which comprises a pair of silicon fiber support
members into which V-grooves have been made by masking and etching. Free ends
of the optical fibers are clamped between V-grooves of the silicon support members.
The V-grooves precisely locate the optical fibers of the ribbon so that they can be
abutted against a similar connector containing optical fiber ends that are abutted and
registered in precise axial alignment. This permits lightwaves on the optical fiber to
travel freely through the connector and through the newly connected optical fiber.Since optical fiber ribbon is now in the nature of a commodity, it is
important to reduce the cost at which it and its connectors can be made. Thus, any
advance that would allow connectors to be more conveniently attached to optical
fiber ribbon, or which would make optical fiber ribbon transmission lines easier to
use, would be considered an important and valuable contribution.In an illustrative embodiment of the invention, a middle portion of the
optical fiber encapsulation of an optical fiber ribbon is selectively removed, while
leaving intact separated ribbon portions and optical fiber portions extending between
the separated ribbon portions. The exposed optical fiber portions are next contained 
between a pair of first optical fiber support members on opposite sides of the fiber
portions. The support members are then preferably contained and encapsulated by
injection molding plastic around them, which protects the support members and
additionally reinforces the adjacent optical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for applying a connector to an optical fiber ribbon (10)
comprising a parallel array of optical fibers (12) held in position and encapsulated by

a plastic ribbon encapsulation (11), said method characterized by the steps of:

selectively removing the ribbon encapsulation (11) from a middle
portion of the optical fiber ribbon while leaving intact separated ribbon portions (14,

15) and first optical fiber portions (12) extending between said separated ribbon
portions;
containing the first optical fiber portions between a pair of first optical
fiber support members (18, 19) on opposite sides thereof;
cutting transversely to the first optical fiber portions through the first
support members and the first optical fiber portions;
polishing exposed ends (27) of the first optical fiber portions;
and aligning and abutting second optical fibers (32) contained between
opposite second optical fiber support members with said first optical fiber portions

such that optical energy can be transmitted from the first optical fiber portions to the
second optical fibers.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of:

after the containing step, encapsulating the support members in a plastic
encapsulation (24);
and wherein the cutting step further comprises the step of cutting
through the plastic encapsulation.
The method of claim 1 wherein:

the optical fiber support members are made of crystalline material;
and individual grooves for supporting the optical fiber portions are made
in the support members by photolithographic masking and etching.
The method of claim 1 wherein:

the optical fiber support members define an alignment aperture (20) that
extends substantially parallel to said first optical fiber portions;
and the second optical fiber support members supporting the second
optical fibers contain an alignment pin (29) adapted to be inserted into said

alignment aperture.
The method of claim 2 wherein: 

the first optical fiber support members define an alignment aperture that
extends substantially parallel to the first optical fiber portions, but which is

substantially sealed from the environment during the encapsulating step, whereby no
plastic is injected into the alignment aperture;
the cutting step further comprises the step of cutting through the
alignment aperture, thereby to expose the alignment aperture;
and the aligning step comprises the step of inserting an alignment pin
into the alignment aperture.
The method of claim 5 wherein:

the encapsulating step comprises the step of enclosing the first optical
fiber support members in a mold (22);
and injecting a plastic material (24) into said mold.
The method of claim 1 wherein:

a plurality of middle portions of the ribbon encapsulation are etched
while leaving intact optical fiber portions extending across each of said middle

portions;
containing each of the exposed optical fiber portions of each of the
middle portions between a pair of optical fiber support members;
encapsulating each pair of optical fiber support members in a second
encapsulation;
and cutting transversely to the optical fiber portions through each second
encapsulation, each pair of support members and each of the optical fiber portions.
The method of claim 7 wherein:

after the encapsulation step, but before the cutting step, winding said
ribbon about a spool (35), whereby said ribbon may be stored and unwound prior to

cutting.
The method of claim 1 wherein:

after the aligning and abutting step, a clamp member is applied
for exerting an axial force
 pressing the first optical fiber support members against
the second optical fiber support members.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
