<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611280</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
USE OF SALT TO IMPROVE EXTRUSION ENCAPSULATION OF CHEWING GUM INGREDIENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G400	A23G400	A23G406	A23G406	A23G418	A23G420	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	A23G4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved method of encapsulating an active ingredient for use in chewing gum involves extruding a blend of polyvinyl acetate, an active ingredient and salt. The invention also includes an encapsulated active ingredient prepared according to the improved method, and a chewing gum which contains the encapsulated active ingredient of the invention.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGLEY W M JUN CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WRIGLEY W M JUN CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRODERICK KEVIN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPER CHARLES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SONG JOO H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRODERICK KEVIN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPER CHARLES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SONG JOO H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 USE OF SALT TO IMPROVE EXTRUSION ENCAPSULATION OF CHEWING GUM INGREDIENTSFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention involves an improved method of encapsulating sweetener, flavor, and flavor enhancing ingredients for use in chewing gum, using a combination of salt and polyvinyl acetate. The invention also includes encapsulated sweetener, flavor, and flavor enhancing ingredients prepared according to the improved method. The invention also includes chewing gum compositions which utilize the encapsulated sweetener, flavor, and flavor enhancing ingredients prepared according to the improved method.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONChewing gums of the types typically known in the art contain many ingredients including flavor ingredients, sweetener ingredients and flavor-enhancing ingredients. It is often desirable to produce a chewing gum having a high degree of sweetness and flavor, which lasts for an extended period of time. "Fast release" . .ewing gums known in the art typically release their flavor and sweetness compounds rapidly, creating an initial burst of high intensity sweetness and flavor which is pleasing to the consumer but which does not last. "Slow-release" chewing gums, on the 

 other hand, release their sweetness and flavor over a longer period of time but do not provide an initial burst of high intensity sweetness and flavor. Hence, chewing gum manufacturers are constantly trying to extend the time in which consumers can enjoy the sweetness and flavor of chewing gum without sacrificing the quality of the initial sweetness and flavor impact.In order to control the release of the flavoring agents, and thus lengthen the duration of the flavor, various methods and systems for encapsulating flavoring agents in matrices have been developed. U.S. Patent 4,978,537, issued to Song, discloses gradual release structures formed by meltspinning a mixture of an active agent and a wall material. Possible active agents include high intensity sweeteners such as aspartame, alitame, acesulfame-K and its salts. Possible active agents also include inorganic salts such as sodium chloride and potassium chloride, bases, breath fresheners, flavor modifiers, etc. The wall material is preferably a material which will stretch, deform or flatten under pressure including, for instance, polyvinyl acetate but not including high molecular weight polyvinyl acetate.U.S. Patent 2,290,120, issued to Thomas, discloses the mixing of particles of chewing gum base with the flavoring agent to provide a substantially homogeneous mixture. U.S.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WE CLAIM:
1. A method of preparing an encapsulated active ingredient for use in chewing gum, comprising the steps of: preparing a blend comprising about 50 to about 85 weight per cent polyvinyl acetate, about 0.5 to about 20 weight per cent salt and about 1 to about 50 weight per cent active ingredient; melting the polyvinyl acetate, and mixing the polyvinyl acetate, salt and active ingredient, in an extruder having a feed throat, to form an encapsulation product; extruding the encapsulation product; quenching the encapsulation product; and grinding the encapsulation product; whereby the inclusion of salt with the polyvinyl acetate and active ingredient alleviates blocking of the feed throat and results in a hard brittle encapsulation product.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the polyvinyl acetate comprises high molecular weight polyvinyl acetate.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the high molecular weight polyvinyl acetate has an average molecular weight of at least about 40,000.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the high molecular weight polyvinyl acetate has an average molecular weight of at least about 50,000.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the blend comprises about 65 to about 80 weight per cent polyvinyl acetate. 


 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the blend comprises about 75 weight per cent polyvinyl acetate.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the active ingredient comprises a sweetener.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the sweetener comprises a high intensity sweetener.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the active ingredient comprises a flavoring agent.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the active ingredient comprises a flavor enhancing agent.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the blend comprises about 10 to about 25 weight per cent active ingredient.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the blend comprises about 15 weight per cent active ingredient.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the salt comprises an inorganic salt.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the inorganic salt is selected from the group consisting of sodium chloride, potassium chloride, ammonium chloride, salts of acesulfame K, calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, other food acceptable inorganic salts, and combinations thereof.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the salt comprises sodium chloride. 


 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the blend comprises about 5 to about 15 weight per cent salt.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the blend comprises about 10 weight per cent salt.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the polyvinyl acetate, salt and active ingredient are blended before being added to the extruder.
19. An encapsulated active ingredient prepared according to the method of claim 1.
20. A chewing gum comprising an encapsulated active ingredient prepared according to the method of claim 1.
21. 
*
A method of preparing an encapsulated active ingredient for use in chewing gum, comprising the steps of: providing a quantity of polyvinyl acetate in particle form; providing a quantity of active ingredient selected from the group consisting of sweeteners, flavoring agents, flavor enhancing agents and combinations thereof; providing a quantity of salt in particle form; and extruding a blend comprising about 50 to about 85 weight per cent of the provided polyvinyl acetate, about 1 to about 50 weight per cent of the active ingredient and about 0.5 to about 20 weight per cent of the provided salt, in an extruder having a feed throat, to form an encapsulation product; whereby the inclusion of salt with the polyvinyl acetate and active ingredient alleviates blocking of the 


 feed throat and results in a hard and brittle encapsulation product.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the polyvinyl acetate, salt and active ingredient are extruded using a twin screw extruder.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the twin screw extruder comprises two counterrotating screws.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the polyvinyl acetate comprises high molecular weight polyvinyl acetate.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the active ingredient comprises a high intensity sweetener selected from the group consisting of sucralose, aspartame, salts of acesulfame, alitame, saccharin and its salts, glycyrrhizin, dihydrochalcones, thaumatin, monellin and combinations thereof.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the active ingredient comprises a flavoring agent selected from the group consisting of powders, essential oils, synthetic flavors and combinations thereof.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein the active ingredient comprises a flavor enhancing agent selected from the group consisting of a monoammoniated glycyrrhizin-based sweetener, cocoa powder, monosodium glutamate, capsaicin, gluconodelta lactone, inulin, and combinations thereof.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the flavor enhancing agent comprises Magnasweet 135. 


 29. The method of claim 21, wherein the salt comprises an inorganic salt selected form the group consisting of sodium chloride, potassium chloride, ammonium chloride, salts of acesulfame K, calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, other food acceptable inorganic salts, and combinations thereof.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the salt comprises sodium chloride.
31. An encapsulated active ingredient prepared according to the method of claim 21.
32. A chewing gum comprising an active ingredient prepared according to the method of claim 21.
33. An encapsulated active ingredient for use in chewing gum, comprising amixed and extruded blend of: about 50 to about 85 weight per cent polyvinyl acetate; about 1 to about 50 weight per cent of an active ingredient selected from the group consisting of sweeteners, flavoring agents, flavor enhancing agents and combinations thereof; and about 0.5 to about 20 weight per cent of an inorganic salt; mixed together and extruded in an extruder having a feed throat; whereby the inclusion of salt with the polyvinyl acetate and active ingredient alleviates blocking of the feed throat and results in a hard and brittle encapsulated active ingredient. 


 34. The encapsulated active ingredient of claim 33, comprising: about 65 to about 80 weight per cent of the polyvinyl acetate; about 10 to about 25 weight per cent of the active ingredient; and about 5 to about 15 weight per cent of the inorganic salt.
35. The encapsulated active ingredient of claim 33, comprising: about 75 weight per cent of the polyvinyl acetate; about 15 weight percent of the active ingredient; and about 10 weight per cent of the inorganic salt.
36. The encapsulated active ingredient of claim 33, further comprising magnesium stearate.
37. The encapsulated active ingredient of claim 36 wherein the magnesium stearate is present in a quantity of about 0.5 weight per cent.
38. The encapsulated active ingredient of claim 33 in a chewing gum.
#
39. A chewing gum comprising a water soluble bulk portion, a water insoluble base portion, and one or more flavoring agents, said chewing gum composition further com¬ prising an extrusion encapsulated active ingredient including: about 50 to about 85 weight per cent polyvinyl acetate; 


 about 1 to about 50 weight per cent of an active ingredient selected from the group consisting of sweeteners, flavoring agents, flavor enhancing agents and combinations thereof; and about 0.5 to about 20 weight per cent salt; wherein the extrusion encapsulated active ingredient is prepared using an extruder having a feed throat; whereby the inclusion of salt with the polyvinyl acetate and active ingredient alleviates blocking of the feed throat and results in a hard and brittle extrusion encapsulated active ingredient.
40. The chewing gum of claim 39, wherein the extrusion encapsulated active ingredient is present in an amount of about 0.1 to about 15 weight per cent of the chewing gum.
41. The chewing gum of claim 39, wherein the extrusion encapsulated active ingredient is present in an amount of about 0.2 to about 5 weight per cent of the chewing gum.
42. The chewing gum of claim 39, wherein the extrusion encapsulated active ingredient is present in an amount of about 0.5 to about 3 weight per cent of the chewing gum.
43. The chewing gum of claim 39, wherein the polyvinyl acetate comprises high molecular weight polyvinyl acetate.
44. The chewing gum of claim 39, wherein the active ingredient comprises a high intensity sweetener.
45. The chewing gum of claim 39, wherein the active ingredient comprises a flavoring agent. 


 46. The chewing gum of claim 39, wherein the active ingredient comprises a flavoring enhancing agent.
47. The chewing gum of claim 46, wherein the flavor enhancing agent comprises a monoammoniated glycyrrhizin based sweetener.
48. The chewing gum of claim 39, wherein the salt comprises sodium chloride. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
