<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618790</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A BATH FOR USE BY A PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSON.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G710	A61G710	F16L3900	F16L3900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61G	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G7	A61G7	F16L39	F16L39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
With reference to the figure, a bath (1) for use by a physically handicapped person comprises a bath tub (2) provided with a peripheral rim (3) and apparatus (4) for assisting the person into and out of the bath tub (2). The apparatus (4) comprises a telescopic column (5) having a stationary outer part (6) disposed beneath the rim (3) and an inner part (7) movable relative to the outer part (6), within an aperture (8) formed in the rim (3). In addition, the apparatus (4) comprises a seat unit (15) demountably connectable to the movable inner part (7) of the telescopic column (5), and formed by a seat (16) and a seat support arm (17), one end of which is demountably connectable to the movable inner part (7). The arrangement is such that, with the seat unit (15) disconnected from the movable inner part (7), the inner part can be retracted to an unobtrusive position, substantially at the level of the rim (3), where the aperture (8) can then be closed by a cap (20), so as to cover the retracted inner part (7). Also disclosed is a hydraulic pressure intensifier (110) for operating a hydraulic actuator (101), such as the telescopic column (5) of the bath (1) as well as a pneumatic plug (200) and socket connector (210) which may be used in a pneumatic control system adapted to operate a bath hoist (4) comprising a movable seat unit (15).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAMPSHIRE MED DEV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAMPSHIRE MEDICAL DEVELOPMENTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILLS JOHN FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
METCALF RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILLS, JOHN FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
METCALF, RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A BATH FOR USE BY A PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONThis invention relates to a bath for use by a physically handicapped (or physically impaired) person, to a hydraulic actuator which may be used with such a bath, and to a hydraulic pressure intensifier for operating such an actuator. This invenrion also relates to a pneumatic plug and socket connector particularly, but not exclusively, to a connector suitable for use in a pneumatic control system adapted to operate a bath hoist comprising a movable seat unit associated with a bath to enable a physically handicapped (or physically impaired) person to be lowered and raised within the bath tub.As used herein, the term "hydraulic" includes water as well as oil.According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a bath for use by a physically handicapped person which comprises a bath tub, and apparatus for assisting the person into and out of the bath tub, the apparatus comprising a telescopic column having a stationary part, plus a seat unit demountably connectable to the movable inner part of the telescopic column.The bath tub is preferably provided with a peripheral rim with the stationary part of the telescopic column being disposed beneath the rim, and said other part movable within an aperture formed in the rim, said apparatus being arranged so that with the seat unit disconnected from the movable part, said movable part can be retracted to substantially the level of the rim.The bath is preferably provided with a cap receivable by the aperture formed in the bath tub rim, so as to cover the retracted part of the telescopic column.The telescopic column is preferably disposed 

 laterally of the longitudinal axis of the bath tub.The seat unit preferably comprises a seat support arm, one end of which is demountably connectable to the movable part of the telescopic column. One side portion of the bath tub is preferably of lesser height than the opposite side portion thereof.The telescopic column is preferably directly operable by hydraulic fluid, which may be pressurised by an electrically-powered pump or by water-powered means. Operation of the telescopic column may be controlled by a pneumatic control system.According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a hydraulic pressure intensifier for operating a hydraulic actuator which comprises a relatively large area piston movable within a first cylinder, a relatively small area piston movable within a second cylinder, the first and second cylinders being in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C AIMS
1. A bath for use by a physically handicapped person, comprising a bath tub, and apparatus for assisting the person into and out of the bath tub, the apparatus comprising a telescopic column having a stationary part, and another part movable relative to the stationary part plus a seat unit demountably connectable to the movable part of the telescopic column. 2. A bath as claimed in claim 1, wherein the bath tub is provided with a peripheral rim with the stationary part of the telescopic column being disposed beneath the rim, and said other part movable within an aperture formed in the rim, said apparatus being arranged so that with the seat unit disconnected from the movable part, said movable part can be retracted to substantially the level of the rim.
3. A bath as claimed in claim 2, provided with a cap for closing off the aperture formed in the bath tub rim, so as to cover the retracted movable part of the telescopic column.
4. A bath as claimed in claim 1, 2 or claim 3, wherein the telescopic column is disposed laterally of the longitudinal axis of the bath tub. 5. A bath as claimed in claim 4, wherein the seat unit comprises a seat support arm, one end of which is demountably connectable to the movable part of the telescopic column.
6. A bath as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the telescopic column is directly operable by hydraulic fluid.
7. A bath as claimed in claim 6, wherein the hydraulic fluid is pressurised by water-powered means.
8. A bath as claimed in claim 6 or 7, wherein the telescopic column is a hydraulic actuator operated by a hydraulic pressure intensifier which comprises a 


 relatively large area piston movable within a first cylinder, a relatively small area piston movable within a second cylinder, the first and second cylinders being in substantially co-axial alignment, one behind the other, a piston rod interconnecting the two pistons, inlet and outlet means for admitting hydraulic fluid to the first cylinder and for allowing hydraulic fluid to escape therefrom, and inlet and outlet means for admitting hydraulic fluid to the second cylinder and for allowing hydraulic fluid to escape therefrom.
9. A bath as claimed in claim 6, wherein the hydraulic fluid is pressurised by an electrically- powered pump.
10. A bath as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein one side portion of the bath tub is of lesser height than the opposite side portion thereof.
11. A bath as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the telescopic column is operated by a pneumatic control system, said pneumatic control system having a removable manual actuator.
12. A hydraulic pressure intensifier for operating a hydraulic actuator, comprising a relatively large area piston movable within a first cylinder, a relatively small area piston movable within a second cylinder, the first and second cylinders being in substantially co-axial alignment, one behind the other, a piston rod interconnecting the two pistons, inlet and outlet means for admitting hydraulic fluid to the first cylinder and for allowing hydraulic fluid to escape therefrom, and inlet and outlet means for admitting hydraulic fluid to the second cylinder and for allowing hydraulic fluid to escape therefrom.
13. A bath, substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to Figures 1 to 7 of the accompanying drawings.
14. A hydraulic pressure intensifier for 


 operating a hydraulic actuator, substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to Figure 8 of the accompanying drawings.
15. A bath provided with a pneumatically- controlled bath hoist and a manual actuator for the bath hoist, said manual actuator being removable from the bath.
16. A bath according to claim 15, wherein the bath hoist is also removable. 17. A pneumatic plug and socket connector comprising a plug in the form of a single probe portion adapted to be received within a bore of the socket, the probe portion being provided with at least two axially spaced-apart radial ports which are independently connected internally of the plug to a respective at least two supply passages at the outer end of the probe for connection to respective pneumatic lines, the plug and socket connector being provided with at least three annular spaced-apart sealing means which are arranged such that when the plug and socket ar fully inter- engaged, each of the radial ports is positioned axially between a respective pair of the annular sealing means, the socket being provided with respective passages communicating respectively with the chambers defined between the respective pairs of annular sealing means. 18. A pneumatic plug and socket connector according to claim 17, wherein the annular sealing means are carried by the probe, located in external annular recesses in the probe. 19. A pneumatic plug and socket connector according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the outer end of the probe is arranged to connect with a pneumatic conduit in which a plurality of pneumatic lines are contained within an outer sheath. 20. A pneumatic plug and socket connector according to claim 17, 18, or 19, wherein the 


connection between the outer end of the probe and the pneumatic lines is housed within a handgrip portion of the plug.
21. A pneumatic plug and socket connector according to any one of claims 17 to 20, wherein the probe and the socket bore are of complementary plain cylindrical shape.
22. A pneumatic plug and socket connector according to any one of claims 17 to 21, wherein additional means is provided to provide a mechanical lock retaining the plug and socket inter-engaged.
23. A pneumatic plug and socket connector according to claim 22, wherein the additional means comprises a bolt and spring detent captive to the socket and co-operating with an annular groove in the probe.
24. A pneumatic plug and socket connector substantially as hereinbefore described, with reference to Figures 9 and 10 of the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
