<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615601</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CIRCUIT FOR DETECTING FIRING OF AN ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION DETECTOR TUBE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23N508	F23N508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23N	F23N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23N5	F23N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON SCOTT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, SCOTT, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
State of the art controllers for fuel burners such as furnaces are now 
based on microprocessors which dramatically improve the control process. 
Nevertheless, it is still necessary to provide information as to the current operating 
state of the fuel burner. Among the most important of the state parameters is whether 
there is flame in the burner. The continued supply of fuel to the burner must be 
conditioned on the presence of flame, since if flame is not present and fuel is allowed 
to flow to the burner, the accumulation resulting can explode or asphyxiate, either one 
a potentially lethal event. Accordingly, it has been recognized for a long time in 
burner control technology that detection of flame is of paramount importance. There are basically three kinds of flame detector elements. Perhaps the 
most common is the so-called flame rod, which forms with the burner metal a sort of 
diode element when flame is present arising from the difference in the size of the 
flame rod compared to the burner itself. An AC potential applied between the flame 
rod and the burner metal causes DC current to be carried by the ionized particles 
generated by presence of a flame. By detecting presence of this DC current flow, it is 
possible to determine presence of flame. Because of the difference in sizes of the 
flame rod and the burner, the current flow is from the flame rod to the burner, 
meaning that presence of flame is signified by current flow into the flame rod signal 
conductor, placing its potential below ground voltage as represented by the burner. A second type of flame detector is sensitive to infrared radiation, and 
produces a signal indicating flame when such radiation is present. A third type, and 
the one with which the invention to be described deals, produces an output when 
ultraviolet radiation produced by a flame impinges on an ultraviolet detector tube 
whose impedance drops suddenly in response to the radiation. Each of these sensors 
produces an output requiring substantial processing by special circuitry before a signal 
indicating presence and absence of flame and which is suitable to be an input to a 
microprocessor is generated. The circuitry which converts the flame detector signal 
to a signal suitable for use by the controller is referred to as a flame amplifier and its 
output as a flame present signal, or more simply, a flame signal. The flame amplifier for a UV tube must assure that the impedance 
change in the UV tube arises from presence of ultraviolet radiation impinging on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A UV tube driver circuit powered by an AC voltage source (15,16), for 
providing a UV signal varying with presence and absence of ultraviolet radiation 

impinging on a UV discharge tube (14) having first and second terminals, said UV signal 
having a first predetermined form responsive to presence of ultraviolet radiation 

impinging on the UV tube and a second predetermined form responsive to absence of 
ultraviolet radiation impinging on the UV tube (14), said UV tube driver circuit comprising 


a) a tube driver capacitor (12) having a first terminal (15) forming one 
connection for the AC voltage source, and a second terminal for connection to the 

first terminal (a) of the UV tube (14); 
b) a tube driver diode (18) having a first terminal connected to the second 
terminal of the tube driver capacitor (12), and a second terminal; 
c) a tube driver resistor (20) having a first terminal connected to the second 
terminal of the tube driver diode (18) and a second terminal for connection to the 

second terminal of the UV tube (14) and to the second terminal (16) of the AC voltage source; 
d) an output driver capacitor (21) in parallel with the tube driver resistor (20); The UV tube driver circuit being characterized by 
e) a high pass filter (27) having an input terminal connected to the tube 
driver capacitor's second terminal, a common terminal connected to the UV tube's 

second terminal, and an output terminal (c); 
f) a switch element (28) having a control terminal (c) connected to the high pass 
filter's output terminal, a first power terminal (P1), and a second power terminal (P2) 

connected to the UV tube's second terminal; and 
g) an output driver resistor (25) connecting the second terminal of the tube 
driver diode (18) to the first power terminal (P1) of the switch element (28), 
 
   wherein when a UV tube having ultraviolet radiation impinging on it is 

connected between the second terminal of the tube driver capacitor (12) and the second 
terminal (16) of the AC voltage source and an AC voltage source of predetermined 

characteristics is connected to the AC power terminals (15,16), the UV signal with the first 
predetermined form is present at the first terminal (P1) of the switch element (28). 
The tube driver circuit of claim 1, and further including a pulse 
sensor (31) connected to the first switch element terminal (P1). 
The tube driver circuit of claim 2, wherein the pulse sensor (31) 
comprises a timer providing first and second clock pulses separated by a 

predetermined time interval, and a pulse counter receiving the UV signal and 
cumulating pulses between the first and second clock pulses.  

 
The tube driver circuit of claim 2, wherein the pulse sensor 
comprises an integrator circuit having an input terminal connected to the switch 

element's first power terminal and an output terminal providing the UV signal. 
The tube driver circuit of claim 2, wherein the pulse sensor includes 

a sensor capacitor having a first terminal connected to the first terminal 
of the switch element and a second terminal; 
a resistor connecting the sensor capacitor's second terminal and the UV 
tube's second terminal; and 
a sample and hold circuit having an input terminal storing the sensor 
capacitor voltage each time the switch element conducts between its power terminals, 

a common terminal connected to the UV tube's second terminal and an output 
terminal providing the UV signal. 
The tube driver circuit of claim 5, wherein the sample and hold 
circuit comprises a sampling diode having a second terminal comprising the first 

terminal of the sample and hold circuit and a first terminal; 

a sampling capacitor having a first terminal connected to the first 
terminal of the sampling diode and a second terminal forming the common terminal of 

the sample and hold circuit; and 
a sampling resistor having a first terminal connected to the first 
terminal of the sampling diode and a second terminal forming the output terminal of 

the sample and hold circuit. 
The tube driver circuit of claim 6, wherein the driver and sampling 
diodes' first terminals are each anodes, and the anode of the UV tube forms the 

second terminal thereof. 
The tube driver circuit of claim 6, wherein the high pass filter 
comprises a high pass capacitor connected between the input and output terminals of 

the high pass filter and a resistor connected between the output and common 
terminals, and the sensor capacitor has a value at least an order of magnitude greater 

than the value of the high pass capacitor. 
The tube driver circuit of claim 6, wherein the sensor capacitor has 
a value approximately an order of magnitude greater than the value of the sampling 

capacitor.  
 
The tube driver circuit of claim 1, wherein the driver diode's first 
terminal is the anode, and the anode of the UV tube forms the second terminal 

thereof. 
The tube driver circuit of claim 1, wherein the tube driver 
capacitor and the output driver capacitor values are of approximately the same 

magnitude. 
The tube driver circuit of claim 1, wherein the switching element 
comprises 


a switch resistor having a first terminal forming the control terminal of 
the switch element and a second terminal; and 
a transistor having a base terminal connected to the second switching 
resistor's second terminal and power terminals comprising the power terminals of the 

switch element. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
