<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617131</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reagent for determining gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q148	C12Q148	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reagent for determination of γ-GTP activity 
containing L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide or a salt as 

a substrate and a transition metal ion or salt, a method for 
stabilizing L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide using a 

transition metal ion salt, and a method for determining γ-GTP 
activity using this reagent. The transition metal ion or 

salt effectively prevents non-enzymatic decomposition 
(hydrolysis) of the substrate, thereby making it possible to 

supply the reagent as a solution. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EIKEN CHEMICAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EIKEN KAGAKU KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATOH KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATOH, KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the determination of
γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (EC 2.3.2.1, hereinafter
abbreviated as γ-GTP) activity. γ-GTP is an enzyme
catalyzing hydrolysis of γ-glutamyl peptide and transferring
the hydrolysis product, γ-glutamyl group, to other peptides
or L-amino acids. While γ-GTP widely occurs in the body, it
is known that the γ-GTP activity in the liver and the serum
increases with the development of various hepatic diseases.
Therefore, γ-GTP activity determination is an essential
clinical examination marker (or indicator) for diagnosing
hepatic diseases.Various synthetic substrates for γ-GTP activity
determination have been proposed. Widely employed substrates
among them are L-γ-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide or a salt thereof
and L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide or a salt thereof
which generate p-nitroaniline or 3-carboxy-4-nitroaniline
(i.e., 5-amino-2-nitrobenzoic acid), respectively, by the
enzymatic action of γ-GTP. For determining γ-GTP, the thus
generated product is determined by spectrophotometry.However, L-γ-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide or its salt,
when dissolved in a buffer solution for γ-GTP activity
determination, is precipitated as crystals over time due to 
poor solubility. Additionally, it undergoes non-enzymatic
decomposition (hydrolysis) and releases p-nitroaniline when
stored over a period of time. On the other hand,
L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxyl-4-nitroanilide or its salt, while
having a high solubility, is also non-enzymatically
decomposed (hydrolyzed) to release 3-carboxy-4-nitroaniline
during storage.Various studies have been conducted in order to
overcome these problems. With respect to L-γ-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide,
for example, it has been proposed to improve
solubility by the addition of an acid, an organic solvent, a
surfactant, etc. (see Clinica Chimica Acta, Vol. 65, p. 21-27
(1975)). Addition of cyclodextrin (see JP-A-57-74099
corresponding to WO-8201564 (US, DE), the term "JP-A" as used
herein means an "unexamined published Japanese patent
application") or a crown ether (see JP-A-60-16599) is
suggested for improvement of solubility and inhibition of
non-enzymatic decomposition (hydrolysis). Nevertheless, a
technique for satisfying both solubility and stability of
this substrate has not yet been developed.
EP-A-0297607 discloses substrates for the γ-glutamyl transpeptidase which
are stabilized by chemically modifying them. These substrates are γ-L-glutamyl-4-nitroanilide
derivatives in which the benzene ring (3) is substituted
by a lower hydroxyalkyl group. Also with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reagent for determining γ-glutamyl
transpeptidase activity comprising L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide

or a salt thereof as a substrate and a
transition metal ion or salt.
A reagent as claimed in claim 1 comprising:

component A comprising said L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide
or a salt thereof as a substrate, said

transition metal ion or salt as a stabilizer and a buffer
material, and
component B comprising an amino acid or peptide as a
recipient of a γ-glutamyl group and a buffer material.
A reagent as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein
said transition metal is copper.
A reagent as claimed in claim 3, wherein said
transition metal is copper (I).
A reagent as claimed in claim 3, wherein said
transition metal is copper (II).
A reagent as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein
said transition metal is nickel.
A reagent as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein
said transition metal salt is selected from the group

consisting of copper (II) acetate, copper (II) citrate,
copper (II) formate, copper (II) gluconate, copper (II)

oleate, copper (II) oxalate, copper (II) phthalate, copper
(II) bromide, copper (II) chloride, copper (II) carbonate,

copper (II) diphoshpate, copper (II) iodide, copper (II)
fluoride, copper (II) sulfate, copper (II) phosphate, 

copper (II) nitrate, copper (I) bromide, copper (I)
chloride, copper (I) iodide, copper (I) thiocyanate, nickel

(II) acetate, nickel (II) formate, nickel (II) bromide,
nickel (II) carbonate, nickel (II) chloride, nickel (II)

nitrate, and nickel (II) sulfate.
A reagent as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7,
wherein said transition metal is present in an amount of

from 0.01 to 10.0 mM per mM of the substrate.
A reagent as claimed in claim 8, wherein said
transition metal is present in an amount of from 0.1 to

1.0 mM per mM of the substrate.
A reagent as claimed in any of claims 1 to 9,
wherein said reagent is an aqueous solution.
A method for stabilizing L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide
or a salt thereof comprising adding a

transition metal ion or salt to L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxyl-4-nitroanilide
or a salt thereof.
A method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said
L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxyl-4-nitroanilide or a salt thereof

exists in an aqueous solution.
A method for determining γ-glutamyl
transpeptidase activity comprising using, as a substrate, a

L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide or a salt thereof to
which a transition metal ion or salt has been added.
A method as claimed in claim 13 for determining
γ-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in a test sample

comprising:

mixing a test sample with component A and component B
in any order, wherein sai
d component A comprises said 
L-γ-glutamyl-3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide or a salt thereof as

a substrate, said transition metal ion or salt as a
stabilizer and a buffer material and wherein component B

comprises an amino acid or peptide as a recipient of a
γ-glutamyl group and a buffer material,
measuring a rate of increase of 3-carboxy-4-nitroaniline
released from the substrate, and
determining the γ-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in
the test sample based on the rate of increase of 3-carboxy-4-nitroaniline.
A method as claimed in any of claims 11 to 14,
wherein said transition metal is copper.
A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said
transition metal is copper (I).
A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said
transition metal is copper (II).
A method as claimed in any of claims 11 to 14,
wherein said transition metal is nickel.
A method as claimed in any of claims 13 to 18,
wherein an enzymatic reaction is carried out in the

presence of a chelating agent.
A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein said
chelating agent is selected from the group consisting of

ethylenediamine-N,N,N' ,N'-tetraacetic acid, 1, 2-cyclohexanediamine-N,N,N'
,N'-tetraacetic acid, glycol

ether diamine-N,N,N' ,N'-tetraacetic acid,
hexamethylenediamine-N,N,N' ,N'-tetraacetic acid,

hydroxyethyliminodiacetic acid, 1,3-diaminopropan-2-ol-N,N,N'
,N'-tetraacetic acid, diethylenetriamine-N,N,N',

N" ,N"-pentaacetic acid, ethylenediamine-N,N'-diacetic
acid, ethylenediamine-N,N'-dipropionic acid, 

N-hydroxyethylethylenediamine-N,N' ,N'-triacetic acid, and
1,2-diaminopropane-N,N,N' ,N'-tetraacetic acid, and salts

of these acids.
A method as claimed in claim 19 or 20, wherein
said chelating agent is present in an amount of from 1 to

100 mM per mM of the transition metal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
