<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0090811</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-MONITORING HEAT TRACING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01K300	G01K300	G01R3102	G01R3102	G05D2320	G05D2324	G08B1706	G08B1706	H02H500	H02H504	H05B354	H05B356	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01K	G01K	G01R	G01R	G05D	G05D	G08B	G08B	H02H	H02H	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01K3	G01K3	G01R31	G01R31	G05D23	G05D23	G08B17	G08B17	H02H5	H02H5	H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for monitoring abnormally high temperature along the length of a heating conductor (H) includes a tracing cable (T) containing a heating conductor (H) and a monitoring conductor (M). The monitoring conductor (M) is connected to a control circuit (C) which detects a short in the monitoring conductor (M) caused by abnormally high temperature of the heating conductor (H) to provide an alarm signal (44). The control circuit also detects an open circuit in the monitoring conductor (M) to provide a second alarm signal (42) indicative of a discontinuity in the monitoring conductor (M). The location of the abnormal temperature condition in heating conductor (H) can be determined by measuring the impedance of the monitoring cable (M) after the abnormal temperature condition has been detected by control circuit (C).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMON MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMON MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARDNER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUFF GREG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARDNER, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUFF, GREG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE: SELF-MONITORING HEAT TRACING SYSTEMSpecificationField of the InventionThe present invention relates to heat tracing systems for heating pipes, conduits, tanks and like objects using a heat tracing cable. Description of the Prior ArtElectric cable fire alarm εys'tems using heat sensitive conductors were disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 259,816; 647,556; 664,966; 673,903; 1,235,028; and 2,518,788. These patents were fire alarm systems which used heat sensitive cable to trigger an alarm bell or other device when the ambient temperature was elevated by the occurrence of a fire. These fire alarm systems did not, however, control the supply of heat by the cable to an existing structure, monitor the integrity of the alarm system cable or permit one to locate where there was an abnormally high temperature along the cable.U.S. Patent No. 3,814,399 disclosed a control circuit for electric heating blankets wherein current was diverted from the heating conductor through a negative thermal coefficient material to cause the interruption of power to the heating conductor to prevent thermal runaway in the heating conducting elements. This control circuitry required the use of the heating conductor as a part of the control circuit which is undesirable and impractical forOMP•4κ WIP *NA
 heat tracing systems. The control circuitry also required the. introduction and maintenance of a voltage phase differential between the heating conductor and the control conductor along the entire length of the conductors. U.S. Patent 3,643,245 disclosed a heat-detecting system which used an elongated negative thermal coefficient thermistor to detect high temperature conditions. However, neither of these patents monitored the integrity of the control circuit or located where the high temperature condition existed in the heat conductor.Electrical heating cables and tapes, as exemplified by U.S. Patent No. 2,719,902; 3,757,086; 4,072,848; and 4,117,312 have been used commercially for some time to provide heat to pumps and other objects in cold environments. - U.S. Patent Nos. 4,072,848 and 4,112,312 are owned by the assignee of the present application. In the past, control of the temperature of these heating cables was achieved by an external thermostat to interrupt the flow of electrical current to the heating cable at a - specified temperature limit or by providing current limiting devices in the heating cable. Externally monitored systems were prone to failure, causing thermal runaway in the heating cable possibly resulting in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS : .
1. A self-monitoring heat tracing εyεtem for distributing heat from a power source to heat pipes, conduitε, tanks or like objects which detects abnormal 
"
 temperature conditions in the system, comprising: -
"
 a) heater conductor means connected to the power εource for heating the object to be heated; b) monitor conductor means, mounted in proximity to said heater conductor means, having a temperature-dependent electrical impedance; c) alarm means, connected to said monitor conductor for forming an alarm signal in response to variations in. the electrical impedance of said monitor conductor means indicative of abnormal temperature conditions in the system.
2. The εyεtem of claim 1, wherein the power source iε a εource of electrical power, and εaid heating conductor means compriseε an electrical resistance heating conductor.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein εaid heater _ conductor meanε and εaid monitor conductor meanε are contained within a εingle cable jacket, further including; insulator means, mounted between said heater conductor means and said monitor conductor meanε, for electrically inεulating εaid heater conductor from εaid monitor conductor. 


 4. The εyεtem- of claim 1, wherein εaid monitor conductor meanε compriεeε: a) first conductor means; b) second conductor means mounted in proximity to said first conductor means; c) insulator means mounted between εaid first conductor means and εaid second conductor meanε; d) means for measuring the electrical impedance between said first conductor means and said second • conductor meanε; -- wherein the electrical impedance between εaid first conductor and εaid second conductor iε temperature dependent.
5. The εyεtem of claim 4, wherein: said first conductor iε formed of a fusible conductive material; said insulator means iε formed of a porouε material; εaid firεt conductor material heating and diffuεing through εaid inεulator meanε in reεponεe to abnormally high temperature conditionε at points along εaid heater conductor thereby completing an electrical circuit between εaid firεt conductor and εaid εecond conductor.
6. The εyεtem of claim 5, wherein εaid fusible conductive material is an alloy comprising bismuth, lead .and tin.
7. The εyεtem of claim 6 wherein εaid alloy compriεeε by weight: about 52 . 5% bismuth; about 37% lead; and about 15. 5% tin .
>
OM $K V/IF 
&
?. NA 


 8. - The system of claim 5, wherein εaid fuεible conductive material iε an alloy comprising tin, lead, and cadmium.
9. The syεtem of claim 8, wherein said alloy comprises by weight: about 50% tin; about 32% lead; and about 18% cadimium.
10. The εyεtem of claim 5, wherein εaid fuεible conductive material iε an alloy compriεing tin and zinc.
11. The εyεtem of claim 10, wherein εaid alloy compriεeε by weight: about 91% tin; and about 9% zinc.
12. The εystem of claim 4, wherein: εaid insulator means iε formed of material having a temperature dependent electrical resistance such that the impedance of said monitor conductor meaεured between εaid firεt conductor and εaid εecond conductor varieε in response to abnormal temperature conditions along εaid heater conductor.
13. The εyεtem of claim 12, wherein εaid insulator meanε iε formed of material having an electrical reεiεtance which varies inversely with temperature.
14. The εystem of claim 4, further including: a reference impedance circuit connected in parallel between εaid firεt conductor and εaid second conductor for setting a reference impedance value.
O PI 


 15.. The εyεtem of claim 14, wherein εaid alarm meanε further .includeε: meanε for forming an alarm εignal to indicate that the meaεured electrical impedance of said monitor conductor is leεε than the reference value.
'
 16. The εystem of claim 14 wherein εaid alarm meanε " further includes: means for forming an alarm signal to indicate that the measured electrical impedance of said monitor - conductor is greater than the reference value.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein εaid reference impedance circuit compriεeε a resistor.
18. The εystem of claim 4 or 14 wherein the alarm meanε compriεeε: an impedance comparator circuit for comparing the electrical impedance of εaid monitor conductor between said firεt conductor and said εecond conductor with a predetermined reference impedance value and providing an output alarm εignal to indicate a deviation of the meaεured impedance from the predetermined reference impedance value.
19. The εyεtem of claim 18, wherein εaid impedance comparator circuit provideε a firεt alarm εignal to indicate that the measured impedance of εaid monitor conductor is less than the predetermined reference impedance value, and a second alarm signal to indicate that the meaεured impedance of εaid monitor conductor iε greater than the predetermined reference impedance value.
20. The εyεtem of claim 4, further including: meanε for detecting the location of abnormal temperature conditions along εaid heater conductor meanε.
OMP " " cr εrPT y . Y Y..TLPΪ-C 


 21. The εyεtem of claim 20, wherein εaid detecting meanε includeε: meanε for measuring at a reference point on said monitor conductor the loop impedance from εaid first conductor means through said insulator means at the point of the abnormal temperature condition to said second conductor means.
22. The εyεtem of.claim 21, wherein the impedance characteriεticε of εaid monitor conductor are known and εaid detection means further includes: means for computing the distance from the reference point on εaid monitor conductor to the abnormal temperature condition by comparing the known impedance characteriεticε of εaid monitor conductor to the meaεured loop impedance.
23. The εyεtem of claim 1, further including: heater conductor control meanε reεponεive to εaid alarm εignal for controlling the amount of heat energy diεtributed by εaid heater conductor.
24. The syεtem of claim 23, wherein εaid control meanε compriεeε an electrical εwitching circuit activated by the alarm εignal to disconnect εaid heater conductor from the power εource.
"
■"■ "
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
