<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634141</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Instrument for closing trocar puncture wounds.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1704	A61B1704	A61B1706	A61B1706	A61B1734	A61B1734	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical instrument 10 for applying sutures 
including an elongated housing 16 having a proximal end and 

a distal end, means 24-26 associated with the distal end of 
the elongated housing for carrying at least one needle 12-14, 

the needle carrier means being movable between a 
retracted position and an extended position, at least one 

needle positioned on the needle carrier means, and means 36 
associated with the needle carrier means for moving the 

needle carrier means to the extended position to deploy the 
at least one needle such that upon movement of the needle 

carrier means by the moving means, the needle carrier moves 
from the retracted position to the extended position 

whereby the at least one needle is caused to travel through 
a tissue engaging path in one continuous motion. Another 

embodiment of the surgical instrument of the present 
invention for applying sutures includes an elongated 

housing having a proximal end and a distal end and means 
associated with the distal end of the elongated housing, 

for carrying and deploying at least two needles at a 
predetermined distance from each other, the carrying and 

deploying means being rotatable out of a first plane 
corresponding to a retracted position and into a second 

plane corresponding to an extended position while 
maintaining the at least two needles at the predetermined 

distance from each other. The instrument preferably 
further includes at least one needle retaining means 

associated with the elongated housing for receiving and 
retaining the at least two needles. The needle retaining 

means may include a pair of needle receiving pockets 

disposed within the elongated housing. The needle 
receiving pockets may be filled with a compliant material 

66 or a latch 69 mechanism. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINCHLIFFE PETER W J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINCHLIFFE, PETER W.J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to instruments for 
suturing puncture wounds and more particularly to 
instruments for closing trocar puncture wounds formed 
during endoscopic surgical procedures. With laparoscopic and endoscopic surgery, a small 
incision or puncture is made in the patient's body to 
provide access for a tube or a cannula device. Once 
extended into the patient's body, the cannula allows for 
insertion of various surgical instruments such as scissors, 
dissectors, retractors, or biopsy instruments to perform 
diagnostics and/or surgery. Upon completion of the 
surgical procedure, the remaining trocar wound may require 
some attention, e.g., in the form of placing sutures to 
close the wound. In certain cases it may be desirable to 
close the wound from within. A device which forms sutures from within the 
urethra is shown in Soviet Patent SU 1093329. The device 
is inserted into the urethra and pivotally deploys needles 
from which sutures are subsequently pulled through the side 
walls of the urethra. Other devices have been developed which are used 
to place sutures from within a wound. For example, co-pending 
commonly assigned applications Serial No. 
07/950,073 filed September 23, 1992 EP 93 115 173.2 and  
 
Serial No. 08/013,244 EP 93 106 570.0 filed February 23, 
1993 as well as co-pending application Serial No. 
07/876,511 EP 93 107 072.6 relate to different surgical 
instruments for placing sutures from within a trocar wound. 
Also, a device has been developed for placing sutures from 
within a trocar wound which includes a needle clamping 
device for capturing the needles upon deployment thereof. 
Such a device is shown in a product brochure of REMA-Medisintechnik 
GmbH of Germany. Accordingly, a need exists, for an improved 
instrument which provides better deployment and capturing 
or shielding of the needles. The present invention provides a novel surgical 
instrument for applying sutures through body tissue and 
includes a lightweight and easy to use instrument which may 
be operated quickly and efficiently. The instrument includes an elongated housing 
having a proximal end and a distal end, means associated 
with the distal end of the elongated housing for carrying 
at least one needle, the needle carrier means being movable 
between a retracted position and an extended position, at 
least one needle positioned on the needle carrier means, 
and means associated with the needle carrier means for 
moving the needle carrier means to the extended position to 
deploy the at least
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue comprising: 


a) an elongate housing having a proximal end 
and a distal end; 
b) at least one curved needle; 
c) rotatable means associated with said 
elongate housing, for carrying and deploying 

said at least one needle, said carrying and 
deploying means including at least one 

needle carrier associated with said distal 
end of said elongate housing for carrying at 

least one needle therein, said at least one 
needle carrier being rotatable between a 

retracted position and an extended position; 
and 
d) means positioned within said elongate 
housing for rece
iving and retaining said at 
least one curved needle. 
A surgical instrument according to claim 1 
wherein said receiving and retaining means comprises a 

latch disposed at a fixed distance with respect to said 
distal end of said elongate housing. 
A surgical instrument according to claim 1 or 
2 wherein said receiving and retaining means is replaceably 

mounted on said elongate housing such that said surgical 
instrument may be re-used upon insertion of an unused 

replacement receiving and retaining means. 
A surgical instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein said carrying and deploying 

means further includes an elongate actuator rod operatively 
associated with said at least one needle carrier, such that 

said elongate actuator rod is operable from said proximal 
end of said elongate housing to control movement of said at 

least one needle carrier, said elongated actuator rod being 
slidably disposed within said elongated housing. 
A surgical instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein said at least one needle 

carrier includes at least one arm member for releasably 
holding said at least one needle. 
A surgical instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein said receiving and retaining 

means includes a compliant material such that said at least 
one needle becomes retained within said compliant material 

upon travel of said at least one needle through a tissue 
engaging path. 
A surgical instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein said at least one needle is 

caused to travel through a tissue engaging path in one 
continuous motion. 
A surgical instrument according to any one of 
the preceding claims wherein said needle carrier means 

includes at least one gear mechanism rotatably disposed 
within said elongate housing. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
comprising: 


a) an elongate housing having a proximal end 
and a distal end; and 
b) means associated with said distal end of 
said elongate housing, for carrying and 

deploying at least two needles at a 
predetermined distance from each other, said 

carrying and deploying means being rotatable 
from a retracted position in a first plane 

to a deployed position in a second plane 
while maintaining said at least two needles 

at said predetermined distance from each 
other. 
A surgical instrument according to claim 9 
further comprising needle retaining means associated with 

said elongate housing for receiving and retaining said at 
least two needles. 
A surgical instrument according to claim 10 
wherein said needle retaining means includes a compliant 

material or includes a pair of needle receiving pockets 
disposed within said elongate housing. 
A surgical instrument according to claim 9, 
10 or 11, further comprising an actuator member rotatably 

mounted within said elongate housing, said actuator member 
operatively associated with said carrying and deploying 

means such that said actuator member is operable from said 
proximal end of said elongate housing to move said carrying 

and deploying means. 
A surgical instrument according to claim 12 
wherein said actuator member is operable between a first 

position and a second position to respectively retract and 
deploy said carrying and deploying means, said surgical 

instrument further comprising a lock-out mechanism for 
releasably retaining said actuator member at each of said 

first and said second positions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
