<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629091</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Routing to intelligence
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1256	H04Q1104	H04Q347	H04L1264	H04M300	H04Q347	H04M1100	H04L1256	H04L1264	H04M1100	H04M300	H04Q1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04L	H04M	H04Q	H04M	H04L	H04L	H04M	H04M	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04Q11	H04Q3	H04L12	H04M3	H04Q3	H04M11	H04L12	H04L12	H04M11	H04M3	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a telecommunications network, outgoing calls from a particular 
subscriber location (11-1) for each of a plurality of telecommunications applications 

are delivered via a single access link (31) to a single point of distribution (410) 
through which the subscriber location is caused to be connected, as a function of the 

telecommunications application type, to an appropriate intelligent network element 
(INE) server. (55) Additionally, incoming calls of the various application types and 

directed to a particular directory number are delivered to a single point of collection 
(420) associated with its NPA-NNX and connections for those calls are caused to be 

made from the point of collection to an appropriate INE server (65), as a function of 
the telecommunications application type and the directory number in question. 

Communications within the network are by way of asynchronous transfer mode 
(ATM) cells. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNSTEIN LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNSTEIN, LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to telecommunications.For most of its history, telecommunications was limited to the provision
of a single telecommunications "application" -so-called plain old telephone service, or
POTS. Within the last thirty years or so, however, a wide array of new
telecommunications applications have been introduced with yet others being planned
for implementation within this decade and beyond. Thus the range of current and future
telecommunications applications includes not only POTS, but facsimile, cash machine
and lottery telecommunications applications, access to computers, video to the home,
and telephone-network-based games, as well as a variety of features that can be
implemented for various of the telecommunications applications, such as call waiting,
calling number ID, and speed calling. The aforementioned and other
telecommunications applications are realized by such telecommunications "services" as
basic voiceband switching, packet switching, message switching, frame relay, SMDS
and call switching (such as the so-called asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM).EP-A-0 480 634, discloses a system in which a master control unit and a
high speed digital switch are used to control processing of incoming phone calls by
recognizing the type of service requested by the caller, and then routing the call to the
appropriate processing port. The system is disclosed as an adjunct to current switching
technology in public and private networks.According to the present invention there is provided a method as defined
in claim 1, or apparatus as defined in claim 17.It is a straightforward matter to provide a subscriber location with access
to different telecommunications applications by connecting the appropriate terminal
devices, e.g., POTS telephone, cash machine, video terminal, or personal computer, at
the subscriber location via respective ohmic or photonic links extending from the
terminal devices to so-called intelligent network element (INE) servers capable of
supporting respective telecommunications applications.
However, that approach is less than optimal. In accordance with the invention, outgoing calls from a particular
subscriber location for each of a plurality of telecommunications applications are
delivered to a single point of distribution through which the subscriber location is
caused to be connected, as a function of the telecommunications application type, to an
appropriate INE server.FIGS. 1 and 2, when arranged as shown in FIG.3, comprise a block
diagram of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for use in a telecommunications network which includes a
plurality of intelligent network element servers (45, 55, 65, 75, 85) supporting

respective telecommunications application types,

   CHARACTERIZED IN THAT said method comprises the steps of

receiving at a single point of distribution, (410) and via a single
access link (31), outgoing calls of any of said application types originating from

a particular subscriber location, (11-1) and
routing each of said outgoing calls from said point of distribution to a
particular one of said intelligent network element servers (65), said particular

one of said intelligent network element servers being a function of the application
type of said each outgoing call.
The method of claim 1 wherein said calls include intelligence
carried in data packets, wherein at least ones of said packets have information

identifying the application type of the respective call, and wherein said point of
distribution carries out said routing as a function of said information.
The method of claim 1 comprising the further steps of

receiving, at a point of collection (420), incoming calls of any of
said application types directed to said particular subscriber location,
routing each of said incoming calls from said point of collection to the
one of said intelligent network element servers supporting the application type of

said each incoming call and from that intelligent network element server to said
subscriber location via said point of distribution and said single access link.
The method of claim 3 wherein said incoming calls include
intelligence carried in data packets, wherein at least ones of said packets have

information identifying the application type of the respective call, and wherein said
point of collection carries out said incoming call routing as a function of said

information.
The method of claim 1 wherein ones of said outgoing calls of a
particular application type are normally routed in said routing step to a first one of

said intelligent network servers (75) supporting that application type while
others of said outgoing calls of that particular application type and directed to a 

particular destination number are routed to a second one of said intelligent network
element servers (45).
The method of claim 5 wherein said particular destination number is
an emergency services number.
The method of claim 3 wherein said points of distribution and
collection are co-located with one another.
The method of claim 7 wherein said points of distribution and
collection are co-located with a telecommunications central office (45).
The method of claim 1 wherein said telecommunications application
types include at least ones of POTS, ISDN, video and data applications.
The method of claim 1 wherein said calls include intelligence
carried in data packets and wherein at least ones of said packets have information

identifying said particular one of said intelligent network element servers.
The method of claim 1 wherein said routing step includes the steps
of


responding to receipt of a particular one of said outgoing calls by
determining its application type, and
determining said particular one of said intelligent network element
servers from a number translation table as a function of said determined application

type and of said particular subscriber location.
The method of claim 1 wherein said calls include intelligence
carried in data packets conforming to an asynchronous transfer mode ATM format.
The method of claim 12 wherein said routing step includes the
communication of ATM commands between said point of distribution and said

intelligent network element servers.
The method of claim 3 wherein said outgoing call routing step
comprises the step of
 
   routing ones of said outgoing calls to said particular one of said

intelligent network element servers (65) via said point of collection.
The method of claim 3 wherein said outgoing call routing step
comprises the step of

   routing ones of said outgoing calls to said particular one of said
intelligent network element servers (65) via said point of collection and a

second point of collection (620) to which that server is connected directly, if
there is no direct link between said point of distribution and said server.
The method of claim 1 wherein said routing step includes the
establishing of a virtual circuit between said point of distribution and said one of said

intelligent network element servers.
Apparatus for use in a telecommunications network which includes a
plurality of intelligent network element servers (45, 55, 65, 75, 85) supporting

respective telecommunications application types, said apparatus including a point of
distribution (410) which comprises


means (411) for receiving, via a single access link, outgoing calls of any
of said application types originating from a particular subscriber location, and
means means (412, 425) for routing each of said outgoing calls from
said point of distribution to a particular one of said intelligent network element

servers, said particular one of said intelligent network element servers being a
function of the application type of said each outgoing call.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said calls include intelligence
carried in data packets, wherein at least ones of said packets have information

identifying the application type of the respective call, and wherein said means for
routing carries out said routing as a function of said information.
The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising a point of collection
(420) which comprises


means (421) for receiving incoming calls of any of said application
types directed to said particular subscriber location, and 
means (422, 425) for routing each of said incoming calls to the one of
said intelligent network element servers supporting the application type of said each

incoming call and from that intelligent network element server to said subscriber
location via said point of distribution and said single access link.
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said incoming calls include

intelligence carried in data packets, wherein at least ones of said packets have
information identifying the application type of the respective call, and wherein said

point of collection carries out said incoming call routing as a function of said
information.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein ones of said outgoing calls of a
particular application type are normally routed by said routing means to a first one of

said intelligent network servers supporting that application type while others of said
outgoing calls of that particular application type and directed to a particular

destination number are routed to a second one of said intelligent network element
servers.
The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said particular destination number
is an emergency services number.
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said points of distribution and
collection are co-located with one another.
The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said points of distribution and
collection are co-located with a telecommunications central office (45).
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said telecommunications
application types include at least ones of POTS, ISDN, video and data applications.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said calls include intelligence
carried in data packets and wherein at least ones of said packets have information

identifying said particular one of said intelligent network element servers.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said routing means responds to
receipt of a particular one of said outgoing calls by determining its application type 

and by thereupon determining said particular one of said intelligent network element
servers from a number translation table as a function of said determined application

type and of said particular subscriber location.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said outgoing calls include
intelligence carried in data packets conforming to an asynchronous transfer mode

(ATM) format.
The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said routing means carries out
said routing via the ATM commands between said point of distribution and said

intelligent network element servers.
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said outgoing call routing means
routes ones of said outgoing calls to said particular one of said intelligent network-element

servers via said point of collection.
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said outgoing call routing means

   routes ones of said outgoing calls to said particular one of said
intelligent network element servers via said point of collection and a second point of

collection to which that server is connected directly, if there is no direct link between
said point of distribution and said server.
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said routing means carries out
said routing by establishing of a virtual circuit between said point of distribution and

said particular one of said intelligent network element servers.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
