<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613601</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HEADEND PROCESSING FOR A DIGITAL TRANSMISSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04H2030	H04H2079	H04H4090	H04H6015	H04H6023	H04N710	H04N710	H04N752	H04N758	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04H	H04H	H04H	H04H	H04H	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04H20	H04H20	H04H40	H04H60	H04H60	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A headend method and apparatus for a digital transmission system is provided which includes inputs for receiving first and second program information from first and second program sources and inputs for receiving first and second control information from first and second control sources. The first and second program information is applied to a switching circuit and a switch control controls the switching circuit to output channels of program information comprising combinations of the first and second program information for output to a subscriber. Processing circuitry allows for selectively providing the first and second control information to the channels output from the switching circuit.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HEADEND PROCESSING FOR A DIGITAL TRANSMISSION SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention generally relates to a headend processor for a digital transmission system and, more particularly, to a headend processor for supplementing or replacing program information -from a remote program source with program information from a source local to the headend processor. Additionally, the invention relates to a headend processor for selectively replacing control information from the remote program source with control information provided by a sys¬ tem operator at the location of the headend processor. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe cable industry is currently introducing audio-only services. These cable "radio stations" may play a continuous succession of musi¬ cal selections. Stations may be dedicated, for example, to different types of music such as rock, jazz, blues, easy listening, etc. Such ser¬ vice may be offered as a premium service in a cable system which also provides standard video services.One technique for delivering high quality audio-only services is the use of digital audio. However, maintaining a large and diverse digi¬ tal audio programming library is typically too expensive for most local system operators. Thus, such services may be provided by a vendor who provides digital audio programming to a number of system opera¬ tors using, for example, a satellite system. The local system operator then need only provide equipment for combining the digital audio pro¬ gramming with the standard video services.However, since the digital audio programming is provided by a vendor at locations remote from a system operator, the system opera¬ tor has limited control of the audio services. For example, control of subscriber terminals is accomplished via subscriber terminal control transactions forwarded from the remote location. This reduces the 

 ability of the local operator to effectively service customer problems since the local operator will frequently have to rely on the willingness of the vendor to quickly troubleshoot any problems which may arise. Delays in servicing individual subscribers results in dissatisfaction with the local system operator.Additionally, a local operator using digital audio programming from a remote source is limited to providing programming from this remote source. Thus, events such as concerts by local symphonies and the like which may be of interest only to local subscribers are not offered. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAccordingly, it is an object of the present invention to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WE CLAIM:
1. A headend apparatus comprising: a first input for receiving first channels of program in or¬ mation from a first program source; a second input for receiving second channels of program information from a second program source; a switching circuit to which the first and second channels of program information are applied; and a switch control for controlling said switching circuit to output third channels of program information comprising combinations of program information of the first and second channels for distribution to a subscriber.
2. The headend apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first program source comprises a remote program source.
3. The headend apparatus according to claim 2 further comprising: a deserambler for descrambling program information from said remote program source.
4. The headend apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: a scrambler for scrambling the third channels.
5. The headend apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said switching circuit comprises a logical crosspoint switch.
6. The headend apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first input receives first interleaved channels of multiplexed digital program information.
7. The headend apparatus according to claim 6 further comprising: a deinterleave circuit for deinterleaving the first inter¬ leaved channels of digital program information.
8. The headend apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said second input receives second channels of interleaved digital program information.
9. The headend apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising: 


 a demultiplexing circuit receiving the interleaved digital program information of the first and second channels and outputting demultiplexed station information to said switching circuit.
10. The headend apparatus according to claim 9 further comprising: multiplexing circuits coupled to the output of said switch¬ ing circuit for multiplexing the station information from said switching circuit to the third channels for distribution to a subscriber.
11. The headend apparatus according to claim 10 further comprising: a scrambler for scrambling the third channels.
12. The headend apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said demultiplexing circuits comprise shift registers.
13. The headend apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said multiplexing circuits comprise shift registers.
14. The headend apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said switch control comprises a microprocessor.
15. The headend apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: a non-volatile memory for storing a configuration of said switching circuit as determined by said switch control.
16. The headend apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the program data of the first and second channels includes digital audio information.
17. The headend apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the first interleaved channels of digital program information comprises a 33.8688 megabits per second data stream.
18. The headend apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said deinterleave circuit is a 1:6 deinterleave circuit outputting six channels of digital program information, each channel comprising a 5.6448 megabits per second data stream.
19. The headend apparatus according to claim 18 wherein each channel comprises five stations of interleaved digital program information. 


 20. A headend apparatus comprising: an input for receiving channels of program and first con¬ trol information from a remote source; means for recovering the first control information; means for generating second control information; and means for selectively replacing the first control informa¬ tion with the second control in ormation.
21. The headend apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said input receives interleaved channels of digital program and first control information.
22. The headend apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising: a deinterleave circuit for deinterleaving the interleaved channels of digital program and first control information.
23. The headend apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said means for generating second control information comprises a local system control computer.
24. The headend apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said means for selectively replacing the first control information comprises a microprocessor coupled to said local system control computer.
25. The headend apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said detector comprises: a receive framing state machine synchronized to the input program and first control information.
26. A headend apparatus comprising: inputs for receiving first and second program information rom first and second program sources; inputs for receiving first and second control information from first and second control sources; a switching circuit to which said first and second program information is applied; a switch control for controlling said switching circuit to output channels of program information comprising combinations of the first and second program information for output to a subscriber; and 


 means for selectively providing the first and second con¬ trol information to the channels output from said switching circuit.
27. The headend apparatus according to claim 26 further comprising: a scrambler for scrambling the channels output from said switching circuit.
28. The headend apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said switching circuit comprises a crosspoint switch.
29. The headend apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said inputs include an input receiving first of first program and first control information from a remote program and control source.
30. The headend apparatus according to claim 29 further comprising: a descrambler for descrambling program information from said remote program and control source.
31. The headend apparatus according to claim 29 wherein said first channels comprise first interleaved channels of multiplexed first program and first control information.
32. The headend apparatus according to claim 31 further comprising: a deinterleave circuit for deinterleaving the first inter¬ leaved channels.
33. A method of generating output channels for distribution to subscribers comprising the steps of: receiving first channels of program information from a first program source; receiving second channels of program information from a second program source; and generating third channels of program information com¬ prising combinations of program information of the first and second channels.
34. A method of generating output channels containing con¬ trol information for distribution to subscribers comprising the steps of: receiving channels of program and first control informa¬ tion from a remote source; 


 recovering the first control in ormation; generating second control information; and selectively replacing the first control information with the second control information.
35. A method of generating output channels containing pro¬ gram and control information for distribution to subscribers comprising the steps of: receiving first and second program information from first and second program sources; receiving first and second control information from first and second control sources; generating output channels of program information com¬ prising combinations of the first and second program information; and selectively providing the first and second control infor¬ mation to the channels output from said switching circuit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
