<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DOCUMENT SECURITY SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07C900	G06Q2000	G07C900	G07F710	G06Q2000	G07F710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07C	G06Q	G07C	G07F	G06Q	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07C9	G06Q20	G07C9	G07F7	G06Q20	G07F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A document security system is described for encoding documents such as credit cards, chargecards and the like with a unique signal representative of the user which cannot be read by the unaided eye and can only be read using a document reading means such as a card swipe machine. In a preferred arrangement the signature (20) of a user is digitised by a digital scanner (22) and the digital data is compressed and magnetically encoded onto the magnetic stripe (14) of the credit card (12). The user's portrait (18) can also be digitised and printed on an anti-tamper panel (30) on the card. In use, the user presents the card (12) in a bank or store and the portrait is initially compared with the user and assuming there is a likeness, the card (12) is swiped through a card-swipe reader (38) and the encoded signature is read and displayed on an LCD-type display (40). The vendor or teller at the point of use can then compare the signature read from the card with the user's actual signature to verify the authenticity of the user. Embodiments of the invention and a novel digital compression technique are described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCLEAN JOHN 
&
 SONS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHN MCLEAN 
&
 SONS (ELECTRICAL) DINGWALL LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACDONALD JOHN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACDONALD, JOHN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a security 
system for encoding documents such as 
cheque cards and credit cards with information to ensure 
that the documentation can be verified as authentic to 
prevent document fraud and the like. This invention is 
particularly, but not exclusively, intended to minimise 
cheque, cheque card and credit card fraud. It is well known that document fraud, such as credit 
card frauds, cost several million pounds per annum both 
to the owners of the documents such as banks, and also to 
the customers. In addition, there is considerable police 
and court time devoted to the pursuit, apprehension and 
punishment of persons involved in the carrying out of 
such frauds. WO 89/00741 and FR 2,592,197 describe methods for 
digitising a picture of a card user's face and/or his 
signature, compressing the resulting digitised data, and 
storing this data on the magnetic stripe of a credit 
card, for the purpose of preventing fraud. EPO 334,616 describes a personal identification 
method which involves encrypting digital data, a part of 
which corresponds to user representative data, and 
storing that digital data onto the magnetic stripe of an 
identity document. IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol 31, No. 7, 
pages 441-442 describes an identification unit which 
comprises a LCD display for the purpose of displaying a  
 
card user's signature upon presentation of the card, the 
signature data being downloaded from a central clearing 
house. An object of the present invention is to provide a 
security system and method which obviates or 
mitigates the above mentioned problem. This is achieved by storing a unique signal 
representative of the user, such a signature, on the 
document in a digitised and compressed form which cannot 
be read by the unaided human eye and providing reading 
means for reading the hidden signal so that the stored 
signal can be compared with the actual signal. According to one aspect of the present invention 
there is provided a security system for storing a 
digitised and compressed signature on a magnetic stripe 
and comprising means for setting the desired usage size 
of the signature, means for setting the level of digital 
data to fit into said desired signature size, scanning 
means for scanning the signature line by line, and 
magnetic stripe writing means for writing the compressed 
data onto said magnetic stripe, the apparatus being 
characterised by means for determining and removing 
multiple dots from the scanned image and storage means 
for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A security system for storing a digitised and 
compressed signature on a magnetic stripe (14) and 

comprising means (24) for setting the desired usage size 
of the signature, means (24) for setting the level of 

digital data to fit into said desired signature size, 
scanning means (22) for scanning the signature line by 

line, and magnetic stripe writing means (32) for writing 
the compressed data onto said magnetic stripe (14), the 

apparatus being characterised by means (24) for 
determining and removing multiple dots from the scanned 

image and storage means (24) for storing a number of dots 
and a number of dot displacements, counting and storage 

means (24) for counting and storing increment values and 
the number and position of stray dots, comparison means 

(24) for comparing the total dot count in said compressed 
digital data with the digital data level, and scaling 

means (24) for scaling the image size of the signature by 
the target or dot count in vertical and horizontal 

scales. 
System according to claim 1 and arranged to 
compress the signature to 160 bytes or less. 
A security system according to claim 1 or 2 and 
comprising magnetic stripe reading means (38) for reading 

the magnetically encoded information on the magnetic 
stripe (14), and display means (40) coupled to the stripe 

reading means (38) for visually displaying the decoded  
 

signal so that a comparison between the decoded signal 
and a further signal provided by the user may be made to 

verify the identity of the user. 
A security system according to claim 3, wherein the 
magnetic stripe reading means (38) is a card-swipe 

machine and the display means (40) is a LCD visual 
display for displaying the signal read from the document 

swiped through the card-swipe machine. 
A security system according to claim 3 or 4 and 
comprising data encryption means (24) for encrypting the 

digital data prior to writing the digital data onto the 
magnetic stripe (14), the magnetic stripe reading means 

(38) including data decrypting means for decrypting the 
encrypted data stored on the magnetic stripe. 
A security system according to any one of the 
preceding claim, wherein the magnetic stripe (14) is held 

on a credit card, cheque card or smart card. 
A security system according to any of the preceding 
claims, wherein the scanning means (22) is also arranged 

to scan a portrait of a user and the system comprises 
printing means (28) for receiving the digitised portrait 

data and for printing the portrait of the user onto a 
document holding said magnetic stripe (14) to provide a 

further level of security. 
A security system according to claim 7, wherein the 
portrait is contained in a tamper-proof panel on the 

document. 
A security system according to any one of the  
 

preceding claims, wherein the user's signature is encoded 
onto two tracks of the magnetic stripe (14). 
A method of compressing a digitised image of a 
signature characterised by the steps of: 


setting the desired image size of the signature and 
setting the level of digital data to fit into said 

desired image size; 
scanning the digital image of the signature line by 
line; 
on the first scan line removing multiple dots and 
storing a number of dots and a number of dot 

displacements; 
on the second and subsequent scan lines, for each 
stored dot on the previous line, counting and storing 

increments values, and counting and storing the number 
and position of stray dots; 
comparing the total dot count in the compressed 
digital data with the digital data level; 
scaling the image size of the signature by the dot 
count in the vertical and horizontal directions; and 
repeating the above steps until the compressed 
digital data is less than the desired level. 
A method of verifying the authenticity of the user 
of a document, the method comprising: 


storing a compressed, digitised, signature of a user 
obtained by the method of claim 10 onto a magnetic stripe 

on a document; 
reading the stored signal from the document with a  
 

stand alone reading means; and 
displaying the read signal so that the read signal 
can be compared with an actual signal provided by the 

presenter or user of the document to allow verification 
of the authenticity of the user. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
