<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629120</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A MACHINE AND FITTINGS THEREOF WHICH IN SEPARATE OPERATIONS ALLOW BOTH FOR KNEADING HOME-MADE DOUGH OR PASTA, AND FOR EXTRUDING SAID EDIBLE DOUGH OR PASTA, AS WELL AS FOR MINCING MEAT AND THE LIKE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22C700	A22C700	A47J4304	A47J4304	A47J4306	B02C1806	B02C1806	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22C	A22C	A47J	A47J	A47J	B02C	B02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22C7	A22C7	A47J43	A47J43	A47J43	B02C18	B02C18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a domestic machine substantially shaped as a parallelepiped, constructively comprising a hollow space that can be closed at the top, either by a completely closing cover or by a cover provided with a hopper. Within the hollow space suitable fittings for either kneading, extruding or mincing are horizontally mounted as required. Such fittings comprise: a) in the first case a rotatable mixing blade; b) in the second case a rotatable screw with an associated cylindrical chamber, this latter being further provided with suitable dies at its output end; c) in the third case a rotatable screw carrying a bladed knife with an associated cylindrical chamber, this latter being equipped at its output end with suitable plates with holes against which abuts the rotating bladed knife.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARCATO OMC SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
O.M.C. MARCATO S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCATO PIETRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCATO, PIETRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
■Λ MACHINE AND FITTINGS THEREOF WHICH IN SEPARATE OPERATIONS ALLOW BOTH FOR KNEADING HOME-MADE DOUGH OR PASTA, AND FOR EXTRUDING SAID EDIBLE DOUGH OR PASTA, AS WELL AS FOR MINCING MEAT AND THE LIKE"It Is of general knowledge the large number of household appliances for foodstuff processing, both manual and electrically powered, presently on the market .Some of these machines are simple machines, other less simple, some can accomplish a single operation whereas other can be adapted to carry out more than one operation after a ro er intervention.Tn the field of the production of edible pasta there are known machines comprising smooth rolls or cylinders and machines comprising grooved rolls with the former being adapted to complete the mixture and the latter for producing the real pasta (noodles, strips of fettuccine etc. ) .There are also known machines that are capable of kneading by mixing, as well as accessory-fitted machines that thanks to small intermediate interventions by the user can knead the ingredients and prepare the pasta ready to use by extruding it through proper dies.Another domestic known machine is the meat mincer (or mincer) comprising a substantially cylindrical case or chamber with a first section shaped like a hopper, a screw provided with a bladed knife at the ends thereof, a plate with holes, an end threaded ring, and of course a crank mechanism for rotating the screw.The machine and the fittings of the present invention have been devised for obtaining, with a single base 

 construction fitted each time with the proper fittings: a) tlie kneading of the raw materials (e.g. flour and e gs) ; b) the extruded pasta ready to use in different shapes and configurations, c) the minced meat or other shredded foodstuff.This brings about a cost saving since a single base machine with a few fittings Is to be purchased instead of tliree different machines; a reduction of size since only a single machine and a few fittings have to be stored in the constrained domestic spaces instead of three separate machines.The base machine has a substantially parallelepipedal shape with a wide hollow space shaped like a bathtub. A compartment is provided for at one of the short sides having two outwardly facing holes for inserting a driving crank, the compartment being further provided with an inwardly facing hole at a substantially central location for the drive of the active rotatable component .Tn the compartment there are located gears allowing for two rotation speeds of the drive, respectively by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I M S
1. A machine and fittings thereof which in separate operations allow both for kneading home-made dough or pasta, and extruding said dough or pasta, as well as mincing meat and the like, characterized in that by properly fitting the basic machine with different equipments, three different household processings can be obtained, namely: the kneading of the raw materials by mixing thereof; the extrusion through dies of pasta with different shapes and ready to be cooked, obtaining minced meat (or similar foodstuff) through a hopper, a screw, a bladed knife and a plate with holes.
2. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claim
1, characterized in that for the dough kneading operation in the base machine (1) a mixing blade (2) with a horizontal axis is inserted into the bathtub- shaped hollow space, having at one end a prismatic pin (3) to be fitted into the drive hole (10) and at the other end a cylindrical pin (4) which is supported in a seat (6) of a cylindrical plug (5) provided with two diametrally opposed extensions (7), said cylindrical plug (5) being fitted through a bajonet-locking to a corresponding opening (8) provided in the front wall of the machine housing 1.
3. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claim
2, characterized in that the top of the tub-shaped hollow space of the base machine (1) during the kneading operation is closed by a cover (9) engaging the housing (1) through corresponding ribs (9* and 9") acting like a coulisse.
4. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that in order to obtain both the 


pasta in the different shapes and to obtain the minced meat, to the base machine there is fitted a kinematic device comprising: a) a case (18) provided at an intermediate position with an inlet opening (19) for feeding the products to be treated; b) a driving shaft (33) located within the case and fixed thereto against the slipping off by a washer (46);
C) a threaded locking ring (31).
5. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that both for obtaining the edible dough or pasta in the different shapes and for obtaining minced meat, the top of the tub-shaped hollow space of the base machine is snap-fitted with a cover (16) equipped with a funnel-shaped hopper (17), the hopper being connected with its lower portion to the feed opening (19) of the case (18).
6. A machine and fittings thereof for both extruding dough or pasta and mincing meat, characterized in that a kynematic device comprising the case (18) and the drive shaft (33) received therein and provided with a protruding prismatic tip (34), is inserted into the tub- shaped hollow space of the base machine (1) through the circular opening (8) in the front portion of the housing (1) of the above machine, with the threaded portion (20) of the case (8) remaining outside.
7. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the base machine (1) and the kynematic device comprising the case 18 and the shaft (33) with tip (34) are joined together in the inner part thereof by coupling the tip (34) into the drive hole (10), and at the circular opening (8) by means of the bajonet-locking system, the case (18) at that location being shaped with diametral engagement fins (21, 23).
8. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claims 


6 and 7, characterized in that the cynematic group (18, 33, 34) which is fixed to the housing of the base machine (1) by a bajonet-locking in the circular opening (8), is blocked against disengagement of the bajonet- locking by means of a fork member (32) the two rods (44) of which are sligthly forced into the spaces defined between the guides (15) of the housing (1) and the flat surfaces (45) in the body of the case (18).
9. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claims 4 to 8, characterized in that in order to obtain the dough or pasta ready to use in the different shapes, a screw (35) is fitted into the case (18) which is equipped at the inner end with a joint portion (36') complementary to the existing joint portion (36) of the adjacent end of the drive shaft (33), and equipped at the front end with a cylindrical seat (28').
10. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claim
9, characterized in that in order to obtain the pasta ready to use in the different shapes, a die (29) with its associated container (30) is fitted at the front opening of the case (18), which are fixed to said case (18) through a locking ring (31) screwed on a thread (20) of the head of the case (18).
11. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claim
10, characterized in that the die (29) is provided with a cylindrical inwardly protruding pin (28) mating with the cylindrical seat (28') of the screw (35) for centering and supporting this latter.
12. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claims 4 to 8, characterized in that in order to obtain the minced meat a die (38) is fitted into the case (18) which is equipped at the inner end with a clutch portion
(36') complementary to the existing clutch portion (36) of the adjacent end of the drive shaft (33), and equipped at the front end with a shaft having a 


cylindrical cross-section portion (42) and a subsequent prismatic cross-section portion (41).
13. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claim 12, characterized in that in order to obtain the minced meat on the prismatic cross-section portion (41) of the shaft screw there id fitted a bladed knife (39), and a plate with holes is fitted in front of the opening of the case (18), thus engaging at the same time within its cylindrical seat (42') the end (42) of the screw shaft, the plate with hples being fixed to said case (18) by a ring (31) which is screwed on a thread (20) on the head of the case.
14. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in claims 4 to 8, characterized in that within the hollow space of the base machine and on the tips (22) of the case (18) there is fitted a magazine (24) comprising four pockets (25) with central notchings (27) in the walls thereof for storing additional dies (29, 30).
15. A machine and fittings thereof as claimed in all the preceding claims, characterized on the whole as substantially described and illustrated in their shapes, lines and general features. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
