<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628800</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for holding containers of solutions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N100	G01N100	G01N3504	G01N3504	G01N3510	G01N3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	G01N1	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for holding containers (176) of solutions, 
and comprising a rack (102) forming a plurality of openings (120) to 

hold those containers (176), and a hold down assembly (108) located 
adjacent the rack (102) and extending thereover to help hold 

the containers (176) in the rack (102) while solutions are withdrawn 
therefrom. Preferably, the hold down assembly (108) includes 

a support subassembly (154) and an arm (156) connected to that 
subassembly (154) and extending over the rack (102) to limit upward 

movement of the containers (176) therein. The support 
subassembly (154) may include a frame (162) and a shaft (164) supported 

by 
that frame (162). The arm (156) is connected to a collar (160) that is 

mounted on the shaft (164), and the position of the collar (160) may 
be adjusted on the shaft (164) to vary the height of the arm (156). 

The arm (156) may form one or more through openings (156a,156b) to 
provide 

access to containers (176) directly below the arm (156). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORTHO DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORTHO DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRISCHKNECHT MARCEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRISCHKNECHT MARCEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to apparatus for 
holding containers of solutions such as medical fluids, 
and more particularly to such apparatus that are 
especially well suited for use with automated aspirating 
assemblies that automatically draw fluids out of those 
containers. Many medical testing, diagnostic, and treatment 
systems or instruments contain a device or station for 
holding containers of fluids or aqueous solutions. An 
operator or user will initially place the desired 
containers in the station, and then withdraw fluids as 
needed from those containers during the operation of the 
system. Fluid holding stations of the above-described 
type are used in blood bank systems or instruments that 
are used to determine the blood types of blood samples 
and to test blood samples for various kinds of antigens 
and antibodies. Common prior art blood bank systems require an 
appreciable amount of work and supervision by an 
operator, and attention has been directed recently to 
developing fully automated blood bank systems that 
minimize the amount of work and supervision required of 
a human operator. In such a fully automated system, a 
pipette assembly, or similar means, is used to draw 
fluids from sample solutions, and to dispense those 
solutions elsewhere in the instrument, such as in a 
reaction test cassette or in a cell dilution rack.  The design and construction of such a fully 
automated blood bank system is complicated by the fact 
that the tops of the containers holding the blood 
samples are, typically, tightly closed by a cap or 
rubber stopper. Fluids can be withdrawn from such 
containers by piercing the container caps or stoppers 
with the pipette as the pipette is lowered into the 
container, and then aspirating fluids into the pipette. 
With this arrangement, however, the pipette may tend to 
pull the fluid container out of the container holder as 
the pipette is raised to pull the pipette out of the 
container. This is because as the pipette is so raised, 
the pipette frictionally engages the container cap or 
stopper, and this frictional engagement may cause the 
cap or container --and thus the entire container-- to 
move upward with the pipette. An object of this invention is to improve 
apparatus for holding containers of aqueous solutions. Another object of the present invention is to 
provide a station for holding containers of blood 
samples, and that may be effectively used in a fully 
automated blood bank instrument. A further object of this invention is to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for holding containers of 
solutions, comprising: 

   a rack forming a plurality of openings to hold 
containers of solutions; and 

   a hold down assembly located adjacent the rack 
and extending ther
eover, to help hold the containers in 
the rack while solutions are withdrawn from the 

containers. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein the 
hold down assembly includes: 

   a support subassembly; 
   an arm extending over the rack to limit upward 

movement of the containers; and 
   means connecting the arm to the support 

subassembly. 
Apparatus according to Claim 2, wherein the 
connecting means includes means to connect the arm to 

the support subassembly at each of a plurality of 
locations to allow the height of the arm to be adjusted. 
Apparatus according to Claim 3, wherein: 
   the support subassembly includes 


i) a frame, and 
ii) a shaft supported by the frame; and 
 
   the connecting means includes 


i) a collar mounted on the shaft, and 
ii) means releasably securing the collar to the 
shaft to allow the collar to slide along the shaft. 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 2 to 4 wherein the 
hold down assembly further includes means to pivot the 

arm away from the rack. 
Apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein: 
the support subassembly includes 


i) a frame, and 
ii) a shaft supported by the frame; 
 
   the connecting means connects the arm to the 

shaft; and 
   the pivot means is connected to the shaft to 

pivot the shaft and the arm toward and away from the 
rack. 
Apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein: 
   the pivot means includes 


i) motor means, and 
ii) transmission means connecting the motor 
means to the shaft; and 

   the motor means is selectively operated to pivot 
the shaft. 
Apparatus according to Claim 7, wherein the 
frame includes 


i) a lower portion forming a first opening, and 
ii) an upper portion forming a second opening; 
 
and 

   the shaft extends into and is rotatably guided in 
both of said first and second openings. 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 2 to 9, 
wherein the arm forms a through opening to provide access to 

containers below the arm. 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 2 to 9, wherein: 
   the rack is supported for rotary movement; and 

further including 

i) motor means connected to the rack to rotate 
the rack, and 
ii) control means connected to the motor means 
to operate the motor means to rotate the rack to move a 

predetermined one of the openings in the rack to a 
position directly beneath the arm of the hold down 

assembly. 
Apparatus for holding containers of 
solutions, comprising: 

   a base; 
   a rack including a plurality of separable rack 

sections, each of the rack sections being mounted on the 
base and forming a plurality of openings to hold 

containers of solutions; 
   means releasably connecting each of the rack 

sections to the base; and 
   drive means connected to the base to rotate the 

base and the rack. 
Apparatus according to Claim 11, wherein: 
   the means connecting the rack sections to the 

base including a plurality of protrusions connected to 
and extending upward from the base; and 

   each of the rack sections includes a surface 
forming a recess mounted on one of said protrusions. 
Apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein: 
   each of the rack sections has an arcuate shape; 

and 
   the rack sections form an annulus on the base. 
Apparatus for holding containers of 
solutions comprising: 

   a rack forming a plurality of openings to hold 
containers of solutions; and

 
   a hold down assembly located adjacent the rack, 

and including 

i) a support frame, 
ii) a shaft supported by the frame, 
iii) an arm extending over the rack to help hold 
the containers therein while solutions are withdrawn 

from the containers, 
iv) a collar connected to the arm and mounted on 
the shaft, and 
v) means releasably connecting the collar to the 
shaft to allow the collar to slide along the shaft to 

adjust the height of the arm. 
Apparatus according to Claim 14, wherein the 
hold down assembly further includes means connected to 

the shaft to pivot the arm toward and away from the 
rack. 
Apparatus according to Claim 14 or claim 15, 
wherein the rack includes 

   a base; 
   a plurality of separable rack sections, each of 

the rack sections being mounted on the base and forming 
a plurality of openings to hold the containers; and 

   means releasably connecting each of the rack 
sections to the base. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
