<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622721</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Power interrupt devices.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F132	G06F132	G09F900	G09F900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G09F9	G09F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A power interrupt device is provided for detecting activity 
remote from the detector and/or device and for producing a signal 

capble of interrupting power to a load, such as an electronic 
display. The detector can sense remote activity, and the 

activity or associated object need not contact the detector. 
Depending upon whether the activity is present or not present, 

the detector and associated interrupt circuitry can turn on or 
off a power load device such as an electronic display. The power 

interrupt device is well suited for turning off an electronic 
display when a user is no longer in the room or working area. 

The computer can remain running, however, the associated display 
can be remotely turned off to reduce the amount of heat 

dissipated from the display during periods when the user is not 
present. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DULEY RAYMOND S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHAN ASHFAQ R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DULEY, RAYMOND S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHAN, ASHFAQ R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electronic circuit and more 
particularly to a power interrupt circuit with remote activity 
detector for controlling power to a load device such as an 
electronic display. It is well known that an input/output device, such as an 
electronic display, is necessary for operation of programmable 
devices such as computers. An electronic display serves to 
depict information processed or stored within the computer. Each 
time the computer is turned on, the corresponding display must 
also be turned on in order to read or write information to the 
computer. The display is usually left on so long as the attached 
computer remains on. Even though the operator may not be 
presently using the computer, the display nonetheless remains on. More recently, various screen saver programs have been 
devised for transmitting graphic information to the display from 
the computer. Screen saver programs often require a fully active 
central processing unit (CPU) in order to produce the graphically 
intense images presented across the screen. Screen saver 
programs function to turn off and on various pixels across the 
screen during times in which the computer is not being accessed. 
Toggling on and off various pixels thereby prevents one or more 
pixels from remaining constantly on. A pixel which remains on 
over a long period of time may cause permanent damage to the 
backing material (e.g., phosphor) associated with the screen. An 
image displayed over a long period of time may be permanently 
cast into the backing material causing what is often referred to 
as "screen memory."  Although screen saver programs help prevent damage to the 
screen by reducing screen memory, screen saver programs do 
nothing to alleviate unnecessary power consumption associated 
with the computer and attached display. In fact, screen saver 
programs purposefully maintain full performance of the CPU 
necessary to generate the graphical images. They also require a 
fully operational display necessary to present the image. The 
heat dissipation associated with active CPUs and associated 
displays can be fairly significant. Oftentimes, a business 
entity may employ numerous computers and associated displays 
within a work area. The computers and displays remain fully 
operational even though the employees are not presently using 
them. A large numbers of computers associated with many 
businesses remain on for extended periods of time contributing to 
a significant amount of heat dissipated into the working area. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power interrupt device comprising: 
   a detector capable of sensing an activity remote from 

said detector and for producing an electrical 
signal during times in which said activity ceases; 

   a clocking circuit connected to said detector and 
adapted to produce a clocking output upon 

receiving said electrical signal; 
   a counter circuit connected to said clocking circuit 

and adapted to produce a pulse after a number of 
transitions of said clocking output have occurred; 

   a latching circuit connected to said counter circuit 
for latching said pulse at a steady state until 

said electrical signal ceases; and 
   a switch having a conductive path capable of being 

disconnected during times in which said pulse is 
latched at a steady state. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said detector comprises an optical detector capable of sensing a 

light source. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said detector comprises a sound detector capable of sensing a 

sound wave. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said detector comprises a motion detector capable of sensing a 

pressure differential. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said counter circuit comprises: 

   at least one modulo sixteen ripple counter having four 
outputs; and 

   a four input nand gate coupled to receive said four 
outputs. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said clocking circuit comprises a variable resistor coupled to a 

capacitor, wherein change in said variable resistor causes a 
resulting change in the frequency of said clocking output. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said latching circuit comprises a flip flop having a set input 

and a reset input, said set input is coupled to receive said 
pulse from said counter circuit and said reset input is coupled 

to receive said electrical signal from said detector. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 7, wherein 
said flip flop comprises two nand gates, each nand gate having 

two inputs wherein one input of one nand gate is connected to the 
output of the other nand gate. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 1, wherein 
 

said switch comprises a triac. 
A power interrupt device comprising: 
   a detector connected between a power source and a power 

load, said detector is fixed proximate to said 
load and comprises a transducer capable of sensing 

an activity remote from said detector and said 
load; 

   an electrical signal produced from said detector during 
times in which said activity ceases; 

   a plurality of clocking pulses produced from a clocking 
circuit connected to the detector, said clocking 

pulses can be produced at variable frequency 
during times in which said electrical signal is 

produced from said detector; 
   at least one delay pulse produced from a counter 

circuit connected to the clocking circuit after a 
number of clocking transitions of said clocking 

pulses have occurred, said delay pulse is of a 
time duration substantially equal to one of said 

clocking pulses; 
   a latched signal produced from a latching circuit 

having a reset input and a set input, wherein the 
reset input is connected to receive the electrical 

signal and the set input is connected to receive 
the delay pulse; and 

   a switch having a conductive path coupled between said 
power source and said power load, said switch is 

 
capable of receiving said latched signal and, upon 

receiving said latched signal, disconnecting said 
conductive path. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 10, wherein 
said detector comprises an optical detector capable of sensing a 

light source. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 10, wherein 
said detector comprises a sound detector capable of sensing a 

sound wave. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 10, wherein 
said detector comprises a motion detector capable of sensing a 

pressure differential. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 10, wherein 
said counter circuit comprises: 

   at least one modulo sixteen ripple counter having four 
outputs; and 

   a four input nand gate coupled to receive said four 
outputs. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 10, wherein 
said clocking circuit comprises a variable resistor coupled to a 

capacitor, wherein change in said variable resistor causes a 
resulting change in the frequency of said clocking pulses. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 10, wherein 
said latching circuit comprises a flip flop having a set input 

and a reset input, said set input is coupled to receive said 
delay pulse from said counter circuit and said reset input is 

coupled to receive said electrical signal from said detector. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 16, wherein 
said flip flop comprises two nand gates, each nand gate having 

two inputs wherein one input of one nand gate is connected to the 
output of the other nand gate. 
The power interrupt device as recited in claim 10, wherein 
said switch comprises a triac. 
A power controller for an electronic display comprising: 
   a power source; 

   an electronic display having a power input; 
   a power interrupt device retrofitted between said power 

source and said power input, said power interrupt 
device comprises: 

   a detector capable of sensing an activity 
remote from said electronic display and 

for producing an electrical signal 
during times in which said activity 

ceases; 
   a clocking circuit connected to said detector 

and adapted to produce a clocking output 
 

signal upon receiving said electrical 
signal; 

   a counter circuit connected to said clocking 
circuit and adapted to produce a delay 

pulse after a number of transitions of 
said clocking output signal have 

occurred; 
   a latching circuit connected to said counter 

circuit for latching said pulse at a 
steady state until said electrical 

signal ceases; and 
   a switch having a conductive path configured 

between said power source and said 
electronic display, said path is capable 

of being disconnected during times in 
which said pulse is latched at a steady 

state. 
The power controller as recited in claim 19, further 
comprising means for varying the frequency of said clocking 

output signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
