<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642710</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTI-FALSE TRIGGERING SYSTEM FOR A PULSE WIDTH MODULATION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K700	H03K708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K7	H03K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORDAN, EDWARD, PERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANTI-FALSE TRIGGERING SYSTEM FOR A PULSE WIDTH MODULATION SYSTEMFIELD OF INVENTION An anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system, and more particularly to such an anti-false triggering system which assures that pulse generation occurs only during the ramp portion of the ramp signal from which pulses are derived.BACKGROUND OF INVENTION Conventional pulse width modulation circuits often use comparators to define the leading edge, trailing edge or both edges of a desired pulse with reference to a ramp. One or both of the edges are thus defined by the comparator, whose output is then used to operate a latch or flip-flop circuit to produce a pulse whose width is modulated to the desired size. The three modes of modulation are denominated leading edge modulation (LEM) , trailing edge modulation (TEM) and dual edge modulation. One problem that occurs is false triggering of the pulse-producing flip-flop when the ramp signal resets from the ramp portion to the rest portion. The overshoot as the ramp restores to the rest portion can ring and momentarily cross the fixed or variable reference level, thereby causing the comparator to sense a coincidence and falsely trigger the flip-flop during the rest portion before the ramp portion even begins. The variable reference such as supplied by a digital to analog converter (DAC) can also overshoot and ring sufficiently to cross the rest portion of the ramp signal and also falsely trigger the comparator and associated flip-flop. With one or both of the pulse edges subject to false triggering the accuracy and reliability of the system is always suspect.SUMMARY OF INVENTIONIt is therefore an object of this invention tor provide an anti-flse triggering system for a pulse width modulation system.It is a further object of this invention to provide such an anti-false triggering system which is simple and requires no 

additional components or circuitry.It is a further object of this invention to provide such an anti-false triggering system which prevents any false triggering of the pulse generation circuits during the rest portion of the ramp signal and assures that pulse generation can only occur during the ramp portion of the ramp signal.This invention features an anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system. There is a ramp generator means for generating a ramp signal having a ramp portion and a rest portion, and latch enable signal generating means for providing a latch enable signal only during the ramp portion of the ramp signal.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. An anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system, comprising: ramp generator means for generating a ramp signal having a ramp portion and a rest portion; latch enable signal generating means for providing a latch enable signal only during the- ramp portion of said ramp signal; and pulse edge modulation means, responsive to said ramp portion of said ramp signal, for providing a pulse with at least one of its edges modulated, said pulse edge modulation means being enabled by said latch enable signal only during the ramp portion of said ramp signal for suppressing false triggering of said pulse edge modulation means during said rest portion of said ramp signal.
2. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 1 in which said pulse edge modulation means includes a digital to analog converter for providing at least one of a variable leading edge reference and trailing edge reference.
3. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 1 in which said pulse edge modulation means includes means for generating edge modulation and pulse generating means responsive to said means for generating edge modulation and enabled by said latch signal for producing an edge modulated pulse only during the ramp portion of the ramp signal.
4. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 3 in which said means for generating edge modulation includes first means for generating leading edge modulation, second means for generating trailing edge modulation and third means, responsive to said first and second means for generating, for generating dual-edge modulation. 


 5. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 4 in which said first means for generating includes first comparator means for defining the variable leading edge and fixed trailing edge for trailing edge modulation, and said second means for generating includes second comparator means for defining the variable trailing edge and fixed leading edge for trailing edge modulation.
6. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 8 in which said pulse generating means includes a first pulse generator responsive to said first comparator means for generating a leading edge modulated pulse, a second pulse generator responsive to said second comparator means for generating a trailing edge modulated pulse, and a third pulse generator responsive to said first and second comparator means for generating a dual-edge modulated pulse.
7. An anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system, comprising: ramp generator means for generating a number of ramp signals each having a ramp portion and a rest portion; latch enable signal generating means for providing latch enable signals only during the ramp portions of said ramp signals; and pulse edge modulation means, for producing an alternating, like number of segmented pulses and pulse edge modulation means being responsive to said ramp portions of said ramp signals for providing pulses with at least one edge modulated, said pulse edge modulation means being enabled by said latch enable signal only during the ramp portion of said ramp signal for suppressing false triggering of said pulse edge modulation means during said rest portion of said ramp signal.
8. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 7 in which said pulse edge modulation means includes a like number of digital to analog converters each 


providing at least one of a variable leading edge and trailing edge reference.
9. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 8 in which said pulse edge modulation means includes means for generating edge modulation and pulse generating means responsive to said means for generating edge modulation and enabled by a said latch signal for producing an edge modulated pulse only during the ramp portion of the ramp signals.
10. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 9 in which said means for generating edge modulation includes first means for generating leading edge modulation, second means for generating trailing edge modulation and third means, responsive to said first and second means for generating, for generating dual-edge modulation.
11. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 10 in which said first means for generating includes first comparator means for defining the variable leading edge and fixed trailing edge for trailing edge modulation, and said second means for generating includes second comparator means for defining the variable trailing edge and fixed leading edge for trailing edge modulation.
12. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 11 in which said pulse generating means includes a first pulse generator responsive to said first comparator means for generating a leading edge modulated pulse, a second pulse generator responsive to said second comparator means for generating a trailing edge modulated pulse, and a third pulse generator responsive to said first and second comparator means for generating a dual- edge modulated pulse. 


 13. The anti-false triggering system for a pulse width modulation system of claim 7 in which the number of ramps is two. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
