<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617930</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Expandable endovaskular stent.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61F200	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F282	A61F284	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides an expandable double-walled 
sleeve (4) whose space between the walls (4a, 4b) is filled 

with curable material and which is designed for the local 
support and/or reinforcement of a body vessel, absorbent 

material (14) being provided between its walls (4a, 4b) 
which are fabricated from an essentially non-extensible 

material. This achieves the advantage that the curable 
material remains uniformly distributed between the walls of 

the sleeve even if the sleeve is rolled around a still 
unexpanded PTA balloon in order to be brought to the 

desired position by means of said balloon. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INDUSTRIAL RES BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASTRA HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASTRA, HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an expandable hollow 
sleeve in which the space between the walls is filled with 
curable material and which is designed for the local 
support and/or reinforcement of a body vessel. Such an expandable sleeve or prosthesis, also 
referred to as a "stent", is the subject of EP-A-0 452 219. 
In this publication, a stent is described which is filled 
from the outside under pressure with a curable synthetic 
material via a duct introduced with the catheter. Such a stent cannot be produced in a practically 
usable form. This is the consequence of the fact that the 
method of introduction - via a body vessel - imposes 
limitations on the maximum permitted dimensions: the 
diameter of the catheter end, together with a PTA balloon 
and the still unexpanded stent mounted around it, must not 
exceed, for a patient-friendly treatment, a value of 
approximately 7 mm and, if used in cardiac surgery, it must 
not exceed even 2.5 mm. In connection with the above it is 
observed that "PTA" stands for "Percutane Transluminal 
Angioplasty". According to this, in the meantime well-known, 
treatment an inflatable balloon is inserted into a 
partly blocked artery and thereafter inflating, dilating 
the artery and removing the restriction. A complete 
description of this known method is given in Sinofsky 
(US 5100429), column 1 lines 10-25. Assuming a still 
usable thickness of the wall material used of approximately 
20 µm, this results, in the most favourable case, in a 
spacing between the inner and outer wall of the final 
sleeve of, say, 0.3 mm for a stent which is used for the 
treatment of, for example, an aneurysm and which must at 
the same time have an outside diameter of 14-22 mm in the 
expanded state. Not only can a filling duct which connects 
thereto not be fabricated, but even if this were to be the 
case, it is impossible to fill the stent with curable  
 
synthetic material via a channel having such a small bore 
within the time limit set for an intervention and to remove 
the air escaping during this process via a separate duct. 
Said air must not end up in the body under any 
circumstances. The fact that elastic wall material is used in this 
known stent makes it impossible to determine the final 
diameter and shape of the stent with any certainty, which 
is in fact medically unacceptable. This disadvantageous 
effect is heightened still further by the fact that the 
material introduced cannot distribute itself uniformly 
since the feed duct can be situated only on one side. The 
s
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Expandable double-walled sleeve (4) in which the 
space between the walls (4a, 4b) is filled with curable 

material and which is designed for the local support and/or 
reinforcement of a body vessel, characterized by absorbent 

material (14) provided between its walls (4a, 4b), which 
are fabricated from essentially non-extensible material. 
Sleeve according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the absorbent material (14) is composed of a mesh-like 

material (16a - 16d). 
Sleeve according to claim 2, characterized in that 
the absorbent material has the form of a fabric (100, 102). 
Sleeve according to claim 3, characterized in that 
the fabric is a single-layer fabric composed of relatively 

thick thread. 
Sleeve according to claim 3, characterized in that 
the fabric is a nonwoven fabric. 
Sleeve according to claims 1-5, characterized in 
that the absorbent material (14) is provided in a plurality 

of individual layers. 
Sleeve according to claims 1-6, characterized in 
that the absorbent material (14) contains metal threads. 
Sleeve according to claims 1-7, characterized by a 
identifying mark (17) provided thereon and composed of 

material which enhances X-ray contrast. 
Sleeve according to claim 8, characterized in that 
the contrast-enhancing material (17) is combined with the 

absorbent material (14). 
Sleeve according to claim 9, characterized in that 
the contrast-enhancing material (17) is opaque to radiation 

and covers the absorbent material on the outside. 
Sleeve according to claim 8, characterized in that 
the contrast-enhancing material (17) is provided in the 

form of a strip extending in the circumferential direction. 
Sleeve according to claims 1-11, characterized by 
one or more layers of wound adhesive (24) provided thereon. 
PTA balloon assembly (30) to be used in combination 
with a sleeve (32) according to one or more of the 

 
preceding claims, characterized in that its outer wall is 

provided with preformed duct-like or groove-like profilings 
(44a - 44h) which extend in its longitudinal direction. 
PTA balloon assembly to be used in combination with 
a sleeve (50) according to one or more of the preceding 

claims, characterized in that one or more tubular elements 
(58a - 58h) extending in the longitudinal direction are 

fitted on its outer wall. 
Method for fabricating an expandable sleeve 
according to one or more of claims 1-10, comprising the 

steps of: 
   impregnating a strip (70) of absorbent material 

having a predetermined width (b₁) with a suitable curable 
material, 

   positioning said strip (70) of absorbent material 
on a strip of film material (72) having a width (b₂) 

essentially equal to twice the width of the strip (70) of 
absorbent material plus twice the thickness of the 

absorbent material, 
   folding the longitudinal edges of the film material 

around the absorbent material, 
   bonding together the end edges (80a, 80b) of the 

film material (72) which are laid against one another, 
   preparing a certain length (l₂) of the assembly 

obtained in this way to form a first semi-finished product, 

   bending said semi-finished product over on itself 
along a line perpendicular to its longitudinal direction 

until its end edges (88a, 88b) essentially lie against one 
another so as to form a second semifinished product (84), 

   attaching said end edges to one another so as to 
form a seal. 
Method according to claim 15, characterized in that 
the strip (70) of absorbent material is made up of a 

plurality of layers. 
Method according to claims 14-15, characterized in 
that the absorbent material is combined with material which 

enhances X-ray contrast. 
Method according to claims 15-16, characterized in 
that the attachment of the end edges of the film material 

 
to one another is carried out by means of an adhesive tape 

(90). 
Method according to claim 18, characterized in that 
use is made of an adhesive tape which is also provided with 

a layer of material which enhances X-ray contrast. 
Method according to claims 18-19, characterized in 
that use is made of a tape which is also provided with a 

layer of wound adhesive. 
Method according to claim 20, characterized in that 
said tape is provided at a plurality of positions on the 

sleeve. 
Method according to claims 15-21, characterized in 
that the attachment of the end edges of the first 

semifinished product to one another to obtain the second 
semifinished product is carried out by means of an adhesive 

tape. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
