<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622051</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Laser light irradiation apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1820	A61B1822	A61B1820	A61N506	A61N506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61N5	A61N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A contact type laser light irradiation apparatus is disclosed which 
treats a living tissue which the end face of the apparatus is in contact 

with the living tissue. 
A laser light irradiation apparatus for irradiating a living tissue 
with laser lights to treat the tissue by bringing the end face of the 

apparatus into contact with the tissue, comprises an optical fiber (10); 
and a substantially elongated chip (20) disposed in front of said 

optical fiber for transmitting therethrough laser lights incident 
thereon from the front end of said optical fiber (10) to emit the 

transmitted laser lights toward said object living tissue, said chip 
(20) being formed with a hole extending from the center of the rear end 

face (21) of the chip to a point along the length thereof, said optical 
(10) fiber having an outer diameter smaller than that of said chip, said 

optical fiber being covered with a clad (10B) on the outer periphery of 
a core (10A) thereof, said clad (10B) being protected by a plastic 

sheath, the core (10A) being exposed along a length of the optical fiber 
at the front end portion thereof, said exposed portion being inserted 

into said hole, the rear end portion of said chip being made integral 
with the sheath or clad portion of the optical fiber by linking means 

(30), said linking means (30) not being substantially projected beyond 
the outer periphery of the chip. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SLT JAPAN KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
S.L.T. JAPAN CO, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAIKUZONO NORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAIKUZONO, NORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a laser light irradiation
apparatus which is used for treating the tissue of a human body
or an animal body (hereinafter referred to as living tissue).Irradiation of the tissue of human body with laser lights
has been conducted for incision, vaporization and coagulation of
thereof. Its usefullness has been recognized and widely used.For surgical use, apparatus have heretofore been used in
which the front end portion of an optical fiber is accommodated
in a holder member comprising a metal sleeve and the optical
fiber is held by the holder member in such a manner that the
front end of the optical fiber is not projected beyond the holder
member. The base end of the optical fiber is optically coupled
to a laser light source so that the laser lights from the laser
light source are transmitted through the optical fiber for
emitting the laser light to irradiate the tissue with the laser
lights. A laser probe for irradiating tissue according to the preamble of new claim 1 is described in
the DE-A-31 19 322 (D1). The known laser probe comprises an optical fiber whose exposed
core extends into an elongated hole of a cap or a chip. In order to prevent the optical
fiber from being destroyed by overheating an air gap is left between the chip and the optical
fiber. A metallic ring surrounds the fiber core at a point where the clad ends. This ring is intended
to improve the heat transfer from the fiber core to the air in the gap. However, no
means are provided for abducting the generated heat to the outside of the chip.The US-A-5 093 877 (D2) teaches an optical fiber lasing apparatus including an optical
fiber which terminates with its distal end in an inner tubular channel of a lens. Preferably the
distal end of the fiber is secured to the lens with epoxy adhesive. No hint is given in this
reference of how to release the heat on the inner surface of the lens generated by the thermal
shock of laser light to the outside of the apparatus. However, it is clear, that the heat
transfer cannot take place via the epoxy adhesive which is a thermal insulator.The US-A-5 139 495 (D3) and the US-A-4 736 743 (D4) both describe a laser probe which
is mounted at the output end of an optical fiber. The laser lights being emitted from the
front end of the optical fiber are incident upon the rear end of the laser probe. The fiber is
optically coupled with the laser probe by way of a linking means, consisting of a male and a
female connector. A passageway for water or other cooling fluids is provided
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser light irradiation apparatus for irradiating a
living tissue with laser lights to treat the tissue by bringing

the end face of the apparatus into contact with the tissue,
comprising:


an optical fiber (10); and
a substantially elongated chip (20) disposed in front of said
optical fiber for transmitting therethrough laser lights incident

thereon from the front end of said optical fiber to emit the
transmitted laser lights toward said object living tissue,

   said chip (20) being formed with a hole (22) extending from the center
of the rear end face of the chip to a point along the length

thereof, said optical fiber (10) having an outer diameter smaller than
that of said chip (20), said optical fiber being covered with a clad (10B)

on the outer periphery of a core (10A) thereof, said clad (10B) being
protected by a plastic sheath (10C), the core (10A) being exposed along a

length of the optical fiber at the front end portion thereof,
said exposed portion being inserted into said hole (22), the rear end

portion of said chip is made integral with the sheath or clad
portion of the optical fiber by linking means (30), the laser light

irradiation apparatus being characterized in that said linking
means

not being substantially projected beyond the outer periphery of
the chip (20), said linking means being formed of a stainless steel

pipe and comprising at least a portion which constitutes an
inner surface of said hole (22) of said chip (20) and a portion

which constitutes an outer surface of the apparatus.
A laser light irradiation apparatus as defined in Claim
1 in which the front end portion of said chip (20) is substantially

spherical in shape. 
A laser light irradiation apparatus as defined in Claim
1 in which the front end portion of the said chip (20) is bent into

the J-shape.
A laser light irradiation apparatus as defined in Claim
1 in which said linking means (30) comprises a thin walled heat

resistant sleeve, the front end portion of said sleeve being
inserted into said hole (22), said sheath of said optical fiber being

adapted into the base portion of said sleeve so that said chip
is linked with said optical fiber.
A laser light irradiation apparatus as defined in Claim
1 in which said linking means (30) comprises a heat resistant sleeve,

the front end portion of said sleeve being adapted on a step
portion formed on the outer periphery of the rear end of said

chip, the sheath of said optical fiber (10) being adapted into base
portion (32) of the sleeve so that said chip (20) is linked with said

optical fiber (10).
A laser light irradiation apparatus as defined in Claim
4 or 5 in which the base portion (32) of the heat resistant sleeve is

secured to the outer periphery of the sheath by caulking the
sleeve on the sheath while the sheath of said optical fiber (10) is

adapted into the base portion (32) of the heat resistant sleeve.
A laser light irradiation apparatus as defined in Claim
4 or 5 in which the inner surface of the base portion (32) of the heat

resistant sleeve is roughed (32a) along the length thereof, said sheath 
of said optical fiber (10) being inserted into the roughed inner

surface (32a) of the base portion (32) of said heat resistant sleeve.
A laser light irradiation apparatus as defined in Claim
1 or 2 in which the front end of said heat resistant sleeve is

bonded to the chip (20) with a heat resistant bonding agent.
A laser light irradiation apparatus as defined in Claim
1 or 2 in which heat absorbing powders are applied on the outer

surface of the chip (20) with a binder which transmits laser lights
therethrough.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
