<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627820</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A charge pump with a programmable pump current and system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03L708	H03L7089	H03L7093	H03L7107	H03L716	H03L7183	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A charge pump has a reference circuitry (18, 20, 22), a first 
parallel current path (16), at least one second parallel current 

path (16), a mirror circuit (46), a sourcing circuitry (60, 62) and 
a sinking circuitry (50, 54, 66, 68). The first and the at least one 

second parallel current path sink current from a first node 
responsive to a predetermined voltage generated by the reference 

circuitry. The at least one second current path also operates 
responsive to a control signal. The mirror circuit generates a 

second predetermined voltage responsive to the total current sunk 
from the first node. The sourcing circuitry and the sinking 

circuitry sourcing and sinking a current from the output node, 
respectively, responsive to the second predetermined voltage and 

to a control signal. The disclosed charge pump may be 
incorporated into a phase locked loop circuit where constant 

stability parameters are desired. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to charge pumps, 
and more specifically to a charge pump with a programmable 
pump current. Charge pumps are a class of circuits that deliver a known 
current to a node. Charge pumps are frequently used in phase 
locked loop circuits (hereafter simply PLLs). A PLL matches the 
phase and frequency of a self-generated clock signal to a 
reference clock signal. In a PLL, a charge pump sinks current, 
sources current or is in a high impedance state with respect to an 
output node responsive to the phase and frequency differences 
between the self-generated clock signal and the reference clock 
signal. A resistor and a capacitor are connected in series (an RC 
circuit) between the output node and ground. The output node is 
also connected to a gate of a transistor. By selectively sinking or 
sourcing current to the output node, the gate to source voltage of 
the transistor, and thus, the conductivity of the transistor may be 
adjusted. Typically, the transistor connects a voltage supply rail 
to the various sources of one or more inverters. The inverters are 
connected in series forming a ring oscillator. By adjusting the 
charge at the output node, the charge pump can adjust the 
propagation delay of a signal through the ring oscillator and, 
hence, the frequency of the self-generated clock signal. Some PLLs match the phase and frequency of a self-generated 
clock signal that has a frequency which is some  
 
multiple of the reference clock signal frequency. This 
modification may be advantageous to data processing systems in 
which the data processor operates at some multiple of an input 
reference clock signal. This frequency multiplication may be 
accomplished by dividing the frequency of the self-generated 
clock signal before the self-generated clock signal is compared to 
the reference clock signal. The frequency of a PLL's self-generated clock signal may be 
programmed dynamically by inserting a programmable divider in 
its path. A PLL incorporating such a divider may generate a clock 
signal with different frequencies depending upon the settings of 
the inserted divider circuit. The PLL has a set of stability 
parameters associated with it for each different divider selling. 
Generally, it is desirable to have each of these sets of parameters 
as close to every other set as possible. One method of 
maintaining a constant set of stability parameters is to vary the 
current that the charge pump sources or sinks to the output node 
and to the RC circuit. As
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A charge pump (10) comprising: 
   reference circuitry (18) for generating a first 

predetermined voltage; 
   a first parallel current path (16) coupled to a first 

node (28) and to the predetermined voltage, the 
first parallel current path being operable to sink 

a first current from the first node responsive to 
the first predetermined voltage; 

   at least one second parallel current path (16) coupled 
to the first node (28) and to the first 

predetermined voltage, each of the at least one 
second current paths being operable to sink a 

current from the first node responsive to the 
first predetermined voltage and to a selected 

control signal of at least one control signal 
(Control - A); 

   a mirror circuit (46) coupled to the first node, the 
mirror circuit operable to generate a second 

predetermined voltage responsive to a total 
current sunk from the first node; 

   sourcing circuitry (60, 62) coupled to an output node 
and to the mirror circuit for sourcing a current 

to the output node responsive to the second 
predetermined voltage and to a selected control 

signal of the at least one control signal; and 
   sinking circuitry (50, 54, 66, 68) coupled to the output 

node and to the mirror circuit for sinking a 
current from the output node responsive to the 

second predetermined voltage and to a selected 
control signal of the at least one control signal. 
A charge pump (10) comprising: 
   reference circuitry (18) for generating a 

predetermined voltage; 
   a first node(28); 

   a second node (30) for receiving a first voltage supply; 
   at least one parallel current path (16), each of the at 

least one parallel current path comprising: 
   a first transistor (34) comprising a first current 

electrode, a second current electrode and a 
control electrode, the first current 

electrode coupled to the second node, the 
control electrode coupled to the 

predetermined voltage; and 
   a switch means (32) comprising first and second 

terminals, the first terminal of the switch 
means coupled to the first node, the second 

terminal coupled to the second current 
electrode of the first transistor, the 

switch means being in a conductive state 
responsive to a first logic state of a 

selected control signal of at least one 
control signal and being in a high 

impedance state responsive to a second 
logic state of the selected control signal; 

   a second transistor (46) comprising a first current 
electrode, a second current electrode and a 

control electrode, the first current electrode 
and the control electrode coupled to the first 

node, the second current electrode coupled to a 
terminal of a second voltage supply; 

   an output node (12);
 

   sourcing circuitry (60, 62) coupled to the output node 
and to the second node for sourcing a 

predetermined current to the output node in 
response 
to a voltage present at the control 
electrode of the second transistor and a selected 

control signal of the at least one control signal; 
and 

   sinking circuitry (50, 54, 66, 68) coupled to the output 
node and to the second node for sinking the 

predetermined current to the output node in 
response to the voltage present at the control 

electrode of the second transistor and to a 
selected control signal of the at least one 

control signal. 
A system (72) comprising: 
   a detector (74) for receiving a first clock signal and a 

second clock signal, the detector being operable 
to generate at least one first control signal 

responsive to a predetermined phase and 
frequency relationship of the first and second 

clock signal; 
   a charge pump (10) coupled to the control signal of the 

detector, the charge pump comprising: 
   reference circuitry (18) for generating a first 

predetermined voltage; 
   a first parallel current path (16) coupled to a 

first node (28) and to the predetermined 
voltage, the first parallel current path 

being operable to sink a first current from 
the first node responsive to the first 

predetermined voltage; 
   at least one second parallel current path (16) 

coupled to the first node and to the first 
predetermined voltage, each of the at least 

one second current paths being operable to 
sink a current from the first node 

responsive to the first predetermined 
voltage and to a selected control signal of 

at least one second control signal; 
   a mirror circuit (46) coupled to the first node, 

the mirror circuit operable to generate a 
second predetermined voltage responsive 

to a current sunk from the first node; 
   sourcing circuitry (60, 62) coupled to an output 

node and to the mirror circuit for sourcing 
a current to the output node responsive to 

the second predetermined voltage and to a 
selected one of the at least one first 

control signal; and
 

   sinking circuitry (50, 54, 66, 68) coupled to the 
output node and to the mirror circuit for 

sinking a current from the output node 
responsive to the second predetermined 

voltage and to a selected one of the at 
least one first control signal; and 

   a voltage controlled oscillator (76) coupled to the 
output node of the charge pump, the voltage 

controlled oscillator operable to a generate a 
third clock signal, the third clock signal 

characterized by a frequency, the frequency 
responsive to the voltage at the output node of 

the charge pump. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
