<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614181</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Disc player with compact magazine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1722	G11B1722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B17	G11B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A disk player has a magazine for storing disks on carriages and a disk 
transport mechanism transporting a selected disk between four positions 

including an eject position, a load position, a playback position, and a store 
position which lie in a single plane. The selected disk is carried upon a 

carriage from the magazine to the load position where the selected disk is 
partially removed from the magazine to the playback position above a disk 

reader. An alignment mechanism provides relative movement between the 
magazine and a plane of transport of the disk transport mechanism permitting 

a selected disk to be inserted or removed from the magazine at the store 
position. The disk reader is positioned to read the selected disk while 

overlapping disks stored in the magazine resulting in a smaller disk player 
size. The magazine pivotally holds the carriages in a stacked arrangement 

with prongs engaging recesses in the carriages. The magazine also holds a 
carriage for accepting disks of two sizes. A separator mechanism pivots apart 

carriages in the magazine to allow sufficient clearance for removal and 
insertion of a selected carriage. The separator mechanism also has a stopping 

protrusion which serves as a keeper to hold a carriage below the selected 
carriage in the magazine during withdrawal of the selected carriage. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKAMICHI CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKAMICHI CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HISATOMI YUICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMICHI NIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HISATOMI, YUICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMICHI, NIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optical disk player having a
magazine for storing disks which permits the playing of selected disks from the
magazine, and more particularly, to a disk player having a magazine holding
disks on pivotally mounted stacked carriages and a separator device for
extracting carriages from the magazine. Furthermore, the disk player has a
disk reader for reading selected disks which are partially withdrawn from the
magazine thereby permitting a compact construction.Disk players having magazines for storing disks typically provide a
selecting apparatus for transporting a selected disk from the magazine and
to a disk reader or an ejection position. Such a
disk player has a
magazine wherein carriages are stacked upon each other. The carriages are
individually withdrawn by being pulled from the magazine. As a selected
carriage is pulled from the magazine a carriage above the selected carriage is
displaced away from the selected carriage. The displacement is accomplished
by means of a protrusion on a top surface of the selected carriage disengaging
from a recess on a bottom surface of the carriage above it. Such a
disengaging operation does not permit smooth operation of the magazine.
Furthermore, since the carriages are stacked, additional means must be
provided to prevent a carriage below the selected carriage from being pulled
from the magazine along with the selected carriage which further complicates
the mechanism and increases the cost of production. Thus, an efficient means
for removing carriages from a stacked magazine is required. In DE-A-40 35 102, disks are placed in a magazine which is then
inserted into the apparatus. A rotateable cam member has arms attached to it and
to trays in the magazine. As the cam member moves, the trays are moved up or
down until a selected tray is in alignment with the optical reading mechanism.
As in the previous reference, there is no efficient means for actually removing
carriages or disks from the stacked magazine. Further, the optical reading
mechanism must be moved toward the disks instead of the disks being
transported to the reading mechanism.Disk players are also provided with carriages having a pair of
concentric circular recesses for accepting both 12 cm and 8 cm disks. A disk
player having such dual recess carriages is disclosed in Japanese Laid-Open
Publication No. 4-38662. The dual recess carriages are, however, thicker than
single recess carriages and thus result in a bulkier magazine than a magazine
including only single
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disk player capable of playing a selected disk of
a plurality of disks comprising


a disk reader (200) for reading said selected disk;
a magazine (50);
holding means (51, 58, 59) in said magazine (50) for
movably holding said plurality of disks (201); and
said holding means (51, 58, 59) including means for
permitting displacement of said plurality of disks in a

direction substantially perpendicular to recording surfaces
of said disks;

   characterized by:

transport means (28) for transporting said selected
disk between said disk reader (200), an eject position, a

load position, and said magazine (50); and
separator means (43) for increasing a spacing between
at least one disk adjacent to said selected disk in said

magazine (50) to permit said transport means (28) to engage
and move said selected disk.
A disk player according to claim 1 wherein said
separator means (43) lifts an upper disk away from said

selected disk.
A disk player according to claim 1, wherein:

said holding means (51, 59) includes a plurality of
carriages;
said plurality of disks (201) being fittable in said
plurality of carriages;
said separator means (43) includes a movable separator
member responsive to said transport means (28) inserting or

extracting said selected carriage; and
said separator member engages at least one of said
carriages adjacent a carriage containing said selected

disk.
A disk player according to claim 3 wherein:

said carriages each have a separator engagement
portion (167);
said separator member has a carriage engagement
portion (140); and
at least one of said separator engagement portion
(167) and said carriage engagement portion (140) is

wedge-shaped.
A disk player according to claim 4 wherein said
separator means (43) includes means for moving said

separator member in a linear path substantially parallel to
planes of said disks (201) in said magazine (50).
A disk player according to claim 1 wherein said
disk reader (200) reads said selected disk partially within

an opening defined by said separator means (43) and
overlapping said disks (201) in said magazine (50).
A disk player according to claim 6 comprising:

means for permitting movement (101, 110) of said disk
reader (200) in a direction substantially perpendicular to

a recording surface of said selected disk; and
means for moving said disk reader (200) such that said
disk reader lifts said selected disk from said selected

carriage transported to said disk reader from said
magazine.
A disk player according to claim 1 further
comprising means for pivotally supporting (51) said disks

(201) along a rear edge thereof furthest from said disk
reader.
A disk player according to claim 8 further
comprising: 


a plurality of carriages (58, 59) in said magazine;
said plurality of disks (201) being contained in said
plurality of carriages (58, 59);
said means for pivotally supporting (51) including
prongs engaging said plurality of carriages (58, 59); and
at least some carriages (58, 59) include a recess
(165) for accepting one of said prongs.
A disk player according to claim 9 wherein:

said carriages (58, 59) are stacked in said magazine
(50) with adjacent surfaces in contact with each other; and
said recesses (165) have a depth for accepting said
prongs sufficient to permit said carriages (58, 59) to be

stacked upon each other.
A disk player according to claim 10 wherein
adjacent surfaces of said carriages (58, 59) in said

magazine (50) have interlocking guides (55).
A disk player according to claim 10, wherein:

said plurality of carriages (58, 59) include at least
a first carriage (59) and a second carriage (58);
a first recess (162) in a top surface of said carriage
(59) for accepting a disk of a first size having a diameter

less than a diameter of said first recess;
said second carriage (58) having said first and a
second recess (162, 166) in a top surface of said second

carriage and occupying a bottom position in said magazine
(50);
said first recess (162) accepts disks of a first type;
said second recess (166) has a smaller diameter than
said diameter of said fi
rst recess and accepts a disk of a
second type having a diameter less than said smaller

diameter; 
said second carriage (58) has a protrusion (168) from
a bottom surface thereof corresponding to said second

recess (166); and
said magazine (50) has base guide supports (53) for
slidably supporting said second carriage (58) on surfaces

of said second carriage (58) outside of an area of said
protrusion.
A disk player according to anyone of claims 4 to 12
wherein:

said separator member includes further a
keeper means (141) disposed with the carriage

engagement portion (140) at an end of said
separator member, said keeper means engaging

the separator engagement portion (167) of a non-displaced
carriage adjacent said carriage

containing said selected disk to hold said
non-displaced carriage in said magazine.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
