<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633371</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Swimming pool cleaner operating head
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04H416	E04H400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04H	E04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04H4	E04H4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Swimming pool cleaner components are provided to 
form a unitary combination of a body (2) housing a 

diaphragm (5) in communication with an inner tube (8) and 
the body (2) in communication with an outer tube (13) around 

the inner tube (8) and secured to the body (2) to locate 
the diaphragm (5) and inner tube (8) with a rotatable 

coupling collar (19) on the outer tube (13) to position the 
components in an outer body (16) of the swimming pool 

cleaner. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to components of an
operating head for swimming pool cleaners.
Particularly it relates to an assembly of
components for cleaners which utilise a tubular
resilient diaphragm as a means for interrupting
fluid flow through the cleaner to provide movement
over a surface to be cleaned. A variety of devices exist that move automatically
over surfaces of swimming pools to be cleaned. One
such pool cleaner operates in co-operation with the
reduced pressure caused by a pump to induce
debris-laden fluid within a pool to flow through
the cleaner (and other filtration equipment if
desired). The cleaner functions by causing a valve,
or diaphragm, to oscillate, periodically
interrupting the fluid flow through the cleaner.
This periodic interruption in turn causes movement
of the device over the surface to be cleaned.
Suitable valves or diaphragms for such a
fluid-interruption cleaner are described in U S
Patent Nos. 4,642,833 and 4,742,593.U S Patent No. 5,014,382,
discloses one
such fluid-interruption version of an automatic
swimming pool cleaner. As described in the patent,
the cleaner preferably includes a tubular resilient
diaphragm to interrupt the flow of fluid (such as
water) through the cleaner during use. The 
diaphragm entrance is typically located adjacent
the inlet foot of the cleaner, while its exit
communicates with an inner tube circumscribed by
the cleaner's rigid extension pipe (outer tube).
Because the cleaner's exterior body (together with
the inlet foot and inner tube) fix the diaphragm in
position, the diaphragm is not easily removed from
the cleaner for repair or replacement. Moreover,
the rigid structures can accommodate only a single
size diaphragm. As a result, not only must
diaphragm manufacturing tolerances be minimized,
but substitution of diaphragms of different lengths
is precluded as well.Even more pertinent to this invention is the
disclosure in the applicant's own U S Patent No.
5,315,728
which describes the features of the preamble of claim 1. However,
in the cleaner of US-5315728, the assembly is not freely notable about its axis. According to this invention there is provided an assembly of
swimming pool cleaner components comprising:
a) a hollow body having an axial inlet and an axial outlet;b) a tubular diaphragm-type valve having inlet and outlet ends, the diaphragm-type
valve housed within the body,c) an inner tubular member having a first end located in the outlet end of the
diaphragm-type valve,d) an outer tubular member, positioned over the inner
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An assembly of swimming pool cleaner components
comprising:


a) a hollow body (2) having an axial inlet (7) and an axial outlet;
b) a tubular diaphragm-type valve (5) having inlet and outlet ends, the diaphragm-type
valve (5) housed within the body (2),
c) an inner tubular member (8) having a first end located in the outlet end of the
diaphragm-type valve (5),
d) an outer tubular member (13), positioned over the inner tubular member (8), and
having a first end longitudinally adjustably positioned in the axial outlet of the

body (2),

said assembly being characterized in that it comprises:
e) means (11) positioned between the inner (8) and outer (13) tubular members and
within the axial outlet of the body (2), for adjustably connecting the first end of

the inner (8) and outer tubular (13) members and the outlet end of the
diaphragm-type valve (5) relative to each other and to the axial outlet of the body

(2), and
f) a coupling member (19) freely rotatable around the outer tubular member (13).
An assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the outer
tubular member (13) and body (2) are in screw-threaded engagement with each

other.
An assembly as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in
that the means between the inner and outer tubular members comprises a cantilever

ring (11) capable of radial and longitudinal contraction between a tapered inner end
(12) of the outer tubular member (13) and a radially projecting rib (10) on the inner

tubular member (8) adjacent the end of the inner tubular member (8) extending from
the diaphragm-type valve (5).
An assembly as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in
that the coupling member (19) comprises a collar (19) rotatable on the outer tubular 

member (13) between a flange (20) and a stop (21) spaced apart along the outer
tubular member.
An assembly as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that
there is a thrust washer between the collar (19) and the stop (21).
An assembly as claimed in claim 4 or 5, characterized in
that an axial thrust ball bearing (25) is located between the flange (20) on the outer

tubular member (13) and a flange (24) on the end of the collar (19).
An assembly as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that
the ball bearing (25) comprises a lower (28) and upper (29) ring each having at least

thee open ended ball receiving formations formed therein with a ball (27) located
within each pair of opposing ball receiving formations.
An assembly as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that
the bearing parts are moulded from acetyl synthetic resin.
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim,
characterized in that the inlet end of the diaphragm-type valve is in frictional

engagement with the body (2) and has a flange which abuts against the inlet to the
body (2).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
