<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624081</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SACRAL IMPLANT SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1756	A61B1756	A61B1770	A61B1770	A61F244	A61F244	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sacral implant system includes first and second sacral plates (24, 26) that are affixed on opposite sides of the sacrum (28) adjacent the lumbosacral junction. The sacral plates (24, 26) include at least a pedicle and an oblique mounting means for rigidly affixing the sacral plates (24, 26) to the sacrum. First and second fixation rods (30, 32) extend in a superior direction along the lumbar portion of the spine. One or more connecting members tie the rods together. The superior most vertebra to be fixed is tied to the implant system with a special offset fixation plate and pedicle screw. Conventional vertebra hooks can also be used as necessary. Intermediate vetebra are tied to the system with a straight fixation plate and pedicle screw.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SALUT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SALUT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASHMAN RICHARD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAY R CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASHMAN RICHARD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAY R CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SACRAL IMPLANT SYSTEMBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to sacral implants, and more particularly to an improved implant system for fixing a stabilizing appliance to the sacrum and to the lumbar vertebrae.Spinal fusion, especially in the lumbar and sacral region is regularly employed to correct and stabilize spinal curves, to prevent recurrence of spinal curves and to stabilize weakness in trunks that result from degenerative discs and joint disease, deficient posterior elements, spinal fracture, and other debilitating problems. Spinal implant systems have been used regularly to stabilize the lumbar and sacral spine temporarily while solid spinal fusions develop.Several temporary stabilization systems are currently in use. All perform adequately, however leave room for improvement. For example, an implant system for attaching the superior most lumbar vertebra (LI) to the implant without interfering with normal motion of the next superior vertebra needs to be developed. Additionally, implant systems that achieve stronger sacral fixation, easier use for multiple segment fixation, and easier use with spinal deformity are needed. Further, better implant systems for rigidly tying the base of the system to the sacrum must be developed. 

 Summary of the Invention The present invention provides a sacral implant system that rigidly affixes the base of the implant system to the sacrum while allowing ease of installation and flexibility of design. Moreover, the present system provides apparatus for securing the upper portion of the implant system to, for example, the L-l vertebra, without interfering with the next superior most vertebra (T-12) and any or all vertebrae in between. The sacral implant system of the present invention comprises first and second sacral plates for mounting on opposite sides of the sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction. Each of the sacral plates has at least a pedicle and oblique mounting means for rigidly affixing each of the sacral plates to the sacrum. The system also includes first and second rods extending in a superior direction and generally parallel relationship from respective ones of the sacral plates. The rods are situated on opposite sides of the sagittal plane. Means are also provided for rigidly affixing the rods to respective sacral plates. At least one connecting member is employed to rigidly interconnect the rods at a location superior to the sacral plates. Finally, a superior fixation plate having a lateral portion and a medial portion is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A sacral implant system comprising: first and second discrete sacral plates for mounting on opposite sides of said sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction, each of said sacral plates having at least a pedicle and oblique mounting means for rigidly fixing each of said sacral plates independently to opposite lateral portions of said sacrum, first and second rods extending in a superior direction in a generally parallel relationship from respective ones of said sacral plates on opposite sides of the centerline of said lumbar spine, and means rigidly fixing said rods to said sacral plates, at least one connecting member rigidly interconnecting said rod superior to said sacral plates, and a superior offset fixation plate rigidly affixed to at least one of said rods, a pedicle screw fixed to and through the pedicle of a vertebra, and means rigidly affixing said pedicle screw to said offset fixation plate, each of said pedicle and oblique mounting means including a fixation screw having a lower threaded portion, a head and a cylindrical section adjacent said head, said sacral plate including cylindrical bores corresponding to each of said pedicle and oblique mounting means, each of said bores having a diameter slightly greater than a respective cylindrical section on a respective fixation screw enabling said screw to rotate and reciprocate in said bore while substantially eliminating angular movement of said screw relative to said plate, said cylindrical bore of said pedicle mounting means having an axis that extends in a medial and anterior direction from said sacral plate, said cylindrical bore of said pedicle mounting means being located medially from the cylindrical bore of said oblique mounting means.
2. The sacral implant system of Claim 1, wherein said axis of said pedicle mounting means is oriented in a medial direction at an angle ranging from 0 degrees to 20 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to the sacral plane.
3. The sacral implant system of Claim 2, wherein said axis of said pedicle mounting means is oriented in the medial direction at an angle of about 15 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to the sacral plane. 


 4. The sacral implant system of Claim 1 , wherein the cylindrical bore of said oblique mounting means has an axis extending in a lateral, anterior and inferior direction relative to said sacral plane.
5. A sacral plate for use in a sacral implant system comprising: a plate having a posterior surface and an anterior surface, said anterior surface being configured to be positioned against the posterior surface of the sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction, said sacral plate having means for attaching to a fixation rod, said sacral plate also having a pedicle and oblique mounting means for rigidly fixing said sacral plate to said sacrum at a location lateral from the sagittal plane, each of said pedicle and oblique mounting means including a cylindrical bore, the cylindrical bore of said pedicle mounting means having an axis that extends in a medial and anterior direction relative to the sacral plane, the cylindrical bore of said pedicle mounting means being positioned medially relative to the cylindrical bore of said oblique mounting means.
6. The sacral plate of Claim 5, wherein said axis of said pedicle mounting means is oriented in the medial direction at an angle of about 0 degrees to 20 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to the sacral plane.
7. The sacral plate of Claim 6, wherein said axis of said pedicle mounting means is oriented in the medial direction at an angle of about 15 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to the sacral plane.
8. The sacral plate of Claim 5, wherein the cylindrical bore of said oblique mounting means has an axis extending in a lateral, anterior and inferior direction relative to the sacral plane.
9. The sacral plate of Claim 8, wherein said axis of said oblique mounting means, when viewed in the sacral plane, is offset in the inferior direction at an angle of about 30 degrees to about 60 degrees relative to a lateral line in said sacral plane and is offset in the lateral direction from about 30 degrees to about 45 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to said sacral plane. 



 -12-
9. The sacral plate of Claim 9, wherein said axis is offset inferior at an angle of about 45 degrees relative to a lateral line in the sacral plane and is offset laterally at an angle of about 30 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to the sacral plane.
10. A sacral implant system comprising: first and second sacral plates for mounting on opposite sides of said sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction, each of said sacral plates having at least a pedicle and oblique mounting means for rigidly fixing each of said sacral plates to opposite lateral portions of said sacrum, first and second rods extending in a superior direction in a generally parallel relationship from respective ones of said sacral plates on opposite sides of the centerline of said lumbar spine, and means rigidly fixing said rods to said sacral plates, at least one connecting member rigidly interconnecting said rods superior to said sacral plates, a superior offset fixation plate rigidly affixed to at least one of said rods, a pedicle screw fixed to and through the pedicle of a vertebra, and means rigidly affixing said pedicle screw to said offset fixation plate, said offset fixation plate having a medial portion and an integral lateral portion offset in the superior direction, the medial portion being positioned below the interior processes of the next superior vertebra relative to the vertebra to be fixed, the offset portion being positionable over the pedicle of the vertebra to be fixed.
11. The sacral implant system of Claim 11, wherein the medial portion of said offset plate has a lateral slot, the anterior side thereof having a plurality of slots oriented in the superior/inferior direction for receiving said rod at a plurality of lateral distances from an adjacent pedicle fixation screw.
13. A sacral implant system comprising: first and second sacral plates for mounting on opposite sides of said sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction, each of said sacral plates having at least a pedicle and oblique mounting means for rigidly fixing each of said sacral plates to opposite lateral portions of said sacrum, first and second rods extending in a superior direction in a generally parallel relationship from respective ones of said sacral plates on opposite sides of 


 -13-
the centerline of said lumbar spine, and means rigidly fixing said rods to said sacral plates, at least one connecting member rigidly interconnecting said rods superior to said sacral plates, a superior offset fixation plate rigidly affixed to at least one of said rods, a pedicle screw fixed to and through the pedicle of a vertebra, and means rigidly affixing said pedicle screw to said offset fixation plate, and a straight fixation plate for fixing an intermediate vertebra to one of said rods, said straight fixation plate having a medial portion and an integral lateral portion, said lateral portion including an aperture for receiving a pedicle fixation screw, said medial portion having a plurality of slots on its anterior side oriented in a superior/inferior direction for receiving a rod at a plurality of lateral distances from an adjacent pedicle fixation screw.
12. A sacral implant system comprising: first and second sacral plates for mounting on opposite sides of said sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction, each of said sacral plates having means for attaching to a fixation rod, each of said sacral plates also having pedicle and oblique mounting 
'
 means for rigidly fixing each of said sacral plates to opposite lateral portions of said sacrum, each of said pedicle and oblique mounting means including a fixation screw having a lower threaded portion, a head and a cylindrical section adjacent said head, said sacral plate including cylindrical bores corresponding to each of said pedicle and oblique mounting means, each of said bores having a diameter slightly greater than a respective cylindrical section on a fixation screw enabling said screw to rotate and reciprocate in said bore while substantially eliminating angular movement of said screw relative to said plate, said cylindrical bore of said oblique mounting means having an axis extending in a lateral, anterior and inferior direction relative to said sacral plate, said axis of said oblique mounting means when viewed in the sacral plane being offset in the inferior direction at an angle of about 30 degrees to about 60 degrees relative to a lateral line in the sacral plane and being offset in the lateral direction at an angle of about 30 degrees to about 45 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to the sacral plane.
13. The system of Claim 14, wherein said axis of said oblique mounting means is offset inferior at an angle of about 45 degrees relative to a lateral line in 


the sacral plane and is offset laterally at an angle of about 30 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to the sacral plane.
16. A sacral plate for use in a sacral implant system comprising: a plate having a posterior surface and an anterior surface, said anterior surface being configured to be positioned against the posterior surface of the sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction, said sacral plate having means for attaching to a fixation rod, said sacral plate also having at least a pedicle and oblique mounting means for rigidly fixing said sacral plate to said sacrum at a location lateral from the sagittal plane, each of said pedicle and oblique mounting means including a fixation screw having a lower threaded portion, a head, and a cylindrical section intermediate said head and said threaded portion, said plate including cylindrical bores corresponding to each of said pedicle and oblique mounting means, each of said bores having a diameter slightly greater than a respective cylindrical section enabling said cylindrical section to rotate and reciprocate in said bore while substantially eliminating angular movement of said screw relative to said plate, said cylindrical bore of said oblique mounting means having an axis extending in a lateral, anterior, and inferior direction relative to said sacral plate, said axis when viewed in the sacral plane being offset in the inferior direction at an angle of about 30 degrees to about 60 degrees relative to a lateral line in said sacral plane and is offset in the lateral direction from about 30 degrees to about 45 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to said sacral plane.
14. The sacral plate of Claim 16, wherein said axis of said oblique mounting means is offset inferior at an angle of about 45 degrees relative to a lateral line in the sacral plane and is offset laterally at an angle of about 30 degrees relative to a line orthogonal to the sacral plane.
15. A sacral implant system comprising: first and second sacral plates for mounting on opposite sides of said sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction, each of said sacral plates having at least a pedicle and oblique mounting means for rigidly fixing each of said sacral plates to opposite lateral portions of said sacrum, first and second rods extending in a superior direction in a generally parallel relationship from respective ones of said sacral plates on opposite sides of 


the centerline of said lumbar spine, and means rigidly fixing said rods to said sacral plates, at least one connecting member rigidly interconnecting said rods superior to said sacral plates, a superior offset fixation plate rigidly affixed to at least one of said rods, a pedicle screw fixed to and through the pedicle of a vertebra, and means rigidly affixing said pedicle screw to said offset fixation plate, said offset fixation plate having a medial portion and an integral lateral portion offset in the superior direction, the medial portion being positioned below the inferior processes of the next superior vertebra relative to the vertebra to be fixed, the offset portion being positionable over the pedicle of the vertebra to be fixed.
19. The system of Claim 18, wherein the medial portion of said
'
 offset plate has a lateral slot, the anterior side thereof having a plurality of slots oriented in the superior/inferior direction for receiving said rod at a plurality of lateral distances from an adjacent pedicle fixation screw.
16. A sacral implant system comprising: first and second sacral plates for mounting on opposite sides of said sacrum adjacent the lumbosacral junction, each of said sacral plates having at least a pedicle and oblique mounting means for rigidly fixing each of said sacral plates to opposite lateral portions of said sacrum, first and second rods extending in a superior direction in a generally parallel relationship from respective ones of said sacral plates on opposite sides of the centerline of said lumbar spine, and means rigidly fixing said rods to said sacral plates, at least one connecting member rigidly interconnecting said rods superior to said sacral plates, a superior offset fixation plate rigidly affixed to at least one of said rods, a pedicle screw fixed to and through the pedicle of a vertebra, and means rigidly affixing said pedicle screw to said offset fixation plate, and a straight fixation plate for fixing an intermediate vertebra to one of said rods, said straight fixation plating having a medial portion and an integral lateral portion, said lateral portion including an aperture for receiving a pedicle fixation screw, said medial portion having a plurality of slots on its anterior side oriented in 


 -16-
a superior/inferior direction for receiving a rod at a plurality of lateral distances from an adjacent pedicle fixation screw.
17. A pedicle fixation screw comprising: a threaded portion, a subhead portion above said threaded portion for threading into bone, and a second threaded portion above said subhead for receiving a nut, said subhead having a diameter greater than said second threaded portion, said subhead having a shoulder oriented in a plane substantially orthogonal to the axis of said screw and facing upwardly toward said threaded portion.
18. The screw of Claim 21, in combination with a fixation plate, said fixation plate having a medial portion for connecting to a fixation rod and a lateral portion having a bore therethrough sized to receive said threaded portion, said fixation plate having an anterior surface and a posterior surface, said shoulder adapted to contact said anterior surface, and a nut threaded onto said second threaded portion adapted to bear against the posterior surface of said fixation plate.
19. A fixation plate for use in conjunction with a sacral implant system comprising: a medial portion and a lateral portion, said lateral portion having a bore therein for receiving a portion of the pedicle fixation screw, said plate having an anterior side and a posterior side, said medial portion having a laterally oriented slot therein, said anterior surface of said plate underlying said slot having a plurality of grooves therein oriented in a superior/inferior direction, said grooves for receiving a fixation rod.
20. A fixation plate of Claim 23, wherein the lateral portion of said plate is offset in a superior direction relative to said medial portion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
