<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630280</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVAL OF DNA, VIRUSES AND ENDOTOXINS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L200	A61L200	B01D3600	B01D3602	B01D6114	B01D6114	B01D6118	B01D6118	B01D6308	B01D6308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L2	A61L2	B01D36	B01D36	B01D61	B01D61	B01D61	B01D61	B01D63	B01D63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for the removal of DNA, endotoxins and viruses from aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions comprises passing one of above solutions through a single filtration device with two sections containing coated filter membranes (34, 36) and absolute pore filters (32, 38, 62, 64, 66, 68). The filter device is capable of removing up to about 98 % of the endotoxins in addition to removing viruses with an efficiency of at least 4.6 x 10
<
5
>
 and DNA to less than 10 picograms per 500 mg sample.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COULTER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COULTER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTCHKO GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLENN STEPHAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNELL EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMARIGA PAULETTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTCHKO GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLENN STEPHAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNELL EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMARIGA PAULETTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVAL OF DNA VIRUSES AND ENDOTOXINSRELATED APPLICATION This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 07/546,011 filed June 29, 1990 and entitled "PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVAL OF DNA AND VIRUSES".TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a process for removing DNA and viruses from physiological fluids and medicant solution administered to humans and animals, and an apparatus for performing said process. More particularly, the invention is especially effective for removing DNA, viruses and endotoxins from biological pharmaceutical solutions and biological media, for example, DNA, viruses and endotoxins from a monoclonal antibody solution, buffer solutions or a solution of bovine serum albumin.BACKGROUND ART One objective in the preparation of pharmaceutical solutions, buffer solutions, life support solutions, saline solutions and other such solutions which are to be administered to animals and humans is that they be as free as possible from substances which might cause an adverse reaction in the host. While a goal of zero contamination by substances such as DNA, viruses and endotoxins is always sought, in actual practice very minute amounts of such substances are sometimes present. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has set standards for such substances which cannot be exceeded. Manufacturers, ever mindful that a batch of medicant may be rejected if the level of such substances is too high, continually seek new methods to ensure that their products do not exceed FDA standards. Consequently, in all phases of the manufacturing process, manufacturers seek to ensure the purity of the reagents used in the manufacture as well as the final product. Many of the 

 medicants and other products mentioned above are either sold as aqueous solutions or are manufactured in aqueous medium. Consequently, the manufacturers seek to ensure that the water they use is free of DNA, viruses and endotoxins .One technology that such manufacturers often use is ultrafiltration. United States Patent Nos. 4,431,545 to Pall et al, 4,816,162 to Rosskopf et al, and 4,420,398 to Castino, describe dual-module filtration to remove pathological and/or toxic substances from various luids including water, blood and plasma. Patent No. 4,431,545 utilizes dual filters, one of which has a negative zeta potential and one of which has a positive zeta potential, to filter out positively and negatively charged particles. Neutral particles are removed in accordance with the pore size ratings
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A process for the removal of DNA, endotoxins and viruses from aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions comprising, passing one of said aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions through a first DNA/endotoxin filter section and a second virus/endotoxin filter section, wherein said DNA, viruses and endotoxins are substantially removed; and collecting said aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions or aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions; (I) said first DNA/endotoxin filter section having:
(A) (i) a first absolute pore filter,
(ii) a first and second filter selected from one of the group consisting (a) a DEAE cellulose filter membrane and (b) an absolute pore filter coated with at least one of the group consisting of diethylaminoethyl salts, quaternary aminoethyl salts and quaternary aminomethyl salts, and (iii) a second absolute pore filter; or
(B) plurality of absolute pore filters at least one of which is coated with at least one selected from the group consisting of dimethylaminoethyl salts, quaternary aminoethyl salts, quaternary aminomethyl salts and the like; and
(II) said second virus/endotoxin filter section having absolute pore filters of a smaller diameter than the absolute pore filters or coated absolute pore filters in the DNA filter section 2. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the yield of pharmaceuticals, including biological pharmaceuticals, in the filtered solutions is 90% or higher compared to the starting solution.
3. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the virus removal is 99.9999997% or higher when the virus is 0.100 microns or larger, and the yield of 


 pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical in the filtered solution of same is 90% or higher compared to the starting solution.
4. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein said DNA in the filtered solutions is preferably less than 10 picograms per 100 ml of solution.
5. The process in accordance with claim 4 wherein said DNA in the filtered solutions is less than 1 picogram. 6- The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein said endotoxin removal is up to about 98% compared to the starting solution.
7. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions have a pH in the range of 3 to 9.
8. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions each have a specific salt content of less than 0.5 Molar, said specific salt being one or more selected from the group consisting of the lithium, sodium, potassium and ammonium salts of the phosphate, chloride, bromide, iodide, sulfate, and acetate anions. 9. A process for the removal of DNA, viruses and endotoxins from aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions, comprising passing either one of the solutions through a first DNA/endotoxin filter section and a second virus/endotoxin filter section to obtain a filtered aqueous pharmaceutical solution or a filtered aqueous biological pharmaceutical solution having substantially reduced DNA, virus and endotoxin levels, said solutions passing through: (a) a first 0.2 micron absolute pore filter, a first diethylaminoethyl cellulose filter, a second diethylaminoethyl cellulose filter and a second 0.2 


 micron absolute pore filter in the first DNA filter section, and
(b) a first 0.1 micron absolute pore filter, a second 0.1 micron absolute pore filter, a first 0.04 micron absolute pore filter and a second 0.04 micron absolute pore filter; and collecting the filtered solutions.
10. A process in accordance with claim 9 wherein the yield of the pharmaceutical, including biological pharmaceutical, in the filtered solution is 90% or higher.
11. A process in accordance with claim 9 wherein
10 the virus removal is 99.9999997% (3x10 ) or higher when the virus is 0.100 microns or larger, and the yield of the pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical in the filtered solution is 90% or higher.
12. A process in accordance with claim 9 wherein the DNA in the filtered pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical solution is preferably reduced to less than 10 picograms.
13. The process in accordance with claim 12 wherein the DNA in the filtered pharmaceutical of biological pharmaceutical solution is reduced to less than 1 picogram. 14. The process in accordance with claim 9 wherein said endotoxin removal is up to about 98% compared to the starting solution.
15. A process in accordance with claim 9 wherein the pharmaceutical solution or biological pharmaceutical solution has a pH in the range of 6 to 8.
16. A process in accordance with claim 9 wherein the pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical has a specific salt content, excluding salts of pharmaceuticals or biological pharmaceuticals, of less than 0.5 Molar, said specific salts being 
"
at least one selected from the group consisting the lithium, sodium potassium and ammonium salts of the phosphate, chloride, bromide, 


 iodide, sulfate and acetate anions.
17. A process in accordance with claims 1 or 9 wherein said aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions are passed through said
DNA/endotoxin filter and said virus/endotoxin filter by a vacuum means or a pressure means.
18. An improved device for the removal of DNA, endotoxins and viruses from aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions, said device having a housing with suitable inlet/outlet means, internal gaskets and filter supports, and internal filters wherein the improvement comprises a first DNA/endotoxin filter section having, from inflow to outflow, a first 0.2 micron filter, a first diethylaminoethyl cellulose filter, a second diethylaminoethyl cellulose filter and a second 0.2 micron filter, the filters having face-to-face contact, and a second virus/endotoxin filter section having, from inflow to outflow, a first 0.1 micron filter, a second 0.1 micron filter, a first 0.04 micron filter and a second 0.04 micron filter, said filters having face-to-face contact.
19. An improved device in accordance with claim 18 wherein said 0.2, 0.1 and 0.04 filters are absolute pore filters.
20. The improved device in accordance with claim 18 wherein said device is preferably capable of removing DNA to a level of less than 10 picograms. 21. The improved device in accordance with claim 20 wherein said device is capable of removing DNA to a level of less than 1 picogram.
22. The improved device of claim 18 wherein said
10 device is capable of removing 99.9999997% (3x10 ) of virus when the virus is 0.100 microns or larger.
23. The improved device of claim 18 wherein said device is capable of removing up to about 98% of 


 endotoxins present in the starting solution.
24. The improved device of claim 18 wherein the device gives a yield of pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical in the filtered solution of 90% or higher compared to the unfiltered solution.
25. The improved device of claim 18 where the solution to be filtered is passed through said device by pressure or vacuum means.
26. The improved device of claim 18 wherein said device is a means of administration of said aqueous buffer solution, aqueous pharmaceutical solution or said aqueous biological pharmaceutical solution to a patient which means contains said DNA/endotoxin and virus/endotoxin filter sections. 27. The improved device of claim 18 wherein said device is a syringe filtration apparatus containing said DNA/endotoxin and virus/endotoxin removal filters.
28. The improved device according to claim 18 wherein the DEAE functional groups, QAE functional groups, QAM functional groups or other quaternary amine functional groups are bonded directly to one or more of the 0.2, 0.1 and 0.04 micron absolute pore size filters thereby replacing the DEAE cellulose filter.
29. An improved device for the removal of DNA, endotoxins and viruses from aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions, said device having a housing with suitable inlet/outlet means, internal gaskets and filter supports, and internal filters wherein the improvement comprises a first DNA filter section having, from inflow to outflow, a first 0.2 micron filter, a second 0.2 micron filter, the filters having face-to-face contact; and a second virus filter section having, from inflow to outflow, a first 0.1 micron filter, a second 0.1 micron filter, a first 0.04 micron filter and a second 0.04 micron filter, said filters having face-to- face contact; wherein at least one of the absolute pore 


 filters is coated with at least one of the group consisting of DEAE, QAE, QAM and other quaternary ammonium salts.
30. A device for removing DNA, endotoxins and 5 viruses from aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions comprising, a housing having inlet and outlet means for such solutions, a stacked assembly of filter sections and internal gasketing and 0 support means for said filter sections, said assembly including a DNA filter section and a virus filter section constructed and arranged to substantially remover DNA, virus and endotoxins from such solution passed therethrough, and means for collecting said solutions 5 after such removal of dna, endotoxins and viruses.
31. The device according to claim 27 in which said DNA filter section has
(i) a first absolute pore filter,
(ii) a first and second filter selected from one of o (a) a DEAE cellulose filter membrane and (b) an absolute pore filter coated with at least one of diethylaminoethyl salts, quaternary aminoethyl salts and quaternary aminomethyl salts, and
(iii) a second absolute pore filter; and said virus 5 filter section has absolute pore filters of smaller pore diameter than the absolute pore filters in the DNA filter section. 

ft 
W
O
93
/08894 ° PCT/US92/09164
AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 15 March 1993 (15.03.93) original claims 6,14,23 and 28-31 deleted; original claims 1,4,
5,10-13,15,18-20,22 and 24 amended; remaining claims unchanged; claims renumbered 1-24 (5 pages)]
1. A process for the removal of DNA, about 98% of endotoxins and viruses from aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions comprising, passing one of said aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions through a first DNA/endotoxin filter section and a second virus/endotoxin filter section, wherein said DNA, viruses and endotoxins are substantially removed; and collecting said aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions or aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions; (I) said first DNA/endotoxin filter section having: (A) (i) a first absolute pore filter,
(ii) a first and second filter selected from one of the group consisting (a) a DEAE cellulose filter membrane and (b) an absolute pore filter coated with at least one of the group consisting of diethylaminoethyl salts, quaternary aminoethyl salts and quaternary aminomethyl salts, and
(iii) a second absolute pore filter; or (B) plurality of absolute pore filters at least one of which is coated with at least one selected from the group consisting of dimethylaminoethyl salts, quaternary aminoethyl salts and quaternary aminomethyl salts; and
(II) said second virus/endotoxin filter section having absolute pore filters of a smaller diameter than the absolute pore filters or coated absolute pore filters in the DNA/endotoxin filter section
2. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the yield of pharmaceuticals, including biological pharmaceuticals, in the filtered solutions is 90% or higher compared to the starting solution.
3. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the virus removal is 99.9999997% or higher when the virus is 0.100 microns or larger, and the yield of l harmaceutical in the 



 filtered solution of same is 90% or higher compared to the starting solution.
4. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherei said DNA in the filtered solutions is less than 10 picograms per 100 ml of solution.
5. The process in accordance with claim 4 wherein said DNA in the filtered solutions is less than 1 picogram per 100 ml of solution.
6. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutio have a pH in the range of 3 to 9.
7. The process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutio each have a specific salt content of less than 0.5 Mola said specific salt being one or more selected from the group consisting of the lithium, sodium, potassium and ammonium salts of the phosphate, chloride, bromide, iodide, sulfate, and acetate anions.
8. A process for the removal of DNA, viruses and about 98% of endotoxins from aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions, said process comprising passing either one o the solutions through a first DNA/endotoxin filter section and a second virus/endotoxin filter section to obtain a filtered aqueous pharmaceutical solution or a filtered aqueous biological pharmaceutical solution having substantially reduced DNA, virus and endotoxin levels, said solutions passing through:
(a) a first 0.2 micron absolute pore filter, a firs diethylaminoethyl cellulose filter, a second diethylaminoethyl cellulose filter and a second 0.2 micron absolute pore filter in the first DNA/endotoxin filter section, and
(b) a first 0.1 micron absolute pore filter, a seco 0.1 micron absolute pore filter, a first 0.04 micron abso
l
ute pore filter and a second 0.04 micron absolute 


 0 **
pore filter in the virus/endotoxin filter section; and collecting the filtered solutions.
9. A process in accordance with claim 8 wherein th yield of the pharmaceutical, including biological pharmaceutical, in the filtered solution is 90% or higher.
10. A process in accordance with claim 8 wherein th virus removal is 99.9999997% or higher when the virus is 0.100 microns or larger, and the yield of the pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical in the filtered solution is 90% or higher.
11. A process in accordance with claim 8 wherein the DNA in the filtered pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical solution is preferably reduced to less than 10 picograms per 100 ml of solution.
12. The process in accordance with claim 11 wherein- the DNA in the filtered pharmaceutical of biological pharmaceutical solution is reduced to less than 1 picogram per 100 ml of solution.
13. A process in accordance with claim 8 wherein the pharmaceutical solution or biological pharmaceutical solution has a pH in the range of 6 to 8.
14. .A process in accordance with claim 8 wherein the pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical has a specific salt content, excluding salts of pharmaceuticals or biological pharmaceuticals, of less than 0.5 Molar, said specific salts being at least one selected from the group consisting the lithium, sodium potassium and ammonium salts of the phosphate, chloride, bromide, iodide, sulfate and acetate anions.
15. A process in accordance with claims 1 or 8 wherein said aqueous buffer solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions are passed through said DNA/endotoxin filter and said virus/endotoxin filter by a vacuum means or a pressure means.
16. An improved device for the removal of DNA, about 98% of endotoxins and viruses from aqueous buffer 


 solutions, aqueous pharmaceutical solutions and aqueous biological pharmaceutical solutions, said device having housing with suitable inlet/outlet means, internal gaskets and filter supports, and internal filters wherein the improvement comprises:
(a) a first DNA/endotoxin filter section having, from inflow to outflow, a first 0.2 micron filter and a second 0.2 micron filter, the filters having face-to-face contact;
(b) and a second virus/endotoxin filter section having, from inflow to outflow, a first 0.1 micron filter, a second 0.1 micron filter, a first 0.04 micron filter and a second 0.04 micron filter, said filters having face-to-face contact; and
(c) DEAE functional groups, QAE functional groups, QAM functional groups and other quaternary amine functional groups bonded directly to one or more of the 0.2, 0.1 and 0.04 micron filters.
17. An improved device in accordance with claim 16 wherein said 0.2, 0.1 and 0.04 filters are absolute pore filters.
18. The improved device in accordance with claim 16 wherein said device is preferably capable of removing DNA to a level of less than 10 picograms per 100 ml of solution.
19. The improved device in accordance with claim 18 wherein said device is capable of removing DNA to a level of less than 1 picogram per 100 ml of solution.
20. The improved device of claim 16 wherein said device is capable of removing 99.9999997% of virus when the virus is 0.100 microns or larger.
21. The improved device of claim 16 wherein the device gives a yield of pharmaceutical or biological pharmaceutical in the filtered solution of 90% or higher compared to the unfiltered solution.
22. The improved device of claim 16 where the solution to be filtered is passed through said device by pressure or vacuum means. 


 23. The improved device of claim 16 wherein said device is a means of administration of said aqueous buffer solution, aqueous pharmaceutical solution or said aqueous biological pharmaceutical solution to a patient which means contains said DNA/endotoxin and virus/endotoxin filter sections.
24. The improved device of claim 16 wherein said device is a syringe filtration apparatus containing said DNA/endotoxin and virus/endotoxin removal filters. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
