<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631510</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARTIFICIAL HEART.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M110	A61M110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MILWAUKEE HEART RES FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MILWAUKEE HEART RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAO HUA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAO, HUA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ARTIFICIAL HEARTFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to an artificial heart, more particularly to an electromechanical artificial heart having improved flow dynamics to minimize trauma and clotting in the blood of a living recipient.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Numerous artificial hearts and blood pumps have been devised to replace a defective or diseased heart and closely simulate the functioning of a healthy, natural heart. In contrast to heart transplantation, which requires a donor and involves serious rejection problems, a total artificial heart may be mass-produced and is potentially more compatible with the host's immune system. However, an artificial heart must be compact enough to fit in the chest cavity, and must consistently maintain proper blood flow based on the host's level of activity. The input and output flow characteristics of the artificial heart must be sufficient to protect the blood cells from hemolysis (dissolution) and thrombosis (clotting) . The artificial heart mechanism must also be extremely reliable and durable.One example of an artificial heart is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,152,340 issued October 13, 1964 to Fry, et al. In this device, a piston and plate assembly is positioned between two diaphragms, or imitation heart chambers. A motor mounted above the chambers delivers a driving force to the piston and plate assembly and, in turn, to the diaphragms through an eccentric looped 

pitman for alternatively exhausting the chambers via back-and-forth movement of the piston and plate assembly. Flow into and out of the inlets and outlets is regulated by a set of floating plate valves located outside the inlets and outlets on respective valve boxes located laterally of the diaphragms.U.S. Patent No. 4,512,276 issued April 23, 1985 to Strimling discloses another artificial heart having three pump chambers separated by a pair of diaphragms in contact with cooperating cam-equipped pusher plates. A variable length rod connects the pusher plates and holds a rotary electric motor carrying rollers which move the pusher plates by actuating the cams provided on each of the pusher plates to alternatively contact the diaphragms and effectuate pumping.U.S. Patent No. 4,820,300 issued April 11, 1989 to Pierce, et al shows a further artificial heart which utilizes a fluid displaced from a left blood pump to power a right blood pump. The left blood pump is a sac- type pump powered by an electric motor that, when contracting or expanding, displaces a volume of fluid in a chamber
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. An artificial heart, comprising: a housing having first and second inlet ports and first and second outlet ports; first and second flaccid bladders disposed in the housing, the first bladder communicating with the first inlet and outlet ports and the second bladder communicating with the second inlet and outlet ports; pairs of one-way, inlet and outlet valves associated with each inlet and outlet port; a pusher plate assembly positioned between the bladders for alternately compressing each bladder by back-and-forth motion of the pusher plate assembly; a motor having a rotary drive shaft, which motor is mounted in the housing to the side of the first and second bladders; and a mechanical linkage connecting the motor to the pusher plate assembly, the mechanical linkage transmitting drive force from the motor to the pusher plate assembly to reciprocate the pusher plate assembly so that the first and second bladders alternately fill with and eject blood when the artificial heart is implanted in a host.
2. The artificial heart of claim 1, wherein the pusher plate assembly comprises first and second spaced, parallel plates, each of the plates having an outer surface substantially spanning and in contact with a respective one of the first and second bladders, and a rod connecting the first and second plates.
3. The artificial heart of claim 2, wherein the mechanical linkage further comprises a lever arm, a first pivot connecting one end of the lever arm to the connecting rod of the pusher plate assembly, a second pivot mounting a midportion of the lever arm on the housing, and a connecting mechanism for moving the other end of the lever arm back and forth in response to 


actuation of the motor, causing the one end of the lever arm to move the pusher plate assembly back and forth as the lever arm moves about the second pivot.
4. The artificial heart of claim 3, wherein the connecting mechanism comprises a crank arm connected to the drive shaft, a connecting link attached to the a distal end portion of the crank arm so that one end of the link moves in a circular path with the crank arm, a reciprocating carriage for transmitting movement of the connecting link to the second end of the lever arm, and a third pivot connecting the other end of the connecting link to the carriage.
5. The artificial heart of claim 4, wherein the housing has a linear guide track formed on the interior thereof, and the carriage has a guide mounted thereon confined in the guide track for reciprocal movement therein.
6. The artificial heart of claim 5, wherein the guide comprises a pair of spaced rollers.
7. The artificial heart of claim 1, further comprising a gear reducer connecting the motor to the drive shaft.
8. The artificial heart of claim 1, wherein each of the bladders has a pair of tubular projections extending therefrom, which projections end in openings, and the valves include valve seats sealingly engaged with respective ends of the tubular projections of the bladders.
9. The artificial heart of claim 8, wherein each of the first and second outlet ports further includes means for attaching a graft having one end 


connected to an artery or vein of the host and a second end in communication with the valve.
10. The artificial heart of claim 9, wherein the graft attaching means comprises each of the first and second outlet ports includes a tubular graft insert, a first resilient snap ring securing the graft to the outside of the graft insert, a collar retaining one end of the graft insert to the valve seat, and means for securing the collar to the valve seat.
11. The artificial heart of claim 10, wherein the means for securing the collar to the valve seat comprises mating threads formed on the inner periphery of the collar and the outer periphery of the valve seat.
12. The artificial heart of claim 11, wherein each of the first and second inlet ports includes a cuff ring, a second snap ring encircling the cuff ring, the second end of the cuff being retained between the cuff ring and the second snap ring, and a second collar disposed on the cuff ring for engagement with the valve seat.
13. The artificial heart of claim 8, wherein said bladders are generally cylindrical and have rounded inner surfaces.
14. An artificial heart, comprising: a housing having first and second inlet ports and first and second outlet ports; first and second flaccid bladders disposed in the housing, the first bladder communicating with the first inlet and outlet ports and the second bladder communicating with the second inlet and outlet ports; a pusher plate assembly positioned between the bladders for alternately compressing each bladder by back-and-forth motion of the pusher plate assembly; 


 a pair of one-way, tilting plate inlet valves disposed directly within the first and second inlet ports, respectively, the inlet valves permitting blood to flow into but not out of the bladders; a pair of one-way, tilting plate outlet valves disposed directly within the first and second outlet ports, respectively, the outlet valves permitting blood to flow out of but not into the bladders; a drive system having a rotary drive shaft and mounted in the housing to one side of the first and second bladders; and a mechanical linkage connecting the motor to the pusher plate assembly, the mechanical linkage transmitting unidirectional drive force from the motor to the pusher plate assembly to reciprocate the pusher plate assembly so that the first and second bladders alternately fill with and eject blood when the artificial heart is implanted in a host, said linkage including means for varying the speed of movement of the pusher plate assembly from a minimum that occurs when each bladder reaches maximum compression to a maximum that occurs approximately midway between associated minima.
15. The artificial heart of claim 14, wherein the drive system is operated to provide for pusher plate assembly movement in the form of an sinusoidal curve as the plate assembly moves from minimum to maximum speed and back to minimum speed again.
16. The artificial heart of claim 14, wherein each of the first and second inlet ports and the first and second outlet ports include a dacron graft enabling communication from the blood supply of the host to the first and second bladders.
17. The artificial heart of claim 15, wherein the means for varying the speed of movement of the pusher plate assembly comprises a crank arm attached at one end 


to a connecting link and at the other end to the drive shaft, so that the force acting on the pusher plate assembly varies as a function of the position of the distal end of the crank arm on a circular path.
18. An artificial heart, including a housing having first and second inlet ports and first and second outlet ports, first and second compressible chambers disposed in the housing, the first chamber communicating with the first inlet and outlet ports and the second chamber communicating with the second inlet and outlet ports, and a drive system for alternately compressing the chambers to fill and eject blood in a manner that resembles the action of a natural heart, wherein the improvement comprises a system that varies the speed of compression and decompression of the chambers from a minimum that occurs when each bladder reaches maximum compression to a maximum that occurs approximately midway between associated minima.
19. The artificial heart of claim 13, wherein the drive system is operated to provide for pusher plate assembly movement in the form of a sinusoidal curve as the plate assembly moves from minimum to maximum speed and back to minimum speed again.
20. The artificial heart of claim 19, wherein the means for varying the speed of movement of the pusher plate assembly comprises a crank arm attached at one end to a connecting link and at the other end to a drive shaft of the drive system, so that the force acting to compress the chambers varies as a function of the position of the distal end of the crank arm on a circular path. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
