<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630271</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POWDER NEBULIZER APPARATUS AND METHOD OF NEBULIZATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1106	A61M1106	A61M1300	A61M1300	A61M1500	A61M1500	A61M1610	A61M1616	B05B126	B05B126	B05B700	B05B700	B05B704	B05B704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M11	A61M11	A61M13	A61M13	A61M15	A61M15	A61M16	A61M16	B05B1	B05B1	B05B7	B05B7	B05B7	B05B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MANGUM BARRY O
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIGGS JOHN H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MANGUM, BARRY, O.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIGGS, JOHN, H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANGUM BARRY O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIGGS JOHN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANGUM, BARRY, O.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIGGS, JOHN, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "POWDER NEBULIZER APPARATUS AND METHOD OFNEBULIZATION"BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a powder nebulization method and a powder nebulizer apparatus useα in respiratory therapy and, in particular, to a continuously connected, continuous flow powder nebulizer useful in respiratory therapy to deliver powdered medications.Description of the Related ArtCritically ill patients requiring mechanical ventilation are often victims of respiratory distress syndrome, status asthmaticus and pulmonary infections. Treatment of these and other severe respiratory conditions includes medications delivered directly to the lungs of the patient.Respiratory delivery of medication for these conditions is preferable to oral, intravenous and subcutaneous delivery because it is non-invasive, permits rapid action of medicant, requires a relatively small dosage, is not filtered through the liver of the patient, and produces a low incidence of systemic side effects.Nebulized or aerosolized solutions are the preferred method of respiratory delivery of medication; when fragmented into small particles, medicants are more efficiently deposited near sites of medicant activity in the lung. 

 Respiratory medications may be delivered to the lungs of the patient as an aerosol of a liquid or a powder. Clinical aerosols are currently generated by jet or ultrasonic nebulizers, metered dose inhalers (MDI) and dry powdered inhalers.There are two types of nebulizers for the delivery of liquid medication to the lungs: jet nebulizers and ultrasonic nebulizers. In conventional jet nebulizers, compressed gas from a compressor or hospital air line is passed through a narrow constriction know as a jet. This creates an area of low pressure, and liquid medication from a reservoir is drawn up through a feed tube and fragmented into droplets by the airstream. Only the smallest drops leave the nebulizer directly, while the majority impact on baffles and walls and are returned to the reservoir. Consequently, jet nebulization takes several minutes to complete, depending upon the initial volume.Important disadvantages of nebulizers include low lung deposition related to the use of tidal breathing. A substantial portion of the dose used in a jet nebulizer is retained permanently as a dead or residual volume on baffles and internal walls of the nebulizer chamber and cannot be released. Generally only 2-10% of the dose placed in the nebulizer ever reaches the lung. The consequences are a higher drug dosage and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A nebulizer device for delivery of a nebulized powder material in a carrier gas to a patient, said nebulizer device comprising:
a nebulizer housing having an upper housing portion and a generally conical-shaped or funicular lower housing portion defining an interior volume enclosed by the housing, said housing further comprising means for containing powder material to be nebulized, in the lower housing portion interior volume,
a gas jet member at the upper portion of the housing extending through the housing, with an upper inlet portion coupleable to a source of carrier gas, and a lower portion forming a discharge structure means for directing carrier gas downwardly in a gas jet stream toward the lower extremity of the conical-shaped or funicular lower portion of the nebulizer housing for impingement on and entrainmenc of powder material in the lower housing portion interior volume, with the gas jet member depending downwardly from its upper inlet portion to a lower portion comprising said discharge means, and with said discharge means having a lower extremity which terminates within the upper housing portion interior volume; and
24 


 an exit port at the upper portion of the nebulizer housing, in transversely outwardly spaced relationship to the gas jet member, for discharge of solids-containing carrier gas from the nebulizer housing to an exterior treatment locus.
2. A nebulizer device according to Claim 1, further comprising a breathing circuit including a ventilator, coupled to the exit port.
3. A nebulizer device according to Claim 1, further comprising means for flowing gas from a pressurized source to the gas jet member upper inlet portion to aerosolize the nebulizable powdered medication.
4. A nebulizer device according to Claim 3, further comprising a pressurized gas source and a flow meter which controls the rate of gas flow to the nebulizer device thereby determining the rate of nebulization.
5. A nebulizer device according to Claim 1, further comprising ventilator means, ventilator gas communicating means, and an endotracheal tube constituting a gas flow circuit, wherein the nebulizer device is interposed between the ventilator means and endotracheal tube.
6. A nebulizer device comprising:
25 


 a nebulizer housing having a generally conical-shaped or funicular lower housing portion defining an interior volume enclosed by the housing;
a gas jet member at an upper portion of the housing, extending through the housing, comprising a first, upper gas jet member with an upper inlet portion coupleable to a source of carrier gas, and a lower portion forming a discharge passage and a second gas jet member, with the second gas jet member coaxially disposed in closed flow communication with the first gas jet member, with the second gas jet member having an upper portion defining a receiving volume for receiving carrier gas discharged from the discharge passage of the first gas jet member, wherein the receiving volume is of greater transverse cross-section than the discharge passage of the first gas jet member, and the second gas jet member defines a lower discharge passage, which is of a substantially reduced transverse cross-section relative to the receiving volume, for directing gas downwardly to the lower extremity of the conical-shaped or funicular lower portion of the nebulizer housing; and
an exit port at the upper portion of the nebulizer housing, in transversely outwardly spaced relationship to the gas jet member, for discharge of solids-containing carrier gas from the nebulizer housing to an exterior treatment
26 


locus .
7. A nebulizer device according to Claim 1, wherein the interior volume of the conical-shaped or funicular lower portion of the nebulizer housing is devoid of any flow passage means therein.
8. A method of forming a solid particle dispersion in a carrier gas stream, for delivery to a patient, said method comprising the steps of:
providing a nebulizer housing defining an enclosed interior volume and comprising (i) a generally conical-shaped or funicular lower housing portion containing particulate solid to be dispersed, in the lower housing portion interior volume, and (ii) an upper housing portion;
introducing the carrier gas stream to the upper housing portion interior volume, and forming the carrier gas stream into a jet of carrier gas in said upper housing portion interior volume by passing the carrier gas stream in said upper housing portion interior volume through a first nozzle, expanding the gas from the first nozzle in an expansion zone, and passing expanded gas from the expansion zone through a second nozzle to discharge the gas in a jet, wherein the transverse cross-section of the expansion zone is substantially greater than the transverse cross-section of
27 


the first nozzle, and the transverse cross-section of the second nozzle is substantially less than the transverse cross-section of the expansion zone;
directing the jet of carrier gas downwardly from the upper housing portion interior volume where it has been formed by gas passage through the first nozzle, expansion zone, and second nozzle, toward the lower housing portion comprising the lower extremity of the generally conical- shaped or funicular receptacle, to entrain particles of the particulate solid in the gas; and
discharging particulate solids-containing gas from the receptacle.
9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the gas is taken from the interior volume and channeled to the carrier gas being passed through the first nozzle, then expanded and passed through the second nozzle, for entrainment in said carrier gas, to produce a gas jet flow stream of selected velocity and pressure characteristics.
10. Apparatus for forming a solid particle dispersion in a carrier gas stream, said apparatus comprising:
a generally conical-shaped or funicular receptacle means containing particulate solid to be dispensed;
28 


 a gas jet member which directs a jet of carrier gas downwardly toward the lower extremity of the generally conical-shaped or funicular receptacle to entrain particles of the particulate solid in the gas, wherein the gas jet member comprises a first, upper gas jet member with a discharge passage and a second gas jet member disposed in closed flow communication with the first gas jet member, with the second gas jet member having an upper portion defining a receiving volume for receiving carrier gas discharged from the discharge passage of the first gas jet member, and wherein the receiving volume is of substantially greater transverse cross-section than the discharge passage of the first gas jet member, and the second gas jet member defines a lower discharge passage which is of substantially reduced transverse cross-section, relative to the receiving volume; and
means for discharging particulate solids-containing gas from the receptacle.
11. A nebulizer device comprising:
a nebulizer housing having a generally conical-shaped or funicular lower housing portion defining an interior volume enclosed by the housing;
29 


 a gas jet member at the upper portion of the housing, extending through the housing, with an upper inlet portion coupleable to a source of compressed carrier gas, and a lower portion forming a discharge structure for directing gas downwardly to the lower extremity of the conical-shaped or funicular lower portion of the nebulizer housing;
an exit port at the upper portion of the nebulizer housing, in transversely outwardly spaced relationship to the gas jet member, for discharge of solids-containing carrier gas from the nebulizer housing to an exterior treatment locus; and
passage means for receiving gas from the interior volume and channeling same to the discharge structure for entrainment in the gas directed from the discharge structure.
12. A nebulizer device according to Claim 6, further comprising passage means for receiving gas from the interior volume and channeling same to the discharge structure for entrainment in the gas directed from the discharge structure.
13. A nebulizer device according to Claim 12, wherein the passage means comprise a chamber defining a plenum, with an inlet port communicating in gas flow relationship with the interior volume of the housing, and with an outlet port communicating with the second gas jet member to cooperatively
30 


form a gas discharge jet structure therewith.
14. A nebulizer device according to Claim 10, further comprising means for channeling gas from the receptacle means to the gas jet member for entrainment of channeled gas in discharged particulate solids-containing gas.
15. A method according to claim 8, wherein the step of providing a jet of carrier gas comprises providing a flow rate of gas from about 0.5 to about 2 liters per minute.
16. A method according to claim 8, comprising fabricating the nebulizer housing such that the interior volume enclosed by the nebulizer housing is devoid of baffling therein.
17. A nebulizer device according to claim 1, wherein the interior volume enclosed by the nebulizer housing is devoid of baffling means therein.
18. A nebulizer device according to claim 1, wherein the gas jet member is generally co-axially aligned with the cone-shaped or funicular lower portion of the nebulizer housing.
19. A nebulizer device according to claim 1, wherein the gas jet member is positioned in the upper housing portion
31 


interior volume in off-center relationship to the central axis of the cone-shaped or funicular lower portion of the nebulizer housing.
20. A nebulizer device according to claim 1, wherein the nebulizer housing is constructed of a material of construction which is at least partially light-transmissive in character.
21. A nebulizer device according to claim 10, wherein the gas discharge passages of the first gas jet member and the second gas jet member are coaxially aligned with one another.
22. A nebulizer device according to claim 10, wherein the gas discharge passages of the first gas jet member and the second gas jet member are non-coaxial in orientation to one another.
32 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
