<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643840</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SAMPLING AND DETERMINING THE PRESENCE OF COMPOUNDS IN CONTAINERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07C534	B07C534	B08B908	B08B946	B29B1700	B29B1700	B29B1702	B29B1702	G01N100	G01N100	G01N122	G01N122	G01N124	G01N124	G01N2164	G01N2164	G01N2176	G01N2176	G01N2188	G01N2190	G01N3300	G01N3300	G01N3344	G01N3344	G01N3502	G01N3502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07C	B07C	B08B	B08B	B29B	B29B	B29B	B29B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07C5	B07C5	B08B9	B08B9	B29B17	B29B17	B29B17	B29B17	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a method and apparatus for sampling and determining the presence of certain substances, such as residues of contaminants in containers. The method includes steps of: injecting compressed air into said containers in order to displace at least a portion of the contents thereof; evacuating a sample of the container contents so displaced by applying suction thereto; and analyzing the sample evacuated to determine the presence or absence of the certain residues therein. The compressed air is injected through a nozzle into an opening in the containers to displace a portion of the container contents and form a sample cloud outside of the container. The sample cloud is then at least partially evacuated by suction and the sample is analyzed for the presence of contaminants such as nitrogen containing compounds or hydrocarbons. In one embodiment about 90 % of the sample evacuated is diverted from the analyzer and recirculated into the air injector. In another embodiment a fan is provided to blow remnants of the sample cloud downstream of the test station. A hood may be provided in a shroud assembly at the test station to provide proper aerodynamics for the region for removal of those remnants.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COCA COLA CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINE DAVID H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRAIM FREEMAN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACDONALD STEPHEN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THRASH KENNETH M JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINE, DAVID, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRAIM, FREEMAN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACDONALD, STEPHEN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THRASH, KENNETH, M., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SAMPLING AND DETERMINING THE PRESENCE OF COMPOUNDS IN CONTAINERSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to an inspection system for sampling and determining the presence of certain substances, such as residues of contaminants within containers such as glass or plastic bottles. More specifically, the present invention relates to an improved sampling and analyzing system and method for determining the presence of substances such as residues of contaminants, as in containers such as beverage bottles rapidly moving along a conveyor past a test station in a container sorting system.In many industries, including the beverage industry, products are packaged in containers which are returned after use, washed and refilled. Typically refillable containers, such as beverage bottles, are made of glass which can be easily cleaned. These containers are washed and then inspected for the presence of foreign matter.Glass containers have the disadvantage of being fragile and, in larger volumes, of being relatively heavy. Accordingly, it is highly desirable to use plastic containers because they are less fragile and lighter than glass 

containers of the same volume. However, plastic materials tend to absorb a variety of organic compounds which may later be desorbed into the product thereby potentially adversely affecting the quality of the product packed in the container. Examples of such organic compounds are nitrogen containing compounds such as ammonia, organic nitrogen compounds, and hydrocarbons including gasoline and various cleaning fluids.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Accordingly, it is a primary object of the present invention to provide a method and system for detecting the presence or absence of specific substances - e.g., contaminants such as hydrocarbons, in materials as the materials move rapidly along a conveyor.It is another object of the present invention to provide a system and method for sampling and analyzing residues in containers as they move along a conveyor without stopping the movement of the containers or impeding the movement in any way in order that high speed sampling rates of about 200 to 1000 bottles per minute may be achieved. It is still another object of the present invention to provide a system and method for sampling and analyzing residues in containers moving along a conveyor without contacting the container being tested with any of the sampling and analyzing mechanisms. It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a system and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 NE CLAIMS
1. A method of sampling and determining the presence of certain substances in a container comprising the steps of: displacing a portion of the container contents to form a sample cloud at a region outside of the container adjacent the opening thereof; and analyzing the sample cloud outside of the container to determine the presence or absence of the certain substances therein.
2. The method of claim 93 wherein the step of displacing is performed by injecting fluid into an opening in said container in order to displace at least a portion of the contents thereof to form the sample cloud at a region outside of the container adjacent the opening thereof.
3. The method of claim 94 including the further step of: moving a plurality of open containers seriatim past a test station, and fluid is continuously flowed at the test station and suction is continuously applied to evacuate samples as the containers move through said test station.
4. The method of claim 94 including the further step of moving a plurality of open top containers seriatim past a test station and fluid is continuously flowed at the test station.
5. The method of claim 94 wherein the injecting step displaces volatile substances from said container.
6. The method of claim 94 wherein the flow of injected fluid and/or the application of suction are pulsed.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


7. The method of claim 98 wherein the initiation of the step of injecting the fluid precedes the initiation of the step of evacuating.
8. The method of claim 99 wherein the performance of the steps of injecting and evacuating overlap in time.
9. The method of claim 99 wherein the step of injecting is terminated before initiation of the step of evacuating.
10. The method of claim 98 wherein the steps of injecting and evacuating are synchronized to occur simultaneously for the same duration.
11. The method of claim 102 wherein the fluid injected is compressed air.
12. The method of claim 101 wherein the fluid injected is compressed air.
13. The method of claim 100 wherein the fluid injected is compressed air.
14. The method of claim 98 wherein the fluid injected is compressed air.
15. The method of claim 94 wherein the fluid injected is compressed air.
16. The method of claim 94 including the further step of heating the injected fluid before injection into the container opening.
17. The method of claim 94 wherein said step of analyzing includes the steps of:
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 heating the sample evacuated; mixing the heated sample with ozone to cause a chemical reaction therewith in order to generate chemiluminescence of the reactants; and optically analyzing radiation emitted by chemiluminescence to determine the presence or absence of said certain residues.
18. The method of claim 109 wherein the certain substances include nitrogen containing compounds, the step of heating heats the sample to a temperature in a range from about 800"C to 1400"C of to form nitric oxide, and the ozone chemically reacts with the nitric oxide to generate the chemiluminescence.
19. The method of claim 94 including the further steps of: diverting a first portion of the sample; and analyzing a second portion of the sample evacuated to determine the presence or absence of the certain substances therein.
20. The method of claim 111 wherein the first portion of said sample diverted is about 90% of the sample evacuated and the second portion of the sample analyzed is about 10% thereof.
21. The method of claim 111 including the further step of recirculating the diverted first portion into the fluid being injected into successive containers arriving at the test station.
22. The method of claim 94 wherein said step of analyzing includes the steps of: illuminating the sample with radiant energy to generate fluorescence in the sample; and
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 analyzing radiation emitted by said fluorescence to determine the presence or absence of said certain substances in the sample.
23. The method of claim 114 wherein the sample is selectively illuminated to fluoresce any aromatic hydrocarbons therein.
24. A method according to claim 94 for sampling and determining the presence of certain substances in a plurality of containers moving seriatim on a conveyor past at least two test stations comprising the steps of: simultaneously injecting fluid into a container at each of said two test stations to displace at least a portion of the contents of each container to form sample clouds; evacuating a sample of said portion of each container contents so displaced by applying suction thereto; simultaneously analyzing the samples evacuated from both of said at least two containers to determine the presence or absence of the certain substances therein; moving the at least two containers downstream of the at least two test stations with the steps of injecting and evacuating being terminated; and repeating said steps, of injecting, evacuating and analyzing when the next successive upstream group of at least two containers moves into alignment with said at least two test stations.
25. A system for sampling and determining the presence of certain residues in containers comprising: means for injecting fluid into openings in said containers in order to displace at least a portion of the contents thereof to form a sample cloud at regions outside of the containers;
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 means for evacuating a sample of said portion of the contents of each container so displaced by applying suction to the sample cloud; means for supporting said means for evacuating outside of said containers in spaced relationship from the openings thereof; and means for analyzing the sample evacuated to determine the presence or absence of the certain residues therein.
26. The system of claim 117 further including means for moving said containers seriatim past a test station, and control means constraining said means for injecting to continuously inject said fluid and constraining said means for evacuating to continuously apply suction to said regions as the containers move through said test station.
27. The system of claim 117 further including control means for initiating the injection of the fluid before initiating the evacuation of the fluid.
28. The system of claim 119 wherein the control means constrains the operation of the injecting means and evacuating means to overlap in time.
29. The system of claim 119 wherein the control means terminates the operation of the means for injecting before initiation of the means for evacuating.
30. The system of claim 117 wherein the control means synchronizes the injecting and evacuating means so that injection and evacuation occur simultaneously for the same duration.
31. A system according to claim 117 further comprising: means for diverting a first portion of the sample; and
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 means for analyzing a second portion of the sample evacuated to determine the presence or absence of the certain residues therein.
32. The system of claim 123 further including control means constraining said means for injecting to continuously inject said fluid and constraining said means for evacuating to continuously apply suction to said regions as the containers move through said test station.
33. The system of claim 123 further including means for recirculating said diverted first portion into successive containers to arrive at the test station.
34. The system of claim 125 further including control means for initiating the injection of the fluid before initiating the evacuation of the fluid.
35. The system of claim 126 wherein the control means constrains the operation of the injecting means and evacuating means to overlap in time.
36. The system of claim 126 wherein control means terminates the operation of the means for injecting before initiation of the means for evacuating.
37. The system of claim 123 wherein the control means synchronizes the injecting and evacuating means so that injection and evacuation occur simultaneously for the same duration.
38. The system of claim 123 further including means for directing a stream of air into the region of the test station as each container leaves the test station to remove any
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


residual cloud of that container's contents before successive containers to be tested arrive at the test station.
39. The system of claim 123 wherein said means for analyzing comprises: means for heating the sample evacuated to about 800 to 1400"C; means for mixing the heated sample with ozone to cause a chemical reaction therewith in order to generate chemiluminescence of the reactants; and means for optically analyzing radiation emitted by chemiluminescence to determine the presence or absence of said certain residues.
40. The system of claim 117 wherein said means for analyzing comprises: means for heating the sample evacuated to about 800 to 1400
β
C; means for mixing the heated sample with ozone to cause a chemical reaction therewith in order to generate chemiluminescence of the reactants; and means for optically analyzing radiation emitted by chemiluminescence to determine the presence or absence of said certain residues.
41. Apparatus for sampling and determining the presence of certain residues in containers moving through a test station comprising: means for injecting fluid into openings in said containers in order to displace at least a portion of the contents thereof; means for evacuating a sample of said portion of the container contents so displaced by applying suction thereto; means for supporting both the means for injecting and evacuating outside of said containers in spaced relationship
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


from the openings thereof, said means for injecting displacing said portion of the contents to form a sample cloud at regions outside of the containers adjacent the openings thereof, and said means for evacuating applying suction to the sample cloud in said regions outside of said containers; means for directing a stream of air into said regions as each container leaves the test station to remove any residual portions of the sample cloud of that container's contents before successive containers to be tested arrive at the test station; and means for analyzing the sample evacuated to determine the presence or absence of certain residues therein.
42. The apparatus of claim 133 further including a hood disposed over and partially enclosing the test station, said hood having a substantially continuous curved surface defining a tunnel through which said containers may pass, said air-directing means operable to pass an air stream through said tunnel and along said curved surface to remove residual portions of the sample cloud, which have not been evacuated, from the regions at said test station.
43. The apparatus of claim 134 further comprising: a shroud enclosing at least a portion of said means for evacuating in an upper portion thereof which defines a substantially closed chamber; fan means disposed within said chamber for pressurizing the chamber with air; and louver means in the bottom of said chamber for creating said stream of air directed into said region by directing air from said fan means out of said chamber and through said tunnel.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


44. The apparatus of claim 135 wherein the curved surface defining the tunnel of said hood is disposed on the bottom of the top portion of said shroud in fluid communication with said louver means.
45. The apparatus of claim 136 wherein said louver means includes a plate removably mounted in an aperture defined by a wall of said chamber and at least one louver for directing the air stream in a first predetermined direction through said tunnel, the louver means being reversible in the aperture in order to facilitate direction of said stream of air through the tunnel in a direction opposite to said first direction.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
