<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615200</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and methods for management of electronic modelling systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3023	G06F3023	G06F1724	G06F3048	G06F1724	G06F3048	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F17	G06F3	G06F17	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic modelling system (200) includes a 
scenario manager (320) having a preferred interface and 

methods (500) for creating and managing various 
versions or "scenarios" of a model. Means are provided 

for specifying an area of the model to track (capture 
area) and capturing various versions (modifications) of 

the base model. Additional means (421, 423, 425, 427) 
are provided for automatically identifying and 

reporting information cells which are affected 
("changing" and "result" cells) from version to 

version. Preferred storage methodology (508) is also 
described for maintaining multiple versions of a model. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INPRISE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INPRISE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMMIRATO JOSEPH MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEACOCK GAVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMMIRATO, JOSEPH MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEACOCK, GAVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A portion of the disclosure of this patent
document contains material which is subject to
copyright protection. The copyright owner has no
objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of
the patent document or the patent disclosure as it
appears in the Patent Office file, but otherwise
reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.The present invention relates generally to the
field of processing by digital computers and is more
particularly applicable to the processing and
presentation of information associated with the man-machine
interface of electronic modelling systems.In the control of processes, there are a variety
of processes, such as industrial processes or processes
such as the calculation of spreadsheets, in which
actions within and produced by the process are defined
by a model and that model may involve the interaction
of many related sub-models or formulae, including ones
dependent upon input values, e.g. supplied by a user.
The output of the system may be a control signal for
use in process control or it may simply be a display of
the current model state. In these complex situations,
the end result may be one that is undesirable, even for
some, otherwise, acceptable input values. Provision
can thus be made for a user interface by which various
actions of the process can be tested by "what-if"
scenarios. One well known example is found in
spreadsheets, so the following description will, in the
main, use spreadsheets as examples of modelled
processes involving a man/machine interface that
requires design effort to achieve efficient machine
usage or process control.Before computers, numerical analyses, particularly 
financial ones, were usually prepared on an
accountant's columnar pad or spreadsheet, with pencil
and calculator in hand. By organizing data into
columns and rows, spreadsheets afford the rapid
assimilation of information, but the process tends to
be very slow, as each entry must be tediously
calculated and entered into the spreadsheet. Since all
calculations are the responsibility of the preparer,
manually prepared spreadsheets are also prone to
errors. Hence, preparation of spreadsheets by hand is
slow, tedious, and unreliable.With the advent of microcomputers, a solution
was forthcoming in the form of "electronic
spreadsheets." Better known simply as "spreadsheets,"
these software programs provide a computerized
alternative for the traditional financial modelling
tools: the accountant's columnar pad, pencil, and
calculator. In some regards, spreadsheet programs are
to those
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for automatically tracking
different versions of a data model in an electronic

modelling system for modelling information put into a
data model, the system comprising electronic means

(102) arranged to store a model in the form of a
plurality of interrelated information locations, the

system being characterised by:

means (104, 105) for specifying a base set of
said information locations which serves as a base case

for the data model for the system to track changes;
means (104, 105, 152) for creating a new
version of the data model by modifying the contents of

at least one of the information locations in the base
set; and
comparison means (152) for determining which
ones of the information locations in the new version

have changed from the base set
by comparing the content of locations in the new version against

corresponding ones in the base set.
A system according to claim 1, wherein
the modelling system is a spreadsheet system and the

information locations are cells.
A system according to claim 1, wherein
the means for specifying a base set includes input

device means (104, 105) for entering a selected one of
a block of locations, a spreadsheet of locations, and a

plurality of spreadsheets.
A system according to any one of claims 1
to 3, wherein the means for creating a new version

includes input means (104, 105) for entering new values
into at least one of the information locations.
A system according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the interrelations are

defined by formulae in some of the locations.
A system according to claim 5, wherein
the comparison means includes means for comparing each 

location in the new version against a corresponding one
in the base set, whereby a non-formula location having

a changed value is identified as a changing location.
A system according to claim 6, wherein
the comparison means further includes means for

determining which ones of the information locations
change in response to changes in said identified

changing location.
A system according to claim 7, and
comprising display means (106) for highlighting

changing and result locations.
A system according to any one of the
preceding claims, comprising input means (104) for

entering a user-specified name for each new version.
A system according to any one of the
preceding claims, and comprising means arranged to

store the locations of the base set of the model as a
plurality of location records and, for each new version

created, to store only records for changing locations.
A method for automatically tracking
different versions of a data model in an electronic

modelling system for modelling information input into a
data model comprising a plurality of information

locations for which interrelations are definable by the
model system, the method being characterised by:


(a) specifying a base set of information
locations, which serves as a base case for the model,

for the system to track changes;
(b) creating a new version of the data model
by modifying the contents of at least one information

location from the specified base set; and
(c) automatically determining those
locations of the data model which have changed by

comparing the content of locations in the new version
against corresponding ones in the base set.
A method according to claim 11, wherein 
step (a) comprises:


selecting a capture area comprising
information locations which the system is automatically

to track; and
capturing as the base set information in the
capture area which the user desires to serve as a

reference against which new versions are compared.
A method according to claim 11 or 12,
wherein the modelling system is a spreadsheet system

and the information locations are cells.
A method according to claims 12 and 13,
wherein selecting the capture area includes selecting

one of a spreadsheet cell block, a two-dimensional
matrix of cells (page), and a three-dimensional matrix

of cells (notebook).
A method according to claim 12 or 13,
wherein selecting the capture area includes determining

a set of information locations or cells selected to
include locations or cells which are to be modified by

external input to the modelling system.
A method according to any one of claims
11 to 15, wherein step (b) includes entering new values

into at least one of the information locations from the
base set.
A method according to any one of claims
11 to 16, wherein the interrelations are defined by

formulae in some of the locations.
A method according to claim 17, wherein
step (c) includes:


comparing non-formula containing information
locations in the new version against corresponding

locations in the base set, whereby locations of the new
version which have changed in value are identified as

changing locations; and
comparing formula information locations in
the new version against corresponding locations in the 

base set, whereby ones of the new version which have
changed in value are identified as result locations.
A method according to claim 17, wherein
step (c) includes:


(i) comparing non-formula information
locations in the new version against corresponding ones

in the base set, whereby ones of the new version which
have changed in value are identified as changing

locations; and
(ii) of the information cells which are not
changing locations, determining ones which change value

as a result of the changes in the changing locations,
whereby ones which have changed value are identified as

result locations.
A method according to claim 19, wherein
each result location includes a direct or an indirect

reference to at least one changing location.
A method according to claim 19 or 20,
wherein the determination of result locations in

substep (ii) is limited to examining only locations
which store formulae.
A method according to any one of claims
18 to 21, and comprising indicating said changing

locations and said result locations to the user.
A method according to claim 22, wherein
the indicating step includes use of a screen by

displaying the changing locations with a first screen
highlight and displaying said result locations with a

second screen highlight.
A method according to claim 23 and
comprising selectively disabling screen highlighting

from desired ones of said changing and result
locations.
A method according to any one of claims
11 to 24 and comprising:


(d) capturing the new version as a user-nameable 
scenario.
A method according to claim 25 and
comprising:


(e) repeating steps (b) - (d), whereby a
plurality of scenarios is captured.
A method according to claim 26 and
comprising:


(f) storing the base set together with the
plurality of captured scenarios on a storage device.
A method according to claim 27, wherein
step (f) includes storing the information locations

from the base set of the data model as a plurality of
location records and, for each new version created by

the user, only storing records for the determined
changing locations.
A method according to claim 28, wherein
each location record stores location information,

location position and location attributes.
A method according to claim 28, wherein
each record stored for a determined changing location

stores new information, location position, location
attributes and a version identifier.
A method according to claim 11, wherein
step (a) further comprises:


maintaining the base set as ordered
information on a storage device; and step (b) further

comprises:
for each new version of the spreadsheet
model:


(i) determining portions of the new
version which have changed when compared against the

base set, and
(ii) maintaining the new version by
storing additional information for only those portions

determined to have changed.
A method according to claim 31, wherein 
said spreadsheet model maintains information in a

plurality of information cells, wherein said ordered
information includes a first set of data records

describing information cells of the base set, and
wherein said additional information includes a second

set of data records describing information cells for
only those portions of the new version determined to

have changed.
A method according to claim 32, wherein
each data record of the second set which describes an

information cell is a version record storing a changed
value for its cell.
A method according to claim 33, wherein
each version record further includes a cell location.
A method according to claim 33, wherein
each version record further includes an identifier

associating the record with a specific new version.
A method according to claim 33, wherein
version records for a new version are stored so that a

specific new version may be inferred.
A method according to claim 36, wherein
version records for a particular new version are

grouped as a discrete subset so that the version may be
inferred from the ordinal position of the subgroup

relative to other subgroups.
A method according to any one of claims
31 to 37 and comprising:


(c) repeating step (b) for multiple new
versions; and
(d) storing additional information for each
new version as a subsequent subset of said second set

of data records.
A method according to any one of claims
31 to 38, wherein said spreadsheet model maintains

information in a plurality of information cells, and
wherein the substep (i) includes comparing each 

information cell of the new version against a
corresponding one of the base version, whereby a

difference in value between the two cells is identified
as a change.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
