<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627071</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAMPLE NEBULIZER AND EVAPORATION CHAMBER FOR ICP AND MIP EMISSION OR MASS SPECTROMETRY AND SPECTROMETERS COMPRISING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N128	H01J4910	G01N100	H01J4910	G01N2171	G01N100	G01N128	G01N2171	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	H01J	G01N	H01J	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	H01J49	G01N1	H01J49	G01N21	G01N1	G01N1	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a nebulizer and spray chamber (3) for producing an aerosol (7) suitable for feeding into the plasma torch of an ICP or MIP emission or mass spectrometer. The aerosol (7) is subjected to rapid radiative heating (26) to evaporate the smaller droplets to dryness and preferably to cause the larger droplets to disintegrate into smaller droplets before they are completely evaporated. Nebulizer/spray chamber combinations according to the invention have higher sample transport efficiency than prior types. Optical and mass ICP and MIP spectrometers incorporating the nebulizer and spray chamber are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMO INSTR SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THERMO INSTRUMENT SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EASTGATE ALAN REUBEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL WILFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EASTGATE, ALAN, REUBEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL, WILFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a sample nebulizing and evaporation 
chamber device for producing from an analyte contained in a 
liquid an aerosol which may be fed to the plasma torch of an 
inductively-coupled plasma (ICP) or microwave-induced plasma 
(MIP) optical or mass spectrometer. Liquid samples comprising an analyte are conventionally 
introduced into the torch of an ICP or MIP spectrometer by 
means of a nebulizer which produces an aerosol of the liquid 
in an inert gas such as argon. Suitable concentric and 
cross-flow pneumatic nebulizers, ultrasonic nebulizers and 
thermospray nebulizers are described and compared by Sharp in 
J. Analytical and Atomic Spectrometry, 1988 vol 3 pp 613-652. 
Prior nebulizers typically produced aerosols which comprise 
droplets with diameters much greater than the optimum of less 
than 10 micron which is required for the plasma torch, so that 
it is conventional for the nebulizer to discharge into a spray 
chamber whose primary function is to remove the large droplets 
and which may also cause at least some desolvation of the 
smaller droplets. The design of spray chambers is discussed 
by Sharp in J. Analytical Atomic Spectrometry, 1988, vol 3 pp 
939-963. In a spray chamber, large droplets may be removed by inertial 
deposition which is a consequence of the pattern of flow in 
the chamber. The effect may be enhanced by causing the aerosol 
to impinge on a physical obstruction in its path or by 
otherwise causing the gas flow to abruptly change direction. 
However, this process results in loss of the analyte contained 
in the large droplets. Smaller droplets traversing the 
chamber may undergo evaporative loss and some will typically 
be evaporated to dryness. In prior nebulizer - spray chamber 
devices the process of droplet evaporation may be enhanced by  
 
heating the liquid prior to nebulization, by cooling the 
walls of the spray chamber, and by the use of a 
secondary condenser through which the aerosol passes 
after it has left the spray chamber. However, because 
the evaporation of liquid from droplets greater than 1 
or 2 microns in diameter is quite slow in comparison 
with the typical residence time in the spray chamber, 
the desolvation obtained in prior spray chambers is far 
from complete. Spray chambers having heated walls are disclosed by 
Thompson and Walsh in "A Handbook of ICP Spectrometry", 
published by Blackie, 1983, at p 69. These are 
unsatisfactory because of cross-contamination problems 
resulting from a build-up of analyte on the spray 
ch
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for producing an aerosol of desolvated 
analyte particles comprising a nebulizer (1) for 

producing droplets (7) of a carrier liquid containing an 
analyte, an evaporation chamber (3) bounded by a wall 

(4) for receiving said aerosol, means for subjecting the 
droplets (7) comprised in said aerosol in said 

evaporation chamber to rapid radiative heating to 
evaporate said carrier liquid from said droplets (7) 

during their passage through said evaporation chamber, 
and cooling means (2) for maintaining the temperature of 

said wall (4) below the boiling point of said carrier 
liquid at the pressure inside said evaporation chamber 

(3). 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the 
aerosol droplets (7) produced by the nebulizer (1) have 

a mean diameter of less than 50 microns and preferably 
less than 10 microns. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein 
the heating means is a heated body (24) disposed outside 

the evaporation chamber (3) and the wall (4) of the 
evaporation chamber (3) is at least partly transparent 

to the radiation therefrom, the temperature and material 
of the heated body (24) being selected to ensure that 

the droplets absorb the radiation and become heated. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein a 
cylindrical elliptical reflector (25) is provided to 

focus radiant energy from the heated body (24) disposed 
at one of its foci on to the evaporation chamber (3) 

disposed at the other.  
 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein the 
heating means comprises an elongate heating element (24) 

made of silicon carbide maintained at about 1350°C by 
the passage of an electrical current through it. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein 
the aerosol droplets (7) are heated by microwave energy. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the 
evaporation chamber is disposed in a tuned cavity (59) 

fed from a microwave power generator (60), wherein the 
frequency of operation is selected to coincide with 

strong absorption frequencies of the liquid. 
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, 
wherein the power of the radiative heating means (24, 

59) is sufficient to evaporate substantially all of the 
liquid from the droplets during their passage through 

the evaporation chamber (3). 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein said 
evaporation occurs in less than 100 ms and preferably in 

less than 50 ms. 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim 
wherein the aerosol is fed to a plasma torch (35) and a 

condenser means (18) is disposed between the exit of the 
evaporation chamber (3) and the plasma torch (35) to 

condense and remove liquid which has been vaporized in 
the evaporation chamber (3). 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein a 
second condenser means (19) of similar construction to 

the first but maintained at a lower temperature than the 
first is additionally provided between the exit of the 

first condenser means (18) and the plasma torch (35).  
 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein a filter (27) made of a material having the same 

or similar absorption characteristics as the chamber 
wall (4) material is disposed in the path of the 

radiation (26) from the source (24) to the evaporation 
chamber. 
An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the 
evaporation chamber wall (4) and the filter (27) are 

made from infra-red transmissive quartz. 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the cooling means comprises a fan (29). 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the cooling means comprises a water cooled heat 

sink (2). 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the chamber (3) comprises a tube disposed along 

an axis inclined at 20-30° from the vertical with an 
aerosol inlet and outlet (8) in the base of the tube and 

a drain at the lowest point of its base. 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the radiated heat supplied to the droplets is 

sufficient to cause at least some of the droplets (56, 
57) to be physically disrupted into smaller droplets 

(58). 
An apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the 
smaller droplets (58) produced thereby are completely 

evaporated in the evaporation chamber (3). 
An ICP or MIP optical or mass spectrometer in which 
the apparatus for producing an aerosol of desolvated 

analyte is according to any preceding claim.  
 
A method of producing an aerosol comprising small 
particles of an analyte in a flow of inert gas for an 

ICP or MIP torch, the method comprising the steps of: 

a) nebulizing a liquid containing said analyte to 
produce an aerosol comprising droplets (7) of said 

liquid entrained in said flow of inert gas; 
b) passing the droplets (7) into a chamber (3) and 
rapidly heating the droplets (7) comprising said 

aerosol by radiant energy to evaporate 
substantially all the liquid therefrom, thereby 

producing said aerosol comprising small particles; 
and 
c) cooling the walls (4) of the chamber such that the 
vapour produced by evaporation of said liquid in 

step b) is condensed and removed from said aerosol. 
A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein there is 
provided sufficient heat in step b) for at least some of 

the droplets (56, 57) present in the aerosol produced by 
the nebulizer to be disrupted into smaller droplets 

(58), each containing a proportion of the analyte 
originally contained in the droplet (56, 57) prior to 

its disruption. 
A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the 
smaller droplets (58) produced thereby are completely 

evaporated in the evaporation chamber (3). 
A method as claimed in any of claims 20, 21 or 22, 
wherein substantially all of the liquid from the 

droplets (7) is evaporated in less than 100 ms and most 
preferably in less than 50 ms.  

 
A method as claimed in any of claims 20 to 23, 
wherein the liquid is aqueous and droplets (7) of less 

than 10 microns in diameter are evaporated to dryness in 
10 ms or less. 
A method of analyzing an analyte in a liquid by ICP 
or MIP optical or mass spectrometry wherein said liquid 

is converted to an aerosol by the method of any of 
claims 20 to 24 and the aerosol so produced is conveyed 

to the plasma torch of an ICP or MIP spectrometer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
