<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Moisture management hat.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41B900	A41B902	A41B912	A41B1100	A41B1100	A41B1102	A41C300	A41C300	A41D3100	A41D3102	A42C500	A42C502	A43B2300	A43B2326	A61F1300	A61F1300	A61F1315	A61F1315	D04B122	D04B126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41B	A41C	A41C	A41D	A41D	A42C	A42C	A43B	A43B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	D04B	D04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41B9	A41B9	A41B9	A41B11	A41B11	A41B11	A41C3	A41C3	A41D31	A41D31	A42C5	A42C5	A43B23	A43B23	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	D04B1	D04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A moisture management hat (10) is constructed of a 
shell fabric (5) and includes a moisture management band 

(12). The moisture management band (12) is located along 
an inside perimeter (14) of the hat (10) for residing 

next to at least the forehead of the wearer during 
garment wear. The moisture management band includes a 

first, moisture wicking fabric layer (16) having a 
skin-side surface (16a) and a shell-side surface (16b). 

The first fabric layer (16) is constructed of hydrophobic 
fibers for residing nearest the head of the wearer for 

moving moisture outwardly away from the head. A second, 
moisture dispersal fabric layer (17) having a skin-side 

surface (17a) and a shell-side surface (17b) resides 
adjacent to the shell-sides surface (16b) of the first 

fabric layer (16). The second fabric layer (17) is 
constructed of hydrophilic fibers for receiving and 

dispersing moisture wicked outwardly by the first fabric 
layer (16). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTELPRO CORP A DELAWARE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTELPRO CORP A DELAWARE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIER DANIEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETZ HERBERT LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIER DANIEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETZ HERBERT LYNN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to moisture management hats. 
This invention also concerns moisture management systems 
for hats. The invention is applicable to hats of all 
styles and designs, and is especially suited for hats 
worn primarily outdoors where the wearer is more likely 
to perspire. Heavy perspiration on the brow and forehead often 
results from physical activity in a warm environment. 
During such activity, particularly outdoors, many people 
choose to wear a hat. For those people with a receding 
hairline or baldness, the need for a good, comfortable 
hat is all but essential for obtaining suitable relief 
from the heat, and sun exposure to the head. Moreover, 
as the awareness and concern of skin cancer steadily 
increases, people will further appreciate the benefit of 
wearing proper headgear during outdoor activities. Thus, 
there exists a need for an improved hat which effectively 
handles moisture from the head of the wearer, and draws 
the moisture outwardly away from the head to a drier area 
of the hat for evaporation. Conventional hat designs are inadequate for  
 
managing perspiration. Typically, as the wearer begins 
to perspire, moisture is absorbed directly into the outer 
shell fabric of the hat or into the bill of the hat where 
it remains for several hours during and after wear. This 
is not only uncomfortable to the wearer, but can also 
damage and stain the hat. It is an object of this invention to obviate and/or 
mitigate this disadvantage. According to one aspect of the invention, there is 
provided a moisture management hat constructed of a shell 
fabric and comprising a moisture management band located 
along an inside perimeter of the hat for residing next to 
at least the forehead of the wearer during garment wear, 
said moisture management band comprising: 
(a) a first, moisture wicking fabric layer having 
a skin-side surface and a shell-side surface, said first 
fabric layer constructed of hydrophobic fibers for 
residing nearest the head of the wearer for moving 
moisture outwardly away from the head; and (b) a second, moisture dispersal fabric layer 
having a skin-side surface and a shell-side surface, said 
second fabric layer residing adjacent to the shell-side 
surface of said first fabric layer and constructed of 
hydrophilic fibers for receiving and dispersing moisture 
wicked outwardly by said first fabric layer. The embodiments disclosed below provide a moisture  
 
management hat constructed of a shell fabric and 
including a moisture management band. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A moisture management hat constructed of a shell 
fabric and comprising a moisture management band located 

along an inside perimeter of the hat for residing next to 
at least the forehead of the wearer during garment wear, 

said moisture management band comprising: 

(a) a first, moisture wicking fabric layer having 
a skin-side surface and a shell-side surface, said first 

fabric layer constructed of hydrophobic fibers for 
residing nearest the head of the wearer for moving 

moisture outwardly away from the head; and 
(b) a second, moisture dispersal fabric layer 
having a skin-side surface and a shell-side surface, said 

second fabric layer residing adjacent to the shell-side 
surface of said first fabric layer and constructed of 

hydrophilic fibers for receiving and dispersing moisture 
wicked outwardly by said first fabric layer. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 1, 
wherein said first and second fabric layers are 

integrally knit. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 2, 
wherein the skin side surface of said first fabric layer 

 
is brushed to raise the hydrophobic fibers and enhance 

the outward movement of moisture along the fibers. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 2 or 
3, further comprising a third fabric layer having a 

skin-side surface and a shell-side surface, said third 
fabric layer being integrally knit with said first and 

second fabric layers and residing substantially adjacent 
to the shell-side surface of said second fabric layer; 

said third fabric layer constructed of hydrophilc fibers 
for further receiving and dispersing moisture moved 

outwardly by said first and second fabric layers. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 4, 
wherein the shell-side surface of said third fabric layer 

is brushed to increase the quantity of hydrophilic fiber 
ends extending from said moisture management band, 

thereby increasing the fabric surface area available for 
air exposure and enhancing the evaporation of moisture 

from said moisture management band. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 1, 
further comprising a moisture transport insert located 

generally at an inside front crown portion of said hat 
and having a lower section residing adjacent to the 

shell-side surface of the second fabric layer of the 
 

moisture management band, said moisture transport insert 
comprising a first fabric layer having a skin-side 

surface and a shell-side surface, said first fabric layer 
constructed of hydrophobic wicking fibers for moving 

moisture outwardly and upwardly away from the forehead of 
the wearer. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 6, 
wherein said moisture transport insert further comprises 

a second fabric layer having a skin-side surface and a 
shell-side surface, said second fabric layer being 

integrally knit with said first fabric layer of said 
moisture transport insert and residing adjacent to the 

shell-side surface of said first fabric layer; said 
second fabric layer constructed of hydrophilic fibers for 

moving moisture outwardly away from the forehead and 
upwardly towards the front crown portion of the hat for 

dispersal and evaporation. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 7, 
wherein said moisture transport insert further comprises 

a third fabric layer having a skin-side surface and a 
shell-side surface, said third fabric layer being 

integrally knit with said first and second fabric layers 
of said moisture transport insert and residing adjacent 

to the shell-side surface of said second fabric layer; 
 

said third fabric layer constructed of hydrophilic fibers 
for moving moisture outwardly away from the forehead and 

upwardly towards the front crown portion of the hat for 
dispersal and evaporation. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 8, 
wherein the shell-side surface of said third fabric layer 

is brushed to increase the quantity of hydrophilic fiber 
ends extending from said moisture transport insert, 

thereby increasing the fabric surface area available for 
air exposure and enhancing the evaporation of moisture 

from said moisture transport insert. 
A moisture management hat according to any 
preceding claim, wherein the shell fabric of said hat 

comprises a first moisture evaporation panel located on a 
front crown portion of said hat, said first evaporation 

panel constructed of an air permeable, relatively open 
knit or woven fabric. 
A moisture management hat according to claim 10, 
wherein the shell fabric of said hat further comprises a 

second moisture evaporation panel located along the 
perimieter of said hat generally adjacent to said 

moisture management band, said second moisture 
evaporation panel constructed of an air permeable, 

relatively open knit or woven fabric. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
