<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644830</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INK JET PRINTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J360	B41J1516	B41J1100	B41J1516	B41J360	B41J2045	B41J202	B41J2045	B41J2015	B41J1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J3	B41J15	B41J11	B41J15	B41J3	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIGNTECH USA LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIGNTECH USA, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLAUSER MYLES F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANDY JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICKISH DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLAUSER, MYLES, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANDY, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICKISH, DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to ink jet printer
systems for reproducing and enlarging color images. A
scanner electronically scans an original color image to
develop electrical signals representing that image
which are then used to control the paint spraying of
the larger duplicate image. More particularly, but not
by way of limitation, the ink jet printer of the
present invention is a large format printer designed
for producing color reproductions on an imaging medium
for numerous interior and exterior uses including, but
not limited to: signs, fleet graphics, backdrops,
illuminated panels, architectural displays, and
billboards.With the development of scanning techniques
capable of accurately reducing a color image to a
series of electrical signals, systems using those
signals to reproduce photos, pictures, and the like
into enlarged images for use on signs, billboards, etc.
have been developed. One such system is U.S. Patent
No. 3,553,371 issued on January 5, 1971 to Suenaga.
The Suenaga patent discloses a method for producing an
enlarged multi-colored print by scanning an original
picture. Electric signals representative of that
picture are produced and used to control the rate of
discharge of ink from a group of spray nozzles. Each
electrical signal corresponds to a pixel and represents
the density of ink to be applied to the paper. The
electrical signals vary ink density by controlling both
the amount of nozzle opening and the flow rate of
compressed air past the nozzle. As the nozzles are
opened, the variable stream of compressed air flows
past the nozzle, thereby picking up the ink and
applying it to the paper.The above method of paint density control
experiences problems in ink application. Densely
colored pixels require increased ink flow, accomplished 
through large nozzle openings and increased compressed
air flow rates. The expelled ink strikes the paper
with sufficient force to cause a paint mist to form
which settles back onto the paper in either previously
painted or unpainted pixels. The misted ink on the
paper may result in noticeable marks on the finished
image.Additionally, the mist settles on the nozzles,
resutling in a coloring problem. Excess ink on the
spray gun nozzles cause extra ink to be applied to the
paper during subsequent spray cycles. The excess ink
changes the color density of subsequent pixels. That
is, the actual color of the pixels is incorrent from
the desired color, thus changing the color of the
entire image. The color changes are noticeable to the
human eye and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for reproducing a single-sided image as
a first image on a first side of a substrate (13) and

as a second mirror, image on a second opposite, side
of said substrate (13), comprising:


a housing frame (12);
means (50,51) for generating control signals
representative of said single-sided image;
ink delivery means (23,25) which are positioned on
said first side and on said second, opposite, side of

said substrate (13), said ink delivery means (23,25)
fluidly communicating with an ink source;
means mounted on said frame for supporting said
ink delivery means;
means (55) mounted on said frame for driving
said ink delivery means relative to said substrate

(13); and
means (53), responsive to said control signals, for
controlling said ink delivery means to produce said

first image on said first side of said substrate and
said second, mirror, image on said second side of

said substrate.
The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising
scanning means for scanning said single-sided image

to be reproduced and supplying said control signal
generating means with said scanned signals, said

control signal generating means generating said
control signals from said scanned signals.
The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising
means mounted on said frame (12) for supporting said

substrate (13).
The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said means
for supporting said substrate comprises a support 

roller (14,15), a guide roller (16,17), and a drive
roller (19,20) mounted on said frame.
The apparatus according to claim 3 further comprising
means mounted on said frame for transporting said

substrate relative to said ink delivery means.
The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said means

for controlling said ink delivery means further
controls said means for driving said substrate

relative to said ink delivery means.
The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said means
for driving said substrate comprises a motor for

driving said drive roller in response to signals from
said means for controlling said ink delivery means.
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said ink
delivery means comprises first (23) and second (25)

printheads.
The apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising
means (254 A-B) to maintain said substrate (13)

equidistant from said first and second printheads
(23,25).
The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said first
and second printheads (23,25) comprise a plurality of

ink jet sprayheads (23A-D; 25A-D) for spraying ink
onto said first and second sides of substrate (13)

respectively.
The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein each of
said plurality of ink jet sprayheads (23A-D; 25A-D)comprises

an ink jet communicating with said ink
source through a first conduit and a pressurized air

source through a second conduit. 
The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of
said plurality of sprayheads further comprises a

valve means (34) interposed to said ink jet and said
pressurized air source.
The apparatus according to claim 12 further
comprising means (57) for modulating the length of

time said valve means (34) remains open in response
to signals generated by said means for controlling

said ink delivery means to vary the density of said
ink applied to said substrate.
The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of
said plurality of sprayheads further comprises a

valve means (73) interposed to said ink jet and said
ink source.
The apparatus according to claim 14 further
comprising means (57) for modulating the length of

time said valve means (73) remains open in response to
signals generated by said means for controlling said

ink delivery means to vary the density of said ink
applied to said substrate.
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said ink
delivery means (23,25) includes means (38,39) for wiping

said substrate before application of ink to said
substrate.
The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising
means (28,29) for heating said substrate (13) both

before and after application of ink to said
substrate.
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein at the end
of a user-selected time period, said means (55) for

driving said ink delivery means drives said ink 
delivery means beyond one end of said substrate to

discharge said ink delivery means onto a means for
absorbing ink in order to supply said ink delivery

means with a fresh supply of ink.
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means
for controlling said ink delivery means further

controls said means for driving said ink delivery
means relative to said substrate.
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means
for supporting said ink delivery means comprises a

first rail (26) having a carriage mounted thereon and
a second rail (27) having a carriage mounted thereon,

said first and second rails mounted on said frame on
opposite sides of said substrate.
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means
for controlling said ink delivery means (23,25)

comprises a microprocessor.
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means
for driving said ink delivery means comprises:


a carriage driver (55);
an encoder (56) for measuring the speed and
position of said ink delivery means (23,25), a servo-controller (54)

connected to said
means for controlling said ink delivery means, said

encoder, and said carriage driver (55) wherein said
servo-controller supplies said means for controlling

said ink delivery means with signals from said
encoder (56) representing the speed and position of

said ink delivery means and controls said carriage
driver (55) in response to signals received from said

means for controlling said ink delivery means (10).
The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising

means, responsive to signals generated by said means 
for controlling said ink delivery means (23,25), for

modulating the length of time said ink delivery means
delivers ink to said substrate (13).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
