<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645440</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process using amine blends to inhibit chloride corrosion in wet hydrocarbon condensing systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10G700	C23F1102	C10G7502	C23F1114	C10G7500	C23F1100	C23F1110	C10G710	C10G700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10G	C23F	C10G	C23F	C10G	C23F	C23F	C10G	C10G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10G7	C23F11	C10G75	C23F11	C10G75	C23F11	C23F11	C10G7	C10G7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure is a process for inhibiting corrosion in 
condensing systems comprising wet hydrocarbons and chloride 

which comprises feeding a mixture of amines to the 
condensing system to elevate the pH profile of condensed 

water above the range in which severe corrosion of system 
internals can occur. The amine blend is formulated to 

preclude deposition and accumulation of the hydrochloride 
salts of the amines above the water dewpoint and is 

optimized to the condensing system to minimize amine treat 
rate. In one embodiment, the amine blend feed rate is 

controlled using a small condensing system which condenses a 
slipstream of gas taken from the system upstream of the 

condensing zone and continually measures the pH profile in 
the condensing zone. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to inhibiting corrosion in
systems of condensing hydrocarbons which contain water and
chlorides. One system of particular commercial interest is
the overhead of crude oil atmospheric pipestills.Crude oil refineries include an atmospheric pressure
pipestill (APS) which fractionates the whole crude oil into
various product fractions of different volatility, including
gasoline, fuel oil, gas oil, and others. The lower boiling
fractions, including naphtha, from which gasoline is
derived, are recovered from the overhead fraction. The
fractions with intermediate volatility are withdrawn from
the tower as sidestreams. Sidestream products include
kerosine, jet fuel, diesel fuel, and gas oil. The higher up
on the column the sidestream is withdrawn, the more volatile
the product. The heaviest components are withdrawn in the
tower bottoms stream.Figure 1 is a simplified process flow diagram of a
typical crude oil atmospheric pipestill unit. The crude is
preheated in preheat exchangers against overhead product and
then heated up to about 260°-371°C (500° to 700° F) in a direct-fired
furnace. The feed is then flashed into the atmospheric
pipestill which operates at a pressure between one and three 
atmospheres gauge pressure. Overhead tower temperature
ranges typically from 93°-177°C (200° to 350° F). Figure 1 shows a two-stage
overhead condenser system; alternative systems use one
condenser stage. The overhead and sidestream products are
cooled and condensed and sent to other units to be processed
into final products. The bottoms stream goes to a second
distillation tower (not shown) that operates under a vacuum
and distills more light products out of the APS bottoms.
Steam is added to the bottom of the tower to promote
stripping of light products from the bottoms. Also, water
is added to the top of the column to wash away soluble salts
which often accumulate in the top trays and overhead
components. The stripping steam and wash water coming into
the system are substantial; the overhead naphtha gas stream
coming off the top of the tower typically contains 20 to 40
mole % water.The corrosion that is the subject of this invention
occurs in the overhead components of the atmospheric
pipestill which include the top tower trays, the piping that
comes off the top of the tower and the reflux lines, the
heat exchangers, the condensers and rundown lines, and the
distillate drums where the condensed overhead stream is
separated into liquid naphtha product and reflux. Materials
commonly used in APS
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for inhibiting corrosion on internal
surfaces of a condensing system containing hydrocarbons,

water and chlorides, said method comprising:

feeding a blend of amines to the condensing system
at a sufficient rate to maintain the pH of water

condensate at all points in the condensing zone in the
condensing system above a pH of about 5, 
characterized in that
 the blend of amines
consists of a number of different amines selected from the group consisting of

ammonia, methoxypropylamine, ethanolamine, ethylenediamine, n-propylamine,
dimethylamine, dimethyl-ethanolamine, diethylaminoethanol and diamino methyl

propanol, so that no hydrochloride salt of any of the amines
in the amine blend can deposit as a liquid or a solid on

an internal surface which is at a temperature above the
water dewpoint temperature of the condensing system,
and the feed of the amine blend to the
system contains sufficient amines with K
b
's greater than
ammonia to prevent formation of deposits of solid

ammonium chloride on the internal surfaces which are at
temperatures above the water dewpoint temperature of the

condensing system.
The process of claim 1, wherein

for each amine the partial pressure of its hydrochloride
salt does not exceed the vapor-liquid/equilibrium

pressure for that salt at the water dewpoint of the said
condensing system.
The process of claim 1, wherein

   one or more of the said amines in said amine blend
has K
b
 higher than ammonia, and enough moles of said
amines with K
b
 above ammonia are fed to said condensing
system to reduce the partial pressure of ammonium

chloride in said condensing system so that ammonium 
chloride can not condense on surfaces in the said

condensing system which are at temperatures above the
said water dewpoint temperature of the system.
The process of claim 1, wherein
the blend of amines is custom formulated to the said

condensing system so that the pH profile throughout the
condensing zone of said condensing system is above the pH

at which significant corrosion of the construction
materials of the said condensing system occurs and the

amine feed rate is minimum.
The process of claim 1, wherein
the feed rate of said blend of amines is controlled using

an Overhead Corrosion Simulator to monitor the pH versus
temperature profile in the said condensing zone of said

condensing system.
The process of claim 1, wherein
the condensing system is an atmospheric pipestill used to

distill crude oil into product fractions.
The process of claim 1, wherein
the amine blend is determined by testing a candidate

blend of amines in a lab unit which simulates the said
condensing system, increasing said amine feed rate to

elevate the pH profile in the water condensing zone above

the said corrosion safe pH, observing if said
hydrochloride salt deposits of one or more components

form above the water dewpoint temperatures, and, if said
deposits do form, increasing the number of components in

said amine blend while reducing the feed rate of each
component until the said safe pH elevation is achieved

without said amine salt deposition above the said water
dewpoint.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
