<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630451</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTINUOUSLY VARIABLE TRANSMISSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H1500	F16H1500	F16H2500	F16H2508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H15	F16H15	F16H25	F16H25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A continuously variable transmission used for translating between two rotary motions or between rotary and linear motions, for use in automotive, industrial and robotics applications, operating with the following principles: an upper section (1) is allowed to freely move in all directions parallel to the surface below, but is not allowed to rotate. A disc (2) in a lower section is constrained such that its centre is always directly below the centre of the upper section (1). The disc (2) is rotated in the direction (12) shown relative to the upper section (1), and the freely rotating wheels (6) are steered by rods (7) that slide through wheel supports (5). The rods (7) meet at a coincidence point controlled by rod (8) which is set at a particular point relative to the upper section (1). For the position of rod (8) shown and rotation (12) shown, the upper (1) and lower (2) sections will move along the surface, without slippage of the wheels (6), in the direction of arrow (13). For a given speed of rotation of disc (2), the speed of movement along the surface will increase as the distance of the coincidence point from the centre of the disc increases.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERYX LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERYX LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATHAWAY NIGEL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HATHAWAY, NIGEL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Continuously Variable Transmission SystemThis invention relates to a continuously variable transmission system, and to a method of providing a continuous variable transmission, for the purpose of converting between two rotary motions or between rotary and linear motion, for use, for example, on vehicles or for controlling the motion of robots or parts of machinery or other equipment requiring servos or rotary or linear actuators. In the automotive industry, the invention is especially, but not exclusively, suitable for use on combustion-engine vehicles in the place of a conventional gearbox and clutch, and on battery vehicles in the place of conventional motor speed control equip¬ ment. In the machinery and robotics industries, the invention is especially, but not exclusively, suitable as a precision, high-torque rotary or linear servo mechanism. The invention is also suitable for use in other equipment and vehicles requiring motion, examples of which are pedal cycles, toys, amusement arcade games, training simulators and theme park rides using either fixed track or independent passenger cars.Conventional combustion-engine vehicles usually couple the engine to the wheels via a friction or fluid clutch and a set of discrete gears, shifted manually or automatically. Such arrangements provide only limited optimisation of the engine's fuel economy and torque transfer characteristics. Some vehicles do use continuously variable transmissions, typically employing a system using a belt or chain trapped between two cones that move together and apart altering the effective diameter of the drive hub, but these tend to be less reliable and efficient and capable of transmitting less torque. Various other kinds include: friction drives involving metal spheres and surfaces making contact via a lubricant shear - these suffer from the need for high 

internal forces compared to the torque transmitted; hydrostatic drives that drive hydraulic motors using variable displacement pumps - these tend to be comparatively expensive; and ratcheting drives which generate a variable amplitude oscillating motion, rectifying this motion to produce output speed - these tend to be complex internally and suffer from a superimposed oscillation on the transmission ratio.Conventional battery vehicles usually use direct current motors controlled by power electronics or switched resistors. Some vehicles use regenerative braking which returns some of the kinetic energy of the vehicle to the battery as it slows down. The major disadvantage of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims:
1. A continuously variable transmission system compris¬ ing: at least two rotary members, a common member mounted on the rotary members, a surface with which the rotary members cooperate, the rotary members being free to rotate about their own axes of rotation and having perimeter regions cooperating with the surface at respective regions of cooperation in such a manner that substantial slippage of each rotary member relative to the surface in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the rotary member is prevented, and steering means operative to steer each rotary member about a respective axis, the common member and the surface being mounted for first and second kinds of motion relative to one another, the first kind of motion being relative rotation of the common member and the surface about an axis which is fixed relative to the common member and around which the rotary members are spaced, and the second kind of motion being a different relative motion of the common member and the surface, the steering means being arranged to steer the rotary members to vary continuously the ratio of the amount of the first kind of relative motion of the common member and the surface to the amount of the second kind of relative movement of the common member and the surface. 2. A system according to claim 1 in which the steering means includes a plurality of guides, one for each rotary member, each guide providing a mechanical link between a respective rotary member and a common control by movement of which the rotary members are steered. 


3. A system according to claim 2 in which the common control comprises a ring to which the guides are pivotally connected.
4. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the effective positions of the rotary members' steering axes are altered by coupling steering members for the rotary members to other members steerable about other steered axes which are displaced towards or away from the common member's axis of rotation, the other steered axes being positioned in the same relative positions from the axis of rotation of the common member as the original steering axes.
5. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the steering axis of each rotary member substantially intersects the axis of rotation of the respective rotary member, but, for one or more of the rotary members, the steering axis of the rotary member is offset by a small distance from passing through the rotary member's axis of rotation. 6. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which there is a positive engagement between one or more of the rotary members and the surface, the positive engagement resisting movement of the rotary member relative to the surface in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the rotary member.
7. A system as claimed in claim 6, in which the rotary members penetrate into or through the surface.
8. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the surface is the outside of a sphere or part of a sphere constrained to rotate about a fixed axis.
9. A system as claimed in claim 8, in which the sphere contains the mechanism of a differential gearbox.
10. A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, in which the surface is the inside of a sphere or part of a sphere constrained to rotate about a fixed axis. 


11. A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, in which the surface is substantially flat.
12. A system according to any one of the preceding claims in which the rotary members are arranged such that one or more of them move into and out of operative engagement with the surface as the common member rotates.
13. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which there are a plurality of common members each mounting at least two rotary members which cooperate with the surface.
14. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the common member or members form part of a mobile arrangement which runs on the surface.
15. A system according to claim 14, in which the surface is defined by an intermediate part of the transmission system that is interposed between the rotary members and another surface over which the mobile arrangement runs.
16. A feedback mechanism including a continuously variable transmission system according to any one of claims 1 to 13.
17. A mechanical amplifier including a continuously variable transmission system according to any one of claims 1 to 13. 18. A method of providing a continuously variable transmission between a common member on which at least two rotary members are mounted and a surface with which the rotary members cooperate, the rotary members rotating about their own axes of rotation and having perimeter regions cooperating with the surface at respective regions of cooperation without substantial slippage of the rotary members relative to the surface in a direc¬ tion parallel to the axis of rotation, each rotary member being steered about a respective axis, the common member and the surface moving relative to one another with two kinds of motion, the first kind of relative motion being relative rotation of the common member and the surface 


about an axis which is fixed relative to the common member and around which the rotary members are spaced and the second kind of relative motion being a different relative motion of the common member and the surface, the steering of the rotary members being such as to allow continuous variation of the ratio of the amount of the first kind of relative motion to the amount of the second kind of relative motion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
