<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621070</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pressurizing with and recovering helium.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5322	B01D5322	C01B2300	C01B2300	G01M320	G01M320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C01B	C01B	G01M	G01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	C01B23	C01B23	G01M3	G01M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process and system for pressurizing a vessel for 
integrity testing with gas comprising helium, 

recovering the gas comprising helium, and purifying the 
gas comprising helium for reuse. The process for 

purifying the gas stream comprising helium comprises 
drying the gas stream; separating the dried gas stream 

in a membrane separator stage into a helium-enriched 
permeate product stream and a helium-depleted raffinate 

stream; recovering helium in the raffinate stream in a 
membrane stripper stage thereby producing a purge 

stream; and purging water from the dryer with the purge 
stream. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIGLIA SALVATORE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORJACKOWSKI VLADIMIR THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIM CARL JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHULTE THOMAS ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIGLIA SALVATORE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORJACKOWSKI VLADIMIR THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIM CARL JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHULTE THOMAS ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation in part of 
prior U.S. application Serial No. 880,071, filed 
May 5, 1992. This invention relates to the detection of leaks 
in vessels, and particularly to the conservation and 
recovery of the gas used in the detection. Vessels intended to contain fluid may develop 
small leaks during manufacture, or at some time during 
their useful life. A leak may render the vessel 
unsuitable for its intended use. A leak may also 
result in unwanted pollutants entering the atmosphere. 
Accordingly, leak detectors and leak detection methods 
have been devised to detect the presence of small leaks 
so that the vessel may be repaired or replaced during 
the manufacturing process or in the field. Most 
commonly leaks are detected by pressurizing the vessel 
with a gas comprising a tracer gas, and then analyzing 
the ambient air at the surface of the vessel for the 
presence, and, in some cases, the concentration of the 
tracer gas. A preferred tracer gas is helium due to its 
inertness, small molecular structure and high thermal 
conductivity which aids detection. Its small molecular 
structure permits it to easily pass through the 
smallest of leaks in a vessel and to be easily detected 
by instrumentation such as a mass spectrometer or 
thermal conductivity analyzer. However, the natural 
sources of helium on earth are limited, and its 
recovery and refinement are costly. Hence helium is 
costly and its conservation and recovery in repetitive  
 
leak detecting operations is well justified 
economically. With the recovery of helium effectuated, 
its use can economically be extended to other integrity 
testing of vessels, such as to pressure testing or 
pressure proving of vessels. As used herein, 
ascertaining the integrity of a vessel shall mean 
raising the pressure inside the vessel to a desired 
pressure thereby demonstrating that the vessel does not 
burst or develop a leak apparent to unaided human 
senses, or performing a leak detection upon the vessel 
using specialized equipment for the purpose of 
detecting leaks. This invention provides a method of pressurizing a 
vessel for integrity testing with gas comprising 
helium, recovering the gas, and purifying the gas for 
reuse. The process for purification of gas comprising 
helium and air constituents comprises: 
(a) drying the gas comprising helium and air 
constituents in a fluid stream dryer; (b) separating the dried gas stream in a membrane 
separator stage into a helium-enriched permeate product 
stream and a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for purifying a gas stream 
comprising helium and air constituents, said process 

comprising: 

(a) drying the gas stream in a fluid stream 
dryer; 
(b) separating the dried gas stream in a 
membrane separator stage into a helium-enriched 

permeate product stream and a helium-depleted raffinate 
stream; 
(c) recovering helium in said raffinate 
stream in a membrane stripper stage thereby producing a 

purge stream; and 
(d) purging water from said dryer with said 
purge stream. 
The process as in claim 1 further comprising 
compressing said gas stream comprising helium prior to 

drying said gas stream. 
The process as in claim 2 wherein the step of 
recovering helium from the raffinate stream in a 

membrane stripper stage comprises producing a permeate 
stream as a purge stream, and said method further 

comprises adding the purge stream after it has purged 
water from said dryer into the stream of gas comprising 

helium prior to compressing said gas stream. 
The process as in claim 2 wherein the step of 
recovering helium from the raffinate stream in a 

membrane stripper stage comprises producing a raffinate 
stream as a purge stream, producing a helium-enriched 

permeate stream, and adding the helium-enriched 
permeate stream into the stream of gas comprising 

 
helium prior to compressing said gas stream. 
The process as in claim 1 wherein said dryer 
comprises a membrane dryer and the purge stream sweeps 

the permeate side of the membrane to maintain 
permeation of moisture from the moisture-rich feed 

stream. 
The process as in claim 1 wherein said dryer 
comprises at least two switchable adsorbent beds, one 

of said beds serving to dry a fluid stream, while the 
other of said beds is regenerated or desorbed of water 

by the moisture-depleted purge stream. 
The process as in claim 1 for purifying gas 
comprising helium and air constituents, said gas 

entering or contained in a tank for supplying gas 
comprising helium to a vessel for integrity testing 

thereof. 
A helium purification system for purifying a 
gas stream comprising helium and air constituents 

including water, said system comprising: 

(a) a fluid stream dryer having: 

(1) a port for receiving a moisture-rich 
stream; 
(2) a port for discharging a moisture-depleted 
stream ; and 
(3) a port for receiving a 
moisture-depleted purge stream for purging moisture 

from said dryer; and 
(4) a port for discharging a 
moisture-enriched purge stream; and 
(b) a membrane separator stage having: 

(1) an inlet for receiving a gas stream 
 

comprising helium, said inlet communicating with said 
dryer port for discharging a moisture-depleted stream; 
(2) a permeate outlet for discharging a 
helium-enriched permeate stream; 
(3) a raffinate outlet for discharging a 
helium-depleted raffinate stream; and 
(c) a membrane stripper stage having: 

(1) an inlet communicating with the 
raffinate outlet of said membrane separator stage; 
(2) an outlet for discharging a purge 
stream, said outlet communicating with said dryer port 

for receiving a moisture-depleted purge stream. 
The system as in claim 8 further comprising 
compressing means for said gas stream, said compressing 

means having an inlet for receiving a gas stream 
comprising helium and an outlet communicating with said 

dryer port for receiving a moisture-rich stream. 
The system as in claim 9 wherein said dryer 
port for discharging a moisture-enriched purge stream 

communicates with said compressing means inlet, said 
membrane stripper stage outlet for discharging a purge 

stream comprises a permeate outlet, and said membrane 
stripper stage further comprises a raffinate outlet 

communicating externally of said system. 
The system as in claim 9 wherein said dryer 
port for discharging a moisture-enriched purge stream 

communicates externally of said system, said membrane 
stripper stage outlet for discharging a purge stream 

comprises a raffinate outlet, and said membrane 
stripper stage further comprises a permeate outlet 

communicating with said compressing means inlet. 
The system as in claim 9 wherein said dryer 
comprises a membrane dryer and said port for receiving 

a moisture-depleted purge stream and said port for 
discharging a moisture-enriched purge stream comprise 

means for sweeping the permeate side of the membrane to 
maintain a rate of permeation of moisture from the 

moisture-rich feed stream. 
The system as in claim 9 wherein said dryer 
comprises at least two switchable adsorbent beds, one 

of said beds capable of serving to dry a fluid stream 
during its adsorbing period, while the other of said 

beds is capable of being regenerated or desorbed of 
water during its desorbing period by a 

moisture-depleted purge stream. 
A method of pressurizing a vessel for 
integrity testing with gas comprising helium, and 

recovering helium for reuse, said method comprising: 

(a) communicating the vessel with a low 
pressure tank containing gas comprising helium at a 

pressure less than that desired for integrity testing 
of the vessel; 
(b) admitting gas into the vessel from 
said low pressure tank; 
(c) ceasing communication between said 
low pressure tank and the vessel; 
(d) communicating the vessel with a high 
pressure tank containing gas comprising helium 
at a 
desired pressure for integrity testing of the vessel; 
(e) admitting gas into the vessel from 
said high pressure tank; 
(f) ceasing communication of the vessel 
with said high pressure tank; 
(g) communicating the vessel with said 
 

low pressure tank ; 
(h) receiving gas from the vessel into 
said low pressure tank by pressure difference; and 
(i) ascertaining the integrity of the 
vessel during or after step (e) or (f). 
The method of pressurizing a vessel for 
integrity testing as in claim 14 further comprising 

initially evacuating the vessel. 
The method of pressurizing a vessel for 
integrity testing as in claim 14 further comprising 

after step (h) the step of transferring gas from the 
vessel into said low pressure tank by pumping. 
The method of pressurizing a vessel for 
integrity testing as in claim 14 further comprising 

selectively removing constituents other than helium 
from the gas entering, or in, said high pressure tank. 
The method of pressurizing a vessel for 
integrity testing as in claim 14 further comprising a 

process for selectively removing constituents other 
than helium from the gas stream entering, or a gas 

stream drawn from said high pressure tank, said process 
comprising: 


(a) compressing said stream of gas; 
(b) drying said compressed stream of gas 
in a fluid stream dryer; 
(c) separating said stream of gas in a 
membrane separator stage into a helium-enriched 

permeate product stream and a helium-depleted raffinate 
stream; 
(d) recovering helium from said raffinate 
stream in a membrane stripper stage thereby producing a 

 
purge stream; 
(e) purging water from said dryer with 
said purge stream. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
