<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639100</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTINUOUS-BELT SEPARATOR/REACTOR AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F310	C12M140	C02F308	C02F308	C12M300	C12M100	C12M140	B01J1922	C12M300	C02F310	B01J1918	C12M100	B01D1502	B01D1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C12M	C02F	C02F	C12M	C12M	C12M	B01J	C12M	C02F	B01J	C12M	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F3	C12M1	C02F3	C02F3	C12M3	C12M1	C12M1	B01J19	C12M3	C02F3	B01J19	C12M1	B01D15	B01D15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POWELL PAUL E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POWELL, PAUL E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POWELL PAUL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POWELL, PAUL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the fields of separation 
technology and chemical- and bio-reactor technology and more 
particularly to continuous methods and apparatus employing 
endless belts of resilient, open-cell foam polymers to 
facilitate a mass transfer between phases. The separation and purification of chemicals by 
selective sorption on solid material has been known from 
ancient times when wine and olive oil were filtered through 
charcoal to remove impurities. Materials science has 
created a great variety of porous, organic and inorganic 
materials with large internal surface areas and with 
functional groups designed for selective sorption of 
chemicals according to their specific physical and chemical 
properties. Industrially useful solute sorption processes 
include: adsorption to surfaces by non-specific London/van 
der Waals forces, as with charcoal; electrostatic attraction 
of charged ions to oppositely charged functional groups, as 
on ion-exchange resins; interaction of hydrophobic regions 
of molecules with hydrocarbon pendant groups on resins; 
attraction of metal-dependent enzyme proteins to atoms of 
those metals held to resins by chelation or coordination; 
hydrogen bonding of proteins and nucleic acids through the 
interaction with polar oxygen- and nitrogen-containing 
groups on resins; and biospecific affinity of proteins to 
substrates, cofactors, antibodies, antigens, receptors, 
toxins or biomimetic dyes bound to resins. Porous particulate materials are used in most 
industrial chemical separations based on sorption phenomena. 
The separation of a product ion or molecule from solvent and 
from other solutes during resin loading and elution requires 
the following steps:  
 
1. diffusion of the product from the bulk solution through 
the laminar film of solution surrounding the particle 
to the particle surface; 2. diffusion of the product through tortuous pores to the 
binding site on the interior of the particle; 3. sorption reaction of the product at the binding site; 4. diffusion of the eluent from the bulk solution through 
the laminar film to the particle surface; 5. diffusion of the eluent through the pores to the 
binding site; 6. desorption reaction of the product at the binding site; 7. diffusion of the product through the pores to the 
particle surface; 8. diffusion of the product through the surface film to 
the bulk solution. In the vast majority of industrial sorption processes, 
pore diffusion is the rate-limiting step. However, in cases 
of dilute solutions of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for facilitating mass transfer between fluids, the 
apparatus comprising: 


(a) a continuous first belt (40) of resilient, open-cell foam polymer; 
(b) first drive means (30, 50) associated with the first belt for 
continuously guiding and driving the first belt such that each point along the 

length of the first belt passes through a first liquid contained in a first 
container (A), then through one ore more second eluent liquid(s) contained in 

one or more separate second container(s) (B; C) and then back to the first 
liquid; 
(c) first compression means (10) for compressing and then releasing 
the first belt at a point at which the belt is submerged in the first liquid; and 
(d) second compression means (10) for compressing and then 

releasing the first belt at a point at which the first belt is submerged in said 
one or more second eluent liquid(s), whereby removal of at least one 

component is effected from the first liquid by adsorption onto the belt in the 
first liquid followed by elution into said one or more second eluent liquid(s). 
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: 

(a) first exit compression means (20) for compressing and then 
releasing the entire width of the first belt at a point immediately after the first 

belt exits the first liquid; and 
(b) second exit compression means (20) for compressing and 
releasing the entire width of the first belt at a point immediately after the first 

belt exits said one or more second eluent liquid(s). 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: 

(a) the first compression means (10) is capable of compressing and 
releasing the first belt (40) successively at a plurality of points at which the 

first belt is submerged in the first liquid. 
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein: 

(a) the second compression means is capable of compressing and 
releasing the first belt (40) successively at a plurality of points at which the 

first belt is submerged in said one or more second eluent liquid(s). 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein:  
 


(a) the first and second compression means compress and release 
the first belt (40) along an entire width thereof. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: 

(a) the first belt (40) includes a sorbent material attached thereto 
within the open cells of the material from which the first belt is formed. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: 

(a) the first belt (40) includes a catalyst material attached thereto 
within the open cells of the material from which the first belt is formed. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: 

(a) a continuous second belt (64) of resilient, open-cell foam 
polymer; 
(b) second drive means (30, 50, figure 2A) associated with the 
second belt for continuously guiding and driving the second belt such that 

each point along the length of the second belt passes through the first liquid 
and first compression means (10) in a layered fashion adjacent to the first belt 

(68), through one or more third eluent liquid(s) contained in one or more 
separate third container(s) (F) and then back to the first liquid, the first 

compression means (10) compressing and then releasing the second belt (64) 
at a point at which both the second belt and first belt are submerged within 

the first liquid; and 
(c) third compression means (10) for compressing and then 
releasing the second belt (64) at a point at which the second belt is 

submerged in said one or more third eluent liquid(s) whereby removal of at 
least one component is effected from the first liquid by adsorption onto the 

second belt (64) in the first liquid followed by elution in said one or more third 
eluent liquid(s). 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: 

(a) the first belt (40) is comprised of a material capable of retaining 
shear sensitive material within the open cells thereof. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: 

(a) the first compression means (10) and the second compression 
means (20) each comprise presssure rollers extending generally parallel to 

each other in position to compress the first belt (40) as it passes 
therebetween. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein:  
 


(a) the first compression means (10) and the second compression 
means (20) each comprises static compression members. 
A method for facilitating mass transfer between fluids, the 
method comprising the steps of: 


(a) driving a continuous first belt (40) of resilient open-cell foam 
polymer material such that a point along the length of the first belt passes first 

through a first liquid contained in a first container (A), and then through one 
or more eluent liquid(s) contained in one or more separate second 

container(s) (B; C) before returning to the first liquid; 
(b) compressing and then releasing the first belt (40) at a point at 
which the first belt is submerged in the first liquid; and 
(c) compressing and then releasing the first belt (40) at a point at 
which the first belt is submerged in said one or more second eluent liquid(s), 

whereby removal of at least one component is effected from said first liquid by 
adsorption onto the first belt (40) in the first liquid followed by elution in said 

one or more second eluent liquid(s). 
The method of claim 12, wherein: 

(a) compressing and releasing the first belt (40) successively at a 
plurality of points at which the first belt is submerged in the first liquid; and 
(b) compressing and releasing the first belt (40) successively at a 
plurality of points at which the first belt is submerged within said one or more 

second eluent liquid(s). 
The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: 

(a) compressing and then releasing the entire width of the first belt 
(40) immediately after the first belt exits the first liquid; 
(b) compressing and then releasing the first belt (40) alont its entire 
width immediately after the first belt exits said one or more second eluent 

liquid(s). 
The method of claim 12 further comprising the steps of: 

(a) driving a continuous second belt (64) of resilient open-cell foam 
polymer material such that a point along the length of the second belt passes 

first through the first liquid, and then through one or more third eluent liquid(s) 
in one or more separate third container(s) (F) before returning to the first 

liquid; 
(b) compressing and releasing the second belt (64) at a point at  
 

which the second belt is submerged in the first liquid; and 
(c) compressing and releasing the second belt (64) at a point at 
which the second belt is submerged in said one or more third eluent liquid(s), 

whereby removal of at least one component is effected from the first liquid by 
adsorption onto the second belt (64) in the first liquid followed by elution in 

said one or more third eluent liquid(s). 
The method of cliam 15, wherein: 

(a) the steps of compressing and releasing the first and second 
belts (68, 64) while submerged in the first liquid are performed by a set of 

compression rollers (10) between which the first and second belts (68, 64) 
pass together in a layered fashion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
