<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641570</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Nebulizer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1100	A61M1100	A61M1106	A61M1106	A61M1500	A61M1500	B05B700	B05B700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M11	A61M11	A61M11	A61M11	A61M15	A61M15	B05B7	B05B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The patient draws air through the nebulizer from inlet 20 
to mouthpiece 26. A housing 14 has a closed top 16 and a cup 34 

containing liquid medication 36 is screwed to the bottom of the 
housing. Air under pressure is injected through tube 40 and 

orifice 42 and draws liquid up the capillary tube 46 to form 
droplets which impinge against a horizontal target 49 extending 

across a chimney 30. The droplets are thus broken into micron 
size droplets which are enhanced in the air flowing through the 

chimney from the inlet 20. 
A check valve 58,60 acts as a secondary baffling system to 
return any large droplets to the cup 34. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLENN JOSEPH G
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLENN, JOSEPH G.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLENN JOSEPH G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLENN, JOSEPH G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a breathing device for 
administering a liquid medicant to a patient. Nebulizers or atomizers used with intermittent positive 
pressure breathing (IPPB) equipment or with the patient's own 
natural breathing effort have been proven effective as a delivery 
system for liquid medicant. A problem with many previous nebulizers is the size and 
distribution of liquid particles that are produced. Large droplets 
of medication are trapped on the walls of the mouth or throat, and 
as such, never pass into the lungs. For the liquid medication to 
reach the smaller passages in the bronchial tubes and lungs, the 
size of the liquid particles must be below 5 microns. At one time, 
an average particle size under 5 microns was acceptable. 
Increasingly, however, an even smaller average particle size is 
being called for by the medical community with certain medications 
and for certain treatments. Additionally, the actual particle 
count delivered is of great importance. A further problem associated with many nebulizers is that they 
are not directly responsive to the increase or decrease in the 
patient's breathing. When a patient inhales, he or she is 
typically inhaling at a rate from 15 to 50 liters per minute. The 
output of most nebulizers drops off dramatically when a patient  
 
inhales at a rate exceeding 20 liters per minute. In the nebulizer to be described, all of the air inhaled by the 
patient is directed past the saturated mist. As the air flow to 
the patient's lungs is increased, additional liquid particles are 
delivered to the lungs. Conversely, when the air flow to the 
patient's lungs is decreased, the number of liquid particles is 
decreased. Thus, the amount of saturated air delivered to the 
patient is directly responsive to the increase or decrease in the 
patient's breathing. Applicant is aware of a number of prior art patents including 
Glenn (U.S. Patent No. 4,007,238) and Lester (U.S. Patent No. 
4,512,341). The Lester nebulizer is connected to a breathing apparatus to 
allow entry of atmospheric air. The nebulizer is connected to a 
"T" in the air supply line. As the patient breathes in, additional 
atmospheric air is drawn into the lungs. The amount of saturated 
air, however, does not change in response to the patient's 
breathing. Applicant's prior patent (U.S. Patent No. 4,007,238) solved 
the problem and provides responsiveness to the patient's breathing. 
A significant number of improvements, however, has been made and 
are included in the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A nebulizer which comprises: 

a. a housing having a vertical axis, said housing having 
an open bottom, an air inlet tube extending into said housing, 

and an outlet tube extending from said housing; 
b. a bottom cup removably attached to said open bottom 
for storing a supply of liquid medication therein, said bottom 

cup having an opening therethrough; 
c. means to supply air under pressure through said bottom 
cup opening; 
d. capillary means extending from said bottom cup to said 
air supply means so that said liquid medication will be drawn up 

through said capillary means to form droplets; 
e. an axial cylindrical chimney inside said housing 
having an annular flange extending from said chimney and resting 

against said housing; 
f. horizontal target means extending across said 
cylindrical chimney perpendicular to said chimney axis for 

impingement of the said air supply and the liquid droplets on the 
target means, and means to conduct and distribute atmospheric air 

through said passageway from said air inlet tube in said housing. 
A nebulizer which comprises: 

a. a housing having a vertical axis, said housing having 
an open bottom, an air inlet tube extending into said housing, 

and an outlet tube extending from said housing; 
b. a bottom cup removably attached to said open bottom 
for storing liquid medication therein, said bottom cup having an 

opening therethrough; 
c. means to supply air under pressure through said bottom 
cup opening into said housing; 
d. capillary tube means extending from said bottom cup to 
said air supply means so that said liquid medication will be 

drawn up through said capillary tube means to form droplets; 
e. an axial cylindrical chimney inside said housing 
having an annular flange extending from said chimney, said flange 

resting against said housing, said chimney having removable check 
valve means at the top thereof, said flange having at least one 

drain opening permitting communication between fluid exiting said 
check valve and said cup; 
f. horizontal target means perpendicular to said chimney 
axis for impingement of said air supply and said liquid droplets 

on said horizontal target means and on said check valve means, 
said droplets being broken into smaller micron size droplets by 

the impingement for delivery to a patient; and 
g. means for removing remaining larger liquid droplets 
exiting from said check valve means by force of gravity, said 

larger droplets passing through said at least one drain opening 
in said chimney flange and back to said bottom cup at all times 

exterior to said chimney. 
A nebulizer as set forth in claim 2 wherein said check 
valve means includes a valve holder removably received in an open 

top of said axial cylindrical chimney and a flexible valve 
membrane removably received on said valve holder. 
A nebulizer which comprises: 

a. a housing having a vertical axis, said housing 
having an open bottom , an air inlet tube extending into said 

housing, and an outlet tube extending from said housing; 
b. a bottom cup removably attached to said open bottom 
for storing a supply of liquid medication therein, said bottom 

cup having an opening therethrough; 
c. means to supply air under pressure through said bottom 
cup opening into said housing; 
d. capillary tube means extending from said bottom cup to 
said air supply means so that said liquid medication will be 

drawn up through said capillary tube means to form droplets; 
e. an axial cylindrical chimney inside said housing 
having an annular flange extending from said chimney and resting 

against said housing, means to decrease the size of said liquid 
droplets through impingement and circuitous flow, said means 

including a closed top for impingement and openings in said 
cylindrical chimney near said top; and 
f. horizontal target means extending across said 
cylindrical chimney substantially perpendicular to said chimney 

axis for impingement of said air supply and said liquid droplets 
on said horizontal target means, said droplets being broken into 

smaller micron size droplets. 
A nebulizer as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 in which the 
horizontal target extends across the cylindrical chimney. 
A nebulizer as claimed in claim 5 in which the horizontal 
target means has a passageway therethrough for the flow of 

atmospheric air from the air inlet tube. 
A nebulizer as claimed in any of the preceding claims in 
which the housing is cylindrical and includes a closed top. 
A nebulizer as claimed in any of the preceding claims in 
which the capillary means includes a cylindrical lower end which 

terminates near the bottom of the medication cup. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
