<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615411</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRICAL SMOKING SYSTEM FOR DELIVERING FLAVORS AND METHOD FOR MAKING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A24F4700	A24F4700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A24F	A24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A24F47	A24F47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A smoking system (21) is provided in which a replaceable cigarette (23) containing tobacco flavor material is electrically heated by a set of electrical heater elements contained within a lighter (25) to evolve tobacco flavors or other components in vapor or aerosol form for delivery to a smoker. The cigarette (23) and lighter (25) are adapted to provide air flow patterns through the smoking system such that air flows transversely into the cigarette (23). Such patterns improve aerosol and flavor delivery to the smoker and reduce the condensation of residual heater-region vapor/aerosol in the smoking system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to smoking systems in which
cigarettes are used with lighters, and methods for making
the same.An electrical smoking article is described in our United
States Patent No. 5,060,671.
That patent described a
smoking article which is provided with a disposable set of
electrical heating elements. A charge of tobacco flavor
medium containing, for example, tobacco or tobacco-derived
material is deposited on each of the heating elements.
The disposable heater/flavor unit is mated to a source of
electrical energy such as a battery or capacitor, as well
as to control circuitry to actuate the heating elements in
response to a puff by a smoker on the article or in
response to the depression fo a manual switch. The
circuitry is designed so that at least one, but less than
all of the heating elements are actuated for any one puff,
and so that a predetermined number of puffs, each
containing a pre-measured amount of tobacco flavor
substance, eg, an aerosol containing tobacco flavors or a
flavored tobacco response, is delivered to the smoker.
The circuitry also preferable prevents the actuation of
any particular heater more than once, to prevent
overheating of the tobacco flavor medium thereon. With such articles, the heater is thrown away with the
spent remainder of tobacco material. Also, the electrical
connections between the heaters and the battery must be
able to endure repeated release and reconnection as flavor
units are replaced.In our copending, United states Patent Application Serial
No. 07/666,926, filed March 11, 1991, now abandoned in
favor of Continuing Application Serial No. 08/012,799,
filed February 2, 1993, an electrical smoking article is
disclosed that has reusable heating elements and a
disposable portion for tobacco flavor generation. The
disposable portion preferably includes a flavor segment
and a filter segment, attached by a tipping paper or other
fastening arrangement. Certain operational difficulties
are, however, associated with reusable heating elements,
particularly in that residual aerosol tends to settle the
condense on the heating elements and other permanent
structural components of the article.The present invention aims to alleviate the problems set
out above.According to the invention, there is provided a cigarette for
use in a smoking system for delivering a flavored tobacco
response to a smoker, the system including at least one
electrical heater means, the cigarette comprising:
a carrier having first and second ends spaced apart
in a longitudinal direction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cigarette (23) for use in a smoking system for delivering
a flavored tobacco response to a smoker, the system including

at least one electrical heater means, the cigarette comprising:

a carrier (59) having first and second ends spaced apart
in a longitudinal direction and having first and second

surfaces, the first surface defining a cavity (79) between the
first and second ends, and the second surface including an area

for being disposed adjacent an electrical heater (43); and
tobacco flavour material (61) disposed on the first
surface of the carrier (59), the tobacco flavour material (61)

generating the flavored tobacco response in the cavity (79) for
delivery to a smoker when the tobacco flavour material (61) is

heated by the electrical heater (43),
wherein the carrier (59) and the tobacco flavour material
(61) allow transverse air flow into the cavity (79).
A smoking system for delivering a flavored tobacco
response to a smoker, the system comprising:


a removable cigarette, the cigarette including a carrier
(59) having first and second ends spaced apart in a

longitudinal direction and having first and second surfaces,
the first surface defining a cavity (79) between the first and

second ends, and
tobacco flavour material (61) for generating a
flavored tobacco response in the cavity (79), the tobacco

flavor
material being disposed on the first surface of the carrier

(59);
a lighter (25), the lighter (25) including 
a heater fixture (39) for receiving, through a first end,
the removable cigarette, and
a plurality of electrical heater elements (43) disposed in
the heater fixture (39), each of the heater elements having a

surface for being disposed adjacent the second surface of the

cigarette, the heater elements heating the tobacco flavour
material (61) to generate a flavored tobacco response in the

cavity (79); and
means (37,41) for individually activating the plurality
of heater elements such that a predetermined quantity of

flavored tobacco response is generated in the cavity (79),
wherein the carrier (59) and the tobacco flavour material
(61) allow a transverse flow of air into the cavity (79).
The cigarette of claim 1 or 2, wherein the carrier (59)
is in the form of a substantially hollow cylinder, the first

surface forming an inside surface and the second surface
forming an outside surface.
The cigarette of claim 1, 2 or 3, further comprising:

a free-flow filter (65) adjacent the second end of the
carrier (59), the free-flow filter (65) providing structural

support to the cigarette and allowing longitudinal air flow
from the cavity (79); and
a back-flow filter (63) adjacent the first end of the
carrier (59), the back-flow filter (63) providing structural

support to the cigarette and limiting longitudinal air flow
through the cigarette.
The cigarette of claim 4, wherein the free-flow filter
(65) and back-flow filter (63) are substantially cylindrical

and each has a surface defining a part of the cavity (79). 
The cigarette of claim 4, further comprising a mouthpiece
filter (71).
The cigarette of claim 6, further comprising tipping paper
(65) wrapped around the mouthpiece filter (71) and at least a

portion of the carrier (59) to secure the mouthpiece filter
(71) to the carrier (59).
The cigarette of claim 4, further comprising a second
free-flow filter (73) adjacent the first free-flow filter (65),

and wherein the first free-flow filter (65) and the second
free-flow filter (73) are each formed with longitudinal

passageways, the longitudinal passageway of the second freeflow
filter having a greater inside diameter than the longitudinal

passageway of the first free-flow filter (65).
The cigarette of any of claims 1 to 8, further comprising
overwrap paper (69) wrapped around the carrier (59).
The cigarette of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the carrier
(59) is composed of a non-woven carbon fiber mat.
The cigarette of any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the
tobacco flavour material (61) comprises tobacco material.
The cigarette of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein the
tobacco flavour material (61) comprises a continuous sheet of

tobacco material.
The cigarette of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein the
tobacco flavour material (61) comprises a dried slurry of

tobacco material. 
The cigarette of any of claims 1 to 13, wherein a
plurality of perforations are formed in the carrier (59) and

tobacco flavour material (61) and permit a desired transverse
air flow during smoking.
The cigarette of any of claims 1 to 14, wherein the
permeability of the carrier (59) and the tobacco flavour

material (61) are predetermined and permit a desired transverse
air flow.
The system of claim 2, wherein the heater fixture (39)
includes a cap (83) at the first end, the cap (83) having an

open end for receiving the cigarette.
The system of claim 16, wherein the cap (83) provides an
interference fit with the cigarette.
The system of claim 16 or 17, wherein the means for
providing the flow of air include one or more air passageways

(179) formed in the cap (83).
The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more air
passageways (179) are holes formed through the cap (83).
The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more air
passageways (179) are grooves formed on an inner wall of the

cap (83), and wherein the grooves are bounded by the cigarette
upon insertion of the cigarette into the lighter.
The system of claim 16, 17, 18 or 19, wherein the heater
fixture (39) includes a substantially cylindrical wall (177) 

defining, with the cap (83), a space in which at least a
portion of the cigarette is received.
The system of claim 21, wherein the means for providing
the flow of air includes one or more air passageways (179)

formed in the cap (83) that permit air flow to the space.
The system of claim 2, wherein the heater fixture (39)
includes a substantially cylindrical wall (177) defining a

space in which at least a portion of the cigarette is received.
The system of claim 23, wherein, upon insertion of a
cigarette in the lighter (21), air is permitted to flow between

the cylindrical wall (177) and the cigarette.
The system of claim 23 or 24, wherein the means for
providing the flow of air include one or more air passageways

(179) formed through the substantially cylindrical wall (177).
The system of claim 25, wherein the one or more air
passageways (179) are formed adjacent the first end of the

heater fixture (39).
The system of claim 25, wherein the one or more air
passageways (179) are formed near a second end of the heater

fixture (39).
The system of claim 25, wherein a plurality of air
passageways (179) are distributed across the cylindrical wall

(177). 
The smoking system of claim 2, wherein the cavity is
substantially cylindrical; and wherein the fixture further

comprises a plurality of heater support fingers disposed from
the first end of the heater base for supporting the plurality

of electrical heater elements, wherein the fingers are
elongated, have an inside surface and an outside surface, and

are arranged to define a surface of a cylinder.
The smoking system of claim 29, wherein the plurality of
electrical heater elements are mounted on the inside surface

of the heater support fingers.
The smoking system of claim 30, wherein the cavity is
adapted to receive a back-flow filter, wherein the filter is

disposed between a heater base air passageway and the plurality
of electrical heater elements.
The smoking system of claim 31, wherein the back-flow
filter is substantially cylindrical.
The smoking system of claim 2, wherein the cavity of the
heater base forms an annulus and, wherein the fixture further

comprises a plurality of heater support fingers disposed from
the first end of the heater base for supporting the plurality

of electrical heater elements, wherein the fingers are
elongated and have an inside surface and an outside surface and

are arranged to as to define a surface of a cylinder.
The smoking system of claim 33, wherein the plurality of
electrical heater elements are mounted on the outside surface

of the heater support fingers. 
The smoking system of claim 34, wherein a back-flow filter
is disposed within the cavity and the filter is dispos
ed
between a heater base air passageway and the plurality of

electrical heater elements.
The smoking system of claim 35, wherein the back-flow
filter is annular.
The smoking system of claim 30, wherein the plurality of
electrical heater elements are comprised of silicon

semiconductor material.
The smoking system of claim 37, wherein the silicon
semiconductor material is doped with phosphorous impurities to

a level in the range of between about 5 x 10
18
 impurities/cm
3

and about 5 x 10
19
 impurities/cm
3
.
The smoking system of claim 34, wherein the plurality of
electrical heater elements are comprised of silicon

semiconductor material.
The smoking system of claim 39, wherein the silicon
semiconductor material is doped with phosphorous impurities to

a level in the range of between about 5 x 10
18
 impurities/cm
3

and about 5 x 10
19
 impurities/cm
3
.
The smoking system of claim 2, wherein the lighter further
comprises a source of electrical energy comprising a battery.
The smoking system of claim 41, wherein the source of
electrical energy comprises a charge pump circuit coupled to

the battery for boosting the voltage of the battery. 
The smoking system of claim 42, wherein the battery is
disposable.
The smoking system of claim 42, wherein the battery is
rechargeable.
The smoking system of claim 2, wherein the means for
individually activating the plurality of heater elements

comprises:

means for selecting one of the plurality of electrical
heater elements; and
means for, when a smoker desires to puff the smoking
system, applying a pulse of electrical energy to heat the

selected one of the electrical heater elements.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the selecting
means is manual.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the selecting
means is automatic.
The smoking system of claim 47, wherein the automatic
selecting means selects each of the plurality of electrical

heaters.
The smoking system of claim 47, wherein the means for
individually activating further comprises sequential indication

means for indicating the number of the plurality of electrical
heater elements that can be sequentially heated until all of

the plurality of electrical heater elements have been activated
at least once for an associated removable cigarette. 
The smoking system of claim 49, wherein the sequential
indication means comprises a liquid crystal display.
The smoking system of claim 50, wherein the liquid crystal
display indicates when the battery voltage falls below a

preselected LOW voltage level by repetitively cycling the
display on and off.
The smoking system of claim 50, wherein the liquid crystal
display indicates when the battery voltage falls below a

preselected LOW voltage level and when the battery has been
recharged to preselected HIGH voltage level after falling below

the preselected LOW voltage level.
The smoking system of claim 50, wherein the liquid crystal
display indicates when there is no removable cigarette loaded

into the lighter.
The smoking system of claim 50, wherein the liquid crystal
display indicates when there is no heater fixture loaded into

the lighter.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the pulse applying
means applies a pulse of predetermined duration.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the pulse applying
means applies a pulse of predetermined duration in a range from

about 0.5 seconds to about 5 seconds depending on the desired
amount of energy that is meant to be delivered to the selected

one of the electrical heater elements. 
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the pulse applying
means applies a pulse of predetermined duration in a range from

about 1 second to abut 3 seconds depending upon the amount of
energy delivered to the selected one of the electrical heater

elements.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the pulse applying
means applies a pulse of predetermined duration in a range from

about 1 second to about 2 seconds depending upon the amount of
energy delivered to the selected one of the electrical heater

elements.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the pulse of
electrical energy further comprises a pulse of a predetermined

amount of electrical energy.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the predetermined
amount of electrical energy ranges from about 5 Joules to about

40 Joules.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the predetermined
amount of electrical energy ranges from about 15 Jules to about

25 Joules.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the pulse applying
means comprises actuation means and applies the pulse in

response to actuation of the actuation means by a smoker.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the actuation
means comprises a pressure-sensitive sensor. 
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the actuation
means is cycled on and off so as to conserve the source of

electrical energy.
The smoking system of claim 64, wherein the actuation
means is on for less than about 50% of a given time period.
The smoking system of claim 65, wherein the actuation
means is on for less than about 20% of a given time period.
The smoking system of claim 66, wherein the actuation
means is on for less than about 5% of a given time period.
The smoking system of claim 2, wherein the control means
comprises a field-programmable logic array.
The smoking system of claim 45, wherein the control means
further comprises a voltage detector circuit for detecting when

the battery voltage falls below a preselected LOW voltage level
and for detecting when the battery has been recharged to

preselected HIGH voltage level after falling below the
preselected LOW voltage level.
The smoking system of claim 69, wherein the preselected
LOW voltage level is less than about 5 volts and the

preselected HIGH voltage level is greater than about 5 volts.
The smoking system of claim 70, wherein the preselected
LOW voltage level ranges from about 3 to about 3.5 volts and

the preselected HIGH voltage level ranges from about 5 to about
6 volts. 
The smoking system of claim 2, wherein the carrier is
composed of a nonwoven carbon fiber mat having a preselected

resistivity, and wherein the resistivity corresponds to a
particular type of cigarette so as to allow the lighter to

distinguish between different types of cigarettes.
The smoking system of claim 72, wherein the means for
individually activating the plurality of heater elements

comprises:

means for selecting one of the plurality of electrical
heaters; and
means for, when a smoker desires to pull the smoking
system, applying a pulse of electrical energy to heat the

selected one of the electrical heater elements.
The smoking system of claim 73, further comprising means
to measure the preselected resistivity.
The smoking system of claim 74, wherein a first pulse of
electrical energy is applied to heat the selected one of the

electrical heater elements if a first preselected resistivity
is measured, and a second pulse of electrical energy is applied

to heat the selected one of the electrical heater elements if
a second preselected resistivity is measured.
A heater element (131) for use in the lighter of a smoking
system according to claim 2, comprising:


a first end (131'), a second end (132''), and a plurality
of curved regions between the first and second ends for

increasing electrical resistance of the heater element, the
heater element being formed from resistive material having

first and second surfaces substantially oriented in a plane and 
having an overall length L, overall width W, and thickness T,

wherein the effective electrical length of the heater element
is greater than the length L and the effective electrical

cross-sectional area of the heater element is less than the
product of W and T.
The heater element of claim 76, wherein the plurality of
curved regions comprise a plurality of interconnected

substantially S-shaped regions.
The heater element of claim 77, comprising N
interconnected S-shaped regions, wherein N is greater than

three and less than twelve.
The heater element of claim 78, wherein N is greater than
six and less than ten.
The heater element of any of claims 76 to 79, wherein the
heater element has a resistance in the range from about 0.8 Ω

to about 2.1 Ω.
The heater element of any of claims 76 to 80, wherein the
resistive material comprises a material that exhibits surface

stability at temperatures up to about 80 percent of its melting
point.
The heater element of any of claims 76 to 81, wherein the
resistive material is a super alloy.
The heater element of claim 82, wherein the super alloy
is based on at least one material selected from the group

consisting of nickel, iron, and cobalt. 
The heater element of any of claims 77 to 81, wherein the
resistive material is an intermetallic compound.
The heater element of claim 84, wherein the resistive
material is an oxidation resistant intermetallic compound based

on at least one material selected from the group consisting of
aluminides of nickel and aluminides of iron.
The heater element of claim 83, wherein the resistive
material includes more than about 1 percent aluminum.
The heater element of any of claims 77 to 86, wherein
the first and second ends extend beyond the plurality of

curved regions and the first and second ends and the
plurality of curved regions are formed from a single piece

of material.
The heater element of any of claims 77 to 87, wherein
longitudinal centerlines of the first and second ends and

the plurality of curved regions are aligned.
The heater element of any of claims 77 to 88, wherein
transition areas between the first end and the plurality of

curved regions and between the second end and the plurality
of curved regions is bevelled.
The heater element of any of claims 77 to 89, wherein
end curves of the plurality of curved regions adjacent the

first and second ends point in a common direction.
A cigarette according to claim 1 comprising: 

a thermally transmissive fibrous base web (57) formed into
a substantially cylindrical shape having an outer surface

for receiving heat and an inner surface; and
tobacco flavour material (61) disposed on at least a
portion of the inner surface, the tobacco material

liberating a flavored tobacco response when the outer
surface of the base web is heated.
The cigarette of claim 91, further comprising:
overwrap paper (69) wrapped around the outer surface.
A cigarette according to claim 1, comprising a web
of fibrous carbon and fibrous tobacco (59) and a tobacco

flavour material (61) disposed along a first surface of the
web, and the fibrous carbon mat being adapted to receive

heat at at least one location along a second surface and to
transfer a substantial portion of the heat to portions of

the tobacco flavour material (61) proximate to the location.
The cigarette of claim 93, wherein the web is in the
form of a substantially hollow web cylinder having an

interior cavity (79).
The cigarette of claim 94, further comprising:

a free-flow filter (65) adjacent a second end of the web
cylinder, the free-flow filter (65) providing structural

support to the web cylinder and allowing longitudinal air
flow from the cavity (79); and
a back-flow filter (63) adjacent a first end of the web
cylinder, the back-flow filter (63) providing structural

support to the web cylinder and limiting longitudinal air
flow from the cavity (79).
The cigarette of claim 95, wherein the free-flow
filter (65) and back-flow filter (63) are substantially

cylindrical and each has a surface defining a part of the
cavity (79).
The cigarette of claim 94 to 95, further comprising
a mouthpiece filter (71) adjacent the free-flow filter (65).
The cigarette of claim 97, further comprising
tipping paper (65) wrapped around the mouthpiece filter (71)

and at least a portion of the web cylinder to secure the
mouthpiece filter (71) to the web cylinder.
The cigarette of claim 95, 96, 97 or 98, further
comprising a second free-flow filter (73) adjacent the first

free-flow filter (65), and wherein the first free-flow
filter (65) and the second free-flow filter (73) are each

formed with longitudinal passageways, the longitudinal
passageway of the second free-flow filter (73) having a

greater inside diameter than the longitudinal passageway of
the first free-flow filter (65).
The cigarette of any of claims 95 to 98, further
comprising overwrap paper (69) wrapped around the web

cylinder.
The cigarette of any of claims 95 to 99, wherein a
plurality of perforations are formed in the web cylinder and

permit a desired transverse air flow during smoking. 
The cigarette of any of claims 95 to 101, wherein
the permeability of the web cylinder is predetermined and

permits a desired transverse air flow.
A cigarette according to claim 1 comprising
filtering means (63,65,71,73) for filtering the

predetermined quantity of flavored tobacco response prior to
delivery to the smoker.
The cigarette of claim 103, wherein the filtering
means comprises:


a free-flow filter (65) adjacent the second end of the
carrier (59), and adapted to be disposed between the

flavorant cavity (79) and the mouth of the smoker, for
providing structural support to the cigarette; and
a back-flow filter (63) adjacent the first end of the
carrier (59) for filtering the back-flow of flavored tobacco

response so as to reduce the condensation of residual
flavored tobacco response on any of (a) the heating means

(25), and (b) portions of the permanent cavity (79), of the
lighter (21).
The cigarette of claim 104, wherein: the carrier
(59) forms a substantially hollow cylinder with an inside

surface and an outside surface, the electrical heating means
(25) being disposed adjacent the outside surface of the

carrier (59); and

the tobacco flavor medium is disposed on the inside
surface of the cylindrical carrier (59) wherein the flavored

tobacco response is generated within the carrier (59).
The cigarette of claim 105, wherein the free-flow
filter (65) and back-flow filter (63) are substantially

cylindrical and each has a surface which forms a part of the
flavorant cavity (79) of the carrier (59).
The cigarette of claim 106, further comprising a
substantially cylindrical aerosol barrier tube, concentric

with and having a diameter larger than the carrier (59),
wherein the inside surface of the barrier tube and the

outside surface of the carrier (59) define a region for
accepting the electrical heating means, the barrier tube

reducing the condensation of residual flavored tobacco
response on portions of the permanent cavity (79) of the

lighter (21).
The cigarette of claim 107, wherein the
substantially cylindrical aerosol barrier tube is attached

to the free-flow filter (65) by a collar of material having
a large resistance to draw, wherein the collar defines the

size of the heater accepting region of the cigarette.
The cigarette of claim 108, further comprising:

a substantially cylindrical mouthpiece filter (71)
adjacent the free-flow filter (65); and
overwrap paper (69) for overwrapping the aerosol barrier
tube and mouthpiece filter (71) and for securing the

mouthpiece filter (71) to the aerosol barrier tube.
The cigarette of claim 108 or 109, wherein the
carrier (59) is composed of a nonwoven carbon fiber mat. 
The cigarette of claim 110, wherein the carbon
fibers in the mat have a basis weight in the range between

about 6 g/m and about 12 g/m
The cigarette of claim 111, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium comprises tobacco material.
The cigarette of claim 112, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium comprises a continuous sheet of tobacco

material.
The cigarette of claim 112, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium comprises a foam of tobacco material.
The cigarette of claim 112, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium comprises a gel of tobacco material.
The cigarette of claim 112, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium comprises a dried slurry of tobacco material.
The cigarette of claim 112, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium comprises a dried spray-deposited slurry of

tobacco material.
The cigarette of any of claims 104 to 117, wherein:

the carrier (59) forms a substantially hollow cylinder
with an inside surface and an outside surface, the

electrical heating means disposed on the inside of the
carrier (59); and
the tobacco flavor medium is disposed on the outside
surface of the cylindrical carrier (59), wherein the 

flavored tobacco response is generated outside the carrier
(59).
The cigarette of claim 118, wherein the free-flow
filter (65) and back-flow filter (63) are substantially

annular and each has a surface which forms a part of the
flavorant cavity (79) for generating the flavored tobacco

response.
The cigarette of claim 119, further comprising:
a substantially cylindrical aerosol barrier tube,

cavity (79) for generating the flavored tobacco response,
the barrier tube reducing the condensation of residual

flavored tobacco response on portions of the permanent
cavity (79) of the lighter (25).
The cigarette of claim 120, further comprising a
substantially cylindrical plug of material having a large

resistance to draw, and substantially filling the empty
center portion of the free-flow filter (65).
The cigarette of claim 121, further comprising:

a substantially cylindrical mouthpiece filter (71)
adjacent the free-flow filter (65); and
overwrap paper (69) for overwrapping the aerosol barrier
tube and mouthpiece filter (71) and for securing the mouthpiece

filter to the aerosol barrier tube.
The cigarette of any of claims 104 to 122, wherein
the tobacco flavor medium comprises a spatially-varying

tobacco flavor medium, and the flavor delivery to a smoker
varies selectively from puff to puff. 
The cigarette of claim 103, further including means
for indicating to the smoker that the cigarette has been

previously inserted into a lighter (25) and subsequently
removed.
The cigarette of claim 124, wherein the indicating
means must be removed from the cigarette before the

cigarette can be inserted into the lighter (25).
The cigarette of claim 125, wherein the indicating
means is a region on the cigarette which becomes physically

altered upon insertion of the cigarette into the lighter
(21).
The cigarette of claim 103, further including means
for indicating to the smoker that the cigarette has been

previously heated.
The cigarette of claim 127, wherein the indicating
means is thermally activated and changes color to indicate

that the cigarette has been previously heated.
The cigarette of claim 103, wherein the carrier (59)
is composed of a nonwoven carbon fiber mat having a

preselected resistivity, and wherein the resistivity
corresponds to a particular type of cigarette so as to allow

a control circuit of the lighter (25) to distinguish between
different types of cigarettes.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
