<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644610</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surface mount electrical connectors
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1236	H01R4320	H01R1200	H01R1204	H01R4316	H01R4320	H01R4316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R12	H01R43	H01R12	H01R12	H01R43	H01R43	H01R43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surface mounted connector (10) for surface mounting on a generally flat conductive 
surface of a printed circuit board includes a base (12) which has a generally flat surface 

suitable for contact with an attachment to a conductive surface of the printed circuit board. 
An electrical contact (14), which may be in the form of a pin, post, IDC, test point, or 

receptacle, has at least one portion projecting from the base (12) in a direction normal to 
the base. At least one bent intermediate connecting portion (16) integrally connects the 

contact to the base. The contact, base and the bent intermediate connecting portions are all 
formed from a generally flat sheet of conductive material. A blank for the surface mounted 

connector, as well as a rolled strip of connectors is disclosed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZIERICK MFG CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZIERICK MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEGRADY JANOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEGRADY, JANOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention generally relates to electrical connectors, and more specifically, to
surface mounted electrical connectors that can be mounted on the surfaces of printed circuit
boards by automated surface component mounting equipment, capable of sequentially
picking up the electrical connectors, one at a time, and transferring them from a pick-up
station to a mounting station for accurately mounting on a printed circuit board.Numerous electrical connector designs have been proposed for mounting on printed
circuit boards. Many of these are for pins or posts that are formed by stamping flat sheet
stock. In many cases, the pins or posts are initially connected to each other by a cater strip
to allow automated mounting on a printed circuit board. The aforementioned pins or posts
take on different shapes, including relatively flat shapes as shown in U.S. Patent No.
5,073,132. Thin flat posts are shown in U.S. Patent No. 3,864,014. Box-type male
connectors are illustrated in U.S. Patent No. 3,375,486. Relatively large cross-section pins
are also disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,017,142 and 3,428,934.In U.S. Patent Nos. 4,395,087 and 3,663,931, substantially square, solid pins are
utilized for the electrical contacts. In the '087 patent, the pins are mounted on a carrier
strip while in the '931 patent a unitary pin is shown formed integrally with a socket contact,
presumably formed out of stamped material. In U.S. Patent No. 4,369,572, a substantially
solid rectangular pin is shown welded to the carrier strip. Generally, it has been proposed to entrain electrical connectors upon printed circuit
board in various ways, including 'through the hole' connectors, as disclosed in US
Patents Nos: 4436358 and 3601752, or by soldering to the board, as in IBM
Technical Disclosure Bulletin (vol 29, no:1, 1986).None of this art discloses a surface mount connector configured to provide stability
necessary during soldering to the circuit board. IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin
(vol 29, no: 1, 1986) adresses a connector, frangible from other entrained connectors
in a strip, upon soldering to a circuit board, with a connector stem emergent from
between opposed contact tabs, whose respective surface areas define a connector
base which sit upon solder foot prints on the circuit board. This approach would be
inherently unstable during soldering, without reliance upon an overlying selvage and
locating plate, and is thus only appropriate for multiple entrained connector arrays,
and is incompatible with individual pick and place
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surface-mount connector (10),
for printed circuit board,

the connector comprising:

a base (12),
defining a mounting attachment area,
and a contact limb (14),
upstanding from the base,

characterised in that
the connector is fabricated
from return-folded conductive strip,
configured with a foot of the contact limb
marginally spaced from, but contiguous with, the attachment area,
through a return-folded intermediate portion (16a, 16b).
A surface mounted connector as defined in Claim 1,
wherein said contact is a contact pin (20).
A surface mounted connector as defined in Claim 1,
wherein said contact is an electrical female receptacle (36).
A surface mounted connector as defined in Claim 1,
wherein said contact is an electrical insulation displacement connector (32).
A surface mounted connector as defined in Claim 1,
wherein said contact is a fuse clip (60).
A surface mounted connector as defined in Claim 1,
wherein said base (12) comprises

two base portions (12a, 12b); and
said contact comprises

two elongate substantially juxtaposed contact portions (14a, 14b),
each having ends respectively proximate and remote in relation to said base

said remote ends being joined to each other
by an integral bent bridging portion (14c),

two bent 
intermediate connecting portions being provided each connecting one of said proximate ends

to an associate one of said base portions.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 6, wherein one base comprises
a U-shaped member having a transverse segment and two parallel segments each joined at

one end to said transverse segments and having free ends, said other base portion being
dimensioned and configurated to substantially conform to and occupy an area between said

free ends.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 7, wherein one bent intermediate
connecting portion is connected to said transverse segment and another bent intermediate

connecting portion is connected to said other base portion.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 6, wherein each of said two bent
portions are bent approximately 90째.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 1, wherein said base comprises
a plurality of base portions and said contact comprises a contact pin remote from said base

and a plurality of depending portions equal to the number of base portions substantially coplanar
with said contact pin and proximate to said base; a separate bent intermediate

connecting portion connecting each depending portion with an associate base portion.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 10, wherein three base portions
and three depending portions are provided, and three bent intermediate connecting portions

are provided each joining associated based and depending portions.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 11, wherein one of the depending
portions is a central depending portion substantially coextensive with said central contact pin 

and two of the depending portions are arranged to the sides of said central depending
portion, the bent connecting portion for the central depending portion being bent

approximately 90째 while the bent connecting portions for the side depending portions are
bent approximately 180째.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 10, wherein two base portions and
two depending portions are provided, and two bent intermediate connecting portions are

provided each joining associated base and depending portions.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 13, wherein said two bent
intermediate connecting portions are each bent approximately 180째.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 1, wherein said base is

substantially rectangular and defines a pair opposing sides, said contact being positioned
generally centrally of the rectangular area of said base, one bent intermediate connecting

portion extends from one side of said base to said contact and another intermediate
connecting portion extending from the other side of said base to a point proximate to said

contact, and further including a tab or collar crimped about said contact, whereby said
intermediate connecting portions stabilize the position of said contact.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 1, further comprising a post
projecting from said base in a direction substantially normal to said plane defined by said

base and opposite to the direction of said contact, whereby said post can be received within
a through opening in the printed circuit board when the connector is surface mounted

thereon.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 1, wherein said base is provided 
with aperture means for receiving solder by capillary action upon reflow of solder subsequent

to placement of the connector on the printed circuit board.
A strip of series connected surface mounted connectors for automated mounting
on a surface of a printed circuit board, each connector as defined in claim 1

and frangible connecting
means between each two adjacent connectors, whereby a strip of connectors can be

advanced to an automated mounting station and a connector at the downstream end of the
strip can be separated from the strip by severing said frangible connecting means between

said connector at the downstream end and an adjacent immediately succeeding connector
in the strip.
A strip of connectors as defined in claim 18, wherein said frangible connecting
means comprises connecting tabs integrally formed with the bases of each two adjoining

connectors.
A strip of connectors as defined in claim 18, wherein said frangible connecting
means comprises connecting tabs integrally formed with the contacts of each two adjoining

connectors.
A rolled strip of series connected surface mounted connectors for automated 
mounting on a surface of a printed circuit board, each connector as defined in claim 1

frangible connecting means
between each two adjacent connectors; and a rotatable support member on which the strip

of connectors is helically wound, said rotatable support member defining an axis of rotation,
said connectors being oriented so that said contacts extend in directions substantially parallel

to said axis of rotation, said frangible connecting means being sufficiently flexible without
breaking to allow said connectors to be arranged along circular arcs when helically wound

about said support member.
A rolled strip of connectors as defined in claim 21, wherein said bases of said
connectors have a predetermined dimension in the radial direction when helically wound on

said rotatable support member; and further comprising spacer means for maintaining said
contacts in adjacent layers spaced from each other at a distance to define a spiral connector-receiving

space having a radial dimension substantially equal to said predetermined
dimensions, whereby the rolled strip of connectors can be received within the spiral

connector receiving space with minimal contact interference between bases in adjacent
layers.
A rolled strip of connectors as defined in claim 22, wherein said spacer means 
comprises a continuous flat strip of flexible material; and an undulating wave-like

strip of
material attached to said flat strip of material having a peak-to-peak

distance along the
length of said flat strip substantially corresponding to the distance between successive

contacts in the strip, and a peak-to-peak height along a radial direction normal to said flat
strip substantially equal to the difference between said predetermined radial dimension and

the dimension of said contact in the radial direction when helically wound on said rotatable
support member.
A blank for a surface mounted connector as defined in claim 1 comprising a stamping from a flat sheet
of electrically conductive material and including in a common plane a base suitable for

attachment to an associated surface of a printed circuit board; a contact; and at least one
intermediate connecting portion integrally connecting said contact to said base, whereby at

least one portion of said contact can be moved to a position substantially normal to said
plane by bending said at least one intermediate connecting portion to form the surface

mounted connector.
A blank for a plurality of series-connected surface mounted connectors as defined in claim 1 comprising
a stamping from an elongated strip of a flat sheet of electrically conductive material which

includes a plurality of blank portions successively stamped along said strip; and at least one
frangible tab between adjacent blank portions connecting adjacent blank portions to each

other, each blank portion comprising a base suitable for attachment to an associated surface
of a printed circuit board; a contact; and at least one intermediate connecting portion

integrally connecting said contact to said base, whereby at least one portion of said contact
can be moved to a position substantially normal to said plane by bending said at least one 

intermediate connecting portion to form the surface mounted connector, whereby two
adjacent surface mounted connectors can be separated from each other by severing the tab

connecting the same.
A method of forming a surface mounted connector as defined in claim 1, comprising the steps of forming
a blank from a flat sheet of electrically conductive material to form, in a common plane, a

base suitable for attachment to an associated surface of a printed circuit board; a contact;
and at least one intermediate connecting portion integrally connecting said contact to said

base; and deforming the blank by moving at least one portion of the contact to a position
substantially normal to said plane by bending said at least one intermediate connecting

portion to form the surface mounted connector.
A surface mounted connector as defined in claim 1 formed by the steps of forming a blank from a flat
sheet of electrically conductive material to form, in a common plane, a base suitable for

attachment to an associated surface of a printed circuit board; a contact; and at least one
intermediate connecting portion integrally connecting said contact to said base; and

deforming the blank by moving at least one portion of the contact to a position substantially
normal to said plane by bending said at least one intermediate connecting portion to form

the surface mounted connector.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
