<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620710</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTELLIGENT FOOT APPLIANCE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B500	A43B504	A43B504	A43B506	A43B714	A43B730	A43B1700	A43B1703	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B5	A43B5	A43B5	A43B5	A43B7	A43B7	A43B17	A43B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A foot appliance (10) comprises a sole (12) and side walls (14) forming a load bearing surface for a foot. A plurality of air bladders (19-26) are located within the load bearing surface. The feedback system comprises a sensor apparatus for generating data indicating an actual distribution of load exerted by the foot on the load bearing surface. An electronic processor (108) receives the actual load distribution data and determines if the actual load distribution is a desired load distribution. If the actual load distribution is not a desired load distribution, a valve apparatus (120) is activated by the electronic processor to change the amount of air contained in the air bladders (19-26). A pump (40) located in the sole of the foot appliance (10), and activated by running or walking activity supplies air to the air bladders (19-26) via the valve apparatus (120).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICA BIOMECHANICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOMECHANICS CORPORATION OF AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROSS CLIFFORD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROSS, CLIFFORD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTELLIGENT FOOT APPLIANCE Related ApplicationsA patent application entitled "Method and Apparatus for Evaluating a Load Bearing surface Such As a Seat", filed for Clifford M. Gross on April 18, 1990, bearing Ser. No. 07/510,653, now U.S. 5,060,174 and assigned to the assignee hereof, contains subject matter related to the subject matter of the present application.A patent application entitled "Feedback System for Load Bearing Surface", filed for Clifford M. Gross et al on December 6, 1990, bearing Ser. No. 07/623,220, and assigned to the assignee hereof, contains subject matter related to the subject matter of the present application.The above-identified related patent and patent application are incorporated herein by reference.Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to foot appliances such as sneakers, running shoes and ski boots. In particular, the present invention relates to a foot appliance incorporating an electronic feedback system for changing the shape of the foot appliance to maintain a desired level of support and/or comfort for the foot of a user.SUBSTITUTESHEET 

Background of the InventionA foot appliance comprises a sole and side walls attached to the sole. Generally, laces or a strap or some other mechanism is provided for securing the side walls together. The sole and side walls of a foot appliance define a load bearing surface for supporting the foot of the user including in some cases the ankle of the user. As used herein, the term foot appliance includes but is not limited to sneakers, running shoes, ski boots and orthopedic appliances for helping those with orthopedic problems or handicaps, walk or perform other functions.In different circumstances, the nature of the support to be provided by a particular foot appliance varies. Generally, shoes such as sneakers, running shoes, or ski boots are commercially available in a limited number of discrete sizes. However, the feet of individuals have an infinite variety of sizes and shapes. Accordingly, it is desirable for the shape and support of the load bearing surface defined by a shoe to be automatically configurable to provide an optimum level of support and comfort for an individual. In other words, it is desirable for the foot appliance to include a mechanism for automatically configuring the shape of its load bearing surface so that the load exerted on the load bearing surface is distributed to achieve a desired level of comfort and support for the individual user.Furthermore, the physical dimensions of a foot and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A foot appliance comprising a sole and side walls forming a load bearing surface for supporting a foot of a user, a plurality of air bladders located within the load bearing surface, and a feedback system for adjusting the load bearing surface comprising: a sensor apparatus for generating data indicating an actual distribution of load exerted by said foot on said load bearing surface, an electronic processor for receiving said actual load distribution data from said sensor apparatus and for determining if said actual load distribution is a desired load distribution, and a valve apparatus activated by said electronic processor when said actual load distribution is not a desired load distribution to adjust the amount of air in said bladders until the actual load distribution is a desired load distribution.
2. The foot appliance of claim 1 wherein said foot appliance is a sneaker.
3. The foot appliance of claim 1 wherein said foot appliance is a running shoe.
4. The foot appliance of claim 1 wherein said foot appliance is a ski boot.
20
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 5. The foot appliance of claim 1 wherein said foot appliance is an orthopedic appliance.
6. The foot appliance of claim 1 wherein said sensor apparatus is a two dimensional array of pressure sensors and said actual load distribution is a two dimensional load distribution.
7. The foot appliance of claim 1 wherein said actual load distribution is a desired load distribution when the fraction of total load on each of a plurality of regions of the load bearing surface is within a predetermined range.
8. The foot appliance of claim 7 wherein the amount of air in said bladders is adjusted until the fraction of total load on each of said regions is within the predetermined range.
9. The foot appliance of claim 1 wherein the amount of air in said bladders is adjusted on a time average basis.
10. The foot appliance of claim 1 further comprising a pump located in said sole and activated by walking or running activity for supplying air to said air bladders.
11. A foot appliance comprising a sole and side walls forming a load bearing surface for supporting the foot of a user, a sensor apparatus located within said load bearing surface for detecting the distribution of pressure exerted on the load bearing surface by said foot, shape changing apparatus located within said load
21
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


bearing surface for changing the shape of said load bearing surface, and an electronic processing system for receiving data generated by said sensor apparatus, for determining from the data generated by said sensor apparatus an actual comfort level of the foot, for determining if the actual comfort level is a comfort level predetermined to be desirable, and if the actual comfort level is not a desired comfort level, controlling said shape changing apparatus to change the shape of the load bearing surface until the actual comfort level is a predetermined desirable comfort level.
12. The foot appliance of claim 11 wherein said shape changing apparatus comprises a plurality of air bladders located within said load bearing surface, valve apparatus selectively activated by said processor when said actual comfort level is not a predetermined desirable comfort level for adjusting the amount of air in said bladders, and a pump connected via said valve apparatus to said air bladders.
13. The foot appliance of claim 12 wherein said pump is located in said sole and is activated by walking or running activity.
14. The foot appliance of claim 11 wherein said actual level of comfort is a function of a plurality of attributes of
22
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


the pressure distribution exerted by the foot on the load bearing surface.
15. The foot appliance of claim 14 wherein a level of comfort is predetermined to be a desirable level of comfort through a correlation of subjective comfort sensations with pressure distribution attributes of a statistically valid sample of user's feet.
16. The foot appliance of claim 1 wherein the electronic processing system changes the shape of the load bearing surface of a time averaged basis.
17. A foot appliance comprising a sole and side walls for defining a load bearing surface for a foot and a feedback system attached to said foot appliance for sensing the actual distribution of load exerted by the foot on the load bearing surface and for changing the shape of the load bearing surface to change the actual load distribution until the actual load distribution is a desired load distribution.
23
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
