<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613300</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for encoding and decoding header data in picture signal transmission.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T900	G06T900	H04N592	H04N592	H04N726	H04N726	H04N730	H04N730	H04N732	H04N732	H04N746	H04N746	H04N750	H04N750	H04N752	H04N754	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T9	G06T9	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Control data subsequent to an extension start code is stored in 
an encoding apparatus when transmitted after each header data of a 

video sequence layer, a GOP layer, a picture layer and a slice layer. 
In transmission of the next header data, the content of the control 

data subsequent to the extension start code in the header data to be 
transmitted is compared (29) with the content of the preceding header 

data of the same layer stored (31) in the encoding apparatus. If the 
result of such comparison signifies that the compared data are mutually 

the same, neither the extension start code nor the subsequent control 
data is transmitted. At the reception of each header data of the video 

sequence layer, the GOP layer, the picture layer and the slice layer, 
the control data decoded subsequently to the extension start code is 

stored (102) in the decoding apparatus. When the extension start code 
is not existent in the next header data to be decoded, the preceding 

header data of the same layer stored in the decoding apparatus is 
duplicated and used as the control data of the layer being currently 

decoded. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO MOTOKI C O INTELLECTUAL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO MOTOKI C O INTELLECTUAL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a picture encoding apparatus, a 
picture decoding apparatus, a picture encoding method, a picture 
decoding method, a picture signal transmission method and a picture 
recording medium adapted for use in compression of moving picture data. In recording and transmitting digitized moving pictures, it is 
customary to encode the data for compression since the data amounts to 
an extremely great quantity. There are known some typical encoding 
methods inclusive of motion compensating predictive coding and DCT 
(discrete cosine transform) coding. A picture signal is first 
converted into a different form by the use of such coding technology, 
and subsequently a variable-length code such as the efficient Huffman 
code is allocated to the converted signal by utilizing the statistical 
attributes of the converted signal, whereby compression of the picture 
data is realized. The encoded data is termed a bit stream. Fig.1 shows the 
structure of a bit stream in the format according to MPEG (Moving 
Picture Experts Group ) 1. The MPEG 1 signifies a moving picture 
encoding standard progressed by WG (Working Group) 11 of SC (Sub 
Committee) in JTC (Joint Technical Committee) of ISO (International 
Organization for Standardization) and IEC (International 
Electrotechnical Commission). A bit stream of the MPEG 1 comprises a total of six layers which 
are a video sequence layer, a GOP (group of pictures) layer, a picture 
layer, a slice layer, a macro block layer and a block layer. The 
individual layers will now be described below briefly with reference to 
Fig. 2. A block layer is composed of, e.g., mutually adjacent 8 lines x 
8 pixels of luminance or color difference. For example, DCT is 
executed block by block as a unit. When the picture format is based on 4:2:0 component signals, an 
MB layer is composed of a total of 6 blocks which consist of 4 
horizontally and vertically adjacent luminance blocks, and 2 color 
difference blocks (Cb and Cr) at the same position on the picture. 
These blocks are transmitted in the order of Y0, Y1, Y2, Y3, Cb and Cr. 
A decision is made per MB layer as a unit for selecting the predictive  
 
data to be used or determining whether it is necessary or not to send 
a prediction error. A slice layer is composed of one or more macro blocks successive 
in the picture scanning order. This layer is so contrived that an 
intra-frame motion vector and a DC component difference are reset at 
the beginning of the slice, and the first macro block has data 
ind
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A picture encoding apparatus for forming an encoded picture 
signal of a layer structure composed of a plurality of layers, 

comprising: 
   memory means (31) for storing first control data included in 

header data of a predetermined layer subsequently to identification 
data; 

   comparator means (29) for comparing the first control data with 
second control data included in the next header data of said 

predetermined layer subsequently to the identification data; and 
   encoding means (20) so operated as to transmit neither the 

identification data nor the second control data when the first control 
data and the second control data are mutually the same, or to transmit 

both the identification data and the second control data when the first 
control data and the second control data are different from each other. 
A picture decoding apparatus for decoding an encoded picture 
signal of a layer structure composed of a plurality of layers, 

comprising: 
   memory means (102) for storing control data included in header 

data of a predetermined layer subsequently to identification data; and 
   decoding means (52) for decoding the encoded picture signal by 

using, when none of the control data is existent in the next header 
data of said predetermined layer, the preceding control data stored in 

said memory means. 
A picture decoding apparatus according to claim 2, wherein 
said decoding means detects the nonexistence of the control data when 

the identification data is not existent. 
A picture recording medium having an encoded picture signal of 
a layer structure composed of a plurality of layers, comprising: 

   a first encoded picture signal of a predetermined layer including 
identification data and control data subsequent thereto; and 

   a second encoded picture signal of a layer being the same in kind 
as said predetermined layer and including none of the identification 

 
data and the control data. 
A picture encoding method for forming an encoded picture 
signal of a layer structure composed of a plurality of layers, 

comprising the steps of: 
   comparing first control data, which is included in header data of 

a predetermined layer subsequently to identification data, with second 
control data included in the next header data of said predetermined 

layer subsequently to the identification data; and 
   encoding the identification data and the second control data only 

when the first control data and the second control data are different 
from each other. 
A picture decoding method for decoding an encoded picture 
signal of a layer structure composed of a plurality of layers, 

comprising the steps of: 
   storing first control data included in header data of a 

predetermined layer subsequently to identification data; and 
   decoding the encoded picture signal by using the stored control 

data when none of the control data is existent in the next header data 
of a layer being the same in kind to said predetermined layer. 
A picture decoding method according to claim 6, further 
comprising the step of detecting the nonexistence of the control data 

when the identification data is not existent. 
A picture signal transmission method for transmitting encoded 
picture data of a layer structure composed of a plurality of layers, 

comprising the steps of: 
   transmitting a first encoded picture signal of a predetermined 

layer which includes identification data and control data subsequent 
thereto; and 

   transmitting a second encoded picture signal of a layer being 
the same in kind as said predetermined layer and including none of the 

identification data and the control data. 
A picture encoding or decoding apparatus or method, or a 
 

picture recording medium, or a picture signal transmission method 
according to any preceding claim, wherein said predetermined layer is 

one of a video sequence layer, a GOP layer, a picture layer and a slice 
layer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
