<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627191</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Peripheral arterial monitoring instruments.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5022	A61B5022	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for determining 
peripheral arterial capacity and 

compliance comprises a blood pressure cuff (10) which is inflated and 
deflated around a limb of the body in order to take pressure 

measurements. The volume of air removed from 
the cuff is determined in a quantifiable manner, for example 

by expelling air through an orifice of known characteristics. 
The detected pressures and volume of air 

removed are used to compute oscillation volume, which in 
turn is used to display arterial capacity and compliance 

as a function of transmural pressure and time. Arterial 
capacity may be displayed in terms of arterial radius, 

arterial cross-sectional area, or arterial volume. Also, 
systolic and pulse pressures are determined using only 

these determined values. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRITIKON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRITIKON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
APPLE HOWARD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
APPLE, HOWARD P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of Serial 
No. 823,909, which is a continuation of Serial No. 453,519 
now U.S. Patent No. 5,103,833, both of which are 
incorporated herein by reference. This invention relates to monitoring instruments 
which provide information concerning peripheral 
vasculature and, in particular, to the use of such 
instruments to provide medical diagnostic information 
concerning arterial volume, cross-sectional area, and 
compliance, and especially, diastolic and systolic 
pressure. The medical conditions of arteriosclerosis and 
hypertension are potentially debilitating and often 
life-threatening conditions which require early diagnosis 
and treatment. These conditions are characterized by 
changes in arterial blood flow volumes and rates and the 
response of arterial tissue to changes in blood pressure. 
A physiological phenomenon which plays a part in these 
arterial characteristics is referred to herein as arterial 
compliance, the ability of vasculature to respond to 
changes in these conditions. The arterial walls of the 
body include collagen, giving the walls the ability to 
expand and contract, and muscle tissue which in part 
controls this expansion and contraction. Vascular  
 
compliance includes the response of collagen and muscle in 
arterial walls to changing conditions. In addition, the 
condition of arteriosclerosis is characterized by the 
buildup of fatty substances along arterial walls. These 
substances can occlude the artery, and can impede the 
ability of the arterial walls to respond to changing 
conditions of blood pressure. The fatty substances 
characteristic of arteriosclerosis are thus a further 
factor governing arterial compliance. It is thus 
desirable to be able to analytically understand arterial 
volume and compliance when diagnosing or treating the 
medical conditions of hypertension and arteriosclerosis. An understanding of a patient's arterial volume and 
compliance is also beneficial when administering 
anesthesia. The quantity of anesthetic administered to a 
patient should be just sufficient to eliminate a 
physiological response by the patient during surgery. If 
an insufficient amount of anesthetic has been 
administered, the cardiovascular system will respond 
reflexively when the patient is intubated prior to 
surgery. This response can be detected by monitoring 
arterial volume and compliance, and noting any reduction 
in these characteristics during intubation. A 
cardiovascular response can also be detected at the time 
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Instrumentation for performing measurements of 
the vital signs comprising: 

   an inflatable cuff; 
   means, connected to said cuff for inflating and 

deflating said cuff; 
   means for detecting pressure levels of said 

cuff; 
   means for removing quantified decrements of air 

from said cuff; 
   means for computing values of oscillation volume 

from said quantified decrements of air; and 
   means for computing arterial volume as a 

function of said values of said oscillation volume and 
cuff pressure, wherein said computing means comprise means 

for estimating said arterial volume and creating a volume 
versus pressure curve. 
Instrumentation according to Claim 1, wherein 
said computing means computes arterial volume as a 

function of said values of oscillation volume and cuff 
pressure. 
Instrumentation according to Claim 1, wherein 
said computing means computes arterial volume as a 

function of transmural pressure. 
Instrumentation according to Claim 1 wherein said 
computing means computes systolic and diastolic pressure 

as a function of arterial volume. 
Instrumentation for performing measurements of 
vital signs comprising: 

   an inflatable cuff; 
   means for inflating said cuff; 

   means for detecting pressure levels within said 
cuff; 

   means for expelling air from said cuff; and 
   computing means capable of computing arterial 

volume as a function of said air expelled from said cuff 
and said detected pressure levels, wherein said computing 

means is also capable of computing systolic and pulse 
pressures using said computed arterial volume. 
Instrumentation according to Claim 5, 
wherein said expelling means comprises an orifice of known 

flow characteristics. 
Instrumentation according to Claim 5, 
wherein said expelling means comprises a volume of known 

characteristics which is selectively coupled to said cuff. 
Instrumentation according to Claim 7, 
wherein said air expelling means includes a deflate valve 

for expelling air from said cuff through said orifice; and 

wherein said computing means includes: 
   means for computing flow through said orifice as 

a function of cuff pressure; 
   means for computing the volume flow of air 

expelled as a function of flow, orifice characteristics, 
and the time said deflate valve is open; and 

   means for computing arterial volume as a 
function of said volume of air expelled and cuff pressure. 
Instrumentation for performing measurements 
of vital signs comprising: 

   an inflatable cuff; 
   means for inflating said cuff; 

   means for detecting pressure levels within said 
cuff; 

   means for expelling air from said cuff; and 
   computing means capable of computing arterial 

volume as a function of said air expelled from said cuff 
and said detected pressure levels, wherein said computing 

means is also capable of creating a volume versus pressure 
curve. 
The instrumentation of claim 9 wherein said 
computing means is also capable of computing systolic and 

pulse pressures using said computed arterial volume. 
Instrumentation for performing measurements of 
arterial volume comprising: 

   an inflatable cuff; 
   means, connected to said cuff, for inflating and 

deflating said cuff; 
   means for detecting pressure levels within said 

cuff; 
   means for computing arterial volume as a 

function of said detected pressure levels within said 
cuff; 

   means for computing arterial capacity as a 
function of pressure; and 

   further including means for computing systolic 
and pulse pressures as a function of said arterial volume 

and computed pressure levels. 
Instrumentation according to Claim 11, including 
displaying means which displays systolic and pulse 

pressures. 
A method of determining arterial capacity 
comprising the steps of: 

   inflating a cuff around a peripheral part of the 
body; 

   incrementally deflating said cuff; 
   detecting the pressure within said cuff during 

said deflating of said cuff; 
   determining incremental quantities of air 

removed from said cuff during the deflating of said cuff; 
and 

   using said incremental quantities of air to compute 
arterial volume, systolic pressure and pulse pressure. 
The method of Claim 13, wherein said determining 
step comprises measuring the flow of air through an 

orifice of known characteristics. 
The method of Claim 13, wherein said determining 
step comprises measuring the volume of air transferred 

from said cuff to a volume of known characteristics. 
The method of Claim 13, further comprising the 
step of calculating the arterial volume of said peripheral 

body part as a function of cuff pressure. 
The method of Claim 13, further comprising the 
step of calculating the arterial volume of said peripheral 

body part as a function of transmural pressure. 
The method of Claim 13, wherein said calculating 
step comprises the step of calculating the arterial volume 

of said peripheral body part as a function of systolic 
pressure. 
The method of Claim 18 further comprising the 
step of calculating systolic pressure as a function of 

arterial capacity. 
The method of Claim 13, further comprising the 
step of calculating oscillation volume as a function of 

the incremental quantities of air removed from said cuff 
and detected pressures within said cuff. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
