<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622621</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Opposed magnet ionization gauge
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L2134	H01J4100	H01J4106	G01L2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	H01J	H01J	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L21	H01J41	H01J41	G01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cold cathode ionization gauge includes a 
first electrode (12) and a second electrode (20) which 

are spaced apart and insulated from one another and 
have a common axis. A magnetic field generator 

surrounds the gauge and applies a magnetic field along 
the common axis of the electrodes. The magnetic field 

generator includes at least one pair of opposed axially 
magnetized magnets (32, 34) adjacent to each other. 

The magnet arrangement minimizes magnetic flux outside 
the gauge while increasing the strength of the magnetic 

flux inside the gauge. The magnetic arrangement also 
allows the gauge to be ignited in a very high vacuum, 

thereby extending the operating range of the gauge. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FREDERICKS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE FREDERICKS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRUBETSKY EMIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR DONALD R JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRUBETSKY, EMIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, DONALD R., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an ionization vacuum gauge for measuring
vacuum in a chamber. The invention is described in the context of, but is not limited
to, an inverted magnetron type cold cathode ionization gauge.Cold cathode ionization gauges are known in the art. Typically, such
gauges are employed for making vacuum measurements, i.e., measurements at very
low pressure [e.g. 13.3 to 13.3 × 10-6 Pa (10-1 to 10-7 torr)]. Three commonly known cold cathode ionization
gauges include normal (noninverted) magnetron type gauges, inverted magnetron
type gauges, and Philips (or Penning) gauges. All of these types of gauges have a
pair of electrodes in an evacuated non-magnetic envelope. The envelope has an
opening which communicates with the vacuum to be measured. A high D.C. voltage
is applied between the electrodes for causing a discharge current to flow therebetween.
A magnetic field is applied along the axis of the electrodes in order to help
maintain the discharge current at an equilibrium value which is a function of pressure.
The level of vacuum of an enclosure connected to such a gauge can thus be
obtained by measuring the amount of the discharge current within the gauge.In contrast with cold cathode gauges, hot filament gauges emit
electrons by heating a filament. The electrons are attracted toward a positively
charged grid electrode. Collisions of electrons with gas molecules produce ions,
which are then attracted to a negatively charged electrode. The current mcasured
at this electrode is directly proportional to the pressure or gas density. One form of prior art normal (noninverted) magnetron type and
inverted magnetron type gauges include a pair of concentric cylinder-shaped electrodes,
typically consisting of an anode and a cathode, spaced apart and insulatcd
from one another. The two cylinders can thus be defined as inner and outer cylinders.
A high voltage is applied between these cylindrical electrodes. The high
voltage accelerates electrons traveling from the negative to the positively charged
cylindrical electrode. A magnet placed around the outer cylinder provides a
magnetic field which is parallel to the axis of the cylinders. This magnetic field
causes the electrons to orbit in the space between the two electrodes instead of going
directly to the positively charged electrode. This long orbiting path increases the
probability of collision of the electrons with residual gas molecules between the inner
and outer cylinders, thus improving the production of positive gas ions. The flow of
these
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ionization vacuum gauge apparatus comprising:

(a) an evacuated enclosure (12) defining a first
electrode, the enclosure having an opening (14) for

communicating with a region whose vacuum is to be measured;
(b) a second electrode (20) separately disposed in the
enclosure and having a common axis with the first electrode;
(c) a high voltage power source (26) for applying a high
voltage between the first (12) and second (20) electrodes;
(d) a magnetic field generating means for applying a
magnetic field along the common axis of the electrodes, the

magnetic field generating means including at least one pair
of opposed axially magnetized magnets (32, 34; 42, 32', 34',

44, 46) adjacent to each other; and
(e) current measuring means (28) for measuring a
discharge current between the electrodes, the discharge

current being a function of the amount of vacuum in the
region,

characterised in that the magnets of said pair (32, 34; 42,
32'; 32', 34'; 44, 46) are separated by a small non-magnetic

gap.
A cold-cathode ionization gauge apparatus for
measuring the pressure in a chamber, the apparatus including

a vacuum enclosure (12) defining a first electrode, the
enclosure having an opening (14) for communicating with the

chamber whose pressure is to be measured, a second electrode
(20) spaced from and insulated from the first electrode in the

enclosure and having a common axis with the first electrode,
a high voltage power source (26) for supplying a high voltage

between the electrodes, and means (28) for measuring current
collected at the first electrode caused by ions impinging 

thereupon, the current being a function of the pressure in the
chamber, the apparatus additionally including:


a magnetic field generating means for applying a magnetic
field along the common axis of the electrodes, the magnetic

field generating means including at least one pair of opposed
axially magnetized magnets (32, 34; 42, 32', 34', 44, 46)

adjacent to each other,

characterised in that the magnets of said pair (32, 34; 42,
32'; 32', 34'; 44, 46) are separated by a small non-magnetic

gap.
An ionization vacuum gauge apparatus comprising:

(a) an evacuated enclosure (48), the enclosure having an
opening for communicating with a region whose vacuum is to be

measured;
(b) first and second electrodes (50, 52) having a common
axis with one another;
(c) a high voltage power source (26) for supplying a high
voltage between the electrodes;
(d) a magnetic field generating means for applying a
magnetic field along the axis of the electrodes, the magnetic

field generating means including at least one pair of opposed
axially magnetized magnets (32, 34; 42, 32', 34', 44, 46)

adjacent to each other; and
(e) current measuring means (28) for measuring a
discharge current between the electrodes, the discharge

current being a function of the amount of vacuum in the
region,

characterised in that

(i) the first and second electrodes (50, 52) are
separately disposed within the enclosure (48); and,
(ii) the magnets of said pair (32, 34; 42, 32'; 32', 34'; 
44, 46) are separated by a small non-magnetic gap.
Apparatus according to claim 1, 2, or 3 characterised
in that each of the opposed magnets has a preselected axial

width, the space within the enclosure encompassed by the width
defining an ionization cell.
Apparatus according to claim 4, characterised in that
the ionization cells are coaxial to one another.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim,
characterised in that the electrodes include an anode and a

cathode.
Apparatus according to claim 6, characterised in that
the anode is a rod axially disposed in the enclosure.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim,
characterised in that the non-magnetic gap comprises a non-magnetic

spacer (36).
Apparatus according to any preceding claim,
characterised in that the magnets are annular.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim,
characterised in that the opposed magnets surround at least

a portion of the enclosure.
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 8,
characterised in that the enclosure is tubular and the opposed

magnets are annular and surround the tubular enclosure.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim,
characterised in that the magnets are permanent magnets.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, further
characterised by at least one additional axially magnetized

magnet for applying a magnetic field along the axis of the
electrodes, the additional magnet being adjacent to one of the

pair of opposed magnets, and the additional magnet being
magnetically opposed to the adjacent one of the pair of 

opposed magnets.
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 12, further
characterised by at least one additional axially magnetized

magnet for applying a magnetic field along the axis of the
pair of electrodes, the additional magnet being adjacent to

one of the pair of opposed magnets, and the additional magnet
being alternately poled with respect to the adjacent one of

the pair of opposed magnets.
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 5,
characterised in that the electrodes consist of two concentric

cylinders spaced apart and insulated from one another.
Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterised
in that the electrodes include an anode and a cathode, the

cathode being defined by the enclosure.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim,
characterised in that the vacuum gauge apparatus is of the

inverted magnetron type.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
