<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639230</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OLIGONUCLEOTIDES AND NUCLEIC ACIDS FOR DETECTION OF UREAPLASMA UREALYTICUM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07H2100	C07H2104	C07K14195	C07K1430	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07H	C07H	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07H21	C07H21	C07K14	C07K14	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to a rapid and sensitive method for detecting Ureaplasma urealyticum using U. urealyticum-specific probes and oligonucleotides. In particular a target sequence can be amplified by in vitro nucleic acid amplification techniques or directly detected by nucleic acid hybridization using the subject probes and oligonucleotides. U. urealyticum-specific nucleic acids which do not recognize or hybridize to genomic nucleic acid of Mycoplasma species are also provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RES CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RESEARCH CORPORATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOUSE LOUIS E JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELVECCHIO VITO G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLESKEY FERNE K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOUSE, LOUIS, E., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELVECCHIO, VITO, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLESKEY, FERNE, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 1 OLIGONUCLEOTIDES AND NUCLEIC ACIDSFOR DETECTION OF UREAPLASMA UREALYTICUMThe present invention is directed to a rapid and sensitive method for detecting Ureaplasma 5 urealyticum using U. urealyticum-specific probes and oligonucleotides. In particular a target sequence can be amplified by in vitro nucleic acid amplification techniques or directly detected by nucleic acid hybridization using the subject probes and 0 oligonucleotides. U. urealyticum-specific nucleic acids which do not recognize or hybridize to genomic nucleic acid of other Mycoplasma species are also provided.Ureaplasma urealyticum is a mycoplasma which has emerged as a suspected pathogen in fetuses and - infants as well as in the adult genitourinary tract. U. urealyticum is often transmitted by sexual contact and can be transmitted to neonates born of infected mothers. This pathogen can also cause .in utero infection of a fetus and has been isolated from amniotic fluid at 0 stages of gestation as early as 16 weeks post- fertilization. In adults, U. urealyticum has been implicated as a cause of urethritis, urethroprostatitis , pelvic inflammatory disease, infertility and chorioamnionitis. In infants, U. urealyticum2 contributes to low birth weight and, more significantly, to infantile chronic lung disease. [See reviews by Cassell et a_l. (1991) Clin. Perinatol. 18:241-262; Cassell et al. (1984) Adv. Exp. Med. Biol. 224:93-115; and Cassell et al. (1983) Sex. Transm. Dis. 10:294-302. ]_-,0 Ureaplasma range in size from 0.2 to 0.8 μm in diameter and are among the smallest of all free living organisms. Ureaplasma are difficult to culture because35 

of their fastidious nutritional requirements and slow growth rates. Such properties render the current cultural diagnostic procedures for Ureaplasma dif icult and time consuming, requiring up to 2 to 6 days for positive identification depending on the amount of the initial inoculum. Since diagnosis of Ureaplasma infection by such methods is time consuming, expensive and requires a high degree of bacteriological expertise, few clinical laboratories include U. urealyticum in the list of organisms for which they provide detection services. These disadvantages often discourage physicians from requesting diagnostic tests for U. urealyticum and result in a considerable loss of time in treatment of patients. Consequently, the etiologic role of U. urealyticum in various diseases and the complete range of tissue tropis for this pathogen has not been elucidated.U. urealyticum-specific nucleic acid probes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of detecting Ureaplasma urealyticum involving in vitro nucleic acid amplification which comprises: (a) amplifying a U. urealyticum target nucleic acid by contacting a sample to be tested for the presence of U. urealyticum with at least one oligonucleotide for a time and under conditions sufficient to produce RNA or DNA copies of said target nucleic acid; wherein said oligonucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence selected from genomic U. urealyticum
DNA such that said oligonucleotide is sufficiently complementary to hybridize to said target nucleic acid to permit said amplification; and wherein said oligonucleotide does not hybridize to genomic DNA of M. genitalium, M. hominis, M. hyorhinis, M. orale, M. pneumoniae or M. salivarium; with the proviso that said
U. urealyticum DNA does not encode ribosomal RNA; and (b) detecting said copies. 2. A method of detecting Ureaplasma urealyticum involving in vitro nucleic acid amplification which comprises:
(a) amplifying a U. urealyticum target nucleic acid by contacting a sample to be tested for the presence of U. urealyticum with at least one oligonucleotide for a time and under conditions sufficient to produce RNA or DNA copies of said target nucleic acid; wherein said oligonucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence selected from genomic U. urealyticum DNA such that said oligonucleotide is sufficiently complementary to hybridize to said target nucleic acid to permit said amplification; and wherein said 


 oligonucleotide does not hybridize to genomic DNA of M. genitalium, M. hominis , M. hyorhinis, M. orale, M. pneumoniae and M. salivarium; and
(b) detecting said copies. 3. A method of detecting Ureaplasma
- urealyticum by nucleic acid hybridization which comprises:
(a) contacting a U. urealyticum target nucleic acid from a sample to be tested for the presence of U. urealyticum with a nucleic acid probe for a time and under conditions sufficient to permit hybridization between said nucleic acid probe and said target nucleic acid; wherein said nucleic acid probe comprises a nucleotide sequence selected from genomic U. urealyticum DNA such that said probe is sufficiently complementary to hybridize to said target nucleic acid and wherein said probe does not hybridize to genomic DNA of M. genitalium, M. hominis, M. hyorhinis, M. orale, M. pneumoniae or M. salivarium; with the proviso that said U. urealyticum DNA does not encode riboso al RNA; and
(b) detecting or measuring said hybridization.
4. A method of detecting Ureaplasma urealyticum by nucleic acid hybridization which comprises:
(a) contacting a U. urealyticum target nucleic acid from a sample to be tested for the presence of U. urealyticum with a nucleic acid probe for a time and under conditions sufficient to permit hybridization between said nucleic acid probe and said target nucleic acid; wherein said nucleic acid probe comprises a nucleotide sequence selected from genomic U. urealyticum
5 


DNA such that said probe is sufficiently complementary to hybridize to said target nucleic acid and wherein said probe does not hybridize to genomic DNA of M. genitalium, M. hominis, M. hyorhinis, M. orale, M. pneumoniae and M. salivarium; and
(b) detecting or measuring said hybridization.
5. The method of any one of Claims 1-4 wherein said U. urealyticum DNA comprises the U. urealyticum DNA inserted in plasmid pUPlδ, pCU3900, PCU2800 or pCU700.
6. The method of Claim 5 wherein pUPlδ and pCU3900 comprise the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l.
7. The method of any one of Claims 1-4 wherein said U. urealyticum DNA comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l or a portion thereof.
8. The method of Claim 2 or 4 wherein said U. urealyticum DNA comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID NO:8 or SEQ ID NO:9.
9. The method of any one of Claims 1-4 wherein said target nucleic acid comprises the U. urealyticum DNA inserted in plasmid pUP18, pCU3900, PCU2800 or pCU700. 10. The method of Claim 9 wherein pUP18 and pCU3900 comprise the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l.
11. The method of any one of Claims 1-4 wherein said target nucleic acid comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID N0:1 or a portion thereof. 12. The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said target nucleic acid comprises nucleotides 11 to 197 of SEQ ID NO:l. 


 13. The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said oligonucleotide is sufficiently complementary to hybridize to the U. urealyticum DNA inserted in pUP18, PCU3900, pCU2800 or pCU700. 14. The method of Claim 13 wherein pUPlδ and pCU3900 comprise the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID N0:1.
15. The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said oligonucleotide comprises a portion of the nucleotide sequences from SEQ ID N0:1. 16. The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein two oligonucleotides are used and one oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:2 and the other oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:3. 17. The method of Claim 3 or 4 wherein said probe is sufficiently complementary to hybridize to the U. urealyticum DNA inserted in pUPlδ, pCU3900, pCU2800 or pCU700.
18. The method of Claim 17 wherein pUPlδ and pCU3900 comprise the nucleotide sequence of SEQ
*
 ID NO:l.
19. The method of Claim 3 or 4 wherein said probe comprises a portion of the nucleotide sequences from SEQ ID NO:l.
20. The method of Claim 3 wherein said probe comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l, SEQ ID
NO:2 or SEQ ID NO:3.
21. The method of Claim 4 wherein said probe comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l, SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID N0:δ or SEQ ID NO:9.
22. The method of any one of Claims 1-4 wherein said nucleotide sequence is sufficiently 


complementary when said nucleotide sequence is at least 70% complementary to said U. urealyticum DNA.
23. The method of any one of Claims 1-4 wherein said nucleotide sequence is sufficiently complementary when said nucleotide sequence is at least δO% complementary to said U. urealyticum DNA.
24. The method of any one of Claims 1-4 wherein said nucleotide sequence is sufficiently complementary when said nucleotide sequence is at least 90% complementary to said U. urealyticum DNA.
25. The method of any one of Claims 1-4 wherein said sample is an animal body fluid, an animal secretion,
"
 an animal tissue, a culture medium or a transport medium. 26. The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said amplifying is accomplished by polymerase chain reaction, transcription-based amplification, self-sustained sequence replication, ligase-based amplification, Qβ- replicase RNA replication or transcription. 27. The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said amplifying enzymatic synthesis is performed by Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I, Klenow fragment of E. coli DNA polymerase I, T4 DNA polymerase, T7 DNA polymerase, Thermus aguaticus DNA polymerase, Thermococcus litoralis DNA polymerase, SP6 RNA polymerase, T7 RNA polymerase, T3 RNA polymerase, T4 polynucleotide kinase, Avian Myeloblastosis Virus reverse transcriptase, Moloney Murine Leukemia Virus reverse transcriptase, T4 DNA ligase, E. coli DNA ligase or Qβ replicase.
2δ. The method of Claim 3 or 4 wherein a reporter molecule is attached to said probe. 


 29. The method of Claim 2δ wherein said reporter molecule is a fluorophore, a bioluminescent molecule, a chemiluminescent, biotin, avidin, streptavidin, an enzyme or a radioisotope. 30. The method of Claim 3 or 4 wherein said hybridization is solid-phase-based hybridization, solution hybridization or in situ hybridization.
31. The method of Claim 30 wherein said solid phase is a filter or a bead. 32. The method of Claim 30 wherein said hybridization is in situ hybridization.
33. The method of Claim 32 wherein said probe comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7 or SEQ ID NO:9. 34. The method of Claim 33 wherein said probe consists of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7 or SEQ ID NO:9 and further wherein a fluorophore is attached to said probe.
35. The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said oligonucleotide comprises an additional nucleotide sequence to facilitate said amplification.
36. The method of Claim 35 wherein said sequence is an RNA polymerase binding site or a Qβ replicase binding site. 37. An isolated nucleic acid which comprises a sufficiently complementary nucleotide sequence selected from genomic U. urealyticum DNA such that said nucleic acid can hybridize to said U. urealyticum DNA and can not hybridize to genomic DNA of M. genitaliu , M. hominis , M. hyorhinis , M. orale, M. pneumoniae or M. salivarium; with the proviso that said U. urealyticum DNA does not encode ribosomal RNA. 


 38. An isolated nucleic acid which comprises a sufficiently complementary nucleotide sequence selected from genomic U. urealyticum DNA such that said nucleic acid can hybridize to said U. urealyticum DNA and can not hybridize to genomic DNA of M. genitalium, M. hominis, M. hyorhinis, M. orale, M. pneumoniae and M. salivarium.
39. The nucleic acid of Claim 37 or 38 wherein said U. urealyticum DNA comprises the U. urealyticum DNA inserted in plasmid pUP18, pCU3900, PCU2800 or pCU700.
40. The nucleic acid of Claim 39 wherein pUP18 and pCU3900 comprise the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l. 41. The nucleic acid of Claim 37 or 38 which is pUPlδ, pCU3900, pCU2800 or pCU700.
42. The nucleic acid of Claim 37 or 38 which comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:l or a portion thereof, SEQ ID NO:2 or SEQ ID NO:3. 43. The method of Claim 38 wherein said U. urealyticum DNA comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ
ID NO:l or a portion thereof, SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ ID NO:3,
SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ
ID NO:8 or SEQ ID NO:9. 44. A compartmentalized kit for detection of
U. urealyticum comprising a first container adapted to contain at least one of the nucleic acids of any one of
Claims 37 or 38.
45. The kit of Claim 44 adapted to contain another container having a U. urealyticum nucleic acid standard. 


 46. The kit of Claim 45 wherein said U. urealyticum nucleic acid is U. urealyticum rRNA, U. urealyticum genomic DNA or an isolated DNA comprising
SEQ ID N0:1. 47. The kit of Claim 44 having another container adapted to contain a reagent for in vitro nucleic acid amplication.
48. The kit of Claim 47 wherein said reagent is an enzyme which is Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I, Klenow fragment of Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I, T4 DNA polymerase, T7 DNA polymerase, Thermus aguaticus DNA polymerase, Thermococcus litoralis DNA polymerase, SP6 RNA polymerase, T7 RNA polymerase, T3 RNA polymerase, T4 polynucleotide kinase, Avian Myeloblastosis Virus reverse transcriptase, Moloney Murine Leukemia Virus reverse transcriptase, T4 DNA ligase, Escherichia coli DNA ligase or Qβ replicase.
49. The kit of Claim 44 wherein said nucleic acid is linked to a reporter molecule. 50. The kit of Claim 49 wherein said reporter molecule is a fluorophore, a bioluminescent molecule, a chemiluminescent molecule, a radioisotope, biotin, avidin, streptavidin or an enzyme. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
