<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635020</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
5(6)-METHYL SUBSTITUTED FLUORESCEIN DERIVATIVES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D49300	C07D49310	C07F900	C07F96561	C07K1618	C07K1618	C07K1644	C07K1644	G01N33532	G01N33532	G01N33533	G01N33533	G01N3374	G01N3378	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	C07D	C07F	C07F	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D493	C07D493	C07F9	C07F9	C07K16	C07K16	C07K16	C07K16	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
5(6)-methyl substituted fluorescein derivatives and a process for producing 5(6)-methyl substituted derivatives. Also provided are methods for these utilizing these derivatives as indicator reagents in assays for analytes, indicator reagents which comprise specific binding members attached to these derivatives and test kits which contain these derivatives.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTINGLY PHILLIP G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTINGLY, PHILLIP, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 5(6)-METHYL SUBSTITUTED FLUORESCEIN DERIVATIVESBackground ArtThis invention relates generally to fluorescein derivatives, and more particularly, relates to 5(6)-methyl substituted fluorescein derivatives and their production by the reduction of 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein to 5(6)-methyl substituted fluorescein. There are numerous fluorescein derivatives that have functional groups which are suitable for reaction with other molecules. Many of these derivatives have been used commercially in the production of tracers for analytical applications which range from the probing of cell functions to the monitoring of the level of one or more drugs in physiological test samples. See, for example, C. Dive et al., Molecular and Cellular Probes 2:31 (1988); M. L. Graber et al., Anal. Biochem. 156:202 (1986); P. J. Brynes et al., U. S. Patent No. 4,869,132; and N. Y. Wang et al., European Patent Application Publ. No. EP264797 (1988). Examples of such applications include the Fluorescence Polarization Immunoassay (FPIA) for use on commercially available instruments, such as the Abbott ADx® instrument and the Abbott TDx® instrument (available from Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL). These derivatives include 5- and 6-carboxyfluorescein, 5- and 6-aminofluorescein and 4'- aminomethylfluorescein (M.T. Shipchandler, et. al . Anal. Biochem.. 162:89 (1987). Of these, the 5- and 6-aminofluorescein compounds are the most difficult with which to work, since the amino group is not very nucleophilic. This difficulty is an expected consequence of the amino group being directly bound to the deactivating aromatic ring. The compound 4'-aminomethylfluorescein (4- AMF) was an earlier attempt to solve this problem by adding a methylene group between the amino group and the aromatic ring. This addition succeeded in restoring normal amino group reactivity of 4'- AMF. However some 4'- AMF derivatives have been found to be unstable under the conditions of long term storage in aqueous buffers. Possibly this instability is due to a retro-Mannich reaction or subsequent elimination of the amino group (H. O. House, Modern Synthetic Reactions.2nd Ed., 1972, pp 654-660). Additionally, the preparation and purification of 4-AMF is tedious. Martin et. al., (Cytometry 12:184-187 [1991]) report a preparation of 5- chloromethyl fluorescein diacetate by the halogenation of 5-methylfluorescein diacetate without including any experimental details. Also, Peerce et. al. (J. Biol. Chem. 260 (10):6026-31 [1985]) report a methyl substituted fluorescein
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
Fluorescein derivatives of the following formulas:
FORMULA I FORMULA π
wherein R is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy and protected hydroxy; and wherein X is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy, protected hydroxy, amino, protected amino, thiol, protected thiol, a leaving group, a Michael acceptor, phosphoramidite, phosphonate and a Unking group.
2. The fluorescein derivative according to claim 1 wherein the protected hydroxyl groups are selected from the group consisting of alkyl esters, aryl ethers, silyl ethers, esters, carbonates, and carbamates.
3. The fluorescein derivative according to claim 1 wherein the protected amino groups are selected from the group consisting of carbamates, amides, cyclic imides, N-benzyl derivatives, imine derivatives, silyl derivatives, and N-sulfonyl derivatives.
4. The fluorescein derivative according to claim 1 wherein the thiol groups are selected from the group consisting of thioethers, thioesters, thiocarbonates, thiocarbamates and disulfides. 


 3 -
5. The fluorescein derivative according to claim 1 wherein the Michael acceptor is of the foimula -O-"MA" or -N(H)
n
"MA", wherein "MA" is the Michael acceptor of the formula:
wherein a, b and c independently can be hydrogen, alkyl, and aryl and wherein U is chosen from -CH(=O), -C(=O)R, -C(=O)NH2, -CN, -NO2, -S(=O)R, ~S(=O)2R, and n is 0 or 1.
The fluorescein derivative according to claim 5 wherein said Michael O
acceptor is -
y
 O
wherein when X is a linking group it is selected from the group consisting of the formula -O-A-B and -N(H)
n
-A-B, wherein n = 0 or 1 to satisfy the nitrogen valency; wherein A is a spacer group consisting of from 0 to 50 carbon atoms and heteroatoms, including not more than ten heteroatoms, arranged in a straight or branched chain, saturated or unsaturated, with the provisos that: (a) not more than two heteroatoms may be directly linked in the sequence
-O-A-B or -N(H)
n
-A-B,
(b) the sequence -O-A-B or -N(H)
n
-A-B cannot contain -O-O- , and
(c) in the sequence -N(H)
n
-A-B, when n = 0, then N-A taken together may comprise a ring of not more that 6 atoms; and (d) that branchings may occur only on carbon atoms; and wherein B is a reactive functional group selected from -C(=O)OH, -NH2. -CH(=O), halo (-C1, -Br, -I), sulfonate ester(OS(=O)2-alkyl, -OS(=O)2-aryl), Michael acceptor, phosphoramidite, and phosphonate. 


 1
1. A process for preparing 5 (6) methyl-substituted fluorescein derivatives which comprises:
(a) protecting the hydroxyls at the 3' and 6' positions of compounds of the following formulas and IV independently or as a mixture:
FORMULA HI FORMULA IV
to yield compounds of the following formula V and VI:
FORMULA V FORMULA VI
wherein R is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy and protected hydroxy;
(b) reducing the carboxylic acid function of compounds of formulas V and VI such as to form compounds of the following formulas VII and Vffl 

FORMULA Vπ FORMULA Vm; and
(c) deprotecting the hydroxyl functions at positions 3' and 6' of the compounds of the formulas XHI and XTV so as to give the compounds of the formulas XNπ or XVm
FORMULA XVπ FORMULA XVffl.
8. The process of claim 7 further comprising a mixture and wherein the isomers of formulas VE and VQI are separated chromatographically after step (b) such as to give the isomers of said formula VE and VQI.
9. The process of claim 7 further comprising performing the following steps after step (b) and before step (c), to yield compounds of formula XV or XVI in step (g), as follows:
(i) converting the hydroxyl moiety of the compounds of the formulas VH and Vm to a leaving group, independently or as a mixture such as to give compounds of the formula IX or X: 


 ,
FORMULA IX FORMULA X;
(ii) displacing the leaving group X with a substituent selected from the group consisting of nucleophilic "pro"amino, "pro" thiol,and sodium sulfhydride group such as to give compounds of the formulas IX and X:
FORMULA XI FORMULA XH
wherein X" = a "pro"amino, "pro"thiol group,or thiol;
(iii) converting the X" groups in compounds of formula XI or Xπ such as to give compounds of the formulas Xiπ or XIV 

FORMULA X FORMULA XIV
wherein X'"=NH2 or SH; and
(c) deprotecting the hydroxyl functions at positions 3' and 6' of the compounds of the formulas X and XTV so as to give the compounds of the formulas XV or XIV:
FORMULA XV FORMULA XVI
wherein X'" = NH2 or SH.
10. The process of claim 8, further comprising performing the following steps after separating the isomers Vπ and VHI chromatagraphically:
(i) converting the hydroxyl moiety of the compounds of the formulas Vπ and
VQI to a leaving group, independently or as a mixture such as to give compounds of the formula IX or X: 


FORMULA DC FORMULA X;
(ii) displacing the leaving group X with a substituent selected from the group consisting of nucleophihc "pro"amino, "pro" thiol,and sodium sulfhydride group such as to give compounds of the formulas IX and X:
FORMULA XI FORMULA XH
wherein X" = a "pro"amino, "pro"thiol group,or thiol;
(iii) converting the X" groups in compounds of formula XI or XH such as to give compounds of the formulas XIE or XIV 

FORMULA Xm FORMULA XIV
wherein X"'=NH2 
or
 SH; and
(c) deprotecting the hydroxyl functions at positions 3' and 6' of the compounds of the formulas X-H and XTV so as to give the compounds of the formulas XV or XIV:
FORMULA XV FORMULA XVI
wherein X'" = NH
2
 or SH.
11. The process according to claim 9 or 10 wherein said nucleophilic "pro" amino groups are selected from the group consisting of dicarboximide anions, iminodicarbonate anions, sulfonamide anions, sulfonimide anions, O-substituted hydoxylamines, O-substituted hydroxamic acid anions, azide anions, cyanide anions, isocyanate anions and isothiocyanate anions. 


 11 wherein said dicarboximide anion
is the 

13. The process according to claim 11 wherein said iminodicarbonate
) anion is dibenzyliminodicarbonate anion 

14. The process according to claim 11 wherein said sulfonamide anions are selected from the group consisting of "N(H)
n
(alkyl, aryl, alkenyl, 
ac
y
1
)2-n
s
(=°)2 (a y
1
*
 --!-- alkenyl), n=0-2; wherein said sulfonimide anions are selected from the group consisting of
-N(S(=O)2(alkyl, aryl and alkenyl))2; wherein said O-substituted hydroxylamines are selected from the group consisting of NH2θ(alkyl, aryl and acyl); and wherein said O-substituted hydroxamic acid anions are selected from the group consisting of "N(acyl)O(alkyl, aryl and acyl).
15. The process according to claim 9 or 10 wherein said "pro" thiol groups are selected from the group consisting of thiourea, sodium N,N- dimethylthiocarbamate, thiosulfate anion and disulfide anion.
16. Fluorescein conjugates of the following formula XIX or XX: 

FORMULA XIX FORMULA XX
wherein R is as defined above and X is chosen from the group consisting of
-N(H)n-, -O-, or -S-; wherein n = 0 or 1, to satisfy the nitrogen valency; wherein A is a spacer group consisting of from 0 to 50 carbon atoms and heteroatoms, including not more than ten heteroatoms, arranged in a straight or branched chain, saturated or unsaturated, with the provisos that not more than two heteroatoms may be directly linked in the sequence -X-A-M-Q , the sequence -X-A-M-Q cannot contain -O-O- , that when X=-N(H)
n
- in the sequence -X-A-M-Q, when n = 0 then N-A taken together may comprise a ring of not more that 6 atoms; and that branchings may occur only on carbon atoms; wherein M is a linking ,
-N(H)-C(=O)-, -N(H)-C(=S)-


 wherein Q is a conjugation partner.
17. A method for detecting the presence an analyte in a test sample, wherein the method comprises the step of contacting the test sample with an indicator reagent which comprises a compound of the formula XIX or XX: 

FORMULA XIX FORMULA XX
wherein R is as defined above and X is chosen from the group consisting of
-N(H)n-, -O-, or -S-; wherein n=0 or 1, to satisfy the nitrogen valency; wherein A is a spacer group consisting of from 0 to 50 carbon atoms and heteroatoms, including not more than ten heteroatoms, arranged in a straight or branched chain, saturated or unsaturated, with the provisos that not more than two heteroatoms may be directly hnked in the sequence -X-A-M-Q , the sequence -X-A- M-Q cannot contain -O-O- , that when X=-N(H)
n
- in the sequence -X-A-M-Q,, when n=0 then N-A taken together may comprise a ring of not more that 6 atoms; and that branchings may occur only on carbon atoms;

 wherein Q is a conjugation partner.
18. A test kit for detecting the presence of at least one analyte in a test sample which comprises a container containing an indicator reagent comprising a compound of formula XIX or XX: 


 
>
FORMULA XK FORMULA XX
wherein R is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy and protected hydroxy, and X is chosen from the group consisting of -N(H)n-, -O-, or -S-; wherein n = 0 or 1, to satisfy the nitrogen valency; wherein A is a spacer group consisting of from 0 to 50 carbon atoms and heteroatoms, including not more than ten heteroatoms, arranged in a straight or branched chain, saturated or unsaturated, with the provisos that:
(a) not more than two heteroatoms may be directly linked in the sequence -O-A-B or -N(H)
n
-A-B,
(b) the sequence -O-A-B or -N(H)
n
-A-B cannot contain -O-O- , and
(c) in the sequence -N(H)
n
-A-B, when n=0, then N-A taken together may comprise a ring of not more that 6 atoms; and
(d) that branchings may occur only on carbon atoms; and
wherein M is a linking -,
-N(H)-C(=O)-, -N(H)-C(=S)-


 wherein Q is a conjugation partner. 


 19. An indicator reagent useful for detecting the presence of an analyte which may be present in a test sample which comprises a specific binding member for the analyte attached to a fluorescein derivative of the following formula
FORMULA I FORMULA E
wherein R is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy and protected hydroxy; and wherein X is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy, protected hydroxy, amino, protected amino, thiol, protected thiol, a leaving group, a Michael acceptor, phosphoramidate, phosphonate and a linking group. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
