<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628500</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for collecting refuse supplied in refuse containers and for cleaning emptied refuse containers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F700	B08B908	B65F700	B08B908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B08B	B65F	B08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F7	B08B9	B65F7	B08B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for collecting refuse supplied in refuse 
containers (2) and for cleaning emptied refuse containers, 

comprising a collecting container (4) in which the refuse 
can be collected, a loading device (24) for picking up and 

moving a refuse container (2) into various positions, and 
cleaning means for cleaning an emptied refuse container and 

its lid. The device is provided with a refuse container 
cleaning space (21) which is separated from the inside of 

the collecting container (4) and is open at the top side. 
The open top side of the cleaning space (21) can connect to 

an open refuse container (2) situated in the cleaning 
position. At the bottom side the cleaning space (21) is 

connected to the discharge means for used cleaning fluid. A 
spray head (25) for spraying cleaning fluid into the refuse 

container (2) to be cleaned is movable out of the cleaning 
space into a refuse container (2) situated in the cleaning 

position. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEESINK BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEESINK B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARMENTLOO ADRIANUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARMENTLOO, ADRIANUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a device according to the 
preamble of claim 1. Such a device is known from 
DE-U-92 01 203.5. In the case of this known device the collecting 
container is provided with two filling openings at the top 
side. A refuse container is emptied through the first 
filling opening and cleaned through the second filling 
opening. The refuse container is therefore emptied and 
cleaned in the same space, which results in refuse and 
cleaning fluid being mixed. The collecting container is 
provided on the underside with a false bottom which allows 
through fluid, for the purpose of discharging the cleaning 
fluid. The undesirable mixing of the cleaning fluid with 
the refuse has various disadvantages. The dumping costs of 
the refuse will be higher, due to the fact that the refuse 
is heavier as a result of the fluid. Furthermore, any 
additives in the cleaning fluid could make the refuse 
unsuitable for processing or re-use. Finally, if warm 
cleaning fluid is used, the temperature of the refuse can 
rise to such an extent that undesirable processes can be 
initiated in the refuse. The object of the invention is to overcome the 
abovementioned disadvantages. This object is achieved with a device having the 
features mentioned in the characterizing part of claim 1. Due to the fact that the cleaning process takes 
place in a space which is completely separate from the 
inside of the collecting container, the cleaning process 
can be carried out in an optimum way, on the one hand, and 
there is no mixing of refuse and cleaning fluid, on the 
other. Preferred embodiments of the device according to 
the invention are described in the sub-claims, which must 
also be considered part of the description. The invention also relates to a refuse collection  
 
vehicle which is provided with a device according to the 
invention. The invention will be explained in the following 
examplary embodiment with reference to the drawing, in 
which: 
Fig. 1 shows a side view of a refuse collection 
vehicle provided with a device according to the invention; Figs. 2 to 9 inclusive show the rear loader of the 
vehicle of Fig. 1 in side view during the various stages of 
emptying and cleaning of a refuse container; Fig. 10 shows the spray lance of the device according 
to the invention, partially in elevation and partially 
in longitudinal section; and Fig. 11 shows a top view of the rear loader with 
refuse container cleaning space, in which a refuse 
container is being supplied to one container cradle for 
pick-up
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device for collecting refuse supplied in refuse 
containers and for cleaning emptied refuse containers, 

comprising a collecting container in which the refuse can 
be collected, a loading device for picking up and moving a 

refuse container into various positions, and cleaning means 
for cleaning an emptied refuse container and its lid, the 

loading device being able to assume at least a tipping 
position, in which a refuse container picked up by the 

loading device can be emptied, and a cleaning position, in 
which a refuse container picked up in the loading device 

can be cleaned, and the cleaning means comprising a spray head 
(25) movable into a refuse container (2) which is in the 

cleaning position for spraying cleaning fluid into or onto the 
refuse container, and also supply means for supplying 

cleaning fluid to the spray head, discharge means for 
discharging used cleaning fluid, and control means for 

controlling the cleaning process, 
characterized in that
 the 
device is provided with a refuse container cleaning space 

(21) which is separated from the inside of the collecting 
container and is open at the top, and which is designed to 

connect at the open top side to an open refuse container 
(2) which is in the cleaning position and which cleaning 

space is connected at the bottom side to the discharge 
means for used cleaning fluid, and in that the spray head 

(25) in its retracted state is positioned in the cleaning 
space. 
Device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 
a collecting element (27) which allows through fluid is 

disposed in the cleaning space (21), for the collection of 
refuse flushed out of a refuse container (2) situated in 

the cleaning position. 
Device according to claim 2, 
characterized in that
 
the collecting element consists of a reservoir (27) which 

is disposed in the top of the cleaning space and the walls 
and bottom of which are provided with holes of such 

dimensions that during cleaning of a refuse container (2) 
situated in the cleaning position the refuse flushed off is 

retained and the cleaning fluid is allowed through.  
 
Device according to claim 3, 
characterized in that
 
the reservoir (27) is tiltable so that refuse from which 

the cleaning fluid has been removed and which has collected 
in the reservoir can be put into the collecting container 

(4). 
Device according to one of claims 1 - 4, 
characterized 
in that
 the cleaning space (21) is disposed at the 
rear side of a rear loader (5) which is disposed at the 

back of the collecting container (4) and is also provided 
with a trough (14) and a tipping opening (15) situated at 

the top side thereof, the trough (14) and the cleaning 
space (21) being separated from each other by an 

essentially vertical partition (22). 
Device according to claim 5, 
characterized in that
 
the partition (22) is provided at the top side with a 

tipping flap (20) which can swing about a horizontal axis 
(23), which tipping flap extends upwards at an agle from 

the pivot axis (23) to above the open top side of the 
cleaning space (21) when the loading device (24) is in the 

tipping position, and which tipping flap is turned towards 
the trough (14) and clears the open top side of the 

cleaning space (21) completely when said loading device 
(24) is in the cleaning position. 
Device according to claim 6, 
characterized in that
 
the reservoir (27) is tiltable about the pivot axis (23) of 

the tipping flap (20), and in that the tipping flap (20) is 
provided with a hinged flap part (28) which when the 

tipping flap (20) is in the position turned towards the 
trough (14) can be turned during the tilting of the 

reservoir (27), in order to release a passage opening (29) 
for refuse falling out of the reservoir (27). 
Device according to one of claims 1 - 7, 
characterized 
in that
 the spray head (25) is provided with 
several spray nozzles (35) pointing in different directions. 
Device according to one of claims 1 - 7, 
characterized 
in that
 the spray head (25) is mounted on the end 
of a spray lance (26) which can be slid in its lengthwise 

direction into and out of a refuse container (2) situated  
 

in the cleaning position. 
Device according to claim 9, 
characterized in that
 
the spray lance (26) can be slid in and out by means of at 

least one piston-cylinder unit (32), the axis of which runs 
parallel to the lengthwise direction of the spray lance 

(26). 
Device according to claim 9 or 10, 
characterized in 
that
 the spray lance (26) comprises a cylindrical housing 
(34) in which the piston-cylinder unit and a number of 

supply channels (33) for cleaning fluid leading to the 
spray head (25) are accommodated. 
Device according to claim 11, 
characterized in that
 
each supply channel (33) consists of two pipes (37, 38) 

which slide concentrically in one another, the end of one 
pipe (38) being connected to the spray head (25), and the 

opposite end of the other pipe (37) being connected to a 
foot (39) of the spray lance (26) lying at a distance from 

the spray head, and a sealing element (40) being provided 
between the concentric pipes. 
Device according to one of claims 9 - 12, 
characterized 
in that
 the spray lance (26) is rotatable about its 
longitudinal axis. 
Refuse collection vehicle provided with a device 
according to one of claims 1 - 13. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
