<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632401</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for on-line, real time recognition of stroked hand-drawn characters.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3041	G06F3041	G06F3048	G06F3048	G06K922	G06K922	G06K962	G06K962	G11C1500	G11C1500	G11C1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G11C15	G11C15	G11C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a method and multiprocessor apparatus to convert 
an alphanumeric input into input to an application program as a 

text processing or word processing program. This is 
accomplished in a computer having relative motion and/or 

relative position sensing input capability and a content 
addressable memory including a comparand register, tag fields, 

data fields, and a match circuit. The method continuously 
determines when the relative motion and/or relative position 

sensing input is active. When the input is active the system 
senses a basic attribute motion and/or position of the active 

relative motion and/or relative position sensing input and 
defines a meta attribute of the sensed input. Exemplary meta 

attributes include the turns, weighted input center, and stroke 
geometry and topology. The meta-attribute is continuously 

updated and formed into an updated multi-bit input object 
attribute word of the sensed basic attributes and defined meta 

attributes of the sensed input for storage in the comparand 
register. This multi-bit word stored in the comparand register 

is compared to the recognition pattern tag field entries in the 
content addressable memory, and matches an output from the 

content addressable memory. This output is the contents of the 
content addressable memory data field having a recognition 

pattern tag field entry most closely corresponding to the 
multi-bit input object attribute word. Also disclosed is a 

multi-processor system for carrying out the method of the 
invention. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEZEK JOHN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEZEK, JOHN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a real time user input device and 
method of inputting user data into a massively parallel 
processor. The system utilizes a content addressable memory, 
also know as an associative memory or, simply, as a CAM. CAM's 
are characterized by a tag field, typically corresponding to an 
address in main random access memory, and a data field, 
containing the contents of the addressed memory location. 
According to the invention described herein, the TAG field 
contents are attributes, as strokes, stroke locations, stroke 
directions, stroke lengths, curves, start points, and stop 
points, of an object, as an alpha-numeric object, and the data 
field contents are the objects, i.e., the alpha-numeric 
objects, having the said attributes. The tag fields are 
searched in parallel, and the object field, i.e., the data 
field, contents are the input to an application program running 
elsewhere. Louis P. Butler and John E. Meisenbacher, "Content Adddressable 
Memory for Electronic Warfare Sensor Signature Identification," 
9th Digital Avionics Systems Conference, October 15-18, 1990, 
Virginia Beach, VA, describes the use of sensor signatures in a 
CAM tag field to address sensor threats having the address 
stored in the CAM data field. G. Eichmann and T. Kasparis, "Pattern Classification Using A 
Linear Associative Memory," Pattern Recognition, Volume 22, No. 
6, pp. 733-740 (1989) describes pattern recognition using a 
linear associative memory.  Charles K. Toth and Toni Schenck, "Pattern Recognition With 
Parallel Associative Memory," Proceedings SPIE - International 
Soc. Opt. Engrs., Vol. 1395, part 1, 1990, pp. 558-563 
describes a nearest neighbor algorithm for photogrammetric 
pattern matching. Michiel van de'Panne, Marcel A. LeBlanc, and Zvonoko G. 
Vranesic, "MACHAM: A Best Match Content Addressable Memory," 
IEEE Conf. on Commun. Comput. Signal Process. June 1-2, 1989, 
pp. 612-615 describes a best match method of pattern 
recognition using a CAM. These papers do not describe machine recognition of hand drawn, 
user input characters, symbols, and gestures, especially in a 
small portable computer, using an associative memory, in a 
parallel processor chip having multi-way distributed 
processing. It is one object of the invention to provide a method and 
apparatus for using associative memory for on-line character 
recognition. It is a further object of the invention to provide on line, 
real time character recognition of handwriting in a distributed 
processor having a multi-way
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of providing an alphanumeric input to a computer 
having relative motion and/or relative position sensing 

input means and content addressable memory means, said 
content addressable memory means having recognition 

pattern tag field means and data field means, comprising 
the steps of: 


a. determining when said relative motion and/or relative 
position sensing input means is active; 
b. sensing a basic motion and/or position attribute of 
the active relative motion and/or relative position 

sensing input means; 
c. defining a meta attribute of the sensed input, said 
meta attribute chosen from the group consisting of 

one or more of turns, weighted input center, and 
strokes thereof; 
d. forming a multi-bit input object attribute word of 
the sensed basic attributes and defined meta 

attributes of the sensed input; 
e. concurrently comparing the multi-bit input object 
attribute word to recognition pattern tag field 

entries in the content addressable memory means; and 
f. outputting from the content addressable memory means 
as an output object the character contents of the 

content addressable memory means data field having a 
recognition pattern tag field entry most closely 

corresponding to the multi-bit input object attribute 
word. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said relative motion and/or 
relative position sensing input means is chosen from the 

group consisting of a stylus, a pointer, a pen, a mouse, a 
track ball, and a finger. 
Means for translating position and motion input to 
alphanumeric input comprising: 


a. relative motion and/or relative position sensing 
input means comprising: 


i. means for determining when said relative motion 
and/or relative position sensing input means is 

active; 
ii. means for sensing basic motion and/or position 
attributes of the active relative motion and/or 

relative position sensing input means; 
iii. means for defining a meta attribute of the 
sensed input, said meta attribute chosen from 

the group consisting of one or more of turns, 
weighted input center, and strokes thereof; and 
iv. means for forming a multi-bit input object 
attribute word of the sensed basic attributes 

and defined meta attributes of the sensed input; 
and 
b. content addressable memory means, said content 
addressable memory having 


i. recognition pattern tag field means; 
ii. character data field means; 
iii. means for concurrently comparing a multi-bit 
input object attribute word to recognition 

pattern tag field entries in the content 
addressable memory; and 
iv. means for outputting from the content 
addressable memory as an output object the 

contents of the content addressable memory data 
field having a recognition pattern tag field 

entry most closely corresponding to the multi-bit 
input object attribute word. 
The means for translating position and motion input to 
alphanumeric input of claim 3 wherein said relative motion 

and/or relative position sensing input means is chosen 
from the group consisting of a stylus, a pointer, a pen, a 

mouse, a track ball, and a finger. 
Multiprocessor means having a plurality of processor 
memory elements and a relative motion and/or relative 

position sensing input means comprising: 

i. means for determining when said relative motion 
and/or relative position sensing input means is 

active; 
ii. means for sensing basic attributes including 
motion and/or position of the active relative 

motion and/or relative position sensing input 
means; 
iii. means for defining a meta attribute of the 
sensed input, said meta attribute chosen from 

the group consisting of one or more of turns, 
weighted input center, and strokes thereof; 
iv. means for forming a multi-bit input object 
attribute word of the sensed basic attributes 

and defined meta attributes of the sensed input; 

 
wherein at least a first one of said processor memory 

elements comprises content addressable memory means, said 
content addressable memory means having: 


i. recognition pattern tag field means; 
ii. character data field means; 
iii. means for concurrently comparing a multi-bit 
input object attribute word to recognition 

pattern tag field entries in the content 
addressable memory means; and 
iv. means for outputting from the content 
addressable memory as an output object the 

contents of the content addressable memory data 
field having a recognition pattern tag field 

entry most closely corresponding to the multi-bit 
input object attribute word; 
 
said relative motion and/or relative position sensing 

input means and said content addressable memory means 
converting motion and position data to alphanumeric data; 

and 
wherein at least another one of said processor memory 

elements is in communication with said first one of the 
processor memory elements for receiving output therefrom. 
The multi-processor means of claim 5 of claim 1 wherein 
said relative motion and/or relative position sensing 

input means is chosen from the group consisting of a 
stylus, a pointer, a pen, a mouse, a track ball, and a 

finger. 
The method or the means for translating position and 
motion input to alphanumeric input or the multi-processor 

means according to any one of the above claims wherein the 
output object is an alphanumeric character, and/or a non-systematic 

character. 
The method or the means for translating position and 
motion input to alphanumeric input or the multi-processor 

means according to any one of the above claims wherein the 
output object is input to a word processing application 

program. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
