<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613590</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIE MOUNTING WITH UNIAXIAL CONDUCTIVE ADHESIVE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2902	H01L2348	H01L2160	H01R400	H01L2906	H01L23498	H05K332	H01L23482	H05K332	H01R404	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01R	H01L	H01L	H05K	H01L	H05K	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L29	H01L23	H01L21	H01R4	H01L29	H01L23	H05K3	H01L23	H05K3	H01R4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLEMENTS JAMES R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLEMENTS, JAMES R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEMENTS JAMES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEMENTS, JAMES R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The subject invention relates to 
electronic devices and electrically conductive 
adhesive therefore. More particularly, the 
invention relates to the connection of an 
electronic device to a substrate using a uniaxial 
conductive adhesive. In many electrical applications, it is 
desirable to connect an electrical component with 
or without conductive terminals leads extending 
therefrom, to a substrate including a plurality 
of laterally spaced conductive paths. A current 
is passed between the aligned conductor contact 
of the electrical component to the substrate 
path. It is undesirable for current to pass 
between the electrical contacts causing shorting 
of the circuit. Conventional methods have connected 
electrical components which include conductive 
terminals leads extending therefrom by soldering 
techniques. It is also known to use a uniaxial 
conductive adhesive resin for mounting electrical 
components having terminals extending therefrom, 
as disclosed in United States Patent Number 
4,667,401 issued May 26, 1987 in the name of 
Clements et al., common inventor to the subject 
application. The patent discloses a uniaxial 
conductive adhesive wherein pressure between two 
members causes conductivity therebetween by 
concentration of conductive metal particles  
 
within the resin, while the areas surrounding the 
depressed members remain non-conductive. United States Patent Number 4,113,981 
to Fujita et al., issued September 12, 1978 
discloses an electrically conductive adhesive for 
connecting raised conductors or terminals of 
electronic devices. Pairs of connecting 
terminals are attached to plates such that the 
connecting terminals project from the surface of 
the plates. Upon pressure of the plates to one 
another, the terminal compressed the resin to 
obtain conductivity between metal particles 
within a resin. Portions between the plates 
absent the terminals are not conductive due to 
the left compression thereof as being recessed 
from the connecting terminals. United States Patent Number 4,640,981 
issued February 3, 1987 in the name of Dery et 
al. discloses electrical interconnection means 
which utilizes two members having printed thereon 
ink conductors. The members were placed facing 
one another with an adhesive therebetween. In 
order to obtain conductivity between the two 
members, pressure is applied to an area of one of 
the members to bring the conductive inks into 
contact with each other forcing the flow of 
adhesive therefrom. It is known in the art to deposit 
la
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming an electronic 
device the method including the step of:
 
   providing an electronic circuit member 

(18) having a discontinuous insulation layer (20) 
establishing recessed contact pads (22) within 

the discontinuities of the insulation layer (20), 
placing the electronic circuit member (18) on a 

substrate (12) with a mounting surface (14) 
having conductive paths (16) thereon and 

vertically aligning the contact pads (22) with 
raised conductive surfaces (24) on the substrate 

which raised conductive surfaces (24) have a 
height protrusion greater than the height 

protrusion of the conductive path vertically 
aligned with the insulation layer and greater 

than the depth of the recessed contact pads (22), 
and providing an adhesive (26) between the 

circuit member (18) and the substrate (12) having 
a resin and spaced conductive metal particles 

suspended therein with concentrated conductive 
particles between the raised conductive surfaces 

and contact pads allowing conductivity through 
the resin making the resin uniaxially conductive 

vertically therebetween while maintaining the 
adhesive (26) between laterally spaced contact 

pads and conductive paths in the unconcentrated 
and nonconducting states. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 
wherein said providing step is further defined as 

applying the adhesive (26) including a resin with 
spaced conductive metal particle suspended 

therein over the mounting surface of the 
substrate having conductive paths wherein the  

 
resin is a dielectric preventing conductivity 

between the spaced metal particles therein. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 
wherein said step of providing is further defined 

as applying pressure against the circuit member 
(18) and the conductive paths to flow the resin 

out from between the electrical contact pads (22) 
and conductive paths (16) to concentrate the 

conductive metal particles in the resin between 
each electrical contact pad (22) and vertically 

aligned raised conductive surfaces (24) and to 
decrease space in between the metal particles 

allowing conducting through the resin and making 
the resin uniaxially conductive vertically 

between the electrical contact pads and conductor 
paths while maintaining the adhesive between 

laterally spaced electrical contact pads and 
conductive paths in the unconcentrated and 

nonconducting state. 
A method as set forth in claim 3 
wherein the step of providing is further defined 

as forming raised conductive surfaces (24) on a 
portion of the conductive path. 
A method as set forth in claim 4 
wherein the step of providing is further defined 

as mounting the circuit member (18) on the 
adhesive while vertically aligning the electrical 

contact pads (22) over preselected ones of the 
raised conductive surfaces (24). 
A method as set forth in claim 5 
wherein said step of providing raised conductive 

surfaces is further defined as applying a pellet 
(24) to the conductive paths (16) aligned with  

 
said contact pads (22) increasing the height of 

the pellet (24) greater than the conductive path 
(16) with respect to the substrate (12). 
A method as set forth in claim 5 
wherein said step of providing raised conductive 

surfaces (24') is further defined as forming a 
ridge in the substrate (12') with the conductive 

paths (16') formed thereover providing the raised 
conductive surfaces on the ridge. 
A method as set forth in claim 4 
wherein said step of providing raised conductive 

surfaces (24'') is further defined as applying a 
deformable conductive ink as the conductive path 

and applying pressure to the circuit member to 

deform the conductive paths to allow same to 
project into the recessed contact pads. 
An electronic device comprising: 

a circuit member (18) including a 
discontinued insulation layer (20) which provides 

electrical contact pads (22) recessed within the 
discontinuities, 
a substrate (12) including a mounting 
surface (14) having a plurality of laterally 

spaced conductive paths (16) thereon with a 
portion of said conductive paths establishing 

raised conductive surfaces (24) vertically 
aligned with the recessed contact pads, said 

conductive surfaces have a protruding height 
greater than the protruding height of the 

conducting paths vertically aligned with the 
insulation layer and greater than the depth of 

the recessed contact pads (22); 
an adhesive layer (26) coating the 
conductive paths (16) of the mounting surface for  

 
adhering the circuit member (18) to the substrate 

(12), the adhesive (26) including concentrated 
conductive metal particles between said 

vertically aligned contact pads and raised 
conductive surfaces and being uniaxially 

conductive vertically therebetween, and 
unconcentrated and non-conductive between 

laterally spaced conductive pads and raised 
conductive surfaces wherein the resin is a 

dielectric preventing conductivity between the 
metal particles therein and being non-conductive 

laterally therebetween. 
An electronic device set forth in 
claim 9 wherein said raised conductive surfaces 

(24) comprise a conductive ink pellet applied to 
said conductive path (16). 
An electronic device set forth in 
claim 9 wherein said substrate (12) comprises a 

mold ridge wherein said conductive paths formed 
thereon establish said raised conductive surfaces 

(24'). 
An electronic device set forth in 
claim 9 wherein said raised conductive surfaces 

(24'') comprise a deformable conductive material 
deformed to extend to said contact pads (22) with 

said discontinuities. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
