<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641931</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Accumulator fuel injection system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02M4500	F02M4508	F02M4700	F02M4700	F02M4702	F02M4702	F02M5700	F02M5702	F02M5900	F02M5910	F02M6100	F02M6110	F02M6118	F02M6300	F02M6300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02M45	F02M45	F02M47	F02M47	F02M47	F02M47	F02M57	F02M57	F02M59	F02M59	F02M61	F02M61	F02M61	F02M63	F02M63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of reducing undesired premixed burning in an internal combustion 
engine includes lifting an injector needle (830) of a fuel injector (720) a 

constant low-lift increment (858) from a valve seat (846) of a valve covers 

orifice (VCO) nozzle (850) having an injection hole (854) opening into the 
valve seat (846), and preventing lifting of the needle (830) beyond the 

low-lift increment (858) for a sufficient interval of time to inject a 
relatively small initial fuel charge into the engine from the VCO nozzle, 

the injection producing a highly atomized, wide-angle spray plume with 
relatively low penetration. The interval terminates when lifting forces 

imposed on the needle overcome holding forces imposed on the needle by a stop 
plate (620) which has opposed first and second surfaces exposed to an ambient 

fluid pressure and to a fluid vapor pressure, respectively. A subsequent step 
includes lifting the needle (830) to a higher lift position (858) to inject 

a main fuel charge into the engine, the main fuel charge being injected as 
a relatively narrow jet having high penetration. The stop plate (620) 

preferably has opposed rough and smooth flat surfaces orientable such that 
preventing step will occur when the smooth surface faces downwardly and will 

not occur when the plate is inverted such that the rough surface faces 
downwardly. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SERVOJET ELECTRONIC SYST LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SERVOJET ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECK NEILS JOHANNES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON BEVAN HERBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENA JAMES ABELARDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROACH ALAN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECK, NEILS JOHANNES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, BEVAN HERBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENA, JAMES ABELARDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROACH, ALAN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of 
PCT/US92/05227, filed June 25, 1992; and a continuation-in-part 
of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/830,981, 
filed January 28, 1992, which is a continuation of U.S. 
patent application Serial No. 07/152,013, filed February 
3, 1988. The present invention relates to fuel injectors for 
internal combustion engines, and particularly to 
improvements in accumulator-type fuel injectors, 
including both unintensified and intensified accumulator 
injectors, which produce improved fuel economy, noise 
reduction, and reduction of undesirable exhaust 
emissions, including smoke, oxides of nitrogen, and 
hydrocarbons. Accumulator-type fuel injectors have been known in 
the art for many years, but never have achieved 
widespread use. It is believed this is because they 
have heretofore not solved problems present in 
conventional injectors, and have even introduced 
additional problems which have been inherent in prior art 
forms of accumulator injectors. One serious problem with both conventional fuel 
injectors and prior art accumulator-type fuel injectors 
has been premixed burning of the fuel. Typically, about 
25-50 percent of the total quantity of fuel injected will 
be atomised and mixed with air prior to the start of 
combustion. The sudden combustion of this premixed fuel  
 
causes a rapid rate of heat release at the beginning of 
ignition, with a resulting excessively high noise level, 
poor fuel economy, and undesirable exhaust emissions 
including smoke, oxides of nitrogen, and hydrocarbon 
emissions. One answer to this problem is to provide a 
two-stage injection, with a small pilot charge of fuel 
first injected and ignited, and then the main charge of 
fuel injected and immediately ignited by the already 
ignited pilot charge. A system of this type is taught 
in Loyd U.S. Patent No. 4,414,940. Although the Loyd 
system does solve the problem, it requires two separate 
injectors, one for the pilot charge and another for the 
main charge, making the system undesirably complicated 
and expensive. Another problem with both conventional fuel 
injectors and prior art accumulator-type fuel injectors 
is that they produce a fixed spray pattern regardless of 
engine power demands, and this necessarily compromises 
engine efficiency at some power settings. For optimum 
overall engine efficiency, it would be desirable to 
tailor the spray configuration variably according to the 
power demands of the engine by having a relatively wide, 
flat conical spray
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of reducing undesired premixed burning in 
an internal combustion engine, comprising: 


A. lifting an injector needle of a fuel injector a 
constant low-lift increment from a valve seat 

of a valve covers orifice (VCO) nozzle having 
an injection hole opening into said valve seat; 
B. preventing lifting of said injector needle 
beyond said low-lift increment for a sufficient 

interval of time to inject a relatively small 
initial fuel charge into the engine from said 

VCO nozzle, said injection producing a highly 
atomized, wide-angle spray plume with 

relatively low penetration, said interval 
terminating when lifting forces imposed on said 

injector needle overcome holding forces imposed 
on said injector needle by a stop plate, said 

stop plate having opposed first and second 
surfaces exposed to an ambient fluid pressure 

and to a fluid vapor pressure, respectively; 
C. lifting said injector needle to a higher lift 
position to inject a main fuel charge into the 

engine, said main fuel charge being ejected 
from said VCO nozzle as a relatively narrow jet 

having high penetration. 
A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said fuel 
injector is a pressure intensified-type fuel 

injector, and wherein said ambient fluid pressure 
comprises intensified fluid pressure, and further 

comprising applying a biasing force to said injector 
needle via a needle return spring located in an 

accumulator cavity of said injector. 
A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said 
preventing step commences when said injector needle 

abuts said stop plate and terminates when said stop 
plate lifts with said injector needle. 
A method as defined in claim 3, wherein said fluid 
vapor pressure is formed from an essentially fluid-tight 

seal formed by the seating of said stop plate 
onto a mating flat stationary member, and wherein, 

when said stop plate is lifted, said seal is broken 
and fluid pressure at the interface between said 

stop plate and said stationary member increases from 
said fluid vapor pressure to said ambient pressure. 
A method as defined in claim 1, wherein, during the 
injection of said initial fuel charge, a needle tip 

of said injector needle is spaced from said valve 
seat by a constant pre-lift gap the thickness of 

which is less than 10% of the diamter of said 
injection hole. 
A method as defined in claim 5, wherein the 
thickness of said constant pre-lift gap is between 

1% and 5% of the diameter of said injection hole. 
A method as defined in claim 5, wherein, during the 
injection of said main fuel charge, said needle tip 

of said injector needle is spaced from said valve 
seat by a gap the thickness of which is 

approximately 100% of the diameter of said injection 
hole. 
A fuel injector for an internal combustion engine 
comprising: 


A. an injector body; 
B. a valve covers orifice (VCO) nozzle provided on 
 

said injector body and having a needle valve 
seat and an injection hole opening into said 

valve seat; 
C. an injector needle slidably received in said 
injector body and having a needle tip normally 

seated on said valve seat; and 
D. a stop plate disposed in said injector body and 
being normally positioned so as to have opposed 

first and second surfaces thereof exposed to an 
ambient fluid pressure and to a fluid vapor 

pressure, respectively. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 8, wherein said 
second surface of said stop plate comprises a 

downwardly facing flat and smooth surface which is 
normally seated on a flat and smooth shoulder of 

said injector body so as to provide an essentially 
fluid-tight seal therebetween. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 8, wherein said 
fuel injector is an accumulator-type fuel injector 

in which the energy for injection is stored by the 
compression of liquid fuel within an accumulator 

cavity of said injector. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 10, wherein said 
fuel injector is a pressure intensified-type fuel 

injector having a cavity exposed to intensified 
fluid pressure, and wherein said stop plate is 

provided in said cavity. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 11, further 
comprising 


A. a pin which extends through a hole formed in 
said stop plate and has a lower end which abuts 

said injector needle and an upper end 
 

positioned in said accumulator cavity, and 
B. a needle return spring positioned in said 
accumulator cavity and seated on said pin. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 8, wherein said 
injector is dimensioned such that, during the 

injection of said initial fuel charge, said needle 
tip of said injector needle is spaced from said 

valve seat by a constant pre-lift gap the thickness 
of which is less than 10% of the diameter of said 

injection hole. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 13, wherein the 
thickness of said gap is between 1% and 5% of the 

diameter of said injection hole. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 13, wherein said 
injector is dimensioned such that, during the 

injection of said main fuel charge, said needle tip 
of said injector needle is spaced from said valve 

seat by a gap the thickness of which is 
approximately 20% of the diameter of said injection 

hole. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 8, wherein a 
plurality of said injection holes are formed in said 

nozzle and open into said valve seat at a uniform 
angle ϑ. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 8, wherein a 
plurality of said injection holes are formed in said 

nozzle and open into said valve seat, and wherein 
two of said holes are formed in opposed sides of 

said nozzle and open into said valve seat at 
different angles of to compensate for injector tilt. 
A method of reducing undesirable premixed burning in 
an internal combustion engine, comprising 


A. raising an injector needle of an accumulator-type 
fuel injector off a valve seat a small 

constant low-lift increment for a sufficient 
interval of time to inject a small initial fuel 

charge into the engine through a valve covers 
orifice (VCO) nozzle having an injection hole 

opening into said valve seat; and then 
B. raising said injector needle to a higher lift 
position to inject a main fuel charge into the 

engine. 
A fuel injector comprising: 

A. an injector body having 

(1) a longitudinal bore formed therein, 
(2) a valve covers orifice (VCO) nozzle formed 
in a bottom end of said bore and defining 

a frusto-conical needle valve seat, and 
(3) a pressurized cavity formed therein 
located above and in communication with an 

upper end of said bore; 
B. an injector needle slidably received in said 
bore and having a lower frusto-conical needle 

tip normally seated on said valve seat and an 
upper end normally disposed proximate a 

junction between said pressurized cavity and 
said bore; and 
C. a stop plate disposed in said pressurized 
cavity and having 


(1) an upper surface exposed to an ambient 
fluid pressure in said cavity, 
(2) a lower surface sealingly contacting a 
shoulder of said injector body, and 
(3) a hole formed therethrough permitting the 
imposition of forces, generated by said 

ambient fluid pressure in said pressurized 
cavity, on said upper end of said injector 

needle. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 19, wherein said 
injector is an intensified accumulator type injector 

having an intensifier chamber and an accumulator 
chamber, and wherein said ambient fluid pressure 

comprises intensifier pressure in said intensifier 
chamber, and further comprising a needle spring 

which is provided in said accumulator chamber and 
which biases said injector needle towards said valve 

seat. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 20, further 
comprising a pin extending through said hole of said 

stop plate and having a lower end abutting said 
upper end of said injector needle and an upper end 

located in said accumulator chamber and abutting 
said needle spring. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 19, wherein 

A. the pressure at an interface between said lower 
surface of said stop plate and said shoulder of 

said injector body is approximately fluid vapor 
pressure, and 
B. the net pressure forces on said stop plate are 
the product of 1) the area of said interface 

and 2) the difference between an ambient 
pressure in said pressurized cavity and said 

fluid vapor pressure. 
In an internal combustion engine accumulator-type 
fuel injector, a method of reducing undesirable 

 
premixed burning in the engine which comprises: 


A. raising an injector needle off a valve seat of 
a nozzle a small, constant low-lift increment 

for a sufficient interval of time to inject a 
small initial fuel charge into the engine, said 

nozzle comprising a valve covers orifice (VCO) 
nozzle having an injection hole opening into 

said valve seat; 
B. then lifting said injector needle to a full 
lift position to inject a main fuel charge into 

the engine; and 
C. controlling needle lift by controlled venting 
of pressurized liquid from a pressurized zone 

located above said injector needle. 
A method as defined in claim 23, wherein said step 
of controlling comprises: 


A. first relatively slowly venting said 
pressurized liquid from said pressurized zone 

to produce said constant low-lift increment of 
lift of said injector needle; and 
B. then relatively rapidly venting said 
pressurized liquid from said pressurized zone 

to produce said lifting of said injector needle 
to its said full lift position. 
A method as defined in claim 24, further comprising: 

A. placing a stop plate at a first stop position 
in which it is spaced said low-lift increment 

above the upper end of said injector needle 
prior to said relatively slow venting so as to 

positively stop said injector needle at its 
said low-lift increment of lift during said 

relatively slow venting, thereby permitting 
only throttled fuel flow to said injection hole 

of said VCO; and 
B. releasing said stop plate from its first stop 
position during said relatively rapid venting 

so as to enable said injector needle to lift to 
its said full lift position, thereby permitting 

unthrottled fuel flow to said injection hole of 
said VCO. 
A fuel injector for an internal combustion engine 
comprising: 


A. an injector body having a flat, smooth surface; 
B. a nozzle provided on said injector body and 
defining an needle valve seat; 
C. an injector needle slidably received in said 
injector body and being normally seated on said 

valve seat; and 
D. a stop plate disposed in a cavity which is 
formed in said injector body above said 

injector needle and which is subject to an 
ambient fluid pressure, said stop plate having 

a smooth, flat axial surface and an opposed 
rough, flat axial surface, said stop plate 

being normally seated on said smooth surface of 
said injector body. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 26, wherein said 
smooth surface of said stop plate faces said smooth 

surface of said injector body and seals against said 
smooth surface of said injector body when said stop 

plate is seated on said injector body. 
A fuel injector as defined in claim 26, wherein said 
rough surface of said stop plate faces said smooth 

surface of said injector body and does not seal 
against said smooth surface of said injector body 

when said stop plate is seated on said injector 
body. 
A method of injecting fuel into an engine 
comprising: 


A. lifting an injector needle of a fuel injector a 
constant low-lift increment from a valve seat 

of said fuel injector into an abutting 
relationship with a stop plate to inject an 

initial fuel charge into said engine, said stop 
plate being positioned in a cavity exposed to 

an ambient fluid pressure and having a smooth, 
flat axial surface and an opposed rough, flat 

axial surface, said stop plate being normally 
seated on a smooth, flat surface of an injector 

body in which said injector needle is slidable; 
and then 
B. lifting said injector needle to a higher lift 
position to inject a main fuel charge into the 

engine. 
A method as defined in claim 29, wherein said smooth 
surface of said stop plate is normally sealingly 

seated on said smooth surface of said injector body 
so that said ambient fluid pressure and a fluid 

vapor pressure are imposed on said rough surface and 
a portion of said smooth surface, respectively, 

thereby imposing holding forces on said stop plate, 
and further comprising preventing lifting of said 

injector needle beyond said low-lift increment for a 
sufficient interval of time to inject a relatively 

small initial fuel charge into the engine, said 
interval terminating when lifting forces imposed on 

said injector needle overcome said holding forces 
imposed on said stop plate. 
A method as defined in claim 29, wherein said rough 
surface of said stop plate is normally nonsealingly 

seated on said smooth surface of said injector body 
so that said ambient fluid pressure is imposed on 

both said rough surface and said smooth surface of 
said stop plate, and further comprising lifting said 

injector needle beyond said low-lift increment 
immediately upon contact between said injector 

needle and said stop plate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
