<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633671</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A multiple access radio system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L116	H04L2502	H04L526	H04B726	H04L112	H04L112	H04B726	H04J1300	H04Q738	H04J1300	H04Q728	H04L118	H04Q728	H04Q738	H04L116	H04L2502	H04L500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04B	H04J	H04Q	H04J	H04Q	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L1	H04L25	H04L5	H04B7	H04L1	H04L1	H04B7	H04J13	H04Q7	H04J13	H04Q7	H04L1	H04Q7	H04Q7	H04L1	H04L25	H04L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a communication method for a digital cellular mobile telephone 
system and a digital cellular mobile telephone system comprising several 

base stations and mobiles utilizing time division multiple access. In the system 
communication is carried out on a predetermined frequency band in a predetermined 

number of time slots having a predetermined length. In the communication 
between the mobiles and the base station within the TDMA time slot with the 

predetermined length, the transmissions to communicate information comprising 
a few bits or several bits from the mobiles communicating with the same base 

station at least within the same time slot are mutually substantially orthogonal. 
Preferably, in order to communicate information, preferably information of the on-off 

type, such as acknowledgments and channel allocation requests, the mobiles 
communicating with the same base station use substantially orthogonal 

transmissions at least to the same base station in the same time slot. Preferably 
each mobile transmits within the TDMA burst of said TDMA time slot of the 

predetermined length as a part of the burst a predetermined bit sequence 
corresponding to the transmitted information bit combination, whereby the 

predetermined frequency band is unchanged. The bit sequences transmitted by 
different mobiles to the same base station are mutually substantially orthogonal. 

By using such substantially orthogonal transmissions it is possible to avoid 
collisions between the communications of information comprising a few or 

several bits, typically 1 to 10 bits, such as acknowledgments and channel 
allocation requests, which typically occur in a time division multiple access 

system. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOKINEN HARRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALKAMAEKI ESA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOKINEN, HARRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALKAMAEKI, ESA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a multiple access system for transmitting and/or
receiving radio signals.Many telecommunication applications require message acknowledgement. For instance,
the GSM system requires that a data packet formed for transmission is
transmitted as several bursts, which are de-interleaved and channel decoded at
reception. Then the whole received data packet is searched for errors. If the data
packet contains errors, then information about this is sent to the transmitting
equipment, which then re-transmits the whole data packet. Message
acknowledgement is typically information of the on-off type, in other words, the
acknowledgement receiver must only know whether its message was correctly
received or not, and act correspondingly. Such situations occur often e.g. in
connection with automatic retransmission (ARQ, Automatic Repeat reQuest),
whereby the receiving end informs the transmitting end whether the message
was correctly received or not. This is called acknowledgement. If re-transmissions
occur seldom, it is generally preferred to send so called negative
acknowledgements, or only unsuccessful transmissions are acknowledged,
whereby the acknowledgement always represents a request for re-transmission.
In this way it is possible to save capacity of the return channel or
acknowledgement channel.When the said ARQ method is used in a multiple access environment, where several
users use the same transmission medium, the users' transmissions are distinguished
by known methods, e.g. time, frequency or code division techniques. In
the same way we try to classify the acknowledgements. If each user sends the
acknowledgements rather infrequently, it is does not pay to reserve separate 
acknowledgement capacity for each, but several users can share a certain
"acknowledgement channel". However, then it is possible that more than two
users will try to acknowledge at the same time, using the same
"acknowledgement channel". Typically all simultaneous acknowledgements are lost
when a collision occurs.An example of the application of re-transmission is presented in the Patent
application FI-924943, which uses fast re-transmission when transmitting speech
data or other data which is delay critical, and in which a burst or a part of it is
re-transmitted during the time slot used by the speech encoder to generate a new
speech frame, whereby the re-transmission does not create any extra delay. A
radio telephone system like this requires an acknowledgement channel, in which
the receiver can request
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multiple access system for transmitting and/or receiving radio signals in
respective ones of a predetermined number of mutually distinguishable channels

including traffic channels and at least one acknowledgement channel, adapted to
allow access to one of said predetermined number of channels to a sole

concurrent user and to allow access to another of said predetermined number of
channels to plural concurrent users on respective mutually distinguishable

subchannels,
characterised in that
the one of said predetermined number of mutually distinguishable
channels is used as a traffic channel and the another of said predetermined

number of mutually distinguishable channels is used as an acknowledgement
channel,
that the system further comprises means for allocating a different one
of these mutually distinguishable subchannels to each of the plural concurrent

users; and
each of the plural concurrent users having a different allocated
subchannel adapted to transmit message acknowledgements.
A multiple access system according to claim 1 wherein the respective
subchannels are mutually orthogonal.
A multiple access system according to any preceding claim wherein the
multiple access system is a time division multiple access system and the mutually

distinguishable channels are respective time slots.
A multiple access system according to any preceding claim wherein the
multiple access system comprises a digital cellular mobile telephone system

comprising a base station and 
wherein the concurrent users comprise respective radio telephones in

communication with the base station.
A multiple access system according to any preceding claim wherein the
respective subchannels of the another channel are distinguishable through the

allocation of respective orthogonal codes.
A multiple access system according to claim 5 when dependent on claim 4
wherein the orthogonal codes are allocated to respective concurrent users of the

base station from the
base station.
A multiple access system according to claim 5 when dependent on claim 4
wherein the codes originate from the respective radio telephones.
A multiple access system according to any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the
codes comprise respective predetermined bit sequences.
A multiple access system according to any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the
codes comprise spreading codes.
A multiple access system according to any preceding claim wherein the
respective subchannels of the at least another channel comprise plural time

subdivisions of the time slot of the at least another channel.
A multiple access system according to any preceding claim wherein the
respective subchannels of the at least another channel comprise plural frequency

subdivisions.
A method for transmitting and/or receiving radio signals in respective ones of
a predetermined number of mutually distinguishable channels including traffic 

channels and at least one acknowledgement channel comprising enabling a sole
concurrent user to transmit and/or receive signals in at least one of said channels

and enabling plural concurrent users access to at least another of said channels on
respective mutually distinguishable subchannels,
characterised in that
the one of said predetermined number of mutually distinguishable
channels is used as a traffic channel and the another of said predetermined

number of mutually distinguishable channels is used as an acknowledgement
channel,
that the method further comprises allocating a different one of these
mutually distinguishable subchannels to each of the plural concurrent users; and
each of the plural concurrent users having a different allocated
subchannel adapted to transmit message acknowledgements.
A transmitter and/or receiver comprising means for enabling radio signals to
be transmitted and/or received by a sole concurrent user on at least one of a

plurality of mutually distinguishable channels including traffic channels and at
least one acknowledgement channel, and by plural concurrent users on at least

another of said channels on plural mutually distinguishable subchannels,
characterised in that
the one of said predetermined number of mutually distinguishable
channels is used as a traffic channel and the another of said predetermined

number of mutually distinguishable channels is used as an acknowledgement

channel,
that a different one of these mutually distinguishable subchannels
being allocated to each of the plural concurrent users;
each of the plural concurrent users having a different allocated
subchannel adapted to transmit message acknowledgements; and
the transmitter and/or receiver being adapted to transmit and/or
receive message acknowledgements according to said allocation of subchannels.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
