<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630270</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NITRIC OXIDE FROM AIR FOR MEDICAL USES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1502	B01D5356	B01D5346	A61M1500	A61M1500	A61M1502	A61M1610	B01D5356	B01D5346	A61M1610	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	B01D	B01D	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B01D	B01D	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M15	B01D53	B01D53	A61M15	A61M15	A61M15	A61M16	B01D53	B01D53	A61M16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for producing a mixture comprising nitric oxide and air for treatment of medical conditions. The invention enables unlimited production of nitric oxide at any location using only air and a source of electricity. An electric arc chamber (4) is provided with electrodes (5) separated by an air gap (9). An electric circuit (7) supplies a high voltage potential to the electrodes (5) and induces an electric arc discharge across the electrodes (5). The electric arc discharge produces nitric oxide mixed with air. The mixture of nitric oxide and air is further purified and blended with other gases and/or pulmonary therapeutic agents, and the therapeutically-effective gas mixture is delivered to different organs of a human body using organ specific attachments.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN HOSPITAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GENERAL HOSPITAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAPOL WARREN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAPOL, WARREN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and a system for
producing nitric oxide mixed with air or other gases for use
in medicine. In specific aspects, it relates to an inhaler
for respiratory treatment of a patient, to a device for
treatment of medical conditions requiring direct delivery of
substances to an organ of the human body, to a treatment
room or treatment chamber adapted for respiratory therapy of
a patient and to a method of producing a mixture of gases
for respiratory therapy of a patient.Nitric oxide (NO) is crucial to many biological
systems (G. Kolada, The New York Times, July 2, 1991, p.
Cl.). Kolada indicates that nitric oxide mediates the
control of blood pressure, helps the immune system kill
invading parasites that enter cells, stops cancer cells
from dividing, transmits signals between brain cells, and
contributes to the large scale death of brain cells that
can debilitate people with strokes or Huntington's
disease.It was shown that nitric oxide mediates relaxation
of gastric smooth muscle (K.M. Desai et al., Nature, Vol.
351, June 6, 1991, p. 477). Desai et al. demonstrated
that adaptive relaxation in isolated stomach of the
guinea pig is mediated by a non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic
(NANC) neurotransmitter. Furthermore, they
showed that this NANC neurotransmitter is
undistinguishable from nitric oxide derived from L-arginine.
The authors concluded that it is likely that
nitric oxide is a final common mediator of smooth muscle
relaxation. Smooth muscle is present, for example, in the
walls of the blood vessels, bronchi, gastrointestinal
tract, and urogenital tract. Administration of nitric
oxide gas to the lung by inhalation could produce
localized smooth muscle relaxation without systemic side
effects. This characteristic can be used in medicine to
treat bronchial constriction and pulmonary hypertension,
pneumonia, etc. Nitric oxide is now known to be an important
naturally occurring local cellular hormone, the so-called
endothelium derived relaxing factor. This factor is
produced in many cells (i.e., endothelial cells lining
blood vessels, bronchi, intestines, bladder, uterus, and
other hollow organs) by the enzyme nitric oxide
synthetase (now known to be a family of at least six
enzymes) from arginine. Once NO is released, it binds
rapidly to the enzyme guanylate cyclase in smooth muscle
cells, increasing cyclic guanylate monophosphate (cyclic
GMP), reducing,intracellular calcium levels and thereby
causing smooth muscle relaxation.Inhaled nitric oxide, as demonstrated by a number
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An inhaler for respiratory therapy of a patient
comprising a mouthpiece, face mask, endotracheal tube,

tracheostomy tube, incubator or ventilator, said
inhaler being 
characterised in
 being adapted operatively to
produce a mixture comprising air and nitric oxide, said

inhaler utilizing air and a source of electricity, and
comprising: an electric arc chamber with a pair of

electrodes separated by an air gap, for producing nitric
oxide by an arc discharge between said electrodes; an

electric circuit for supplying a high voltage potential to
said electrodes, said high voltage potential having a peak

value sufficient to induce an electric arc across said air
gap; a gas input port for introducing air into

said electric arc chamber; and an output port coupled to said mouthpiece,
face mask, endotracheal tube, tracheostomy tube, incubator or ventilator for

dispensing said produced mixture for inhaling by a patient. 
An inhaler according to Claim 1, further 
characterised
in that
 said electrodes of said arc chamber are two axially
aligned metal rods with their tips separated by said air

gap.
An inhaler according to Claim 2, further 
characterised
in that
 said circuitry comprises a high voltage transformer
having the primary side connected to an electric power

supply, and a parallel RCL circuit connected in parallel to
the secondary, high voltage side of said high voltage

transformer, wherein the resistive element of said parallel
RCL circuit comprises said high voltage electrodes separated

by said air gap.
An inhaler according to any of Claims 1, 2 or 3,
further 
characterised in that
 said air input port includes
a filter adapted for filtering said introduced air through

said input port to prevent liquid droplets or solid
particles from entering said arc chamber.
An inhaler according to Claim 4, further 
characterised
in that
 said inhaler is less than approximately 20 x 20 x 10 
cm in size and has a weight less than approximately 1 kg.
An inhaler according to Claim 4, 
characterised in

further comprising a purifying device adapted for removing
nitrogen dioxide and ozone produced in said arc chamber,

said purifying device being located so that, in use, gas
leaving said arc chamber is forced through said purifying

device before being released from said inhaler, and a
mouthpiece at said output port to enable said gas mixture

to be directly inhaled from said arc chamber through said
purifying device.
An inhaler according to Claim 6, 
characterised in

further comprising an air input assembly having a set of
selective restricting orifices adapted operatively to

introduce a controlled amount of air to said inhaling port

and to blend said air with said gas mixture from said arc
chamber while said mixture is inhaled through said

mouthpiece.
An inhaler according to Claim 6, further 
characterised
in that
 said purifying device contains a scavenger for
ozone and nitrogen dioxide.
An inhaler according to Claim 1 or Claim 2,

characterised in
 further comprising a purifying device
adapted for removing nitrogen dioxide and ozone produced in

said arc chamber, said purifying device being located so
that, in use, said gas mixture leaving said arc chamber is

forced through said purifying device, and a gas pump for
forcing said gas mixture out of said output port. 
A device for treatment of medical conditions requiring direct delivery of
substances to an organ of the human body, said device comprising a gas

delivery system adapted specifically for delivering gas to a selected organ of the
human body, the gas delivery system being operatively adapted to produce a

continuous flow of a mixture comprising air and nitric oxide, and the device
comprising:


an electric arc chamber with a pair of electrodes separated by an air gap, for
producing nitric oxide by arc discharge between said electrodes; an electric

circuit for supplying a high voltage potential to said electrodes, said high voltage
potential having a peak value sufficient to induce an electric arc across said air

gap; a gas input port for introducing air or ventilatory gases into said electric arc
chamber; and said delivery system being arranged to receive said flow for

dispensing said produced mixture to an organ of the human body;
and the device being other than an apparatus for experimental analysis of the
rates of production of ozone, nitric oxide and nitrous oxide in a pulsed discharge

in air in relation to flow rate, residence time and production of filamentary
discharges, the apparatus comprising a discharge tube coupled to a filamentary

discharge counter and coupled alternatively to a NO
2
-absorbing scrubber directly,
to the said scrubber via an intermediate delay volume, or to a Beckman NO/NO
x

analyzer.
A device according to Claim 10, further 
characterised
in that
 said delivery system is specifically configured to
dispense said mixture directly to a specific organ. 
A device according to Claim 11, 
characterised in

further comprising a gas input manifold adapted operatively
for introducing selected gases into said delivery system,

for blending said selected gases with said mixture and for
dispensing said blend by said delivery system.
A device according to Claim 12, 
characterised in

further comprising a gas analyzer adapted operatively to
analyze the concentration of individual constituents of said

blend of gases being dispensed by said delivery system, and
a regulator system connected to said analyzer and said gas

input manifold for operatively controlling the concentration
of individual constituents introduced into said delivery

system according to a predetermined prescription scheme.
An inhaler according to Claim 1 or a device according
to Claim 10, 
characterised in
 further comprising means for
adding additional gases to said mixture.
A method of producing a mixture of gases for
respiratory therapy of a patient, the method being


characterised in that
 the mixture of gases comprises air and
nitric oxide, the method utilizing air and a source of

electricity, and comprising the steps of: introducing air
through an air input port into an electric arc chamber of an

inhaler; supplying high voltage potential to a set of
electrodes separated by an air gap and located in said

electric arc chamber, said high voltage potential having a
peak value sufficient to induce an electric arc across said

air gap; producing nitric oxide by an arc discharge between
said electrodes charged to said high voltage potential; and

dispensing said produced mixture through an output port; no
claim is made to a method as aforesaid in which the mixture

is dispensed directly to a patient. 
A method according to Claim 15, 
characterised in

further comprising the step of filtering said introduced air
through said input port in order to prevent liquid droplets

or solid particles from entering said arc chamber.
A method according to Claim 15, 
characterised in

further comprising the step of purifying gas drawn from said
arc chamber in order to remove nitrogen dioxide and ozone

produced during said arc discharge.
A method according to Claim 15, 
characterised in

further comprising the step of blending said mixture of
nitric oxide and air drawn in from said arc chamber with air

introduced through an air input assembly having a set of
selective restricting orifices.
A method according to Claim 15, 
characterised in

further comprising the step of purifying gas drawn in from
said arc chamber in order to remove nitrogen dioxide and

ozone produced during said arc discharge.
A method according to Claim 15, 
characterised in

further comprising the step of forcing said gas mixture out
of said output port using a gas pump.
A method according to Claim 15, 
characterised in

further comprising the step of introducing selected gases
through a gas input manifold into said delivery system,

blending said selected gases with said produced mixture of
nitric oxide and air, and dispensing said blend by said

delivery system. 
A method according to Claim 21, 
characterised in

further comprising the steps of analysing the concentration
of individual constituents of said blend of gases being

dispensed by said delivery system, and regulating the
concentration of individual constituents being introduced

into said delivery system using a regulating system
connected to a gas analyzer and said gas input manifold

according to a predetermined prescription scheme.
A method according to Claim 15, 
characterised in

further comprising the steps of adding additional gases to
said mixture.
A treatment chamber, preferably an incubator, adapted
for respiratory therapy of a patient, the chamber having

coupled thereto an output port of an inhaler located
externally of the chamber, the inhaler being adapted

operatively to produce a mixture comprising air and nitric
oxide, said inhaler utilising air and a source of

electricity, and comprising: an electric arc chamber with
a pair of electrodes separated by an air gap, for producing

nitric oxide by an arc discharge between said electrodes;
an electric circuit for supplying a high voltage potential

to said electrodes, said high voltage potential having a
peak value sufficient to induce an electric arc across said

air gap; a gas input port for introducing air
into said electric arc chamber; and said output port for

dispensing said produced mixture. 
A treatment chamber according to Claim 24, being
further 
characterised in that
 said inhaler is provided with
means for adding additional gases to said mixture.
A method of filling a treatment room or treatment
chamber with a mixture comprising air and nitric oxide

suitable for respiratory therapy of a patient, the method
comprising the steps of: utilising air and a source of

electricity in an inhaler comprising an electric arc

chamber with a pair of electrodes separated by an air gap,
for producing nitric oxide in air by an arc discharge

between said electrodes, an electric circuit for supplying
a high voltage potential to said electrodes, said high

voltage potential having a peak value sufficient to induce
an electric arc across said air gap, a gas input port for

introducing air into said electric arc
chamber, and an outlet port for dispensing gases from said

inhaler; and causing said gases to issue through said
outlet port into said treatment room or treatment chamber;

no claim is made to a method as aforesaid in which a human
or animal patient is present in the treatment room chamber.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
