<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627651</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Film cartridge with a detachable, orientation independant, memory module.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B1730	G03B1730	G03C300	G03C300	G11C500	G11C500	H05K111	H05K111	H05K118	H05K118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03C	G03C	G11C	G11C	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B17	G03B17	G03C3	G03C3	G11C5	G11C5	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for recording information related to the 
camera exposure parameters of film image frames in a 

detachable memory module attached to a film cartridge (30) loaded 
in the camera in non-volatile memory for subsequent read-out. 

The memory module is constructed of a disc-shaped 
module housing (46) having an upper and a lower surface and a 

diameter generally corresponding to the diameter of an end 
of a film cartridge to which it is releasably attached. 

A printed circuit (46') is formed 
as a set of concentric, circular 

conductive bands (42₁-42₄) spaced apart and 
electrically isolated from 

one another on the upper surface (44) of the disc-shaped module 
housing. An integrated circuit chip (60), including a non-volatile 

memory, attached to the lower surface of the disc-shaped 
module housing has a plurality of input and output 

terminals connected to the plurality of concentric 
conductive bands. The memory module is releasably adhered 

to the film cartridge end so that the printed circuit 
conductive bands can make electrical contact with data 

recording and reading terminals of camera and film 
processing equipment. A camera housing for receiving the 

film cartridge with the attached memory module (40) in a 
cartridge receiving chamber has a plurality of contact 

terminals positioned to extend into the cartridge receiving 
chamber and bear against and make electrical contact with 

the respective plurality of concentric conductive bands. 
The camera electronic operating system provides the battery 

power and electrical signals to be stored in the non-volatile 
memory through contact of the plurality of contact 

terminals with the respective concentric conductive bands. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRYANT ROBERT S C O EASTMAN KO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRYANT ROBERT S C O EASTMAN KO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application discloses subject matter related to 
subject matter disclosed in commonly assigned U. S. Patent 
Application S. N. (Atty Docket 64635) entitled ORIENTATION 
INDEPENDENT, DETACHABLE FILM CARTRIDGE, MEMORY MODULE filed 
on even date herewith in the name of J. David Cocca. This invention relates to the field of photographic 
film cameras and film processing, and particularly to 
apparatus for providing non-volatile, electronic information 
storage and retrieval capabilities for a standard film 
cartridge. As set forth in commonly assigned U.S. Patent No. 
5,032,854 to Smart et al., it is well known to provide 
limited information relating to film type and speed by means 
of a DX code or bar code imprinted on the exterior case or 
end of the film cartridge that may be electrically or 
optically read in to the camera's electronic control system. 
Such well known coding is employed to set exposure 
parameters of the camera automatic exposure control system, 
but is not useful in storing information related to the 
actual exposure made of an individual image frame in use of 
the camera. In order to store such information, as well as the 
image frame identification to which it pertains, and other 
information automatically entered from the camera operating 
system or optionally entered by the camera user, it is  
 
necessary to employ a further writable and readable media in 
association with either the film or the film cartridge. For example, commonly assigned U.S. Patent Nos. 
4,965,626 and 5,016,030 to Robinson et al. and Dwyer et al. 
(and applications listed therein) disclose photographic film 
incorporating magnetic read/write strips and read/write 
heads and systems incorporated into cameras and 
photofinishing equipment for storing and reading out a wide 
variety of data. Alternatively, it has been proposed to magnetically 
read and write data on magnetic strips formed on the sides 
or an end of the film cartridge, as described, for example, 
in U.S. Patent No. 4,443,077 to Tanikawa. More recently, it has been suggested that data may be 
stored and retrieved from non-volatile memory chips, e.g. an 
EEPROM, incorporated in an integrated circuit chip "card" as 
set forth in U.S. Patent No. 5,036,344 to Inoue et al. The 
card may be separable from the camera and film cartridge or 
may be attached to the film cartridge as set forth generally 
in U.S. Patent No. 5,070,355 to Inoue et al. Alternatively, the storage of such information in "ROM-ICs" 
attached permanently or releasably to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A memory module for a film cartridge in which 
information related to the camera exposure of film image 

frames may be recorded in non-volatile memory for subsequent 
read-out comprising: 

   a disc-shaped module housing having an upper and a 
lower surface and a diameter generally corresponding to the 

diameter of an end of the film cartridge; 
   a printed circuit formed in the pattern of a plurality 

of concentric, conductive bands spaced apart and 
electrically isolated from one another on the upper surface 

of the disc-shaped module housing; 
   an integrated circuit chip, including a non-volatile 

memory, attached to the lower surface of the disc-shaped 
module housing and having a plurality of input and output 

terminals; 
   means for making electrical connections between the 

plurality of input and output terminals of the integrated 
circuit chip and the plurality of concentric conductive 

bands; and 
   means for attaching the disc-shaped module housing to 

the end of a film cartridge so that the upper surface is 
exposed for making electrical contact with data recording 

and reading terminals of camera and film processing 
equipment. 
The memory module of Claim 1 wherein the attaching 
means further comprises a disc-shaped layer of insulating 

material having a first surface for contacting and enclosing 
the integrated circuit chip and a second surface for 

contacting the end of the film cartridge, the second surface 
having an adhesive layer thereon for adhering the memory 

module to the end of the film cartridge. 
The memory module of Claim 1 wherein the 
integrated circuit chip comprises an electrically erasable 

programmable read only memory. 
A system for recording information related to the 
camera exposure parameters of film image frames in a 

detachable memory module attached to a film cartridge loaded 
in the camera in non-volatile memory for subsequent read-out, 

wherein the module further comprises: 
   a disc-shaped module housing having an upper and a 

lower surface and a diameter generally corresponding to the 
diameter of an end of the film cartridge; 

   a printed circuit formed in the pattern of a plurality 
of concentric, circular conductive bands spaced apart and 

electrically isolated from one another on the upper surface 
of the disc-shaped module housing; 

   an integrated circuit chip, including a non-volatile 
memory, attached to the lower surface of the disc-shaped 

module housing and having a plurality of input and output 
terminals; 

   means for making electrical connections between the 
plurality of input and output terminals of the integrated 

circuit chip and the plurality of concentric conductive 
bands; and 

   means for attaching the disc-shaped module housing to 
the end of a film cartridge so that the upper surface is 

exposed for making electrical contact with data recording 
and reading terminals of camera and film processing 

equipment; and 
wherein the camera further comprises: 

   a camera housing for receiving the film cartridge with 
the attached memory module in a cartridge receiving chamber; 

   a plurality of contact terminals positioned by the 
camera housing to extend into the cartridge receiving 

 
chamber and bear against and make electrical contact with 

the respective plurality of concentric conductive bands; and 
   means for providing camera battery power and electrical 

signals to be stored in the non-volatile memory through the 
plurality of contact terminals and to the respective 

concentric conductive bands. 
The system of Claim 4 wherein the memory module 
further comprises a disc-shaped layer of insulating material 

having a first surface for contacting and enclosing the 
integrated circuit chip and a second surface for contacting 

the end of the film cartridge, the second surface having an 
adhesive layer thereon for adhering the memory module to the 

end of the film cartridge. 
The system of Claim 5 wherein the memory module 
integrated circuit chip comprises an electrically erasable 

programmable read only memory. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
