<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Acidic cleaning aqueous solution for aluminum and aluminum alloy and method for cleaning the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C11D710	C11D702	C09K1306	C23G102	C11D708	C11D722	C09K1300	C23G112	C11D726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C11D	C11D	C09K	C23G	C11D	C11D	C09K	C23G	C11D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C11D7	C11D7	C09K13	C23G1	C11D7	C11D7	C09K13	C23G1	C11D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An acidic cleaning aqueous solution for carrying out a low 
temperature acidic cleaning of aluminum and aluminum alloy and a 

cleaning method for the same free from harmful fluorine and 
chromium ions. The acidic cleaning aqueous solution includes 

oxidized metal ions as an etching promoter, an inorganic acid, a 
surfactant and a certain amount of polyhydric alcohols having at 

least two hydroxyl groups directly coupled with two adjacent 
carbon atoms of a principal chain within one molecule and further 

includes an oxidizing agent for oxidizing the oxidized metal ions 
reduced in the cleaning. Certain alcohols in the acidic cleaning 

aqueous solution can control the oxidative decomposition reaction 
of the surfactant to obtain a long life acidic cleaning aqueous 

solution. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON PAINT CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON PAINT CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKEDA SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMIMURA MASAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKEDA, SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMIMURA, MASAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an acidic cleaning aqueous 
solution for aluminum and aluminum alloy and a method for cleaning 
the same, and more particularly to a cleaning aqueous solution 
capable of satisfactorily removing lubricating oil and aluminum 
powder or smut adhering on aluminum surface due to fabrication and 
a cleaning method for the same. Aluminum products such as beverage containers made of 
aluminum or aluminum alloy are ordinarily manufactured by a metal-forming 
operation called "drawing and ironing" (hereinafter 
referred to as DI processing). In this metal-forming operation, a 
lubricating oil is applied to the metal surface and aluminum 
powder (smut) adheres to the resulting container, particularly to 
its internal walls. The surface of this kind of container is 
usually protected by, for example, a chemical conversion treatment 
or coating. Hence, prior to this treatment or coating, it is 
necessary to remove the lubricating oil and the smut from the 
metal surface to clean the same. In general, an acidic cleaning agent to appropriately etch 
the metal surface is used in this surface cleaning. 
Conventionally, as such an acidic cleaning agent, a chromic acid 
type or a hydrofluoric acid type cleaning agent has frequently  
 
been used. In particular, the hydrofluoric acid cleaning agent is 
superior in permitting a low temperature acidic cleaning (up to 
50°C). However, since these acidic cleaning agents are harmful 
and their waste water is strictly regulated, recently, the 
establishment of a chromium free and fluorine free low temperature 
acidic cleaning technique has been desired. Such a chromium free and fluorine free low temperature acidic 
cleaning technique has been proposed as "Aluminum Surface Cleaning 
Agent" disclosed in U.S.P. No. 4,728,456 and "Method Of 
Controlling An Aluminum Surface Cleaning Composition" disclosed in 
U.S.P. No. 4,851,148. That is, in these two patents, a chromium free cleaning 
composition consisting of an acidic cleaning agent containing 
little or no fluoride ions and having its pH regulated to 2.0 or 
less with sulfuric and/or nitric acid, and ferric ions for 
promoting an etching in place of the fluoride ions, and a method 
for controlling an oxidation-reduction potential of a cleaning 
bath to control a ferric ion concentration in the bath are 
disclosed. Usually, an etching reaction of aluminum in an acidic 
cleaning solution is composed of an anode reaction in which 
aluminum becomes aluminum ion (Al → Al3++ 3e-) and a cathode 
reactio
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An acidic cleaning aqueous solution for aluminum and 
aluminum alloy, consisting essentially of 


(a) at least one inorganic acid to produce a pH of at most 
2 for the acidic cleaning 
aqueous solution; 
(b) oxidized metal ions; 
(c) at least one surfactant; and 
(d) 0.1 to 5 g/ℓ of at least one polyhydric alcohol having 
at least two hydroxyl groups directly coupled with respective two 

adjacent carbon atoms of a principal chain within one molecule 
with the proviso that component (d) does not solely consist of 

1,2-ethanediol or 1,2-propanediol. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to claim 1, 
wherein the (d) polyhydric alcohol includes at least one trihydric 

alcohol having at least two hydroxyl groups directly coupled with 
the two adjacent carbon atoms of the principal chain within one 

molecule. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to claim 2, 
wherein the trihydric alcohol includes at least one of 1,2,3-propanetriol 

and 1,2,4-butanetriol. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to claim 1, 
wherein (d) the polyhydric alcohol includes a mixture of (e) at 

least one dihydric alcohol having at least two hydroxyl groups 
directly coupled with the two adjacent carbon atoms of the 

Principal chain within one molecule and (f) at least one trihydric 
alcohol having at least two hydroxyl groups directly coupled with  

 
the two adjacent carbon atoms of the principal chain within one 

molecule. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to claim 4, 
wherein (e) the dihydric alcohol includes at least one of 1,2-ethanediol, 

1,2-propanediol, 1,2-pentanediol and 1,2-butanediol 
and (f) the trihydric alcohol includes at least one of 1,2,3-propanetriol 

and 1,2,4-butanetriol. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein (a) the inorganic acid includes at least one of sulfuric 

acid, nitric acid and phosphoric acid. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein (b) the oxidized metal ions include at least one of 

ferric ions, metavanadic ions, cerimetric ions, cobalt (V) ions and 
tin (IV) ions. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein (c) the surfactant is a nonionic surfactant. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to any one of 
the preceding 

claims further comprising an oxidation reduction potential (ORP) control oxidizing agent. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to claim 
9, wherein the ORP control oxidizing agent includes at least one of 

hydrogen peroxide, persulfates, ozone, cerium compounds, nitrites and  
 

metavanadic ions. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to claim 1, 
wherein 


(a) the inorganic acid is sulfuric acid; 
(b) the oxidized metal ions include at least one of 
ferric ions and metavanadic ions 
(c) the surfactant is a nonionic surfactant; and 
(d) the polyhydric alcohol includes at least one of 1,2,3-propanetriol 
and 1,2,4-butanetriol. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein a content of (d) the polyhydric alcohol in the acidic 

cleaning aqueous solution is 0.2 to 3 g/ℓ. 
The acidic cleaning aqueous solution according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein 


an amount of (a) the inorganic acid in the acidic cleaning 
aqueous solution is determined so that the pH of the acidic 

cleaning aqueous solution is within a range of 0.6 to 2.0; 
a content of (b) the oxidized metal ions in the acidic 
cleaning aqueous solution is 0.2 to 5 g/ℓ; 
a content of (c) the surfactant in the acidic cleaning 
aqueous solution is 0.2 to 5 g/ℓ; and 
a content of (d) the polyhydric alcohol in the acidic 
cleaning aqueous solution is 0.2 to 3 g/ℓ. 
A method for cleaning an aluminum surface, consisting essentially of:  
 


a step (1) for using an acidic cleaning aqueous solution 
for aluminum and aluminum alloy, including: 


(a) at least one inorganic acid to produce a pH of at 
most 2 of the acidic cleaning aqueous solution; 
(b) oxidized metal ions; 
(c) at least one surfactant; and 
(d) 0.1 to 5 g/ℓ of at least one polyhydric alcohol 
having at least two hydroxyl groups directly coupled with 

respective two adjacent carbon atoms of a principal chain within 
one molecule 

with the proviso that component (d) does not solely consist of 
1,2-ethanediol or 1,2 propanediol . 
a step (2) for measuring an oxidation reduction potential 
of the acidic cleaning aqueous solution; and 
a step (3) for supplying either a combination of (b) the 
oxidized metal ions and (e) an oxidation reduction potential (ORP) control oxidizing agent or (e) 

the ORP control oxidizing agent into the acidic cleaning aqueous 
solution while conducting the step (2) to maintain and control a 

concentration of the oxidized metal ions in the acidic cleaning 
aqueous solution. 
The method for cleaning an aluminum surface according to 
claim 14, wherein the polyhydric alcohol includes at least one of 

1,2,3-propanetriol and 1,2,4-butanetriol. 
The method for cleaning an aluminum surface according to 
claims 14 or 15 wherein either the combination of (b) the oxidized metal 

ions and (e) the ORP control oxidizing agent or (e) the ORP 
control oxidizing agent is supplied into the acidic cleaning 

aqueous solution while conducting the step (b) to maintain and  
 

control the concentration of the oxidized metal ions in the acidic 
cleaning aqueous solution so that a value of the oxidation-reduction 

potential of the acidic cleaning aqueous solution for 
the aluminum and aluminum alloy is within a range of 0.5 to 0.8 V 

(silver-silver chloride electrode potential reference (vs. 
Ag/AgCℓ)). 
The method for cleaning an aluminum surface according to 
claims 14 to 16 wherein (a) the inorganic acid includes at least one of 

sulfuric acid and nitric acid. 
The method for cleaning an aluminum surface according to 
claims 14 to 17 wherein (b) the oxidized metal ions includes at least 

one of ferric ion and metavanadic ions. 
The method for cleaning an aluminum surface according to 
claims 14 to 18 wherein (c) the surfactant is a nonionic surfactant. 
The method for cleaning an aluminum surface according to 
claims 14 to 19 wherein a cleaning treatment temperature is 35 to 80°C. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
