<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636530</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fluid controller with joystick capability and actuator therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62D509	B62D5097	B62D122	B62D102	B62D509	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62D5	B62D5	B62D1	B62D1	B62D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A controller (11) and a system for controlling the flow of fluid to a fluid 
pressure operated device (C) are disclosed. The controller is of the type 

including a rotatable spool valve (35) and a relatively rotatable sleeve valve 
(37). Relative rotation between the spool and sleeve define a main fluid path 

(MFP) and relative axial movement therebetween defines an auxiliary fluid path 
(AFP). An actuator (65) generates a mechanical output (71) in response to an 

electrical input signal (CS) to move the sleeve (37) between its neutral axial 
position (FIG. 6) and an axial operating position (FIG. 7). Axial movement of the 

sleeve is controlled by a joystick (J). The system includes various sensors 
(S,PS,G,P), which can sense a predetermined condition and generate an 

interrupt signal to interrupt or change the gain of the electrical input signal (CS). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EATON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVACEK WILLIAM JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RASMUSSEN KENNETH GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEPHENSON DWIGHT BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVACEK, WILLIAM JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RASMUSSEN, KENNETH GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEPHENSON, DWIGHT BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to fluid controllers of the type used to
control the flow of fluid from a source of pressurized fluid to a fluid pressure
actuated device, such as a steering cylinder for steering a vehicle. More
particularly, the present invention relates to such a steering system having both
a normal input, such as the vehicle steering wheel, and an auxiliary input, such
as a joystick.Although the present invention may be used in connection with fluid
controllers of many types, and having various applications, it is especially
advantageous when used in conjunction with a full-fluid-linked steering system,
and will be described in connection therewith.A typical fluid controller of the type to which the present invention relates
includes a housing which defines various fluid ports, and further includes a fluid
meter, a valve means, and an arrangement for imparting follow-up movement to
the valve means, in response to the flow of fluid through the fluid meter. The
flow through the controller valve means is directly proportional to the area of
variable flow control orifices in the main fluid path, the area of the flow control
orifices in turn typically being proportional to the rate at which the steering
wheel is rotated.A typical application for a full-fluid-linked steering system of the type to
which the present invention relates would be a vehicle such as is used on a 
construction site. Such a vehicle is used primarily in one of two operating
modes: first, the vehicle is driven in a "roading" mode, i.e., it is being driven on
the road, at normal roading speeds, in order to reach the work site. Secondly,
the vehicle is operated in a working mode, on the work site, and performing
operations such as moving a pile of dirt, etc.The roading and working modes of operation described above present
very different steering requirements, as is now well known to those skilled in
the art. When roading the vehicle, a relatively low gain rate is required,
whereas, when operating in the working mode, a relatively high gain rate is
required. As used herein, the term "gain rate" refers to the rate of change of
steered wheel position for a given amount of steering input. Those skilled in the
art are well aware that a relatively high gain rate steering system would be
undesirable when roading the vehicle, because it could result in oversteering,
possibly causing loss of control of the vehicle. Conversely, a relatively low gain
rate steering system is undesirable when the vehicle is in the working mode,
because
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A controller (11) operable to control the flow of fluid from a source (P) of
pressurized fluid to a fluid pressure operated device (C); said controller

being of the type including housing means (13) defining an inlet port (23)

for connection to the source, a return port (25) for connection to a
reservoir (R), and first (27) and second (29) control fluid ports for

connection to the fluid pressure operated device (C); valve means
disposed in said housing means, and comprising a primary, rotatable

valve member (35), and a cooperating, relatively rotatable follow-up valve
member (37), said primary and follow-up valve members defining a

neutral rotary position (FIG. 6), and a rotary operating position (FIG. 7) in
which said primary valve member is rotatably displaced from said neutral

rotary position, relative to said follow-up valve member; said housing
means (13) and said valve members (35,37) cooperating to define a main

fluid path (MFP) providing fluid communication between said inlet port
(23) and said first control fluid port (27) and between said second control

fluid port (29) and said return port (25) when said valve members are in
said rotary operating position; said primary and follow-up valve members

defining a neutral axial position (FIG. 6) and, an axial operating position
(FIG. 7) in which said follow-up valve member is axially displaced from

said neutral axial position, relative to said primary valve member; said
housing means and said valve members cooperating to define an auxiliary

fluid path (AFP) providing fluid communication between said inlet port
and one of said first and second control fluid ports and between the other

of said control fluid ports and said return port when said valve members
are in said axial operating position; characterized by:

means (65, 79) for direct mechanical axial actuation of said follow-up valve
member (37), said direct mechanical axial actuation means comprising:


(a) actuator means (65) operably associated with said housing means
(13) and operable to generate a predetermined mechanical output

(71) in response to a predetermined electrical input signal (CS); 
(b) means (79) operable to convert said mechanical output (71) of said
actuator (65) into axial motion of said follow-up valve member (37)

between said neutral axial position (FIG. 6) and said axial operating
position (FIG. 7).
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 1, characterized by fluid actuated
means (17) for imparting rotary follow-up movement to said follow-up

valve member (37), proportional to the volume of fluid flow through said
main fluid path, when said valve members (35,37) are in said rotary

operating position (FIG. 7).
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 2, characterized by said main fluid
path flowing through said fluid actuated means (17), and said auxiliary

fluid path excluding said fluid actuated means.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 1, characterized by said primary
valve member (35) defining first (99L) and second (99R) fluid passages,

and said follow-up valve member (37) defining a first fluid port (103) in
continuous fluid communication with said inlet port (23), and a second

fluid port (107R) in continuous fluid communication with said first control
fluid port (27); said first and second fluid ports being blocked from fluid

communication with said first and second fluid passages, respectively,
when said valve members are in said neutral rotary position (FIG. 6); and

said first and second fluid ports being in fluid communication with said
first and second fluid passages, respectively, to define first (A1r) and

second (A4r) variable flow control orifices, respectively, when said valve
members are in said rotary operating position (FIG. 7), said main fluid

path including said first and second variable flow control orifices.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 4, characterized by said primary
valve member (35) defining first (115L) and second (119R) axial fluid 

passages, and said follow-up valve member (37) defining a first axial fluid
port (123) in continuous fluid communication with said inlet port (23),

and a second axial fluid port (125R) in continuous fluid communication
with said one of said first (27) and second (29) control fluid ports; said

first and second axial fluid ports being blocked from fluid communication
with said first and second axial fluid passages, respectively, when said

valve members are in said neutral axial position (FIG. 6), and said first
and second axial fluid ports being in fluid communication with said first

and second axial fluid passages, respectively, to define first (A1a) and
second (A4a) variable axial flow control orifices, when said valve

members are in said axial operating position (FIG. 7), said auxiliary fluid
path including said first and second variable axial flow control orifices.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 5, characterized by said second axial
fluid port (125R) being in continuous fluid communication with said first

(27) control fluid port when said valve members are in said axial
operating position (FIG. 7), whereby the fluid flow to the fluid pressure

operated device (C) comprises the sum of said main and auxiliary fluid
paths, when said valve members are in both said rotary and said axial

operating positions, simultaneously.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 5, characterized by said second axial
fluid port (125R) being in continuous fluid communication with said

second (29) control fluid port when said valve members are in said axial
operating position, whereby the fluid flow to the fluid pressure operated

device (C) comprises the difference between the flows in said main and
auxiliary fluid paths, when said valve members are in both said rotary and

said axial operating positions, simultaneously. 
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 5, characterized by said rotary
operating position (FIG. 7) comprises relative rotation of said valve

members (35,37) of at least about 20 degrees.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 7, characterized by said first (115L)
and second (119R) axial fluid passages and said first (123) and second

(125R) axial fluid ports are configured such that movement of said valve
members to said axial operation position (FIG. 7) is operable to define

said first (A1a) and second (A4a) variable axial flow control orifices for
any relative rotary position of said valve members (35,37).
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 1, characterized by said actuator
means comprises an electromagnetic actuator (65) having a centered

position, corresponding to said neutral axial position (FIG. 6) of said
follow-up valve member (37) relative to said primary valve member (35).
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 10, characterized by said
electromagnetic actuator (65) being operable to generate said

predetermined mechanical output (71), in response to said predetermined
electrical input signal (CS), in either of two opposite directions from said

centered position.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 10, characterized by means (91,93)
operable to bias said follow-up valve member (37) toward said neutral

axial position (FIG. 6) in the absence of said electrical input signal (CS),
said biasing means including at least one spring member (91 or 93). 
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 12, characterized by said means
operable to convert said mechanical output (71) into axial motion of said

follow-up valve member (37) comprises a crank member (73) defining an
axis of rotation (A) and being rotatable about said axis of rotation during

said conversion, from a centered position, corresponding to said centered
position of said electromagnetic actuator (65) and said neutral axia
l
position (FIG. 6) of said follow-up valve member (37).
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 13, characterized by said one spring
member comprises a torsional spring member (91) disposed in a

surrounding relationship to said axis of rotation (A) and having one end
(91a) fixed relative to said housing means, and another end (91b) fixed to

rotate with said crank member (73), whereby axial movement of said
follow-up valve member (37) from said neutral axial position, and rotation

of said crank member (73) from said centered position is in opposition to
said torsional spring member (91).
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 1, characterized by said primary (35)
and follow-up (37) valve members, at any given rotary operating position

(FIG. 7), are both rotating relative to said housing means (13); and said
means (79) operable to convert said mechanical output (71) of said

actuator (65) into axial motion of said follow-up valve member is operable
to move said follow-up valve member axially between said neutral axial

position (FIG. 6) and said axial operating position (FIG. 7) while said valve
members are rotating relative to said housing means.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 1, characterized by said actuator
means comprising an electromagnetic actuator (65) including an output

member (71) having linear movement comprising said mechanical output,
said linear movement of said output member being substantially

proportional to changes in said electrical input signal (CS). 
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 16, characterized by said means
operable to convert said mechanical output into axial motion of said

follow-up valve member (37) comprises a crank assembly (73) defining an
axis of rotation (A), said crank assembly being operably associated with

said output member (71) to rotate about its axis of rotation in response to
said linear movement of said output member.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 17, characterized by said follow-up
valve member (37) defining an annular groove (89) on the outer surface

thereof, and said crank assembly including a drive member (87) offset
from said axis of rotation (A) of said crank assembly; said drive member

being received within said annular groove and being disposed to move
said follow-up valve member axially in response to rotation of said crank

assembly about said axis of rotation.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 1, characterized by control means
(EC) operable to receive control system inputs (S,J,M,PS,G,P) and

generate, in response thereto, an appropriate predetermined electrical
input signal (CS) for said electromagnetic actuator (65).
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 19, characterized by sensor means
(95) operably associated with one of said electromagnetic actuator (65),

said means (79) to convert, and said follow-up valve member (37), and
operable to sense a position thereof corresponding to the axial position of

said follow-up valve member, said sensor means (95) further being
operable to generate a position feedback signal, representative of said

axial position of said follow-up valve member; said position feedback
signal comprising one of said control system inputs. 
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 20, characterized by said
electromagnetic actuator (65) including an output member (71) having

linear movement comprising said mechanical output; said sensor means
(95) being operably associated with said output member to sense said

linear movement and generate said position feedback signal
corresponding thereto. 
A controller (11) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized by:

(a) said actuator means comprising an electromagnetic actuator (65);
(b) sensing means (S, PS, G, P) operable to sense the existence of a predetermined
condition and generate an interrupt signal in response to said predetermined

condition; and
(c) interrupt means operable, in response to said interrupt signal, to interrupt said
predetermined electrical input signal (CS).
A controller (11) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized by the
flow capacity of said main fluid path (MFP), when said valve members (35, 37) are in

said rotary operating position, is relatively smaller, and the flow capacity of said
auxiliary fluid path (AFP), when said valve members (35, 37) are in said axial operating

position, is relatively larger.
A controller (11) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized by said
primary valve member (35) being adapted to be rotatably displaced from said neutral

rotary position, relative to said follow-up valve member (37), in response to movement
of a first input means (W); and said follow-up valve member (37) being adapted to be

axially displaced from said neutral axial position, relative to said primary valve member
(35), in response to movement of a second input means (J).
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 22 and 24, characterized by said predetermined
condition comprises movement of said first input means (W) at a rate in excess of a

predetermined minimum rate.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 22, characterized by said source (P) of pressurized
fluid includes pressure sensing means (P) operable to sense fluid pressure flowing from 

the source, said predetermined condition comprises the sensing of a fluid pressure below
a predetermined minimum pressure.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 22, characterized by said controller being adapted
for use on a vehicle to be operated by a vehicle operator, said controller having

associated thereto sensing means (S) operable to sense the presence and absence of the
vehicle operator; said predetermined condition comprises the absence of the vehicle

operator.
A controller (11) as claimed in claim 22, characterized by said controller being adapted
for use on a vehicle having a prime mover and a transmission, means (G) operable to

select a transmission gear ratio, and means operable to sense said selected transmission
gear ratio, said predetermined condition comprises selection of a gear ratio above a

predetermined maximum ratio.
A controller (11) as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized by said
primary (35) and follow-up (37) valve members being configured such that:


(i) for any given rotary operating position, said valve members define a known
main fluid path (MPF), independent of the relative axial position of said valve

members; and
(ii) for any given axial operating position, said valve members define a known
auxiliary fluid path (APF), independent of the relative rotary position of said

valve members.
A controller (11) as claimed in claims 22 and 24, characterized by means (PS) operable
to sense said movement of said first input means (W), and generate an interrupt signal,

operable to interrupt said predetermined electrical input signal (CS) to said second input
means (J), in response to movement of said first input means (W), in excess of a

predetermined minimum level of movement.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
