<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610311</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAGNETICALLY PERMEABLE ELECTROSTATIC SHIELD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K19073	G06K19073	H05F100	H05F102	H05F300	H05F300	H05K900	H05K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	H05F	H05F	H05F	H05F	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K19	G06K19	H05F1	H05F1	H05F3	H05F3	H05K9	H05K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A permeable electrostatic shielding method and apparatus is disclosed that is suitable for use in shielding portable electronic devices such as calculators, smart cards and radios. Such electronic devices require protection from the electrostatic discharge occurring when a user accumulates an electrostatic charge and contacts a conducting surface of the electronic device. The resulting electrostatic discharge creates capacitively-coupled voltage transients in the digital circuits within the electronic device. The present invention prevents local charge accumulation on the surfaces of such electronic devices, which transmit and receive electromagnetic radio waves, without blocking the electromagnetic radiation essential to device function. One embodiment of this permeable electrostatic shield is formed by depositing a conductive layer of controlled thickness comprising a plurality of closely-spaced conductors that are electrically connected at one end to form a practical electrostatic shield permeable to RF electromagnetic radiation above 15 MHz.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CUBIC AUTOMATIC REVENUE COLLEC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CUBIC AUTOMATIC REVENUE COLLECTION GROUP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROES JOHN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROES, JOHN, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MAGNETICALLY PERMEABLE ELECTROSTATIC SHIELDBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention My invention involves generally methods for radio frequency (RF) , electromagnetic interference (EMI) and electrostatic shielding and, - more specifically, involves methods for blocking electrostatic fields without blocking RF magnetic fields. 2. Description of the Related ArtElectrostatic discharge is defined in the U.S. Military Handbook DOD-HKBK-263 as a "transfer of electrostatic charges between bodies at different potentials caused by direct contact or induced by an electrostatic field." This transfer of electrostatic charge causes destruction to electronic components, which are increasingly susceptible to such destruction. Electrostatic discharge (ESD) is the primary source of damage to and failures of semiconductor devices today. Most ESD related efforts have been by practitioners in' the microcircuit manufacturing arts and involve the prevention of electrostatic charge accumulation by a variety of means. Relatively little effort goes into hardening the modern electronic microcircuit device against the effects of ESD. Considerable confusion and misunderstanding of electrostatic electricity exist in the microcircuit manufacturing industry because of this prevailing emphasis on electrostatic control products. Most electrostatic control products operate to reduce or eliminate the accumulation of electrostatic charges through grounding or ionization. Personnel-generated electrostatic charge is commonly controlled with a wrist strap that works as intended but does not completely control the problem because it protects only at the workstation and does not remove accumulated electrostatic charge from clothing. 

 Personnel approaching a workstation can carry potentially damaging electrostatic charges until a wrist strap is attached.The accumulation of static electricity occurs freely in nature. In factories with nonconductive floors and no means of humidity control, a worker merely walking across the floor can accumulate an electrostatic charge because of the triboelectric effect known in the art. With humidity under 20%, the.*triboelectric effect causes electrostatic charge accumulation merely from the repeated making and breaking of contact between a worker's shoes and the floor.As a worker approaches a static-sensitive device at a workstation, the worker's accumulated electrostatic field reaches the device ahead of the worker and induces a current sufficient to damage or destroy. As the worker arrives at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A magnetically permeable, electrostatically shielded container comprising: at least one non-conductive supporting surface having a conductive shielding layer, said layer consisting essentially of at least one plurality of parallel conductive strips, each said strip having a first and a second end, with said first ends conductively joined to a conductive termination.
2. The shielded container described in Claim 1 wherein said supporting surface is flexible.
3. The shielded container described in Claim 2 wherein said supporting surface comprises at least one material selected from a group consisting essentially of aromatic polyamide, polyester, and polyethylene.
4. The shielded container described in Claim .2 wherein said shielding layer comprises at least one material selected from a group consisting essentially of copper, silver, zinc, aluminum and gold.
5. The shielded container described in Claim 2 wherein said supporting surface is a single flexible surface that is folded
*
over upon itself and joined at the edges to form a pouch-like container.
6. The shielded container described in Claim 1 wherein said conductive termination is conductively connected to a local ground potential. 


 7. The shielded container described in Claim 1 wherein the spacing between said parallel conductive strips is uniform.
8. A magnetically permeable, electrostatically shielded container comprising a plurality of non-conductive supporting walls, each said wall having a conductive shielding layer consisting essentially of at least one plurality of parallel conductive strips, each said strip having a first and a second end, with said first end conductively joined to a conductive termination.
9. The shielded container described in Claim 8 wherein each said conductive termination is conductively connected to a local ground potential.
10. The shielded container described in Claim 8 wherein the spacing between said parallel conductive strips is uniform.
11. A method for making an electromagnetically permeable surface impervious to electrostatic fields comprising the step of: applying to said surface a conductive shielding layer in a pattern consisting essentially of at least one plurality of parallel conductive strips, each said strip having a first and a second end, with first said ends conductively joined to a conductive termination.
12. The method described in Claim 11 wherein said applying step comprises the step of printing said pattern onto said surface in conductive ink to form said conductive layer. 


 13. The method described in Claim 11 wherein said applying step comprises the step of sputter-deposition of a metal onto said surface in said pattern to form said conductive layer.
14. An electrostatically shielded container, permeable to electromagnetic radiation at a frequency, comprising: at least orie non-conductive supporting surface having a conductive shielding layer, said shielding layer consisting essentially of a continuous surface of conductive material having a thickness of less than 20% of the electromagnetic field skin penetration depth at said frequency for said conductive material.
15. The shielded container described in Claim 14 wherein said supporting surface is flexible.
16. The shielded container described in Claim 15 wherein said supporting surface comprises at least one material selected from, a group consisting essentially of aromatic polyamide, polyester, and polyethylene.
17. The shielded container described in Claim 14 wherein said conductive material comprises at least one material selected from a group consisting essentially of copper, silver, zinc, aluminum and gold. 


 18. A method for making a surface impervious to electrostatic fields and permeable to electromagnetic radiation at a frequency, comprising the steps of: applying to said surface a conductive shielding layer consisting essentially of a continuous surface of conductive material having a thickness of less than 20% of the electromagnetic field skin penetration depth at said frequency for said conductive material.
19. The method described in Claim 18 wherein said applying step comprises the step of sputter-deposition of a metal onto said surface to form said conductive shielding layer. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
