<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633840</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPRESSIBLE PLY FOR PRINTING BLANKETS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C3502	B41F1308	B32B2510	B29C3502	B41N1000	B41N1002	B29C7102	B41N1004	B29C7102	B30B1506	B29C7000	B32B2500	B29C7002	B30B1506	B32B2502	B41F1308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B41F	B32B	B29C	B41N	B41N	B29C	B41N	B29C	B30B	B29C	B32B	B29C	B30B	B32B	B41F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C35	B41F13	B32B25	B29C35	B41N10	B41N10	B29C71	B41N10	B29C71	B30B15	B29C70	B32B25	B29C70	B30B15	B32B25	B41F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laminated printing blanket (5) having compressible and resilient properties and a method for its production are provided. The compressible characteristics are provided by disposing an intermediate layer (10) having substantially uniformly distributed voids (30) of substantially uniform size between the base ply (25) and the working surface (15) of the printing blanket. The voids (30) of the compressible intermediate layer (10) are formed by introducing high melting point microspheres formed from thermoplastic resins into an elastomeric matrix (35), coating said microsphere containing elastomeric matrix (35) upon an upper surface of the base ply (25) and then vulcanizing the coated base ply at a temperature of between about 80-150  DEG C for between about one and six hours to form the compressible layer having substantially uniform compression characteristics. Once all of the layers of the blanket are stacked, a final vulcanization treatment completes the curing of all the layers to produce a laminated printing blanket.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REEVES BROS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REEVES BROTHERS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASTELLI FRANCESCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INVERNIZZI GIANPIERO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASTELLI, FRANCESCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INVERNIZZI, GIANPIERO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to compressible
printing blankets, and in particular relates to a
compressible ply containing high melting thermoplastic
microspheres for use in forming much blankets.The use of blankets in printing techniques such
as, for example, offset lithography, is well known, wherein
such blankets have a primary function of transferring ink
from a printing plate to paper. Such printing blankets are
very carefully designed so that the surface of the blanket
is not damaged, either by mechanical contact of the blanket
with the press or by chemical reaction with the ink
ingredients or other solvents used in the printing process.
Repeated mechanical contacts do cause a certain amount of
compression of the blanket, however, which must be
maintained within acceptable limits so that the image is
properly reproduced. It is also important that the blanket
have resiliency, i.e., that it be capable of eventually
returning to its original thickness, and that it provide
image transfer of a constant quality regardless of the
amount of use to which the blanket is put.Printing blankets typically comprise, on their
lower surface, a substrate or base material which provides
integrity to the blanket. Woven fabrics are preferred for
forming this base. The base may consist of one or more
layers or plys of fabric (the terms "layer" and "ply" are
used interchangeably herein). The printing, or "working"
surface at the top of the blanket, i.e., the surface that
actually contacts the ink, is usually a layer of an 
elastomeric material such as rubber. As used herein, the
terms "upper" or "top" relate to that portion of an
individual ply, or of the blanket itself, furtherest
removed from the cylinder of the printing press when the
blanket is installed thereon. Alternately, "lower" or
"bottom" is used to refer to those portions of either an
individual ply or the blanket which would be most closely
adjacent the cylinder upon installation of the blanket.The printing surface is conventionally made by
calendering or spreading rubber in layers upon the base ply
until a desired thickness of the material has been
deposited, after which the assembly is cured, i.e.,
vulcanized, to provide the finished blanket. Such blankets
are acceptable for many applications, but they often lack
the necessary compressibility and resiliency needed for
other applications. It is desirable, therefore, to produce
more highly compressible blankets with improved resiliency.It is difficult, however, to obtain such improved
compressibility
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for forming a compressible layer for use in a printing
blanket which comprises:


dispersing a plurality of thermoplastic microspheres substantially
uniformly throughout an elastomeric matrix;
applying at least one coating of said microsphere containing matrix
at a substantially uniform thickness to a surface of a base fabric ply to form

a coated base fabric ply; and
vulcanizing said coated base fabric ply, characterized in that said
thermoplastic microspheres have a melting temperature of 135°C or above

and said coated base fabric ply is vulcanized at a temperature of 80-150°C
for a time of between about 1 and 6 hours to substantially fix the position

of said thermoplastic microspheres within said matrix and form a
compressible layer such that said microspheres provide substantially

uniform compression characteristics to said layer.
A process as claimed in claim 1, which further comprises bonding a
reinforcing fabric ply to substantially an entire surface of said microsphere

containing matrix to form an intermediate compressible layer assembly.
A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, which further comprises
dispersing said thermoplastic microspheres within said matrix at a loading

of 1-90% by weight of said matrix.
A process as claimed in claim 3, wherein said thermoplastic
microspheres are dispersed within said matrix at a loading of 2-70% by

weight of said matrix.
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, which
further comprises selecting said thermoplastic microspheres to have a 

diameter of 1-200µm.
A process as claimed in claim 5, wherein said thermoplastic
microspheres have a diameter of 50-130 µm.
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
vulcanizing step includes at least one preheating or conditioning stage

which is conducted at a temperature lower than 80°C.
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein
said microsphere containing matrix is applied by spread coating upon said

base fabric ply to obtain a coating thereupon having a thickness of between
0.102 and 0.762mm (0.004 and 0.030 inches).
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, which
further comprises providing said microspheres with a surface coating to

facilitate bonding with said matrix.
A process as claimed in claim 9, wherein the coating is formed from
a material selected from the group consisting of talc, calcium carbonate,

zinc oxide, titanium dioxide, mica, calcium sulfate, barium sulfate,
antimony oxide, clay, silica, aluminum trihydrate and mixtures thereof.
A process as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein said
thermoplastic microspheres are formed from a thermoplastic resin selected

from the group consisting of vinylidene halide homopolymers and
copolymers, fluoroplastics, polyaryletherketones, nitrile resins, polyamideimides,

polyarylates, polybenzimidazoles, polycarbonates, thermoplastic
polyesters, polyetherimides, polyamides, polymethylpentene, modified

polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, polypropylene, chlorinated
polyvinyl chloride, and mixtures thereof. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1-11, wherein said
thermoplastic microspheres are formed from a material selected from the

group consisting of copolymers of acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile and
methyl methacrylate.
A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, which
comprises vulcanizing said coated base fabric ply at a temperature of

between 125-135°C for between 3½ to 4½ hours.
A process as claimed in claim 13, which further comprises
vulcanizing said coated base fabric ply in a series of consecutive stages, as

follows:

a) heating said coated base fabric ply for about 15 minutes at a
temperature from room temperature to 93°C;
b) heating said coated base fabric ply about 15 additional
minutes at a temperature of 93-127°C;
c) heating said coated base fabric ply about 15 additional
minutes at a temperature of 127-135°C; and
d) further heating said coated base fabric ply for about 3¼ hours
at a temperature of about 135°C.
A process for forming a compressible printing blanket, comprising
forming a compressible layer by a process as claimed in any of claims 2-14


applying an elastomeric working surface to an upper surface of said
reinforcing fabric ply to form a blanket assembly; and
curing said blanket assembly at a temperature and for a time
sufficient to bond said reinforced compressible printing blanket assembly

to said additional base fabric ply and said working surface to thereby form
a laminated printing blanket.
A process as claimed in claim 15, which further comprises bonding a
second base fabric ply to a surface of said first base ply. 
A process as claimed in claim 15 or 16, which further comprises
interposing an additional reinforcing fabric ply between said compressible

layer assembly and said working surface to protect the compressible layer
from stresses occurring at said printing surface.
A process as claimed in any one of claims15, 16 or 17, which further
comprises applying an adhesive layer between each pair of adjacent plys of

said blanket prior to curing said blanket assembly to form a bond between
said adjacent plys.
A process as claimed in any one of claims 15-18, which further
comprises curing said blanket assembly at a temperature of between 132-160°C

for between thirty minutes and sixteen hours at a pressure ranging
between 10
5
 Pa to 6 x 10
5
 Pa (atmospheric to 6 kg/cm
2
) to form said
laminated printing blanket.
A process as claimed in claim 19, which comprises curing said
blanket assembly at a temperature of between 143-149°C.
A process as claimed in claim 19 or 20, which further comprises
disposing a paper film having a relatively fine finish in contact with said

working surface prior to curing said blanket assembly to provide a smooth
finish to said working surface upon lamination of said blanket.
A process as claimed in claim 21, which further comprises buffing
the working surface of said laminated printing blanket to impart thereto a

desired surface profile.
A process for forming a printing blanket, comprising incorporating
a compressible layer formed by a process as claimed in claim 1 into a

printing blanket by laminating said compressible layer to an elastomeric 
printing face at a temperature of between 132-160°C for between thirty

minutes and 16 hours.
A compressible layer obtainable by a process as claimed in any one
of claims 1-14.
A compressible layer comprising an elastomeric matrix having a
substantially uniform thickness and having a cellular structure throughout

including a plurality of closed cells forming voids, said voids being
substantially evenly distributed throughout said compressible layer, said

voids being formed from a plurality of thermoplastic microspheres
characterized in that thermoplastic microspheres having a melting

temperature of 135°C or above are used to form the voids.
A compressible layer as claimed in claim 25, wherein said
thermoplastic microspheres are formed from a material selected from the

group consisting of copolymers of acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile and
methyl methacrylate.
A compressible layer as claimed in claims 25 or 26, wherein said
high melting thermoplastic microspheres have a diameter of between 1-200µm.
A compressible layer as claimed in any one of claims 25, 26 or 27,
wherein said microspheres are formed from a thermoplastic resin selected

from the group consisting of vinylidene halide homopolymers and
copolymers, fluoroplastics, polyaryletherketones, nitrile resins, polyamideimides,

polyarylates, polybenzimidazoles, polycarbonates, thermoplastic
polyesters, polyetherimides, polyamides, polymethylpentene, modified

polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, polypropylene, chlorinated
polyvinyl chloride, and mixtures thereof. 
A compressible layer as claimed in any one of claims 25-28, wherein
said microspheres further comprise a surface coating to facilitate bonding

with said matrix
A compressible layer as claimed in claim 29, wherein the coating is
formed from a material selected from the group consisting of talc, calcium

carbonate, zinc oxide, titanium dioxide, mica, calcium sulfate, barium
sulfate, antimony oxide, clay, silica, aluminum trihydrate and mixtures

thereof.
A compressible printing blanket comprising:

a base fabric ply;
an elastomeric printing face forming an outer working surface of
said blanket; and
the compressible layer of claim 25 located between said base fabric
ply and said elastomeric printing face,
wherein said base fabric ply, said compressible layer and said
elastomeric printing face are laminated together to form said blanket.
A compressible printing blanket as claimed in claim 31, wherein said
blanket further comprises at least a second base fabric ply in face relation

with and below said first base fabric ply.
A compressible printing blanket as claimed in claim 32, wherein said
blanket further comprises a reinforcing fabric ply located between said

compressible layer and said working surface.
A compressible printing blanket as claimed in claim 33, comprising
at least two of said reinforcing fabric plys arranged in face relation between

said elastomeric layer and said printing face.
A compressible printing blanket obtainable by a process as claimed 
in any one of claims 15-23.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
