<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610330</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES DIRECTED AGAINST THE MICROTUBULE-ASSOCIATED PROTEIN TAU
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12P2108	C12N520	C07K200	C12N520	G01N33577	G01N33577	C12P2108	C12N1506	C07K200	C12N1506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12P	C12N	C07K	C12N	G01N	G01N	C12P	C12N	C07K	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12P21	C12N5	C07K2	C12N5	G01N33	G01N33	C12P21	C12N15	C07K2	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A monoclonal antibody which forms an immunological complex with a phosphorylated epitope of an antigen belonging to human abnormally phosphorylated tau proteine. The tau protein can be obtained from a brain homogenate, itself isolated from the cerebral cortex of a patient having Alzheimer's disease.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOGENETICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. INNOGENETICS S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANDELKOW EVA-MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERCKEN MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DE VOORDE ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDERMEEREN MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANMECHELEN EUGEEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANDELKOW, EVA-MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERCKEN, MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DE VOORDE, ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDERMEEREN, MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANMECHELEN, EUGEEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to new monoclonal antibodies 
directed against a particular epitope present on the 
human microtubule-associated protein tau, to the 
hybridoma secreting these monoclonal antibodies, to the 
process for diagnosing brain diseases involving the 
particular epitope of the tau protein, and to the 
monoclonal antibodies recognizing said epitope. Tau is a microtubule-associated protein which is 
synthesized in the neurons (Kosik, K.S. et al., 1989) 
of several species, including humans and which is 
abundantly present in the axonal compartment of these 
neurons (Binder, L.I. et al., 1985). Functionally the 
tau protein is involved in the polymerization of 
tubulin (Weingarten, M.D. et al., 1975) and presumably 
in reducing microtubule instability (Bre, M. H. and 
Karsenti, E. 1990). Tau protein is also the major constituent of 
paired helical filaments (PHF), characteristic 
structures found as neurofibrillary tangles in tissue 
sections of the brain of Alzheimer patients (Greenberg, 
S. and Davies, P., 1990; Lee, V.M.-Y. et al., 1991). 
The protein exists as a family of different isoforms of 
which 4 to 6 isoforms are found in normal adult brain 
but only 1 isoform is detected in fetal brain (Goedert, 
M. et al., 1989). The diversity of the isoforms is 
generated from a single gene by alternative mRNA 
splicing (Himmler, A., 1989). The most striking feature 
of tau protein as predicted from molecular cloning is a 
stretch of 31 or 32 amino acids occurring in the 
carboxy-terminal part of the molecule that is repeated 
3 or 4 times. Additional diversity is generated through  
 
29 or 58 amino acid long insertions in the NH2-terminal 
part of the molecules (Goedert, M. et al., 1989). Tau variants of 64 and 69 kDa, which are 
abnormally phosphorylated as revealed by the decrease 
in their molecular mass observed after alkaline 
phosphatase treatment, have been detected exclusively 
in brain areas showing neurofibrillary tangles and 
senile plaques (Flament, S. et al., 1989 and 1990). The 
sites of phosphorylation by 4 different kinases have 
been mapped in the C-terminal microtubule-binding half 
of tau and it could be shown that the action of a 
calcium calmodulin-dependent kinase on bacterially 
expressed tau resulted in a phosphorylation of Ser(405) 
which induced a lower electrophoretical mobility 
(Steiner, B. et al., 1990). Several antibodies are reported that show 
reactivity to human tau either because they are 
directed to nonspecific phosphorylated epitopes present 
on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Monoclonal antibody which forms an immunological 
complex with a phosphorylated epitope specific for an antigen 

belonging to human abnormally phosphorylated tau 
protein, with said tau protein being liable to be 

obtained from a brain homogenate, itself isolated from 
the cerebral cortex obtained from a patient having 

Alzheimer's disease or having died of Alzheimer's 
disease.  

 
Monoclonal antibody according to claim 1 
characterized by the fact that it forms an 

immunological complex 

either with the peptide 

 
or 


 
preferably 


 
phosphorylated at the positions 

marked with * 
or with any other peptide capable of forming an 
immunological complex with a monoclonal antibody, which 

itself is liable to form a complex with said peptide 

 
or 


Monoclonal antibody according to any one of claims 
1 and 2, 


which is not liable to form an immunological complex 
with normal tau protein, 
which is not liable to form an immunological complex 
with tau protein present in brain homogenates derived 

from human brain, the homogenates being isolated from a 
patient having died of non-neurological disorders, 
which is not liable to form an immunological complex 
with the above-defined epitope previously treated with 

a dephosphorylating agent, such as alkaline phophatase, 
which is not liable to form an immunological complex 
with any variant peptide defined above and previously 

treated with a dephosphorylating agent, such as 
alkaline phosphatase. 
Monoclonal antibodies according to any one of 
claims 1 to 3, which are .  

 

characterized by the fact that they form an 
immunological complex with the abnormally 

phosphorylated forms of tau protein, present in 
homogenates of human brain obtained from a patient 

having died of Alzheimer's disease and 
characterized by the fact that these abnormally 
phosphorylated tau proteins present an apparent 

molecular weight which is higher than that of normal 
tau proteins, with said normal tau proteins being 

derived from brain homogenate, itself isolated from a 
patient having died of non-neurological disorders and 
characterized by the fact that, in these abnormally 
phosphorylated tau proteins, the apparent molecular 

weight can be decreased to that of normal tau proteins 
upon treatment of said abnormally phosphorylated tau 

proteins with a dephosphorylating agent. 
Monoclonal antibody secreted by the hybridoma 
deposited at ECACC on October 08, 1991 under No. 

91100806. 
Hybridoma, which secretes a monoclonal antibody 
according to any one of claims 1 to 5. 
Peptides which can be obtained from a brain 
homogenate, itself isolated from the cerebral cortex 

obtained from a patient having Alzheimer's disease and 
which forms an immunological complex with the 

monoclonal antibody according to anyone of claims 1 to 
5. 
Peptides liable to form an immunological complex 
with any of the monoclonal antibodies according to 

claims 1 to 5, 

which contain or are constituted by the sequence 

 
or 


 
preferably 


 
phosphorylated at the positions marked with *, or 
which contain or are constituted by the sequence of 
the peptides liable to form an immunological complex 

with a monoclonal antibody according to any one of  
 

claims 1 to 5, which itself is liable to form a complex 
with the peptide 


 
or 


Peptides of about 100 amino acids 

which contain the sequence 

 
or 


 
preferably 


 
phosphorylated at the 

positions marked with *, or 
whidh contain the sequence of the peptides liable to 
form an immunological complex with a monoclonal 

antibody according to anyone of claims 1 to 5, which 
itself is liable to form a complex with the peptide 


 
or 


Peptides according to any one of claims 7 to 9, 
which are liable to generate a monoclonal antibody 

according to any one of claims 1 to 5. 
Peptides which are contained in the brain, in the 
cerebrospinal fluid, or the serum of a patient having 

Alzheimer's disease or any brain disease involving PHF 
or tau protein and which form an immunological complex 

with a monoclonal antibody according to any one of 
claims 1 to 5. 
Peptides (antigens) 

which contain the sequence 

 
or 


 
preferably 


 
   in which X
1
, X
2
, X
3
, X
4
, X
5
 are any one of the 20 
amino acids and p, q, r, s are 0 or 1, 

phosphorylated at places marked by *, 
 
provided that said peptide is able to form an 

immunological complex with a monoclonal antibody 
according to any one of claims 1 to 5. 
Abnormally phosphorylated tau protein 
characterized such as obtained from normal tau protein 

which is subjected to phosphorylation by any kinase 
which is capable of phosphorylation of normal tau protein at  

 
the positions marked with * in the normal tau amino 

acid sequence 

 
or 


Process for obtaining and isolating a hybridoma 
secreting a monoclonal antibody according to any one of 

claims 1 to 5, characterized in that it involves: 

starting from the spleen cells of an animal, e.g. 
mouse or rat, previously immunized 
in
vivo
 or from 
spleen cells of such animals previously immunized 
in 
vitro
 with an antigen recognized by the monoclonal 
antibody deposited at ECACC on October 8, 1991 under 

N° 91100806 
fusing said immunized cells with myeloma cells under 
hybridoma-forming conditions; and 
selecting those of the hybridomas which secrete the 
monoclonal antibodies which specifically recognize an 

epitope of the peptide of any one of claims 7 to 10 and 
which form an immunological complex with said epitope. 
Process for producing monoclonal antibodies 
according to any one of claims 1 to 5 which involves: 


culturing the selected hybridomas according to claim 
6, in an appropriate medium culture; and 
recovering the monoclonal antibodies excreted by said 
selected hybridomas;
 
or alternatively: 
implanting the selected hybridomas of claim 6 into 
the peritoneum of a mouse and, when ascites has been 

produced by the animal, recovering the monoclonal 
antibodies then formed from said ascites. 
Process for the preparation of the peptide 
according to any one of claims 7 to 12, starting from 

said peptide in non-phosphorylated form which involves: 

reacting said peptide, which is non-phosphorylated, 
with a kinase enzyme capable of recognizing the non-phosphorylated 

epitope of the peptide and of modifying 
the epitope to a phosphorylated epitope recognized by 

the monoclonal antibodies according to anyone of claims 
1 to 5. 
Process for the detection or diagnosis 
in
vitro
 of 
brain disease involving PHF and tau protein, e.g. 

Alzheimer's disease, which involves: 

contacting a monoclonal antibody according to any one 
of claims 1 to 5, with a preparation of NET or a 

detergent-extracted brain homogenate isolated from a 
patient having had Alzheimer's disease, under conditions 

suitable for producing an antigen-antibody complex; and 
separating the antigen from said complex and 
recovering the antigen sought in a purified form. 
Process for the detection or diagnosis 
in
vitro
 of 
brain disease involving PHF and tau protein, e.g. 

Alzheimer's disease, which includes: 

bringing a sample of brain homogenate, or of 
cerebrospinal fluid, or of serum from a patient 

suspected of suffering from a neurological disorder 
involving tau protein and PHF, more particularly 

Alzheimer's disease, into contact under 
in
vitro
 
conditions with a monoclonal antibody according to any 

one of claims 1 to 5, under conditions suitable for 
producing an antigen-antibody complex; and 
detecting the immunological binding of said antibody 
to said sample of brain homogenate, or of cerebrospinal 

fluid, or of serum. 
Kit for the diagnosis 
in
vitro
 of one of the 
following diseases: Alzheimer's disease, Down's 

syndrome, Pick's disease, SSPE and other neurological 
disorders in which abnormally phosphorylated tau 

protein or paired helical filaments are implicated, 
characterized in that the kit comprises: 


at least a microplate comprising 
monoclonal antibody according to any one of claims 1 to 

5; 
a preparation containing the sample to be diagnosed 

in
vitro
, possibly together with a labeled peptide 
containing the epitope of the invention and preferably 

with the peptide 

 
or 


 
preferably  

 

 
phosphorylated at the positions marked with *. 
a second antibody 

. which can be a monoclonal antibody recognizing 
an epitope of normal tau, or of abnormally 

phosphorylated tau protein, or of a peptide of any one 
of claims 7 to 12, with said epitope being different 

from the one of the invention, or 
. which can be a polyclonal antibody of normal 
tau protein, or of abnormally phosphorylated tau protein or of a 

peptide of any one of claims 7 to 12, with said 
polyclonal antibody being liable to form an 

immunological complex with epitopes which are all 
different from the epitope of the invention, with said 

polyclonal antibody being preferably purified by 
immunoaffinity chromatography using immobilized tau 

protein, 
a marker either for specific tagging or coupling with 
said second antibody; 
appropriate buffer solutions for carrying out the 
immunological reaction between the monoclonal antibody 

of the invention and a test sample on the one hand, and 
the bound second antibody and the marker on the other 

hand, 
possibly a peptide of any one of claims 7 to 12 for 
standard purposes, or for competition purposes with 

respect to the antigen which is sought. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
