<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NETWORKED AGRICULTURAL MONITORING AND CONTROL SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01B7900	A01B7900	A01C1700	A01C1700	A01G2516	A01G2516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01B	A01B	A01C	A01C	A01G	A01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01B79	A01B79	A01C17	A01C17	A01G25	A01G25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICRO TRAK SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICRO-TRAK SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEINIGER RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOFTE S DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL STEVEN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEINIGER, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOFTE, S. DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL, STEVEN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NETWORKED AGRICULTURAL MONITORINGAND CONTROL SYSTEMField of the InventionThe present invention relates to a system for the monitor and control of farm implements, and more particularly to an integrated network of controllers which permit a modular, distributed, improved control of agricultural implements.Background of the InventionPlanting and spraying systems have increasingly become more sophisticated and better able to handle the variety of applications presented by the agricultural industry. With this sophistication has come the need to further integrate the functions of planting and spraying control to provide a cost effective farm implement control environment. Many farm implements are controlled by the operator of the agricultural vehicle to which the implements are attached or coupled. For example, planting and spraying systems have evolved for controlling and monitoring planting and spraying implements, respectively. These systems, however, have for the most part evolved separately.Automated seed planters in planting systems usually include a plurality of seed feeders which serve as conduits for the seeds moving to the planting devices. Because seed feeders can become obstructed during planting, causing rows of crop land to be misplanted, planting systems use planter monitors to monitor the flow of seeds through the seed feeders and detect jams. The first planter monitors used electromechanical switches to detect the passage of seeds through the seed feeders. Later systems used optical sensors for this purpose. A system for detecting the passage of seeds by monitoring changes in 

 electrical fields caused by the movement through the field of objects with a high dielectric constant (such as seeds) was disclosed in Haase U.S. Patent No. 4,710,757, the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. The Haase system uses sensors connected to a microcontroller to detect the passage of seeds.A variety of spraying systems are commercially- available. Standard spraying systems regulate the amount of product to be applied to a field by diluting the product in a carrier fluid and then controlling system pressure such that the volume of the product/carrier fluid combination sprayed varies with the speed of the application vehicle. As long as the application vehicle maintains a relatively constant speed, these systems do an adequate job of controlling application of the product. However, under conditions of varying vehicle speed (e.g. applications on undulating land) , it is difficult to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An apparatus, capable of being mounted on a vehicle
/
 for managing a plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements associated with the vehicle comprising:
(a) memory means for storing program code and data capable of being used in the operation of one or more of a plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements; (b) user interface means for displaying status and control information associated with one or more of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements and for receiving user modifications of the operation of one or more of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements;
(c) communications network means for receiving and transmitting signals between a processor means and one or more of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements
/
 the signals relating to the operation of one or more of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements; and
(d) processor means electrically interconnected to said memory means, said user interface means, and said communications network means for identifying each agricultural sensor device and implement to be managed, accessing program code and data stored in said memory means associated with each identified agricultural sensor device and implement, receiving status and control information from the user interface means, generating control signals for controlling one or more of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements, supplying the control signals to the communications interface means, and providing status and control information to the user interface means.
2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the memory means comprises nonvolatile memory means for 


 storing calibration data associated with one or more of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements.
3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein the nonvolatile memory means comprises EEPROM.
4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the user interface means comprises a liquid crystal display.
5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said user interface means comprises a first switch means for accessing a plurality of screen displays for display to an user and second switch means for user modification of status and control information associated with one or more of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements.
6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein one of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements comprises a velocity sensor for monitoring the distance traveled by a vehicle associated with the apparatus.
7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 6 wherein the user interface means comprises means for displaying the area covered by the vehicle associated with the apparatus during a selected time period.
8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the signals related to the operation of one or more of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements comprises a signal indicative of whether a selected device or implement is in the operating position. 


 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein the communications network means includes expansion means for interconnecting one or more additional memory means, user interface means, communications interface means, or processor means to said processor means.
10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein one of the plurality of agricultural sensor devices and implements comprises: (a) fluid transfer means capable of connection to a sprayer tank and a spraying boom, for transferring a tank fluid from the sprayer tank to the spraying boom, comprising:
(i) boom solenoid valve means capable of being connected to the spraying boom for controlling the flow of tank fluid to the spraying boom;
(ii) pump means controlled by said boom solenoid valve means for pumping fluid from the sprayer tank from a pump means input to a pump means output; and (iii) pump feedback means connected to said pump means for directing a portion of the tank fluid from the pump means output to the pump means input to control the pressure of the tank fluid;
(b) pressure monitoring means for monitoring the pressure of the tank fluid supplied to the spraying boom and supplying a signal indicative of the pressure of the tank fluid to a fluid control means;
(c) fluid flow monitoring means for monitoring the flow of tank fluid to the spraying boom and supplying a signal indicative of the flow of tank fluid to a fluid control means; and
(d) fluid control means interconnected to said vehicle monitoring means, said pressure monitoring means and said fluid flow monitoring means, comprising : (i) boom solenoid valve control means responsive to control signals received from the processor means and connected to said boom solenoid 


 valve for controlling operation of said boom solenoid valve; and
(ii) pump feedback control means responsive to control signals received from the processor means and connected to said pump feedback means for controlling the amount of tank fluid fed from the pump output means to the pump input means.
11. A vehicle-mounted, modular system for managing spraying and planting operations, comprising: a base console including first display means for displaying status and control information, user input means for receiving control instructions from a user, and monitoring means for monitoring the distance traveled by the vehicle; a subsystem accessory module including implement interface means for receiving status information from and transmitting control information to a farm implement; a subsystem console including second display means for displaying status and control information related to a subsystem and accessory module control means for exchanging status and control information with the accessory module; and networking means for providing a communication path among said base console, said accessory module and said subsystem console.
12. A vehicle-mounted, modular system according to claim 11 wherein the base console further includes means for detecting whether the farm implement is in operating position and means for calculating and displaying the area covered by the operation of the farm implement.
13. An apparatus for transferring fluid from a sprayer tank to a spraying boom mounted on a vehicle comprising: 


 (a) vehicle monitoring means for receiving information indicative of the speed of a vehicle on which a spray boom is mounted and supplying such information to a fluid control means; (b) fluid transfer means capable of connection to a sprayer tank and the spraying boom comprising:
(i) boom solenoid valve means capable of being connected to the spraying boom for controlling the flow of tank fluid to the spraying boom; (ii) pump means controlled by said boom solenoid valve means for pumping fluid from the sprayer tank from a pump means input to a pump means output; and
(iii) pump feedback means connected to said pump means for directing a portion of the tank fluid from the pump means output to the pump means input to control the pressure of the tank fluid;
(c) pressure monitoring means for monitoring the pressure of the tank fluid supplied to the spraying boom and supplying a signal indicative of the pressure of the tank fluid to a fluid control means;
(d) fluid flow monitoring means for monitoring the flow of tank fluid to the spraying boom and supplying a signal indicative of the flow of tank fluid to a fluid control means; and (e) fluid control means interconnected to said vehicle monitoring means, said pressure monitoring means, said fluid flow monitoring means, and a user interface means for controlling the transfer of tank fluid comprising: (i) boom solenoid valve control means responsive to control signals received from a processor control means and connected to said boom solenoid valve for controlling operation of said boom solenoid valve; (ii) pump feedback control means responsive to control signals received from a processor control means and connected to said pump feedback means for controlling the amount of tank fluid fed from the 


 pump output means to the pump input means; and
(iii) processor control means for processing the signals received from the vehicle monitoring means, pressure monitoring means, and fluid flow monitoring means and generating control signals for said boom solenoid valve control means and said pump feedback control means; and
(f) user interface means interconnected to said fluid control means for receiving control information relating to the flow of tank fluid and displaying information indicative of the flow of tank fluid.
14. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said fluid transfer means further comprises surge control means for controlling surges in pressure in the spray unit due to operation of said solenoid valve means.
15. The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said surge control means comprises a boost solenoid valve used to direct a portion of tank fluid to bypass said pump feedback means and wherein said user interface means further comprises boost solenoid valve controlling means connected to said boost solenoid valve for damping surges in response to operation of the boom solenoid valve.
16. The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said boom solenoid valve comprises a three way valve for directing tank fluid to a second output when tank fluid flow to the boom is to be shut off and wherein said surge control means comprises a manifold connected to said second output for directing the tank fluid back to the input of said pump means.
17. The apparatus according to claim 13 further comprising: 
'

 (g) direct injection means comprising:
(i) a container means for holding a second fluid for mixing with the tank fluid; and
(ii) injection pumping means connected to said container means for transferring the second fluid to an injection site at which the second fluid is mixed with the tank fluid;
(h) an injection interface means interconnected to said direct injection means for monitoring and controlling said injection pumping means in response to control signals received from an injection spraying control means; and
(i) an injection spraying control means for monitoring operation of said injection control module and of said pumping means, said injection spraying controller pod being connected to said communicating means in order to transfer data between said injection spraying controller pod and said base console, said accessory module and said controller pod.
18. The apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said direct injection means further comprises: a card reader capable of sensing voids in a film of conductive ink deposited on a card; and a card connected to the container means and screened with a pattern in conductive ink, said pattern being indicative of the second fluid; and wherein said injection control module further includes means for monitoring the pattern printed on the card so as to modify operation of the injection unit.
19. A system for monitoring small discrete particles having a high dielectric constant, such as seeds, that pass along a path, the system comprising: a base console including first display means and means for monitoring the distance traveled by the vehicle; 


 a planter monitor unit, comprising a sensor for detecting passage of a particle along the path; a planter accessory module including planter monitor interface means, connected to said planter monitor sensor, for receiving signals from the planter monitor unit sensor and responsive to the detection of a particle by said sensor; a planter controller pod including second display means and means for monitoring operation of said planter accessory module and of said spray unit; and networking means for communicating between said base console, said planter accessory module and said planter controller pod.
20. A method of identifying containers to be used in a spraying system, comprising: providing a card reader capable of sensing voids in a film of conductive ink deposited on a card; providing a card patterned with conductive ink; attaching the card to a container of material; and linking the pattern of conductive ink on the card to the material in the container such that the material can be identified by placing the card into the card reader.
21. A method as in claim 20 wherein the method comprises the steps of: reading the conductive ink pattern on the card; operating identification signals indicative of the material in the container associated with the card; accessing data stored in a memory means; and matching the stored data with the generated identification signals.
22. A method as in claim 21 wherein the method further comprises the step of providing a control signal 


associated with the material in the container to a spraying system. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
