<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621490</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Testing of electrical circuits.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1122	G06F1122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F11	G06F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention facilitates testing of electrical 
circuitry which includes a circuit receiving a signal 

asynchronous with respect to the circuit clock. The exact 
clock pulse on which the asynchronous signal is asserted 

may be difficult or impossible to predict even when the 
circuitry inputs are known. However, a range of pulses 

can be determined during which the asynchronous signal is 
asserted. The sampling of the asynchronous signal is 

blocked until the end of the range of pulses. If it is 
known that at the end of the range of pulses the 

asynchronous signal should still be asserted provided that 
the circuitry functions properly, the asynchronous signal 

is sampled at the end of the range of pulses. 
Alternatively, if the asynchronous signal can be 

deasserted by the end of the range of pulses, the 
assertion of the asynchronous signal is detected and 

latched by the asynchronous signal pulse detector, and at 
the end of the range of pulses the circuit samples the 

value latched by the pulse detector. Thus, the clock 
pulse at which the asynchronous signal should be sampled 

as asserted is unambiguously determined, and testing is 
therefore facilitated. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROMER STEPHEN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROMER STEPHEN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to electrical circuits, 
and more particularly to testing of electrical circuits. The increased complexity of electrical circuits has 
created new challenges for circuit testing. For example, 
in the integrated circuit area, the increased integration 
density and high speed create unpredictabilities that 
complicate testing of embedded signals as illustrated by 
the following example. Fig. 1 shows an integrated circuit 110 which includes 
processor 114 and peripheral device 118. Device 118 is, 
for example, a serial port that receives data on pin 122. 
Port 118 asserts an interrupt signal INT for processor 114 
when data is received. Signal INT is embedded, i.e., it 
is inaccessible from any integrated circuit pin. Processor 114 is clocked by a clock signal CLK1. 
When clock CLK1 is high, processor 114 samples the signal 
INT and latches the signal in latch 126. When clock CLK1 
is low, processor 114 latches the signal in latch 130 and 
uses the latched signal INTP. Peripheral 118 is clocked by a different clock (not 
shown) asynchronous with respect to clock CLK1. During testing, the integrated circuit is operated so 
that the signal INT is asserted at predetermined periods 
of time. The output signals of the integrated circuit are 
then compared to predetermined values obtained by 
simulation. Because the clocks clocking the peripheral 118 and 
the processor 114 are asynchronous with respect to each  
 
other, and because of operating temperature and process 
variations, the exact moment of time when signal INT will 
be asserted during testing is difficult or impossible to 
predict. At high clock frequencies, signal INT can be 
asserted during any pulse within a range of pulses of 
clock CLK1. If the clock CLK1 pulse during which INT is 
asserted is different from the pulse predicted by 
simulation, the tester results will differ from the 
simulation results, indicating a false failure. A typical solution is to move the edges of the input 
signals of circuit 110 that control the embedded signal 
INT until an operating point is found such that the output 
of the integrated circuit matches the output predicted 
from simulation. This process, however, is often 
difficult and time consuming, especially if the signal INT 
is embedded far into the integrated circuit. Further, due 
to process variations, the operating point varies from one 
integrated circuit to another. Moreover, even for the 
same circuit, the operating point varies with temperature 
and frequency. Finding the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for testing a circuitry including a 
circuit that samples a signal S1 on each pulse of a signal 

S2, said method comprising the steps of: 
   operating said circuitry so that, if said 

circuitry functions properly, said signal S1 assumes 
a predetermined value within a range of pulses of 

said signal S2; 
   blocking said signal S1 from said circuit during 

one or more pulses of said signal S2 starting from 
the beginning of said range of pulses; and then 

   unblocking said signal S1 to allow said circuit 
to sample said signal S1. 
The method of Claim 1 further comprising, after 
unblocking said signal S1, the step of comparing an output 

signal of said circuitry with a predetermined value to 
determine whether said circuitry functions properly. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said signal S1 is 
blocked from said circuit during every pulse of said range 

of pulses except the last pulse of said range of pulses. 
The method of Claim 1 further comprising, if 
said signal S1 assumes said predetermined value while 

being blocked, the step of latching by a latch the 
predetermined value of said signal S1, 

   wherein when said signal S1 is unblocked, said 
circuit samples the value latched by said latch. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said signals S1 
and S2 are asynchronous with respect to each other. 
An integrated circuit comprising: 
   a circuit C1 for receiving and processing a 

 
signal S1, said circuit C1 being clocked by a clock 

CK1; and 
   a circuit C2 for generating said signal S1, said 

circuit C2 being asynchronous with respect to said 
clock CK1, 

   wherein said circuit C1 comprises: 
      means for sampling said signal S1 on each 

pulse of a signal S2 synchronous with said clock 
CK1; and 

      means responsive to said clock CK1 and to a 
signal SA, for generating pulses of said signal 

S2 when said signal SA has a first value and for 
suppressing pulses of said signal S2 when said 

signal SA has a second value. 
The integrated circuit of Claim 6 wherein said 
signal SA is synchronous with said clock CK1. 
The integrated circuit of Claim 6 wherein said 
sampling means comprises a latch for latching a new value 

of said signal S1 when said signal S1 changes during 
suppression of pulses of said signal S2, 

   wherein, on a pulse of said signal S2, said 
sampling means samples the value latched by said 

latch. 
The integrated circuit of Claim 6 wherein said 
signal S1 is inaccessible from any external pin of said 

integrated circuit. 
An integrated circuit comprising: 
   a circuit C1 for processing a signal S1, said 

circuit C1 comprising: 
      a switch for receiving said signal S1, said 

switch when closed allowing said circuit C1 to 
sample said signal S1; and

 
      a logic gate for generating a signal S2 for 

controlling said switch, said logic gate having 
a first input for receiving a clock signal for 

clocking said circuit C1 and a second input for 
receiving a signal SA which opens said gate in 

normal mode and controllably closes said gate in 
test mode; and 

   a circuit C2 for generating said signal S1. 
The integrated circuit of Claim 10 wherein said 
circuit C1 further comprises: 

   a latch L1 for latching said signal S1 and 
passing said signal S1 to said switch; and 

   a circuit C3 for comparing a current value of 
said signal S1 with a previously sampled value of 

said signal S1, said circuit C3 causing said latch L1 
to latch the current value if said current value is 

different from the previously sampled value. 
The integrated circuit of Claim 10 wherein: 
   said circuit C1 comprises a processor; 

   said circuit C2 comprises a peripheral device; 
and 

   said signal S1 is an interrupt signal. 
The integrated circuit of Claim 10 wherein said 
circuit C2 is clocked by a signal asynchronous with 

respect to said clock signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
