<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642321</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REMOVAL OF TISSUE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1722	A61B1722	A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61F9007	A61F9007	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61F9	A61F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This is a surgical instrument designed to reduce damage to surrounding tissue while fragmenting tissue intended to be removed. The instrument includes a fragmenting tip (14C) connected to a hand piece (10C) by an aspirating tube (18C). The tip (14C) is rotated by a rotational motor (40D) and reciprocated ultrasonically by an ultrasonic vibrator (40C) simultaneously so that tissue is fragmented by the combined motion of a fragmenting surface perpendicular to the surface and at an angle to the surface during rotation. The method can be used for example in cataract removal surgery where the lens is fragmented and removed without damaging the capsular wall or during bypass surgery for freeing the artery or vein to be transplanted without damaging the artery or vein walls.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANIS AZIZ YEHIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANIS, AZIZ YEHIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANIS AZIZ YEHIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEEN MARK EVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANIS, AZIZ, YEHIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEEN, MARK, EVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 REMOVAL OF TISSUERELATED CASEThis application is a continuation-in-part o United States application 07/759,937, file September 16, 1991, which is a continuation-in-par of United States application 07/680,292, filed Apri 4, 1991, which is a continuation-in-part of Unite States application 07/553,975 filed in the name o Aziz Y. Anis on July 17, 1990, for Removal o Tissue.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to the removal of tissu from the body such as for example removal o cataracts from the eye. It is known to remove diseased tissue from th body by fragmenting, crushing or otherwise makin the tissue flowable while in the body and the aspirating it. In one known class of surgica techniques of this type specifically intended fo the removal of cataracts: (1) an incision is mad along the superior corneal margin from about 10 to 

 o'clock (12 o'clock is the location closest to the top of the head of the patient) approximately 10 mm in chord length; (2) an incision is made in the capsular wall; and (3) the cataract is removed. The anterior chamber is maintained substantially formed during the operation by means of a continuous inflow of irrigating solution.In one prior art technique of this class for removing a cataract, the nucleus is expressed out of the eye and the cortex is removed by a process of irrigation and aspiration. In another prior art technique of this class for removing the cataract, the nucleus is removed with a vectis and about 0.1 milliliter of viscoelastic compound or irrigating fluid is introduced into the capsular bag to separate the capsular walls. With the capsular walls separated, a wedge of the cortex is engaged in the aspiration port of a cannula and peeled toward the center and then aspirated to remove it. This process is repeated so that the layers of the cortex are peeled and then aspirated inwardly through the cannula, layer by layer, until the intact capsular bag (except for the horizontal incision) is completely empty and clean. 

 This technique of removing the cataract disclosed by Anis, Aziz Y., "Illustrated Step-b Step Description of the Anis Dry Extra Capsul Cataract Extraction Technique With In-the-Bag Le Implementation"; Seminars in Qpthalmoloαy, v. 1,2 (June) , 1986, pp. 113-129 and the technique compared with other such techniques of this class.Two prior art types of instruments which aid the fragmentation and aspiration of the lens nucle to permit extraction through a small incision a disclosed in United States patent 3,589,363 to Ant Banko et al.;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising the steps of: inserting a surface discriminating fragmenting tip having fragmenting surfaces through an opening in the eye into the lens of an eye having a cataract and a capsular wall wherein the tip has at least one movable fragmenting surface; moving the fragmenting surface in a first direction and in at least a second direction; the step of moving the fragmenting surface in a first direction including the step of rotating the fragmenting surface; and the step of moving the fragmenting surface in a second direction including the step of reciprocating the fragmenting surface at ultrasonic speed.
2. A method according to claim 1 further including the εteps of: positioning the εurface discriminating fragmenting tip to impact the tissue of the cataract while it is moving at a velocity higher than the fragmenting velocity with respect to the capsular wall and at an angle to the cataract; whereby the cataract fragmented but not the capsular wall; and aspirating the fragmented tissue. 


 3. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein the step of rotating the fragmenting surface includes the step of rotating the fragmenting surface in one of counterclockwise and clockwise direction.
4. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein the step of rotating the fragmenting surface includes the step of rotating the fragmenting surface alternately in counterclockwise and clockwise directions.
5. A method according to claim 3 further including the steps of: positioning the surface discriminating fragmenting tip to impact the tissue of the cataract while it is moving at a velocity higher than the fragmenting velocity with respect to the capsular wall and at an angle to the cataract; whereby the cataract fragmented but not the capsular wall; and aspirating the fragmented tissue.
6. A method according to claim 4 further including the steps of: 


 positioning the surface discriminating fragmenting tip to impact the tissue of the cataract while it is moving at a velocity higher than the fragmenting velocity with respect to the capsular wall and at an angle to the cataract; whereby the cataract fragmented but not the capsular wall; and aspirating the fragmented tissue.
7. A method according to claim 5 further including the steps of: making a small incision less than 7 millimeters in diameter in the capsular sac along the margin; inserting a fragmenting tip and rotating the fragmenting tip to fragment a cataract.
8. A method according to claim 7 in which: the step of rotating the fragmening surface includes the step of rotating the fragmenting surfaces about a longitudinal axis of the surface discriminating fragmenting tip; and the step of inserting the tip includes the step of inserting a tip with the longitudinal axis making an acute angle with the capsular wall wherein the rotating fragmenting surfaces impact the tissue of the cataract at an angle. 


 9. A method according to claim 6 further including the steps of: making a small incision less than 7 millimeters in diameter in the capsular sac along the margin; inserting a fragmenting tip and rotating the fragmenting tip to fragment a cataract.
10. A method according to claim 6 in which: the step of rotating the fragmening surface includes the step of rotating the fragmenting surfaces about a longitudinal axis of the surface discriminating fragmenting tip; and the step of inserting the tip includes the step of inserting a tip with the longitudinal axis making an acute angle with the capsular wall wherein the rotating fragmenting surfaces impact the tissue of the cataract at an angle.
11. A method according to claim 1 in which the fragmenting tip is rotated with a power level of less than 1 horsepower.
12. Apparatus for removing tissue from a patient comprising: 



 means for fragmenting and aspirating tissue having an operative tip; said means for fragmenting and separating tissue comprising means for repeatedly moving the operative tip under the control of an electrical signal at a low power level in a first direction and in at least a second direction; said operative tip having at least one fragmenting edge; the means for moving the fragmenting surface in a first direction including means for. rotating the fragmenting surface; and the means for moving the fragmenting surface in a second direction including means for reciprocating the fragmenting surface at ultrasonic speed.
13. Apparatus in accordance with claim 6 in which the operative tip includes at least two fragmenting surfaces and the fragmenting surfaces include at least one cutting end and one cavitation- creating surface.
14. Apparatus according to claim 13 in which the operative tip includes at least two fragmenting 


edges and the space between fragmenting edges is less than 5 millimeters.
15. Apparatus according to claim 14 in which the operative tip has a diameter of less than 7 millimeters.
16. Apparatus according to claim 9 in which the operative tip is hollow and includes slots extending generally in a plane parallel to the longitudinal axis of the operative time, said slots having a leading edge and a trailing edge.
17. Apparatus according to claim 16 in which the operative tip is replaceable.
18. Apparatus according to claim 17 in which the operative tip is hollow and includes slots extending generally in a plane parallel to the longitudinal axis of the operative time, said slots having a leading edge and a trailing edge.
19. Apparatus in accordance with claim 12 in which the means for rotating the fragmenting surface
58
SUBSTITUTE SHEET RULE B i 


includes means for rotating the fragmenting surface in one of counterclockwise and clockwise directions.
20. Apparatus in accordance with claims 12 in which the means for rotating the fragmenting surface includes means for rotating the fragmenting surface alternately in counterclockwise and clockwise directions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
