<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637701</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method to cushion movement of a member.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F932	F16F932	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F9	F16F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (10) to cushion movement of a member in a 
machine includes a piston (14) which divides a cylinder (12) into 

upper (22) and lower (24) variable volume chambers. A body (28) of 
lubricating liquid is held in a chamber (30) in the piston (14). 

Lubricating liquid is conducted from the chamber (30) in the 
piston (14) to an annular space (34) between upper (36) 

and lower (38) seals on 
a head portion (18) of the piston (14). During reciprocation of the 

piston (14), the lubricating liquid engages the inner side 
surface (42) of the cylinder (12). In addition, the lubricating 

liquid conducts heat away from the cylinder (12). Fluid 
pressure is applied against upper side surface (46) of the body (28) 

of lubricating liquid in the piston chamber by gas pressure 
conducted from a chamber (24) of the cylinder (12). During assembly 

of the apparatus (10), the piston (14) is inserted part way into the 
cylinder (12) and a space between seals (36,38) on the piston (14) is 

partially filled with lubricating liquid. The piston (14), with 
the lubricating liquid between the seals (36,38), is fully inserted 

into the cylinder (12). In addition, the chamber (22) in the piston (12) 
is partially filled with lubricating liquid. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEDYNE HYSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEDYNE HYSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANTERMAN HAROLD I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANTERMAN, HAROLD I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a new and improved 
apparatus and method which are used to cushion movement of 
a member in a machine and to a method of assembling the 
apparatus. A known apparatus to cushion movement of a member in a 
machine is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,765,227 entitled 
Die Cylinder Assembly and issued August 23, 1988. The 
apparatus disclosed in this patent includes a piston which 
divides a cylinder into upper and lower variable volume 
chambers. The lower variable volume cylinder chamber is 
connected in fluid communication with a source of fluid 
pressure, that is, nitrogen gas. The fluid pressure 
applied against the lower end of the piston urges the 
piston to an extended position. When movement of a member 
in a machine is to be cushioned, the piston is forced 
downwardly, by the member, against the influence of the 
nitrogen gas pressure in the lower variable volume chamber 
of the cylinder.  The operating life of the apparatus disclosed in the 
aforementioned U.S. Patent No. 4,765,227 tends to be 
maximized if seals between the piston and cylinder are 
lubricated during operation of the apparatus. Systems for 
lubricating the seals between a piston and cylinder are 
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,688,775 issued August 25, 
1987 and entitled Self-lubricating Die Cylinder; U.S. 
Patent No. 4,691,902 issued September 8, 1987 and entitled 
Self-lubricating Die Cylinder; and in U.S. Patent No. 
4,815,718 issued March 28, 1989 and entitled Self-lubricating 
Die Cylinder. The apparatus disclosed in these 
patents utilize fluid pressure to pump lubricating liquid 
which is sprayed against surfaces of the piston and 
cylinder. The present invention provides a new and improved 
method and apparatus to cushion movement of a member in a 
machine. The apparatus includes a piston which is disposed 
in a cylinder and divides the cylinder into variable volume 
chambers. A body of lubricating liquid is held in a 
chamber in the piston. Lubricating liquid is conducted 
from the piston chamber to a space between upper and lower 
seals on the piston. During reciprocation of the piston in 
the cylinder, the body of lubricating liquid in the piston 
is reciprocated with the piston. In addition, lubricating  
 
liquid is exposed to the side wall of the cylinder to 
lubricate the cylinder and seals connected with the piston. An upper side surface of the body of lubricating 
liquid in the piston is exposed to a relatively high fluid 
pressure. This fluid pressure may be conducted from one of 
t
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus to cushion movement of a member in a 
machine, said apparatus comprising a cylinder, a piston 

disposed in said cylinder and dividing said cylinder into 
first and second variable volume chambers, a first annular 

seal connected with said piston and disposed between said 
piston and cylinder, a second annular seal connected with 

said piston and disposed between said piston and cylinder, 
said piston, cylinder and first and second seals 

cooperating to at least partially define a space between 
said first and second seals, surface means disposed in said 

piston for at least partially defining a piston chamber, 
means for at least partially defining a passage extending 

from said piston chamber to the space between said first 
and second seals, a first body of lubricating liquid being 

disposed in said piston chamber, and a second body of 
lubricating liquid being disposed in the space between said 

first and second seals, said second body of lubricating 
liquid being disposed in engagement with said cylinder and 

being movable relative to said cylinder with said piston to 
apply lubricating liquid to said cylinder. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further 
including means for conducting fluid pressure from said 

first variable volume chamber to said piston chamber to 
 

apply fluid pressure against said first body of lubricating 
liquid. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said 
means for conducting fluid pressure from said first 

variable volume chamber to said piston chamber includes 
means for conducting fluid pressure through said first body 

of lubricating liquid to an upper end portion of said 
piston chamber. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said 
means for conducting fluid pressure through said first body 

of lubricating liquid includes a conduit having a central 
axis which is coincident with a central axis of said 

piston, said conduit having an upper end portion which is 
disposed above said first body of lubricating liquid and a 

lower end portion which is connected with said piston. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
surface means includes a surface area which is disposed in 

said piston along a central axis of said piston and has 
upper and lower end portions, said lower end portion of 

said surface area being disposed at a lower level than one 
of said annular seals, said first body of lubricating 

liquid extending along said surface area from the lower end 
portion of said surface area into engagement with the upper 

end portion of said surface area. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
means for at least partially defining a passage includes 

means for defining a passage which extends outward away 
from a central axis of said piston to a location between 

said first and second seals. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
piston includes a lower end portion and a conduit which 

extends upward from said lower end portion of said piston 
through said first body of lubricating liquid, a lower end 

portion of said conduit being connected in fluid 
communication with said first variable volume chamber, an 

upper end portion of said conduit being connected in fluid 
communication with said piston chamber at a location above 

said first body of lubricating liquid. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
means for at least partially defining a passage includes 

means for defining a passage which extends upward from a 
location adjacent to a lower end portion of said piston 

chamber toward an upper end portion of said piston chamber 
and extends outward away from a central axis of said piston 

to a location between said first and second seals. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 said means 
for at least partially defining a passage includes a 

conduit which is at least partially disposed in said piston 
 

chamber and extends upward from a lower end portion of said 
piston chamber to a level above an upper side surface of 

said first body of lubricating liquid and extends outward 
away from a central axis of said piston chamber toward said 

second body of lubricating liquid. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
passage conducts lubricating liquid from said first body of 

lubricating liquid to said second body of lubricating 
liquid. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein a 
portion of said passage is disposed above an upper side 

surface of said first body of lubricating liquid. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
passage is entirely disposed at a lower level than an upper 

side surface of said first body of lubricating liquid. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
second body of lubricating liquid has an annular 

configuration and circumscribes at least a portion of said 
first body of lubricating liquid. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further 
including conduit means for conducting fluid pressure from 

said first variable volume chamber to a portion of said 
 

piston chamber which is disposed above said first and 
second bodies of lubricating liquid. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 14 wherein 
said conduit means is entirely disposed within said piston. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
piston includes first and second sections which are 

interconnected by internal and external thread 
convolutions, said means for defining a passage includes a 

slot which is formed in at least one of said first and 
second thread convolutions. 
A method of cushioning movement of a member in a 
machine, said method comprising the steps of reciprocating 

a piston containing a body of lubricating liquid in a 
cylinder to vary the volume of first and second variable 

volume chambers in the cylinder, applying fluid pressure 

against an upper side surface of the body of lubricating 
liquid in the piston as the piston is reciprocated in the 

cylinder, said step of applying fluid pressure against an 
upper side surface of the body of lubricating liquid in the 

piston includes conducting fluid pressure from the first 
variable volume chamber to the upper side surface of the 

body of lubricating liquid in the piston as the piston is 
reciprocated in the cylinder, and exposing an inner side 

surface of the cylinder to lubricating liquid under 
pressure transmitted from the upper side surface of the 

 
body of lubricating liquid in the piston to the inner side 

surface of the cylinder by lubricating liquid as the piston 
is reciprocated in the cylinder. 
A method as set forth in claim 25 wherein said 
step of conducting fluid pressure from the first variable 

volume chamber to the upper side surface of the body of 
lubricating liquid in the piston includes conducting fluid 

pressure from the first variable volume chamber through the 
body of lubricating liquid in the piston during 

reciprocation of the piston. 
A method as set forth in claim 25 further 
including the steps of transferring heat from the inner 

side surface of the cylinder to the body of lubricating 
liquid in the piston as the piston is reciprocated in the 

cylinder, said step of transferring heat from the inner 
side surface of the cylinder to the body of lubricating 

liquid includes inducing circulation of the lubricating 
liquid under the influence of forces applied against the 

body of lubricating liquid during reciprocation of the 
piston in the cylinder. 
A method as set forth in claim 25 wherein said 
step of exposing an inner side surface of the cylinder to 

lubricating liquid includes moving a body of lubricating 
liquid disposed between an outer side surface of the piston 

 
and the inner side surface of the cylinder along the inner 

side surface of the cylinder. 
A method as set forth in claim 28 wherein said 
step of exposing an inner side surface of the cylinder to 

lubricating liquid includes conducting lubricating liquid 
from the body of lubricating liquid in the piston to the 

body of lubricating liquid disposed between an outer side 
surface of the piston and an inner side surface of the 

cylinder. 
A method as set forth in claim 29 wherein said 
step of conducting lubricating liquid from the body of 

lubricating in the piston to the body of lubricating liquid 
disposed between an outer side surface of the piston and 

the inner side surface of the cylinder includes conducting 
the lubricating liquid along a path which extends through 

thread convolutions which interconnect components of the 
piston. 
An apparatus for cushioning movement of a 
member in a machine, said apparatus comprising a 

piston reciprocatably mounted in a cylinder, said 
piston at least partially defining chamber means for 

a body of lubricating liquid and passage means for 
conducting lubricating liquid from said chamber to 

between the piston and cylinder. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
