<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646210</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CYLINDER LOCK ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B1900	E05B1900	E05B1902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B19	E05B19	E05B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEST LOCK CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEST LOCK CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEST WALTER E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEST WALTER E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CYLINDER LOCK ASSEMBLYBackground and Summarv of the InventionThe present invention relates to a cylinder lock assembly including a rotatable key plug and a key for rotating the key plug. More particularly, the present invention relates to a key having a key plug drive shoulder located and configured to minimize the torque load on the key blade as the key is turned to rotate the key plug and actuate the cylinder lock assembly.In the design of cylinder lock assemblies, it is important that the security of the lock be maintained even when parts of the lock are subjected to deliberate excessive torque during an attack on the lock. The lock should also be designed to withstand the inadvertent application of excessive torque which, for example, could be applied by a user who attempts to turn a key forcibly to actuate the lock when the lock is jammed or otherwise inoperative.Many conventional keys are designed to flex or even snap apart when turned too hard by a user so that excessive torque cannot be transmitted to the locking mechanism through the key and damage to the locking mechanism is prevented. In effect, the key is designed to be the weakest part of the lock to protect the structural integrity of the mechanism of the lock from damage during a deliberate or inadvertent attack using a key. At the same time, the key should also be able to withstand normal torque applied by a user operating a lock. Many hard-to-duplicate keys of the type used in high security locks have blades which tend to bend or break during normal key usage. This problem frustrates consumers who wish to have a key that is not easilySUBSTITUTESHEET 

 duplicated or broken and is usable in a high security lock.A key that was configured to impart a driving force to rotate the key plug in the core without excessive flexure of the blade during normal use would be an improvement over conventional keys. This objective is especially important in situations in which security or other considerations dictate that the key blade have a cross-sectional shape that effectively reduces its torque transmission capability during normal usage. For example, in a key blade including a portion having a cross-sectional width which is thinner and torsionally weaker than similar portions of conventional keys, considerations of flexure and breakage of the key blade during normal usage may well be critical.According to the present invention, a cylinder lock assembly includes a core, a rotatable key plug mounted in the core, and a key. The key plug is formed to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A cylinder lock assembly comprising an interchangeable core, a sleeve carrying a control lug movable between a core-retaining position and a core-releasing position, the sleeve being mounted to rotate in the lock core to move the control lug between core-retaining and core- releasing positions, a key plug mounted for rotation in the sleeve, the key plug being formed to include a vertically elongated, laterally narrow slotted keyway and a plurality of tumbler pin bores opening into the keyway, and a key having a bow, a blade appended to the bow, the blade including a top edge formed to include a single bitted portion, drive means for providing the primary torque force to rotate the key plug relative to the sleeve and core to actuate the cylinder lock assembly in response to turning of the key in the keyway, said drive means and the key plug being proportioned and configured such that said drive means drivingly engages said key plug and serves as the primary drive force for rotating the key plug in the sleeve, said drive means including a drive shoulder extending above said single bitted portion on the top edge, and stop means for limiting inward travel of the key blade into the keyway, said stop means being situated in spaced-apart relation to the drive shoulder. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the blade includes a proximal end appended to the bow and a distal tip and the stop means is situated at the distal tip.
3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the drive shoulder is appended to the proximal end of the blade. 


 4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein the drive means further includes a bottom edge of the blade and the drive shoulder is located between the bitted portion and the bow and oriented to extend in a direction away from the bottom edge of the blade so that the drive shoulder and the bottom edge of the blade drivingly engage the key plug in response to turning of the key while the blade is in the keyway.
5. The assembly of claim 3, wherein the drive means further includes a bottom edge along the length of the blade, the blade including a thin-walled offset portion extending between the top and bottom edges along the length of the key blade, and each of the bottom edge and the drive shoulder having a cross-sectional width greater than the cross-sectional width of the thin-walled offset portion to rigidify the key to reduce twisting of the key about its longitudinal axis as it is turned in the keyway to rotate the key plug, thereby enhancing torque-transmitting properties of the key. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the bitted portion is situated on the blade to lie between the stop means and the drive shoulder.
7. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the drive means further includes a bottom edge of the blade and the bottom edge includes the stop means.
8. A cylinder lock assembly comprising a core, a key plug mounted in the core, the key plug being formed to include a keyway and a plurality of tumbler pin bores opening into the keyway, and a key having a bow, a blade appended to the bow, the blade including a top edge formed to include a bitted portion and drive means for providing the primary torque force to rotate the key plug relative to the core to actuate the cylinder lock assembly in response to turning of the key in the keyway, said drive means and the key plug being proportioned and configured such that
- 


 said drive means drivingly engages said key plug and serves as the primary drive force for rotating the key plug, said drive means including a drive shoulder extending above said bitted top edge, the key plug includes a forward end formed to include an opening into the keyway and a separate face plate mounted on the core to lie next to the forward end of the key plug, the face plate including a lower lobe portion formed to include an aperture, the forward end of the key plug extends into the aperture formed in the lower lobe portion.of the face plate, the key plug is formed to include slot means outside the keyway for receiving the drive shoulder upon insertion of the blade through the aperture formed in the lower lobe portion of the face plate into the keyway formed in the key plug, the slot means extends vertically across the diameter of the aperture formed in the lower lobe portion of the face plate and includes side wall means for engaging the drive shoulder on the 
'
key as the key is turned in the keyway so that the key plug rotates in the core in response to turning of the key in the keyway, the blade further including stop means for limiting inward travel of the blade in the keyway to position the drive shoulder outside of the keyway in the slot means in confronting relation to the side wall means, said stop means being situated in spaced-apart relation to the drive shoulder.
9. The assembly of claim 8, wherein the drive shoulder is located on the top edge of the 4_lade to lie between the bitted portion and the bow» 10. The assembly of claim 8, wherein the blade includes a proximal end appended to the bew and a distal tip and the drive shoulder is appended to
*
_he proximal end to lie in spaced relation to the distal tip.
11. A cylinder lock assembly ceβrprising a core, 


 a key plug mounted in the core, the key plug being formed to include a keyway and a plurality of tumbler pin bores opening into the keyway, and a key having a bow, a blade appended to the bow, the blade including a top edge formed to include a single bitted portion and drive means for providing the primary torque force to rotate the key plug relative tot he core to actuate the cylinder lock assembly in response to turning of the key in the keyway, said drive means and the key plug being proportioned and configured such that said drive means drivingly engages said key plug and serves as the primary drive force for rotating the key plug, said drive means including a drive shoulder extending above said top edge single bitted portion, the drive means further includes a bottom edge along the length of the blade, the blade includes a thin-walled offset portion extending between the top and bottom edges along the length of the blade, and each of the bottom edge and the drive shoulder have a cross-sectional width greater than the cross-sectional width of the thin-walled offset portion to rigidify the key to reduce twisting of the key about its longitudinal axis as it is turned in the keyway to rotate the key plug, thereby enhancing torque-transmitting properties of the key. 12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the drive shoulder is located on the top edge of the blade to lie between the bitted portion and the bow.
13. The assembly of claim 12, wherein the key plug is formed to include slot means for receiving the drive shoulder upon insertion of the blade into the keyway, the slot means includes side wall means for engaging the drive shoulder as the key is turned in the keyway so that the key plug rotates in the core in response to turning of the key in the keyway, and the blade further includes stop means for limiting inward travel of the blade into the keyway to position the drive shoulder outside of the keyway in the slot means in 


 confronting relation to the side wall means so that the drive shoulder and bottom edge cooperate to engage and rotate the key plug in the core in response to turning of the key in the keyway without substantial flexing and twisting the thin-walled offset portion of the blade. 14. A cylinder lock assembly comprising a core, a key plug rotatably mounted in the core, the key plug being formed to include a keyway having side walls inside the key plug, a plurality of tumbler pin bores opening into the keyway, and slot means outside the keyway for receiving torque transmitted by a key to rotate the key plug in the core, and a key having a bow, a blade appended to the bow, the blade including a bitted portion and drive means for providing the primary torque force to rotate the key plug relative to the core to actuate the cylinder lock assembly in response to turning of the key in the keyway, the drive means and the key plug being proportioned and configured such that the drive means drivingly engages the key plug and serves as the primary drive force for rotating the key plug, the drive means including drive shoulder means for engaging the slot means to position the bitted portion of the blade in horizontally spaced- apart, offset relation to said side walls of the keyway to establish contact between the bitted portion of the blade and the side walls of the keyway after the key plug has rotated in the core under the primary torque force provided by the drive means and after flexure of the blade toward the side walls of the keyway so that contact between the bitted portion of the blade and side walls of the keyway is delayed and the bitted portion of the blade does not carry the torque transmission load between the key and the key plug during turning of the key to rotate the key plug in the core.
15. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the key further includes stop means for limiting inward travel of 


 the key blade into the keyway and the stop means is situated in spaced-apart relation to the drive shoulder means.
16. The assembly of claim 15, wherein the drive shoulder means is appended to a top edge of the blade and the stop means is located on a distal tip of the blade away from the bow to position the drive shoulder means outside of the keyway in the slot means upon insertion of the blade into the keyway. 17. The assembly of claim 15, wherein the drive shoulder means is appended to the blade and located between the bitted portion and the bow and the stop means is located on a distal tip of the blade away from the bow to position the drive shoulder means outside of the keyway in the slot means upon insertion of the blade into the keyway.
18. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the slot means includes side wall means for engaging the drive shoulder means as the key is turned in the keyway, the drive means further includes a bottom edge along the length of the blade, the blade further includes a thin-walled offset portion extending between the top and bottom edges along the length of the blade, and the blade further includes stop means for limiting inward travel of the blade into the keyway to position the drive shoulder means outside of the keyway in the slot means in confronting relation to the side wall means so that the drive shoulder means and the bottom edge of the blade cooperate to engage and rotate the key plug in the core in response to turning of the key in the keyway without substantial flexing and twisting of the thin-walled offset portion of the blade.
19. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the key plug further includes a front mouth opening into the slot means and lying in spaced relation to a first of the tumbler pin bores and a drive-receiving surface provided in the slot means and situated in the space between the 


 front mouth of the slot means and the first of the tumbler pin bores to engage the drive shoulder means on the key blade in response to turning of the key in the keyway. 20. The assembly of claim 19, wherein the key plug includes means extending into the keyway for providing an interior surface, and the key further includes stop means for engaging the interior surface during insertion of the key blade into the keyway to position the drive shoulder means in confronting relation to the drive-receiving surface in the slot means upon arrival of the bitted portion at a predetermined position underlying the tumbler pin bores.
21. The assembly of claim 19, wherein the drive-receiving surface is an interior side wall defining a boundary of the slot means, the drive shoulder means is a beam appended to a top edge of the key blade adjacent to the bitted portion, and the beam includes an exterior side wall facing the interior side wall. 22. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the key plug further includes means extending into the keyway to provide an interior surface, and the key further includes stop means for engaging the interior surface to align the bitted portion in a predetermined position with respect to the tumbler pin bores upon insertion of the key into the keyway.
23. The assembly of claim 22, wherein the key plug includes a front mouth opening into the slot means and an inner wall provided in the slot means and situated outside of the keyway between the tumbler pin bores and the front mouth, the stop means is located at one end of the key blade to align the drive shoulder means of the key in confronting relation to the inner wall upon movement of the bitted portion to its predetermined position, and the drive shoulder means engages the inner wall to rotate the key plug in the core in response to turning of the key in the keyway. 


 24. The assembly of claim 22, wherein the blade includes a bottom portion engaging the 
*
key plug in a lower region of the keyway and an offset portion extending between the bitted and bottom portions, and the stop means is located on the bottom portion.
25. A cylinder lock assembly including an interchangeable lock core, the assembly comprising a sleeve carrying a control lug movable between a core-retaining position and a core-releasing position, the sleeve being mounted to rotate in the lock core to move the control lug between the core-retaining and core- releasing positions, a key plug formed to include a keyway and mounted for rotation in the sleeve, a key having a bow, a blade appended to the bow, stop means for limiting inward travel of the key blade into the keyway, and drive shoulder means for transmitting torque from the key to the key plug to rotate the key plug in the sleeve, the stop means and the drive shoulder means being situated in spaced-apart relation, the blade including a proximal end appended to the bow and a distal tip and the stop means being situated at the distal tip.
26. The assembly of claim 25, wherein the sleeve is formed to include a plurality of spaced bores, the key plug is formed to include a plurality of tumbler pin bores opening into the keyway and opening into said bores formed in the sleeve, the key includes-means formed on the blade for lifting tumbler pins reciprocably mounted in the tumbler pin bores, and the lifting means is situated on the blade to lie between the-stop means and the drive shoulder means.
27. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the blade includes a top edge and a bottom edge, the bottom edge includes the stop means, and the top edge is formed to include the lifting means and the drive-shoulder means. 


 28. A cylinder lock assembly comprising an interchangeable core, a sleeve carrying a control lug movable between a core-retaining position and a core-releasing position, the sleeve being mounted to rotate in the interchangeable core to move the control lug between core-retaining and core-releasing positions, a key plug mounted for rotation in the sleeve, the key plug being formed to include a keyway and including a drive-receiving surface situated outside of the keyway, and a key having a bow, drive shoulder means for engaging the drive-receiving surface of the key plug to rotate the key plug relative to the sleeve and core in response to turning of the key in the keyway, and a blade appended to the bow, the blade including stop means for positioning the drive shoulder means outside the keyway in alignment with the drive-receiving surface of the key plug during insertion of the blade into the keyway, the stop means being situated in spaced-apart relation to the drive shoulder means.
29. The assembly of claim 28, wherein the key plug is formed to include an outer slot outside of the keyway, the drive-receiving surface defines a side wall of the outer slot in the key plug, and the drive shoulder means is positioned by the stop means to lie in the outer slot and to place the drive shoulder means in alignment with the drive-receiving surface upon insertion of the blade through the outer slot into the keyway. 30. The assembly of claim 29, wherein the blade includes a bitted portion and the drive shoulder means is located between the bitted portion and the bow.
31. The assembly of claim 29, wherein the blade includes a top edge formed to include a bitted portion and a bottom edge, and the drive shoulder means extends above the top edge of the blade in a direction away from the bottom edge to project into the outer slot 


 and lie in confronting relation to the drive-receiving surface in the outer slot.
32. The assembly of claim 31, wherein the stop means is located on the bottom edge of the blade. 33. The assembly of claim 30, wherein the blade includes a top edge formed to include the bitted portion and a bottom edge, and the drive shoulder means extends above the top edge of the blade in a direction away from the bottom edge. 34. The assembly of claim 33, wherein the stop means is located on the bottom edge of the blade.
35. The assembly of claim 28, wherein the blade includes a bottom portion engaging the key plug in a lower region of the keyway, a bitted portion, and an offset portion extending between the bitted and bottom portions, and the stop means is located on the bottom portion.
36. The assembly of claim 35, wherein the blade includes a top edge formed to include the bitted portion and the drive shoulder means is located between the bitted portion and the bow and above the offset portion.
37. The assembly of claim 28, wherein the blade includes a proximal end appended to the bow and a distal tip and the stop means is situated at the distal tip.
38. The assembly of claim 28, wherein the blade includes a bottom edge including the stop means and a top edge including a bitted portion and the drive shoulder means.
39. The assembly of claim 38, wherein the key blade and keyway are proportioned and configured such that the bitted portion formed in the top edge of the blade does not have a substantial driving engagement along its length with the key plug.
40. The assembly of claim 28, wherein the blade includes a top edge formed to include a bitted
F 


 portion and a bottom edge, the key plug includes means in the keyway for receiving torque transmitted by the key to rotate the key plug in the core, and the drive shoulder means includes means for positioning the bitted portion of the blade in spaced relation to said receiving means in the keyway to establish contact between the bitted portion of the blade and the receiving means after the key plug has rotated in the core under the torque force provided by the drive shoulder means and the bottom edge of the blade so that contact between the bitted portion of the blade and the receiving means is delayed and the bitted portion along the top edge of the blade does not carry substantial torque transmission load between the key and the key plug during turning of the key to rotate the key plug in the core.
41. The assembly of claim 28, wherein the key plug includes a face plate formed to include the front mouth of the keyway, the key plug is formed to include a plurality of tumbler pin bores opening into the keyway, and the drive shoulder means is located midway between the face plate and the first of the tumbler pin bores.
42. For use with a cylinder lock assembly including an interchangeable core, a key plug rotatable in the core, the key plug being formed to include a keyway and a row of tumbler pin bores opening downwardly into the keyway, tumbler pins reciprocally mounted in said pin bores from a position inhibiting relative rotation between the key plug and the core to a position allowing relative rotation between the key plug and the core and from a position inhibiting relative rotation between the core and the lock assembly to a position allowing relative rotation between the core and the lock assembly, a key comprising a bow, a blade appended to the bow, means formed on the blade for lifting said tumbler pins reciprocally mounted in the tumbler pin bores, and drive means for providing the primary driving force for rotating the key plug to actuate the cylinder lock 


 assembly, said drive means including a drive shoulder located vertically above the lifting means and between the lifting means and the bow, the blade including a top edge formed to include the lifting means, a bottom edge, and a thin-walled offset portion extending between the top and bottom edges along the length of the blade, each of the bottom edge and the drive shoulder having a cross- sectional width greater than the cross-sectional width of the thin-walled offset portion. 43. For use with a cylinder lock assembly including an interchangeable core, a key plug rotatable in the core, the key plug being formed to include a keyway and a row of tumbler pin bores opening downwardly into the keyway, tumbler pins reciprocally mounted in said pin bores from a position inhibiting relative rotation between the key plug and the core to a position allowing relative rotation between the key plug and the core and from a position inhibiting relative rotation between the core and the lock assembly to a position allowing relative rotation between the core and the lock assembly, a key comprising a bow, a blade appended to the bow, means formed on the blade for lifting said tumbler pins reciprocally mounted in the tumbler pin bores, and drive means for providing the primary driving force for rotating the key plug to actuate the interchangeable core, said drive means including a drive shoulder located vertically above the lifting means and between the lifting means and the bow, the blade including a top edge formed to include the lifting means, a bottom edge forming a portion of the drive means, and a thin-walled offset portion extending between the top and bottom edges along the length of the blade, each of the bottom edge and the drive shoulder having a cross-sectional width greater than the cross-sectional width of the thin-walled offset portion, the blade and keyway being proportioned and configured to provide a clearance gap between the top edge of the blade and the key plug upon insertion of the 


 blade into the keyway so that only the bottom edge of the blade and the drive shoulder mate with the key plug to provide a substantial driving engagement between the key and the key plug in response to turning of the key in the keyway.
44. The key of claim 42, wherein the bottom edge engages the key plug in a lower region of the keyway, and the drive shoulder is appended to the top edge. 45. The key of claim 42, wherein the key plug includes a plane of insertion extending longitudinally therethrough and a drive-receiving surface, the drive shoulder includes a drive-imparting surface lying in a plane oriented parallel to the plane of insertion, and the drive-imparting surface is configured to engage the drive-receiving surface in response to turning of the key in the keyway.
46. The key of claim 42, wherein the key plug includes means in the keyway for receiving torque transmitted by the key to rotate the key plug in the core, and the drive shoulder includes means for positioning the lifting means in spaced relation to said receiving means in the keyway to establish contact between the lifting means and the receiving means after the key plug has rotated in the core under the torque force provided by the drive shoulder and the bottom edge of the blade so that contact between the lifting means and the receiving means is delayed and the thin-walled offset portion does not carry substantial torque transmission load between the key and the key plug during turning of the key to rotate the key plug in the core. 47. The key of claim 46, further comprising stop means for engaging a portion of the key plug to limit inward travel of the blade into the keyway and wherein the blade includes a proximal end appended to the bow and a distal tip and the stop means is situated at the distal tip. 


 48. The key of claim 46, further comprising stop means for engaging a portion of the key plug to limit inward travel of the blade into the keyway and wherein the lifting means is situated on the blade to lie between the stop means and the drive shoulder.
49. The key of claim 46, wherein the key blade and keyway are proportioned and configured such that the lifting means along the top edge of the blade does not have a substantial driving engagement along its length with the key plug.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
