<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625261</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TEST DEVICES FOR SEVERAL OPTICAL WAVEGUIDES, AND METHOD OF CARRYING OUT THE TEST
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B638	G02B642	G02B638	G01M1100	G01M1100	G02B642	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G01M	G01M	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G01M11	G01M11	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention calls for the coupler (KR1) of an optical receiver (OR1) to be designed in such a way that at least two optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) can be placed in it next to each other in a regular disposition. At least two light-sensitive elements (LE1, LE2) are located in such a position with respect to the output beams (SF1, SF2) that the test signals (RS1, RS2) can be processed separately.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIEBER WINFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARTMANN THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIEBER, WINFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARTMANN, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Test device for a plurality of optical waveguides 

having an optical receiver (OR1) which exhibits a 
coupling device (KR1) which is designed in such a manner 

that at least two optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) are 
insertable alongside one another in an ordered structure 

so that they exhibit independent radiation fields (SF1, 
SF2) lying alongside one another, in these radiation 

fields (SF1, SF2) of emission signals to be coupled out 
or in a group of these radiation fields (SF1/SF2, 

SF3/SF4) in each case at least one light-sensitive 
element (LE1,LE2) being provided, these at least two 

light-sensitive elements (LE1, LE2) being disposed and 
aligned with respect to their reception characteristics 

in such a manner that they pick up different parts of 
said radiation fields (SF1, SF2), and having an 

evaluating device (AE1), which is associated with the 
optical receiver (OR1) and in which those test signals 

(RS1, RS2) of the individual radiation fields (SF1, SF2) 
which are recorded by the individual light-sensitive 

elements (LE1, LE2) are separately evaluatable. 
Test device according to Claim 1, characterized 
in that the optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) are disposed 

parallel alongside one another in the coupling device 
(KR1). 
Test device according to Claim 2, characterized 
in that the optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) are mechanically 

connected to one another, preferably in the form 
of a strip line (BL). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a lateral guidance for the  

 
optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) to be inserted alongside 

one another is provided in the coupling device (KR1). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the reception-side coupling 

device (KR1) is designed as a flexural coupler. 
Test device according to Claim 5, characterized 
in that the coupling device (KR1) in the flexing region 

of the optical waveguides exhibits the same curvature for 
all optical waveguides (LW1, LW2). 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 4, 
characterized in that the reception-side coupling device 

is formed by the light-sensitive elements (LE1 - LE4) 
coupled directly onto the ends of the optical waveguides 

(LW1 - LW4). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the optical emitter (OT1) 

exhibits a single light source to which all the optical 
waveguides (LW1, LW2) to be tested are coupled in common. 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 7, 
characterized in that the optical emitter (OT1) exhibits, 

for each optical waveguide (LW1, LW2) to be coupled on, 
a specifically associated light source for selective 

coupling-in of light. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a flexural coupler is 

provided as coupling device (KT1) for the optical emitter 
(OT1). 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 9, 
characterized in that a coupling device (KT1) for the 

optical emitter (OT1) is provided at the open end faces 
of the optical waveguides (LW1, LW2). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the optical emitter (OT1) 

is designed as emitter for message signals. 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 11, 
characterized in that the optical emitter (OT1) is 

designed as a specifically associated test emitter. 
Test device according to one of the preceding  
 

claims, characterized in that the light-sensitive 
elements (LE1 - LE4) are disposed on a common base (GU). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the light-sensitive 

elements (LE1 - LE4) are disposed in a line structure or 
in a laminar array structure. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a charge amplifier is 

associated with each one of the light-sensitive elements 
(LE1 - LE4). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that photodiodes are provided as 

light-sensitive elements (LE1 - LE4). 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 16, 
characterized in that CCD elements are provided for the 

light-sensitive elements (LE1 - LE4). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that in the coupling device 

(KR1) the centres of the light-sensitive elements (LE1, 
LE2) are aligned in each instance with respect to the 

pertinent cores of the optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) 
lying alongside one another. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the light-sensitive 

elements (LE1, LE2) are disposed perpendicular to the 
axis of symmetry (SA2) of the radiation fields (SF1, 

SF2). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that an adjustment device (JV) 

is provided for the optimization of the association 
between the light-sensitive elements (LE1 - LE8) and the 

associated radiation fields (SF1 - SF4). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that in the case of more than 

two optical waveguides the number of light-sensitive 
elements (LE1, LE2) is selected to be smaller than the 

number of optical waveguides (LW1 - LW4) lying alongside 
one another.  

 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 21, 
characterized in that the number of light-sensitive 

elements (LE1 - LE4) is selected to be equal to the 
number of optical waveguides (LW1 - LW4) lying alongside 

one another. 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 21, 
characterized in that the number of light-sensitive 

elements (LE1 - LE8) is selected to be larger than the 
number of optical waveguides (LW1 - LW4) lying alongside 

one another, in particular at least five times and 
preferably approximately one hundred times larger. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that shields (BL1 - BL3) are 

provided, and in that these are disposed in such a manner 
that they give a decoupling of adjacent radiation fields 

(SF1 - SF4). 
Test device according to Claim 25, characterized 
in that with m light-sensitive elements (LE1 - LEm) m-1 

shields (BL1 - BLm-1) are provided. 
Test device according to Claim 25 or 26, 
characterized in that the shields (BL1 - BL3) are 

disposed parallel to the plane of symmetry (SA8) of the 
radiation fields (SF1 - SF4). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the evaluating device (AE6) 

exhibits devices for simultaneous real-time operation. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that in the evaluating device 

(AE6) a readout device (DAV) is provided, which 
temporally samples the test signals (RS1 - RS4) recorded 

by the light-sensitive elements (LE1 - LE4). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims
, characterized in that in the evaluating device a 
computer unit (CPU) with a test value memory (MEM) is 

provided, and in that the test signals recorded by the 
light-sensitive elements (LE1 - LE4) can be functionally 

linked with one another in such a manner that for each 
optical waveguide the associated optical characteristic  

 
quantities are selectively evaluatable. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the test device (ME1) is a 

component part of an optical waveguide splice device. 
Test device according to Claim 31, characterized 
in that means are provided for the alignment of the 

optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) lying alongside one another 
at the splice location (MSE1). 
Test device according to Claim 32, characterized 
in that the means (SG1, SG2) for the alignment of the 

optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) lying alongside one another 
at the splice location (MSE1) are separately drivable by 

evaluation signals of the evaluating device (AE1). 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 30, 
characterized in that the test device (ME1) is a 

component part of an optical waveguide attenuation test 
device. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that between coupling- out 

positions of the optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2) and 
the light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2) means (e.g. 

MSV1, MSV2) are provided, which effect an enhanced 
decoupling of adjacent radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the radiation fields (e.g. 

EF1, EF2) exhibit transversely to the connecting line of 
the optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2) in each instance 

a greater spread than along their connecting line (VL). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that between a coupling-out 

position of the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) out of 
the optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2) and the associated 

light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2) means (e.g. 
MSV1, MSV2) are provided, which enhance in each instance 

the spread of the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) in a 
direction (y) transverse to the connecting line (VL) of 

the optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2). 
Test device according to Claim 37, characterized  
 

in that the broadening in the direction (y) transverse to 
the connecting line (VL) of the optical waveguides (e.g. 

LW1, LW2) is undertaken by at least the factor 2. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that between a coupling-out 

position of the optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2) and 
the associated light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2) 

means (e.g. MSV1, MSV2) are provided which narrow in each 
instance the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) in the 

region of the light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2) in 
a direction (x) along the connecting line (VL) of the 

optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that illuminated spots (e.g. 

LF1, LF2), formed in each instance by the radiation 
fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) in the region of the light-sensitive 

elements (e.g. LE1, LE2), are larger in the 
direction (y) transverse to the connecting line (VL) of 

the optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2), in particular at 
least twice as large, as compared with in the direction 

(x) of the connecting line (VL) of the optical waveguides 
(e.g. LW1, LW2). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a coupling-out optical 

system (e.g. MSVG) is provided between a coupling-out 
position of the optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2) and 

the light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2). 
Test device according to Claim 41, characterized 
in that the coupling-out optical system (e.g. MSVG) 

includes a monochromatically corrected triplet. 
Test device according to one of Claims 41 and 42, 
characterized in that the coupling-out optical system 

(e.g. MSVG) is produced from high-refractive-index heavy 
flint glass or includes the latter. 
Test device according to one of Claims 41 to 43, 
characterized in that the coupling-out optical system 

(e.g. MSVG) is designed for an angular range of at least 
± 20°, preferably ± 35° and, as a maximum, ± 45°.  

 
Test device according to one of Claims 41 to 44, 
characterized in that the coupling-out optical system 

(e.g. MSVG) exhibits a larger aperture transversely to 
the connecting line (VL) of the optical waveguides (e.g. 

LE1, LE2) than along their connecting line (VL). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that in each instance an illuminated 

spot (e.g. LF1, LF2) generated in the region of 
the light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2) for each 

radiation field (e.g. EF1, EF2) exhibits approximately a 
strip shape. 
Test device according to one of Claims 1 to 45, 
characterized in that in each instance an illuminated 

spot (e.g. LF1, LF2) generated in the region of the 
light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2) for each 

radiation field (e.g. EF1, EF2) exhibits an approximately 
elliptical shape. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that in each instance the spread 

of the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) in direction (y) 
transverse to the connecting line (VL) of the optical 

waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2) is selected so that in each 
instance the spread of their associated illuminated spots 

(e.g. LF1, LF2) approximately corresponds to the spread 
of the light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2) in this 

direction (y). 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that in each instance the spread 

of the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) in direction (x) 
of the connecting line (VL) of the optical waveguides 

(e.g. LW1, LW2) is selected to be so small that in each 
instance in the region of the reception elements (e.g. 

LE1, LE2) adjacent illuminated spots (e.g. LF1, LF2) do 
not overlap or overlap only as little as possible. 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a slot diaphragm (S1) is 

provided between the coupling-out position and the light-sensitive 
elements (e.g. LE1, LE2).  

 
Test device according to one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that between coupling-out 

positions of the optical waveguides (e.g. LW1, LW2) and 
the light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2) optical 

imaging means are provided, the imaging characteristic of 
which is selected so that the decoupling of adjacent 

radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) is improved. 
Test device according to Claim 51, characterized 
in that the imaging of the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, 

EF2) is undertaken by means of a hologram in such a 
manner that an improvement of the decoupling of adjacent 

radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) takes place in the 
region of the light-sensitive element (e.g. LE1, LE2). 
Test device according to Claim 51, characterized 
in that the imaging of the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, 

EF2) is undertaken by means of a Bragg cell in such a 

manner that an improvement of the decoupling of adjacent 
radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) takes place in the 

region of the light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2). 
Test device for a plurality of optical waveguides, 
in particular according to one of the preceding 

claims, having an optical receiver (OR1) which exhibits 
a coupling device (KR1) which is designed in such a 

manner that at least two optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) 
are insertable alongside one another in an ordered 

structure so that they exhibit independent radiation 
fields (SF1, SF2) lying alongside one another, the 

optical receiver (OR7) being designed in such a manner 
that in these radiation fields (SF1, SF2) of emission 

signals to be coupled out or in a group of these radiation 
fields (SFI/SF2, SF3/SF4) in each case at least one 

light-sensitive element (e.g. LE1) is disposed to be 
displaceable relative to the optical waveguides (e.g. 

LW1, LW2) to be tested, transversely to the direction of 
propagation of the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2), and 

having an evaluating device (AE1), which is associated 
with the optical receiver (OR1) and in which those test 

signals (RS1, RS2) of the individual radiation fields  
 

(SF1, SF2) which are recorded by the light-sensitive 
element (e.g. LE1) are separately evaluatable. 
Test device for a plurality of optical waveguides, 
in particular according to one of the preceding 

claims, having an optical receiver (OR1) which exhibits 
a coupling device (KR1) which is designed in such a 

manner that at least two optical waveguides (LW1, LW2) 
are insertable alongside one another in an ordered 

structure so that they exhibit independent radiation 
fields (SF1, SF2) lying alongside one another, the 

optical receiver (OR7) being designed in such a manner 
that its coupling device (KR7) with the optical waveguides 

ie.g. LW1, LW2) to be tested is disposed to be 
displaceable relative to at least one light-sensitive 

element (e.g. LE1) transversely to the direction of 
propagation of the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, EF2) so 

that in each case at least one light-sensitive element 
(e.g. LE1) is associated with these radiation fields 

(SF1, SF2) of emission signals to be coupled out or with 
a group of these radiation fields (SF1/SF2, SF3/SF4), and 

having an evaluating device (AE1), which is associated 
with the optical receiver (OR1) and in which those test 

signals (RS1, RS2) of the individual radiation fields 
(SF1, SF2) which are recorded by the light-sensitive 

element (e.g. LE1) are separately evaluatable. 
Test method, at least two optical waveguides 
(LW1, LW2) being inserted alongside one another into a 

coupling device (KR1) of an optical receiver (OR1) in an 
ordered structure so that independent radiation fields 

(SF1, SF2) lying alongside one another are formed, in 
these radiation fields (SF1, SF2) of emission signals to 

be coupled out or in a group of these radiation fields 
(SF1/sF2, sF3/sF4) in each case at least one light-sensitive 

element (SE1, SE2) being provided, these at 
least two light-sensitive elements (LE1, LE2) being 

aligned with respect to their reception characteristics 
in relation to the radiation fields (SF1, SF2) in such a 

manner that by these at least two light-sensitive  
 

elements (LE1, LE2) different parts of said radiation 
fields are picked up, and by the light-sensitive elements 

(LE1, LE2) selective test signals (RS1, RS2), which 
correspond to the respective radiation fields (SF1, SF2), 

being received and subsequently separately evaluated. 
Method according to Claim 56, characterized in 
that those test signals (RS1 - RS4) of the individual 

radiation fields (SF1 - SF4) which are recorded by the 
individual light-sensitive elements (LE1 - LE4) are read 

out sequentially in succession in time-division multiplex 
operation and are subsequently stored as test signals. 
Method according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the radiation fields (e.g. EF1, 

EF2) are imaged with enhanced mutual decoupling onto the 
light-sensitive elements (e.g. LE1, LE2). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
