<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643681</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ISOLATION OF PARTIALLY BROMINATED DIPHENYL ETHER MIXTURES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C4100	C07C4140	C07C4300	C07C4329	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C41	C07C41	C07C43	C07C43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a process for isolation of partially brominated diphenyl ether mixtures (''octabrom'') having an average bromine content of 7.2-8.5. The process comprises: (i) adding a C1-C4 alkanol to the Octabrom in solution in an organic solvent; (ii) maintaining the contact of the alkanol with Octabrom in the organic solvent for that period of time which is sufficient to allow the Octabrom to precipitate in crystalline form, making a slurry; and (iii) recovering the final Octabrom from the slurry.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREAT LAKES CHEMICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHATTACHARYA, BHABATOSH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUENCH, WAYNE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ISOLATION OF PARTIALLY BROMINATED DIPHENYL ETHER MIXTURESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention: This invention relates to a process for isolation from solution of partially brominated diphenyl ether mixtures ("Octabrom") having an average of 7.2-8.5 bromine atoms per molecule of diphenyl ether. The isolated Octabrom is crystalline in form, and has a relatively high melting range.Description of the Prior Art:The flame retardant industry terms and markets mixtures of partially brominated diphenyl ether as "Octabrom". These mixtures, hereafter referred to as Octabrom, as commercially available, typically contain 0-2 weight percent of pentabromodiphenyl ether, 5-15 weight percent of hexabromodiphenyl ether, 40-55 weight percent of heptabromodiphenyl ether, 30-40 weight percent of octabromodiphenyl ether, 5-15 weight percent of πonabromodiphenyl ether, and 0-2 weight percent of decabromodiphenyl ether. The average number of bromine atoms per molecule of brominated diphenyl ether, hereafter referred to as the bromine content, for any particular Octabrom, is dependent on the amounts and the identities of the particular bromo homologs which are present in the Octabrom mixture. The bromine content can be calculated by multiplying the weight percent of each bromo homolog by the number of bromine atoms in that homolog, adding the resulting products and dividing the sum by 100.Octabrom is a mixture, and therefore does not have a sharp melting point. For purposes herein, the melting point 

will be expressed as a melting range (M.R.). The melting range can be low, e.g., M.R. = 75-95°C, high, e.g., M.R. = 90-145°C, or can be somewhere in-between, depending on the process and any post-process treatment used in the preparation or production of the Octabrom.The melting range of any particular Octabrom depends on its amorphous or crystalline nature. The lower melting Octabroms are more amorphous, i.e., much less crystalline, than the higher melting Octabroms which are more crystalline. Another interesting observation is that lower melting Octabroms tend to agglomerate, i.e., tend to form lumps. These lower melting Octabroms can become non free-flowing after being subjected to long storage periods, e.g., a few weeks, and to higher temperatures, e.g., 50-80°C during the storage period. Higher melting Octabroms do not have a tendency of agglomeration and are free-flowing.Apart from the amorphous or crystalline nature of Octabrom and the tendency of agglomeration, Octabrom customers may set melting range as a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for the isolation of a solid partially brominated diphenyl ether product of relatively high melting range from a mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers,
5 having an average of from about 7.2 to about 8.5 bromine atoms per molecule of diphenyl ether, the method comprising: a. providing a solution of the partially brominated diphenyl ethers in an organic solvent at a temperature sufficiently high for the partially brominated diphenyl 0 ethers to be dissolved in the organic solvent; b. contacting the solution of step a. with a C-.-C. alkanol ; c. maintaining the contact of step b. for a sufficient time to allow said diphenyl ether product to precipitate out; 5 and d. recovering the precipitate.
2. The method of claim 1 in which step c. also comprises cooling the mixture of step b.
3. The method of claim 1 in which the mixture of o partially brominated diphenyl ethers contains ethers selected from the group consisting of pentabromodiphenyl ether, hexabromodiphenyl ether, heptabromodiphenyl ether, octabromodiphenyl ether, nonabromodiphenyl ether and decabromodiphenyl ether, and mixtures thereof.
5 4. The method of claim 1 in which the C,-C. alkanol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, isobutanol and t-butanol, and mixtures thereof.
5. The method of claim 4 in which the alkanol is 


 selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, and mixtures thereof.
6. The method of claim 5 in which the alkanol is methanol.
7. The method of claim 1 and which includes maintaining the contact for between about 1 hour to about 8 hours prior to the recovering of step d.
8. The method of claim 7 in which said maintaining is for between about 2 hours and about 6 hours.
9. The method of claim 7 in which said maintaining is at a temperature of between about 25°C and about 85°C.
10. The method of claim 9 in which said maintaining is at a temperature of about 25°C.
11. The method of claim 1 in which the organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of benzene, toluene, and xylenes, and mixtures thereof.
12. The method of claim 11 in which the organic solvent is toluene.
13. A method for isolating a solid diphenyl ether product having an average of from about 7.2 to about 8.5 bromine atoms per molecule of diphenyl ether from a mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers, the method including contacting said mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers with a C,-C. alkanol to form a product mixture and recovering said product from said product mixture, wherein the improvement comprises: prior to said contacting of a C,-C. alkanol, 


 providing a solution of said mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers in an organic solvent at a temperature sufficiently high for said mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers to be dissolved in said organic solvent.
5 14. The improvement of claim 13 in which the recovering comprises precipitating out the diphenyl ether product from said product mixture.
15. The improvement of claim 13 in which the mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers contains ethers selected 
0
 from the group consisting of pentabromodiphenyl ether, hexabromodiphenyl ether, heptabromodiphenyl ether, octabromodiphenyl ether, nonabromodiphenyl ether and decabromodiphenyl ether, and mixtures thereof.
16. The improvement of claim 13 in which the C,-C. 5 alkanol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, isobutanol and t-butanol, and mixtures thereof.
17. The improvement of claim 16 in which the alkanol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, and o mixtures thereof.
18. The improvement of claim 17 in which the alkanol is methanol.
19. The improvement of claim 13 and which includes maintaining said product misture for between about 1 hour to about 8 hours prior to the recovering of said product.
20. The improvement of claim 19 in which said maintaining is for between about 2 hours and about 6 hours. 


 21. The improvement of claim 1.9 in which said maintaining is at a temperature of between about 25°C and about 85°C.
22. The improvement of claim 19 in which said maintaining is at a temperature of about 25°C.
23. The improvement of claim 13 in which the organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of benzene, toluene, and xylenes, and mixtures thereof.
24. The improvement of claim 23 in which the organic solvent is toluene.
25. The improvement of claim 13 in which said recovering includes adding seed to said product mixture. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 18 October 1993 (18.10.93); original claim 13 deleted; original claims 1,14-16,19,23 and 25 amended; new claim 26 added; remaining claims unchanged (4 pages)]
1. A method for the isolation of a solid partially brominated diphenyl ether product of relatively high melting range from a mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers, having an average of from about 7.2 to about 8.5 bromine atoms per molecule of diphenyl ether, the method comprising: a. providing a solution of the partially brominated diphenyl ethers in an organic solvent at a temperature sufficiently high for the partially brominated diphenyl ethers to be dissolved in the organic solvent; b. contacting the solution of step a. with a C,-C. alkanol; c. maintaining the contact of step b. for a sufficient time to allow said diphenyl ether product to precipitate out; and d. recovering the precipitate.
2. The method of claim 1 in which step c. also comprises cooling the mixture of step b.
3. The method of claim 1 in which the mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers contains ethers selected from the group consisting of pentabromodiphenyl ether, hexabroinodiplienyl ether, eptabromodiphenyl ether, octabromodiphenyl ether, nonabroπiodiphenyl ether and decabro odiphenyl ether, and mixtures thereof.
4. The method of claim 1 in which the C' -C. alkanol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, 


ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, isobutanol and t-butanol, and mixtures thereof.
5. The method of claim 4 in which the alkanol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, and mixtures thereof.
6. The method of claim 5 in which the alkanol is methanol .
7. The method of claim 1 and which includes maintaining the contact for between about 1 hour to about 8 hours prior to the recovering of step d.
8. The method of claim 7 in which said maintaining is for between about 2 hours and about 6 hours.
9. The method of claim 7 in which said maintaining is at a temperature of between about 25°C and about 85
υ
C.
10. The method of claim 9 in which said maintaining is at a temperature of about 25°C.
11. The method of claim 1 in which the organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of benzene, toluene, and xylenes, and mixtures thereof.
12. The method of claim 11 in which the organic solvent is toluene. 

14. The improvement of claim 26 in which the recovering comprises precipitating out the diphenyl ether product from said product mixture.
15. The improvement of claim 26 in which the mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers contains ethers selected from the group consisting of pentabromodiphenyl ether, hexabromodiphenyl ether, heptabromodiphenyl ether, octabrornodiphenyl ether, nonabro odiphenyl ether and decabromodiphenyl ether, and mixtures thereof.
16. The improvement of claim 26 in which the C .-C. alkanol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, isobutanol and t-butanol, and mixtures thereof.
17. The improvement of claim 16 in which the alkanol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, and mixtures thereof.
18. The improvement of claim 17 in which the alkanol is methanol.
19. The improvement of claim 26 and which includes maintaining said product mixture for between about 1 hour to about 8 hours prior to the recovering of said product.
20. The improvement of claim 19 in which said maintaining is for between about 2 hours and about 6 hours. 


 21. The improvement of claim 19 in which said maintaining is at a temperature of between about 25°C and about 85°C.
22. The improvement of claim 19 in which said maintaining is at a temperature of about 25°C.
23. The improvement of claim 26 in which the organic solvent is selected from the group consisting of benzene, toluene, and xylenes, and mixtures thereof.
24. The improvement of claim 23 in which the organic solvent is toluene.
25. The improvement of claim 26 in which said recovering includes adding seed to said product mixture.
26. A method for isolating a solid diphenyl elher product having an average of from about 7.2 to about 8.5 bromine atoms per molecule of diphenyl ether from a mixture of partially brominated diphenyl etliers, the method including contacting said mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers with a C,-C. alkanol to form a product mixture and recovering said product from said product mixture, wherein the improvement comprises: prior to said contacting of a C.-C. alkanol, providing a solution of said mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers in an organic solvent at a temperature sufficiently high for said mixture of partially brominated diphenyl ethers to be dissolved in said organic solvent. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
