<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622661</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tension shoe for a motion picture projector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B3100	G03B148	G03B100	G03B3102	G03B2132	G03B2132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B31	G03B1	G03B1	G03B31	G03B21	G03B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved film trap for a motion picture projector. 
The film trap includes a runner assembly having first and 

second runner elements each having a reduced thickness. The 
reduced thickness of the first and second runner elements 

enables the first and second runner elements to contact a 
first side of the filmstrip such that only a portion of the 

filmstrip which includes the sprocket holes is contacted by 
the first and second runner elements. The film trap further 

includes first and second pressure bands having a reduced 
thickness substantially equivalent to the first and second 

runner elements thickness. The first and second pressure 
bands urge the filmstrip against the first and second runner 

elements by contacting a second side of the filmstrip such 
that only a portion of the filmstrip which includes the 

sprocket holes is contacted by the first and second pressure 
bands. In addition, the film trap includes a pair of 

tension shoes having a top surface including at least one 
relief notch and which is coated with a relatively low 

friction material such as TEFLON™. The reduced thickness 
and the relief notch reduce the contact area between the 

filmstrip and the first and second runner elements, first 
and second pressure bands and the tension shoes. The 

reduction in contact area in conjunction with the TEFLON™ 
coating on the tension shoes reduces the amount of surface 

damage on the filmstrip incurred by advancing the filmstrip 
through the film trap. Consequently, the number of times 

that the filmstrip may be processed through the film trap is 
substantially increased before replacement of the filmstrip 

because of surface damage sufficient to hinder reading of 
the soundtrack by sound reproducing equipment. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CINEMA PRODUCTS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CINEMA PRODUCTS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISMAN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISMAN, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to motion picture projectors
and more particularly, to an improved tension shoe for a
motion picture projector.A motion picture filmstrip generally includes a series
of pictures and at least one soundtrack. Such filmstrips
are typically used in conjunction with a motion picture
projector to provide an optical effect wherein the pictures
appear as a continuous picture having objects that are in
motion. Typically, the motion pictures are projected on a
screen. Many projectors further include means for
reproducing the soundtrack in a synchronized manner with the
picture projection. In this regard, reference is made to US
Patent No. 4,009,949 entitled THREADING AND SYNCHRONIZATION
FOR SOUND MOTION PICTURE PROJECTOR which issued to Nupnau on
March 1 1977 and assigned to Bell & Howell Co. Therein is
disclosed an automatic threading and image-sound
synchronization system. In this system, the correct image
frame to sound spacing of a filmstrip is established during
threading of the projector by using a fixed loop accumulator
and existing projector components.Many techniques have been utilized to provide a
soundtrack for a motion picture. One technique uses a
magnetic medium similar to that used for magnetic recording
tape. A soundtrack is then formed by applying the magnetic
medium onto a motion picture filmstrip. However, this
technique had disadvantages. A disadvantage is that the
recording medium does not adhere well to the filmstrip.
This results in a relatively short film life. In addition,
the recording medium typically used is abrasive, which
erodes and degrades the magnetic playback head, thus
rendering it inoperable.Another technique includes the formation of an analog
optical sound recording on the filmstrip. One such
recording is known as a variable area recording. This type of 
recording provides a soundtrack having optically translucent
or opaque areas whose width varies according to the
instantaneous amplitude of the sound. During movie
projection, the soundtrack is illuminated from behind by a
lamp and is viewed in front through a slit by a photocell.
As the filmstrip advances, the photocell receives an amount
of light that varies in accordance with the varying width of
the varying translucent or opaque areas of the soundtrack.
The photocell produces a corresponding voltage which is then
utilized to reproduce the sound. In another type of optical
recording, a soundtrack is configured such that it conforms
to a curve that is empirically derived to provide the best
compromise
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tension shoe for a motion picture projector
film trap, wherein said tension shoe is arranged to maintain a filmstrip (66)

against a drive sprocket (92) in said projector, comprising:

at least one element (36; 38) affixed to said
film trap adjacent said drive sprocket, said element (36; 38) having

a slender configuration and a top surface (39; 40) arranged to
contact said filmstrip (66) only in an area adjacent to an edge (70; 74) of said filmstrip (66), characterized in that said top

surface (39; 40) includes at least one relief notch (82).
The tension shoe according to claim 1, wherein
said top su
rface (39; 40) is coated with a relatively low friction
material.
A tension shoe according to claim 1 or 2,
comprising first (36) and second (38) said elements affixed

to said film trap.
The tension shoe according to claim 3, wherein
said first and second elements (36; 38) are spaced apart and

stationary.
The tension shoe according to claim 4, wherein
said filmstrip (66) includes a first soundtrack area extending

between a first sprocket hole portion (72) to a first edge (74) of
said filmstrip (66) and a second soundtrack area extending

between a second sprocket hole portion (68) to a second edge (70) of
said filmstrip (66) and wherein said first and second elements (36; 38)

are affixed to said film trap with their top surfaces (39,
40) arranged to contact said first and second soundtrack

areas.
The tension shoe according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said at least one relief notch (82) is

approximately 1.78 mm (0.070 inches) wide.
A film trap for a motion picture projector (85)
having a light source, projection optics (88) and a drive

sprocket (92) for advancing a motion picture filmstrip (66)
through said film trap, said filmstrip (66) including a

soundtrack (71) extending between a first sprocket hole
portion (72) to a first edge (74) of said filmstrip (66) and 

between a second sprocket hole portion (68) to a second edge
(70) of said filmstrip wherein said first sprocket hole

portion (72) includes a first set of sprocket holes and said
second sprocket hole portion (68) includes a second set of

sprocket holes and said soundtrack (71) extends between each of
said sprocket holes in said first set and between each of

said sprocket holes in said second set, said film trap
comprising:


a tension shoe according to any one of the
preceding claims;
a runner assembly (78) having a mounting
surface, a first aperture (30) and means for securing said

runner assembly (78) to said projector such that said first
aperture (30) is in light communication with said projection

optics (88);
a plate element (44) having a top end (46) and a
bottom end (48), a second aperture (31) and means for

securing said plate element (44) to said projector such that said
second aperture (31) is in light communication with said light

source;
a first strap element (50) and a second strap
element (52) each having a first end and a second end,

wherein each said first end is affixed to said top end of
said plate element and each said second end is affixed to

said bottom end of said plate element such that said first
and second strap elements (50; 52) are spaced apart and span above

said plate element (44); and
a channel member (12) affixed to said mounting
surface, said channel member (12) having a base element

positioned between first (18) and second (20) elongated
runner elements each extending above said base element to

form a substantially U-shaped runner member wherein said
filmstrip (66) can be positioned between said first runner

element (18) and said first strap element (50) and between said second
runner element (20) and said second strap element (52); wherein 
said first runner element (18) and said first strap
element (50) are arranged to contact said first sprocket hole portion (72) of said

filmstrip (66) substantially only between each of said sprocket
holes in said first set and said second runner element (20) and

said second strap element (52) contact said second sprocket hole
portion (68) of said filmstrip (66) substantially only between each of

said sprocket holes in said second set.
The film trap according to claim 7, wherein said
first and second runner elements (18,2 0) each have an arcuate shape.
The film trap according to claim 7 or 8, wherein
said first and second strap elements (50, 52) each have an inverted

substantially L-shape.
The film trap according to claim 7, 8 or 9,
wherein said first strap element (50) and said first runner

element (18) each have a width substantially equivalent to said
first sprocket hole portion (72) of said filmstrip between each

of said sprocket holes in said first set, and said second
strap element (52) and said second runner element (20) each have a

width substantially equivalent to said second sprocket hole
portion (68) of said filmstrip (66) between each of said sprocket

holes in said second set.
The film trap according to any one of claims 7
to 10, wherein said first and second strap elements (50, 52) are each

approximately 2.54 mm (0.100 inches) wide.
The film trap according to any one of claims 7
to 11, wherein said first and second runner elements (18, 20) are

each approximately 2.54 mm (0.100 inches) wide.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
