<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Voltage-tunable photodetector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J900	H01L3110	H01L3110	H01L310248	H01L310352	G01J900	H01L310216	H01L310216	H01L31105	H01L31102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	G01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J9	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	G01J9	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tunable monolithic integrated photodetector (10) 
detects a selected wavelength of incident light within a 

wavelength range. The photodetector comprises a multiple 
quantum well (MQW) filter means (14) for receiving and filtering 

the incident light, and an MQW detector means (16) for receiving 
light from the MQW filter means and for detecting the selected 

wavelength. A fixed voltage bias V
Δ
 is disposed between 
the 

filter means and the detector means for causing the filter 
means to absorb light wavelengths around the selected 

wavelength to thereby enhance the detectability of the 
selected wavelength. Further, a variable voltage bias V
P
 is 
selectively and proportionally imposed on both the filter 

means and the detector means for permitting tuning of the 
photodetector. A fixed filter (27) may also be employed for 

filtering the incident light so that light wavelengths which 
are outside the range of the photodetector are eliminated. 

Finally, a plurality of the photodetectors may be arranged in 
a two dimensional array for image processing. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOOSSEN KEITH WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOOSSEN, KEITH WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to monolithic
integrated circuit technology and electromagnetic
communication technology and, more particularly, to a tunable
monolithic integrated photodetector for detecting light at a
selected wavelength within a wavelength range.When light strikes a photosensitive material, light
energy, or photons, are absorbed by the material, and an
electrical current, often called a photocurrent because it
results from the absorption of photons, is generated in the
material. Photocurrent refers to the flow of electrons or
holes within the material. Moreover, a peak in the
photocurrent spectrum of the material which results from the
absorption of photons is oftentimes referred to as an exciton.In the prior art, it has been shown that a multiple
quantum well (MQW) diode can be used as a photodetector whose
voltage of maximum photocurrent, i.e., a large exciton, is
dependent upon the wavelength of incident light. In this
regard, see P.H. Wood et al., "Wavelength-Selective
Voltage-Tunable Photodetector Made from Multiple Quantum
Wells," Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 47, no. 3, pp. 190-192, August
1, 1985. An MQW material is essentially a narrow bandgap
material which has a thickness substantially less than the
diameter of an exciton and which is sandwiched between wider
bandgap materials so as to enhance the exciton via confinement
of the energy potential well. The voltage of maximum
photocurrent within the MQW diode can be located and related
to the wavelength of the incident light, thereby allowing for
measurements of the wavelength. Identifying the wavelength of
incident light is beneficial in imaging and spectroscopy
applications. However, the light incident on a photosensitive material
can create multiple peaks in the photocurrent spectrum, that
is, more than one exciton. The photocurrent exhibits a
relatively large exciton, called a heavy hole (hh) exciton, at
the particular wavelength of incident light, as well as any
number of smaller excitons, called light hole (lh) excitons,
at other wavelengths of the photocurrent spectrum. Needless
to say, the occurrence of multiple excitons causes potential
ambiguity when one attempts to determine the wavelength of
incident light.More specifically, at room temperature (i.e.,
approximately 300 degrees Kelvin), the selectivity of an MQW
diode is step-like, producing photocurrent at all photon
wavelengths at and above the exciton wavelength. If no
electrical bias is applied to the MQW diode, the
peak-to-valley ratio of the hh exciton to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tunable monolithic integrated photodetector having a basic n-i-p-i-n
layer structure comprising:


a first multiple quantum well layer (14) having a first photocurrent
spectrum for receiving and filtering incident light, said multiple quantum well layer (14)

having a first surface (13) for receiving the incident light and a second surface;
a second multiple quantum well layer (16) having a second photocurrent
spectrum for receiving and detecting incident light transmitted by said first multiple

quantum well layer, said second multiple quantum well layer (16) having a first surface;
electrode means (21, 22, 25) connected to each of said first and second multiple
quantum well layers, and means (17) for applying a fixed bias to said first multiple

quantum well layer by means of a first electrode (21) attached to said first surface (13)
of said first multiple quantum well layer (14);

CHARACTERIZED IN THAT
a variable bias means (18) is connected to a second electrode (22)
connected to the junction (15) of said second surface of said first multiple quantum well

layer and said first surface of said second multiple quantum well layer for applying a
bias to both said first and second quantum well layers, said variable bias means being

connected in series opposition to said fixed bias means;
said first multiple quantum well layer (14) comprising fewer periods than
said second multiple quantum well layer (16); and
said fixed bias means is arranged to apply such a bias as to shift the
photocurrent spectrum of the second multiple quantum well layer (16) relative to the

photocurrent spectrum of the first multiple quantum well layer (14) whereby said first
multiple quantum well layer minimizes light hole excitons in the photocurrent spectrum

corresponding to said second multiple quantum well layer.
The photodector of claim 1, wherein said first multiple quantum well
layer is superposed on said second multiple quantum well layer which is superposed

on a substrate (11).
The photodetector of claim 1, further comprising a fixed filter (27), for
eliminating wavelengths of said incident light which are outside the range of said

photodetector.
A plurality of photodetectors formed in accordance with said
photodetector of claim 1, said plurality arranged in an array.
The photodetector of claim 2, further comprising a first doped layer (15) 
between said first and second multiple quantum well layers, a second doped layer (13) on

said first multiple quantum well layer for receiving said incident light, and a third
doped layer between said second multiple quantum well layer and said substrate.
The photodetector of claim 5, further comprising an open well through
said second doped layer (13) and said first multiple quantum well layer (14) to said first doped

layer (15) and wherein said well comprises an electrical contact (22) for applying a bias to
said first doped layer.
The photodetector of claim 5, wherein said first doped layer comprises
a p-doped material and said second doped and third doped layers each comprise an

n-doped material. 
A method of using a photodetector as claimed in claim 1 to detect
light at a selected wavelength within a wavelength range

CHARACTERISED BY

proportionally varying said variable bias to select the selected
wavelength and to move the selected w
avelength through the range; and
providing said fixed bias to offset the bias applied to said first multiple
quantum well layer relative to that applied to said second multiple quantum well layer

so as to shift the absorption spectrum of said first multiple quantum well layer towards
shorter wavelengths relative to that of said second multiple quantum well layer to

thereby enhance the detectability of the selected wavelength within the range by said
second multiple quantum well layer.
The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of filtering the
incident light by eliminating wavelengths of the incident light which are outside the

range of said photodetector, thereby enhancing the detectability of the selected
wavelength.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
