<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632421</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for aiding transmission of intent
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G1200	A61B50476	G09B2100	A61B500	A61F400	A61B500	A61F400	A61B50484	A61G1200	G09B2100	G04G9900	G04G9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61B	G09B	A61B	A61F	A61B	A61F	A61B	A61G	G09B	G04G	G04G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G12	A61B5	G09B21	A61B5	A61F4	A61B5	A61F4	A61B5	A61G12	G09B21	G04G99	G04G99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and a method for aiding the 
transmission of intent, whereby to enable a severely 

physically-handicapped person, who has lost muscular 
energy due to amyotrophic lateral sclero
sis (ALS), 
muscular dystrophy or the like, to transmit his/her 

intent through an electroencephalogram wave. A 
mechanical switch and an electroencephalogram wave 

switch are used in combination to allow the 
transmission of intent over the whole period of such a 

disease. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus and
a method for aiding the transmission of intent, which
enable a severely physically-handicapped person, who
has lost muscular energy due to amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS), muscular dystrophy or the like, to
transmit his/her intent through an electroencephalogram
wave.The number of physically-handicapped persons, who
lose motor functions while retaining their brain
function, is expected to increase in the coming aged
society. In the case of such diseases as ALS or
muscular dystrophy, which are known as incurable
diseases, patients' losing the means for transmitting
their intent in medical care environments is leading to
a significant increase in the medical care cost for
medical treatment, medical attendance, and nursing.
Further, there is strong demand for mutual transmission
of intent between patients, who still retain human
intelligence and senses, and people who attend on the
patients over a long period.A disease such as ALS and muscular dystrophy 
causes the muscular function of a human body to be lost
slowly and no aiding apparatus is available for
transmitting intent, which can be used over the entire
period of the progressive disease of a patient.A conventional apparatus, however, limits an input
device to an external mechanical switch, whereas the
mechanical switch is not suited to a patient suffering
from the advancement of muscular anergic disease. In a preferred embodiment, the
present invention combines a mechanical switch and an
electroencephalogram wave switch to meet the demand for
transmission of intent over the whole period of such a
disease.There is a human body feedback switch apparatus
which employs the alpha wave among brain waves (see for example US-A-4 013 068). The
emergence of the alpha wave, however, varies greatly as
from one person to another, making it unsatisfactory as
a control signal in the aspect of reliability accuracy;
therefore, the switch apparatus is not used as a
control switch for transmitting intent.The conventional apparatus applies a general-purpose
computer for non-handicapped persons and it is
therefore disadvantageous to the physically-handicapped
in that the operation is complicated and it is too
large for them to handle easily. There is demand for a
dedicated apparatus designed with an emphasis placed on
ease of operation with a minimum of functions provided.Fig. 3 is a block configuration diagram of a 
conversation aid apparatus, which applies a
conventional general-purpose computer.In the conversation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for aiding the transmission of intent, comprising:

displaying means (11) for displaying character information,

the apparatus being characterised in that it further
comprises:
detecting means (9) for detecting a beta brain wave of a
predetermined frequency,
scanning means sequentially making areas of the displaying
means available for selection,
display controlling (13) means which controls said displaying
means so that an area that is available for selection

is displayed distinguishably from other areas,
and
selecting means (13) for selecting the character information
in an area that is available for selection in accordance

with the detection of a beta brain wave of the
predetermined frequency by said detecting means.
An apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein
said predetermined frequency includes 20 to 40 Hz.
An apparatus according to Claim 1, further
comprising a mechanical switch.
An apparatus according to Claim 3, further
comprising determining means which determines a time

interrelationship between an input given by said
mechanical switch and the detection of the brain wave

by said detecting means and registers it.
An apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein 
said display controlling means controls

said displaying means so that a searched character may
be displayed distinguishably from other characters.
An apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein
said display controlling means controls said displaying

means so that character information selected by said
selecting means is displayed distinguishably from other

character information.
An apparatus according to Claim 5, further
comprising storing means for storing a message, said

display controlling means controlling said displaying
means so that a message stored in said storing means

may be displayed on said displaying means.
An apparatus according to Claim 1, further
comprising level determining means which determines

that the brain wave of the predetermined frequency
detected by said detecting means exceeds a

predetermined level.
An apparatus according to Claim 4, wherein the
selection of character information by said selecting

means is controlled in accordance with the time
interrelationship which is determined and registered by

said determining means. 
A method for aiding the transmission of intent, comprising
the steps of:


displaying character information (S5, S14),

the method being characterised in that it further comprises
the steps of:
scanning said displayed character information thereby
sequentially making parts of the displayed character information

available for selection (S6, S15)
controlling the display of the character information so
that a part that is available for selection is displayed

distinguishably from other parts,
detecting a beta brain wave of a predetermined frequency
(S7, S16), and
selecting the character information that is available
for selection, in accordance with the detection of said

beta brain wave of the predetermined frequency (S8, S17).
A method according to Claim 10, wherein said
predetermined frequency includes 20 to 40 Hz.
A method according to Claim 10, wherein a
time interrelationship between an input given by a

mechanical switch and the detection of the brain wave

by said detecting means is determined and registered.
A method according to Claim 10, wherein a
searched character is displayed distinguishably from

other characters.
A method according to Claim 13, wherein said 
selected character information is displayed

distinguishably from other character information.
A method according to Claim 13, wherein said
displayed character information is a registered

message.
A method according to Claim 10, wherein said
selection is performed when said detected brain wave of

the predetermined frequency exceeds a predetermined
level.
A method according to Claim 12, wherein the
selection of said character information is controlled

in accordance with said registered time
interrelationship.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
