<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636861</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polarization selecting device, light source module and fiber-optic gyroscope.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1972	G01C1972	G02B530	G02B530	G02B634	G02B634	G02B642	G02B642	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C19	G01C19	G02B5	G02B5	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A source-sensitive fiber-optic gyroscope is a novel, simplified 
gyroscope which demands a suitable, simplified, low-cost polarizer. 

A birefringent crystal having surfaces inclining at about 45 
degrees to the anisotropic axis can spatially separates a bea
m into 
an ordinary beam with polarization perpendicular to the 

anisotropic axis and an extraordinary beam with polarization 
having a component of the anisotropic axis. A polarization 

selecting device is produced by facing ends of two optical fibers to 
both surfaces of a birefringent crystal. A beam emitted from a 

fiber is separated into an ordinary beam and an extraordinary beam. 
Either of them enters the core of the other beam as a propagating 

beam. A light source module is produced with a light emitting 
device, a birefringent crystal and an end of an optical fiber. The 

birefringent crystal divides a beam from the light source into an 
extraordinary ray and an ordinary ray. Either of them is 

introduced into the fiber. Thus the light source module emits 
linearly-polarized beams. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWASHITA TAKAKI C O OSAKA WORK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIURA YOZO C O OSAKA WORKS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWASHITA, TAKAKI, C/O OSAKA WORKS OF SUMIMOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIURA, YOZO, C/O OSAKA WORKS OF SUMIMOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application claims the priority of Japanese Patent 
Application No.208683/1993 filed July 29, 1993 and Japanese Patent 
Application No.031966/1994 filed February 2, 1994, which are 
incorporated herein by references. This invention relates to a polarization selecting 
device, a light source module utilizing the polarization selecting 
device and a fiber-optic gyroscope making use of the light source 
module. Here the polarization selecting device means a device 
of choosing the beams linearly polarized in a certain direction 
from the beams polarized randomly in all directions. In particular, 
a purpose of the invention is to provide a device of choosing the 
polarization of beams for coupling to an optical fiber. A polarizer has been well known as a device for 
choosing the beams of the polarization in a certain direction. The  
 
polarizer converts the beams of any polarization into 
linearly-polarized beams by allowing the beams of the polarization 
in the selected direction and extinguishing the beams of the 
polarization perpendicular to the selected direction. The selected 
direction of polarization is now named a "transparency axis" of the 
polarizer. There are only the beams of polarized linearly in the 
selected direction at the back of the polarizer. A polarization plate, a polarization prism, a fiber-type 
polarizer, or a metal-dielectric multilayer polarizer have been 
known as a polarizer. The latter two are suitable for a fiber-optic 
gyroscope. The fiber-type polarizer is produced by winding a 
polarization maintaining fiber several turns around a bobbin. The 
bending causes anisotropy of the loss with regard to the 
birefringent axes. The light having a polarization in a direction 
attenuates by dissipating power due to the bending. The other 
light having another polarization perpendicular to the dissipating 
mode can travel the bending fiber without loss. The former is 
called dissipative mode. The latter is called propagating mode. 
The fiber-type polarizer is a device utilizing the dependence of 
the bending loss upon the polarization.  The metal-dielectric multilayer polarizer is a device 
produced by piling in turn metal thin films and dielectric films on 
a substrate. The light beams with a polarization perpendicular to 
the multilayers go through the device without significant loss. The 
other beams with a polarization parallel with the multilayers 
dissipate the energy in the device due to the eddy current induced 
in the metal films. The former is the propagating mode. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A polarization selecting device comprising a first 
optical fiber with a core, a birefringent crystal having an entrance 

surface facing the first optical fiber, an exit surface, and an 
anisotropic axis which is neither perpendicular to nor parallel 

with the entrance surface, a second optical fiber with a core 
facing the exit surface of the birefringent crystal and a holding 

device supporting the first optical fiber, the birefringent crystal 
and the second optical fiber along a line, wherein the birefringent 

crystal spatially separates a light beam from the first optical 
fiber into an ordinary beam with polarization perpendicular to the 

anisotropic axis and an extraordinary beam with polarization 
including a component of the anisotropic axis and the second 

optical fiber receives either of the ordinary beam and the 
extraordinary beam into the core as a propagating beam. 
A polarization selecting device as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein the inclination angle α of the anisotropic axis to the 

entrance surface is between 25 degrees and 65 degrees, and a 
 

thickness t of the birefringent crystal, a refractive index no of 
ordinary ray, a refractive index ne of extraordinary ray and a core 

diameter Df of the fibers satisfy an inequality |(ne-no)|t sin2α 
/nk 
>
 Df, where nk = nocos²α + nesin²α. 
A polarization selecting device as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein the birefringent crystal is quartz, LiNbO₃, KDP, TiO₂ or 

calcite. 
A polarization selecting device as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein the inclination angel α is an angle from 35 degrees to 55 

degrees. 
A light source module comprising a light emitting 
device, a birefringent crystal having an entrance surface facing 

the light emitting device, an exit surface, and an anisotropic axis 
which is neither perpendicular to nor parallel with the entrance 

surface, an optical fiber with a core facing the exit surface of the 
birefringent crystal and a holding device supporting the light 

emitting device, the birefringent crystal and the optical fiber 
along a line, wherein the birefringent crystal spatially separates a 

light beam emitted from the light emitting device into an ordinary 
beam with polarization perpendicular to the anisotropic axis and an 

extraordinary beam with polarization including a component of the 
 

anisotropic axis and the optical fiber receives either of the 
ordinary beam and the extraordinary beam into the core as a 

propagating beam. 
A light source module as claimed in claim 5, wherein the 

inclination angle α of the anisotropic axis to the entrance surface 
is between 25 degrees and 65 degrees, and a thickness t of the 

birefringent crystal, a refractive index no of ordinary ray, a 
refractive index ne of extraordinary ray and a core diameter Df of 

the fibers satisfy an inequality |(ne-no)|t sin2α/nk 
>
 Df, where 
nk = nocos²α + nesin²α. 
A light source module as claimed in claim 6, wherein the 
birefringent crystal is quartz, LiNbO₃, KDP, TiO₂ or calcite. 
A light source module as claimed in claim 7, wherein the 
inclination angel α is an angle from 35 degrees to 55 degrees. 
A light source module comprising a light source having 
a package, a cap with a window, a light emitting device for emitting 

light beams and a monitoring photodiode for monitoring the power 
of the light emitting device, a lens holder supporting the light 

source at one end, a lens installed in the lens holder for 
converging the beams emitted from the light emitting device, a 

plane birefringent crystal fixed in the lens holder with parallel 
 

surfaces and an anisotropic axis inclining to the surfaces at an 
angle α between 25 degrees and 65 degrees, a receptacle mounted 

on another end of the lens holder for attaching or detaching a 
ferrule fitted on an end of an optical fiber to or from the lens 

holder, wherein the plane birefringent crystal spatially separate 
light beams emitted from the light emitting device into ordinary 

beams with polarization perpendicular to the anisotropic axis and 
extraordinary beams with polarization including a component of the 

anisotropic axis, a thickness t of the birefringent crystal, a 
refractive index no of ordinary ray, a refractive index ne of 

extraordinary ray and a core diameter Df of the fibers satisfy an 
inequality |(ne-no)|t sin2α/nk 
>
 Df where nk = nocos²α + nesin²α, 
and the optical fiber receives either of the ordinary beam and the 

extraordinary beam into the core as a propagating beam. 
A light source module as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
lens lies nearer to the light emitting device than the plane 

birefringent crystal and the birefringent crystal separates the 
beams converged by the lens into ordinary beams and extraordinary 

beams. 
A light source module as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
lens lies farther from the light emitting device than the plane 

 
birefringent crystal and the separated extraordinary beams an the 

ordinary beams are individually converged by the lens. 
A light source module as claimed in claim in 9, wherein 
the lens has an effective, central part and a non-effective, 

peripheral part, a pinhole plate having a pinhole is interposed 
between the light emitting device and the lens for preventing the 

beams emanated from the light emitting device from passing the 
non-effective, peripheral part of the lens, and the solid angle dω₂ 

of a cone projecting from the center of the light emitting device to 
the pinhole is smaller than the solid angle dω₁ of another cone 

projecting from the center of the light emitting device to the 
effective part of the lens. 
A light source module as claimed in claim 12, wherein an 
antireflection film is coated at least on a part of the inner wall of 

the cap which would be irradiated by the light emanated in all 
direction from the light emitting device. 
A light source module as claimed in claim in 9, wherein 
the lens has an effective, central part and a non-effective, 

peripheral part, the cap of the light source has a pinhole window 
for preventing the beams emanated from the light emitting device 

from passing the non-effective, peripheral part of the lens, and 
 

the solid angle dω₂ of a cone projecting from the center of the 
light emitting device to the pinhole window is smaller than the 

solid angle dω₁ of another cone projecting from the center of the 
light emitting device to the effective part of the lens. 
A light source module as claimed in claim in 9, wherein 
the lens has an effective, central part and a non-effective, 

peripheral part and the no-effective part of the lens is treated by 
antireflection and antiransparency coating. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope comprising a light source 
having a light emitting device for emitting monochromatic or 

quasimonochromatic light beams and a photodetector for monitoring 
the power of the light emitting device, a birefringent crystal 

positioned on the beam line defined by the light emitting device and 
having an anisotropic axis which is not perpendicular to the beam 

line nor parallel with the beam line for separating spatially the 
beams into extraordinary beams and ordinary beams, an optical 

fiber disposed in front of the birefringent crystal for selectively 
receive either an extraordinary beam or an ordinary beam from the 

birefringent crystal, a coupler provided in the fiber for dividing 
or integrating beams, a fiber coil produced by winding a 

single-mode fiber in a coil and connecting both ends to the coupler 
 

for guiding beams clockwise and counterclockwise, wherein the 
beams emanated from the light emitting device are separated into 

extraordinary beams and ordinary beams by the birefringent 
crystal, only one beam of the extraordinary beams and the ordinary 

beams is received by the optical fiber as a propagating beam, the 
beam is divided in half by the coupler, the divided beams travel in 

the fiber coil clockwise and counterclockwise and are unified by 
the coupler, the unified beams pass the birefringent crystal, reach 

the light emitting device and interfere with each other, and the 
angular velocity of the fiber coil is deduced from the driving 

current of the light emitting device at a constant driving voltage, 
from the driving voltage at a constant driving current or from the 

photocurrent of the monitoring photodetector at a constant 
driving current or voltage. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 16, wherein 
a phase modulator is equipped at an end of the fiber coil for 

modulating the phase of the light wave progressing there. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 17, wherein 
a depolarizer is interposed at an end of the fiber coil for 

depolarizing the light wave progressing there. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 16, wherein 
 

the inclination angle α of the anisotropic axis to the beam line is 
an angle between 25 degrees and 65 degrees, and a thickness t of 

the birefringent crystal, a refractive index no of ordinary ray, a 
refractive index ne of extraordinary ray and a core diameter Df of 

the fibers satisfy an inequality |(ne-no)|t sin2α/nk 
>
 Df, where 
nk = nocos²α + nesin²α. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 16, wherein 
the birefringent crystal is quartz, LiNbO₃, KDP, TiO₂ or calcite. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 16, wherein 
the light source and the birefringent crystal are integrated in a 

light source module. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 19, wherein 
the light source module comprising the light source having a 

package, a cap with a window, a light emitting device for emitting 
light beams and a monitoring photodiode for monitoring the power 

of the light emitting device, a lens holder supporting the light 
source at one end, a lens installed in the lens holder for 

converging the beams emitted from the light emitting device, the 
plane birefrin
gent crystal fixed in the lens holder with parallel 
surfaces and an anisotropic axis inclining to the surfaces at an 

angle α between 25 degrees and 65 degrees, a receptacle mounted 
 

on another end of the lens holder for attaching or detaching a 
ferrule fitted on an end of an optical fiber to or from the lens 

holder. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 22, wherein 
the lens has an effective, central part and a non-effective, 

peripheral part, a pinhole plate having a pinhole is interposed 
between the light emitting device and the lens for preventing the 

beams emanated from the light emitting device from passing the 
non-effective, peripheral part of the lens, and the solid angle dω₂ 

of a cone projecting from the center of the light emitting device to 
the pinhole is smaller than the solid angle dω₁ of another cone 

projecting from the center of the light emitting device to the 
effective part of the lens. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 22, wherein 
an antireflection film is coated at least on a part of the inner wall 

of the cap which would be irradiated by the light emanated from the 
light emitting device. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 22, wherein 
the lens has an effective, central part and a non-effective, 

peripheral part, the cap of the light source has a pinhole window 
for preventing the beams emanated from the light emitting device 

 
from passing the non-effective, peripheral part of the lens, and 

the solid angle dω₂ of a cone projecting from the center of the 
light emitting device to the pinhole window is smaller than the 

solid angle dω₁ of another cone projecting from the center of the 
light emitting device to the effective part of the lens. 
A fiber-optic gyroscope as claimed in claim 22, wherein 
the lens has an effective, central part and a non-effective, 

peripheral part and the no-effective part of the lens is treated by 
antireflection and anitransparency coating. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
