<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636040</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLOSED DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61J114	A61J120	A61J122	A61J300	A61J300	A61M5142	A61M5142	A61M5168	A61M5175	A61M3700	A61M3700	B65D8132	B65D8132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61J	A61J	A61J	A61J	A61J	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61J1	A61J1	A61J1	A61J3	A61J3	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M37	A61M37	B65D81	B65D81	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (12) for controllably intermixing two or more components in a sterile, closed environment to produce a flowable substance and then for expelling the flowable substance from the apparatus at a precisely controlled rate. The apparatus is particularly useful for medical applications and includes a dispenser portion (20) with its own stored energy element provided in the form of an elastomeric membrane (30) and a coupling mechanism (18, 110) for coupling a drug vial (14) to the dispenser portion (21, 20) for controlled mixing of medicament contained within the drug vial (14) with a diluent stored within the dispenser portion of the apparatus via a sterile pathway (24, 28a, 28b, 28c).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENCE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENCE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRIESEL MARSHALL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON THOMAS N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRIESEL MARSHALL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON THOMAS N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
CLOSED DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS P E C I F I C A T I O N Background of the Invention This is a Continuation In Part Application of Serial No. 07/870,553 filed April 17, 1992 which is a Continuation In Part of Serial No. 07/513,917 filed April 24, 1990, now ϋ. S. Patent No. 5,122,116.Field of the Invention -The present invention relates generally to fluid mixing and delivery systems. More particularly, the invention concerns an apparatus for intermixing selected medicaments to form a flowable substance and for then infusing the substance into a patient at a precisely controlled rate.Discussion of the InventionMedicament delivering systems that can separately store and then controllably intermix a selected medicament with a diluent for infusion into a patient at a controlled rate have come into wide use. In the prior art systems the diluent is generally packaged in flexible plastic containers having admin¬ istration ports for connection to an administration set which delivers the container contents from the container to the pa¬ tient. The drug is often packaged in a separate, closed con¬ tainer and is mixed with the diluent shortly before infusion of the medicament in the patient.Drugs are typically packaged separately from the diluent for a number of reasons. One important reason is that certain drugs do not retain their efficacy when mixed with a diluent and, therefore, the mixture cannot be stored for any appreciable length of time. Another reason is that many drug manufacturers do not produce medical fluids in containers for 

intravenous delivery. As a general rule, drugs are packaged in powder form in small, closed containers, or vials, for later mixing with a suitable diluent. In many instances it is neces¬ sary to mix the drug with the diluent immediately prior to delivery to the patient to insure that the drug will not sepa¬ rate from the diluent prior to or during infusion.Infusion of medicaments is most often accomplished in a hospital environment and the nurse, doctor or other medical personnel mixes the drug and diluent shortly before administra¬ tion of the drug to the patient. *This mixing step can be time consuming* and hazardous, as for example, when toxic drugs are used. Additionally, many of the prior art mixing devices are crude and imprecise making accurate, sterile and thorough mixing of the drug and the diluent difficult, time consuming and not well suited for use in the home environment.Several types of closed drug delivery systems are presently in use. These systems typically comprise
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM
1. An apparatus for use in intermixing first and second components to form a flowable substance and for then infusing the substance into a patient at a controlled rate, said apparatus comprising:
(a) a container assembly including:
(i) a container having walls defining an inter¬ nal chamber for containing the first component,
(ii) adding means disposed within said chamber for adding an additive to fluid flowing through said chamber, said adding means comprising an additive and an additive presentation means for presenting said additive to the fluid; and
(b) an infusion device comprising a housing having first and second portions, said first portion including coupling means for coupling said container with said first portion of said housing, said coupling means having a first passageway adapted to communicate with said fluid flow passageway of said plunger and a second passageway adapted to communicate with said flow passageway of said check valve operating member, said coupling means further including a check valve disposed within said second passa¬ geway of said coupling means, and being engageable by said check valve operating member to move said check valve from a first position to a second position, said second posi¬ tion of said housing comprising:
(i) a base having a first and second passage¬ ways formed therein, said first passageway being in communication with said first passageway of said coupling means and said second passageway being in communication with said second passageway of said
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 coupling means, said base having an outlet port; and
(ii) a thin, generally planar distendable mem¬ brane constructed of an elastic material, said mem¬ brane being adapted to overlay said base and cooper¬ ate therewith to define a chamber for containing the second component, said chamber being in communication with said first and second passageways of said base and with said outlet port, said membrane being dis¬ tendable by fluid introduced into said chamber under pressure and having a tendency to return to a sub¬ stantially less distended configuration, whereby the second compartment contained within said chamber will be urged to flow into said second passageway of said base.
2. An apparatus as defined in Claim 1 in which said container assembly further comprises:
(a) a collar having an internal thread and an external thread; and
(b) an overpackage surrounding said container having an external threads interconnectable with said internal threads on said collar upon rotation of said overpackage relative to said collar.
3. An apparatus as defined in Claim 2 in which said connector means includes an internal thread adaptive to thread¬ ably receive said external thread of said collar.
4. An apparatus as defined in Claim 3 in which upon said internal thread of said connector means receiving said external thread on said collar said check valve operating member will move said check valve to said open position.
5. An apparatus as defined in Claim 4 in which when said check valve is in said open position rotation of said over-
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


package relative to said collar will urge said check valve operating member toward said second position thereby permitting fluid flow through said fluid flow passageway of said plunger.
6. An apparatus as defined in Claim 5 in which said container assembly further comprises filter means contained within said container for filtering fluid flowing toward said fluid flow passageway of said plunger.
7. An apparatus as defined in Claim 5 in which said infusion means further includes means for regulating fluid flow through said outlet port of said base.
8. An apparatus for use in infusing fluids into a patient at a controlled rate, said apparatus comprising:
(a) an container assembly including:
(i) a container having a fluid flow passa¬ geway and walls defining an internal chamber in communication with said fluid passageway;
(ii) adding means disposed within said chamber for adding an additive to fluid flowing through said chamber, said adding means comprising an additive and an additive presentation means for presenting said additive to the fluid; and
(b) an infusion device comprising a housing having first and second portions , said first portion including coupling means for coupling said container assembly with said first portion of said housing, said coupling means having a first passageway adapted to commu¬ nicate with said fluid flow passageway of said container, said second portion of said housing comprising:
(i) a base having a fluid outlet and first and second fluid passageways formed therein, said first passageway being in communication with said
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 first passageway of said coupling means and said second passageway being in communication with said fluid outlet; and
(ii) a thin, generally planar distendable membrane constructed of an elastic material, said membrane being adapted to overlay said base and cooperate therewith to define a reservoir for con¬ taining a fluid, said reservoir being in communica¬ tion with said first and second passageways of said base, said membrane being distendable by fluid intro¬ duced into said chamber under pressure and having a tendency to return to a substantially less distended configuration, whereby the fluid contained within said reservoir will be urged to flow selectively into said first and second passageways of said base. 9. A device as defined in Claim 8 in which said additive comprise a beneficial agent which is removable from said additive presentation means using affinity chromotography techniques.
10. A device as defined in Claim 8 in which said additive is removably connected to said additive presentation means using azlactone functional compounds.
11. A device as defined in Claim 8 in which said additive presentation means comprises a structural support dis¬ posed within said container, said structural support having biologically active proteins bound thereto.
12. An apparatus as defined in Claim 8 in which said container assembly further includes first flow control means for controlling the flow of fluid through said fluid flow passageway of said container.
13. An apparatus as defined in Claim 12 in which
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


said container includes second flow control means for control¬ ling the flow of fluid through said fluid outlet of said base.
14. An apparatus as defined in Claim 13 in which said coupling means further includes operating means for oper¬ ating said first flow control means.
15. An apparatus as defined in Claim 13 in which said base further includes an inlet port in communication with said reservoir.
16. A mixing apparatus comprising:
(a) a container assembly including:
(i) a first container having a fluid flow passageway and walls defining an internal chamber in communication with said fluid flow passageway;
(ii) adding means disposed within said chamber for adding an additive to fluid flowing through said chamber, said adding means comprising an additive and an additive presentation means for presenting said additive to the fluid;
(b) a dispensing device comprising a housing having an outlet port and first and second portions, said first portion including:
(i) coupling means for coupling said container assembly with said first portion of said housing, said coupling means having a first passageway adapted to communicate with said fluid flow passageway of said first container;
(ii) flow control means for controlling the flow of fluid through said first passageway; said second portion comprising:
(i) a base having first and second fluid passa¬ geways formed therein, said first passageway being in
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 communication with said first passageway of said cou¬ pling means and said second passageway being in communication with said fluid outlet;
(ii) a thin, generally planar distendable mem¬ brane constructed of an elastic material, said mem¬ brane being adapted to overlay said base and cooper¬ ate therewith to define a reservoir for containing a fluid, said reservoir being in communication with said first and second passageways of said base, said membrane being distendable by fluid introduced into said chamber under pressure and having a tendency to return to a substantially less distended configura¬ tion, whereby the fluid contained within said reser¬ voir will be urged to flow- into said first and second passageways of said base.
17. An apparatus as defined in Claim 16 in which said container assembly further comprises a second container having a chamber containing a liquid, said second container being adapted to be coupled with said first container.
18. An apparatus as defined in Claim 17 in which said fluid flow passageway of said first container includes an inlet and an outlet and in which said coupling means includes a cannula disposed in communication with said first passageway of said base and in which said outlet of said fluid flow passage¬ way of said first container is closed by a first sealing member pierceable by said cannula upon coupling said container assem¬ bly with said first portion of said housing.
19. An apparatus as defined in Claim 18 in which said inlet of said fluid flow passageway of said first contain¬ er is closed by a second sealing member and in which said second container includes a sealing assembly movable within
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


said chamber thereof, said sealing assembly including a cannula adapted to pierce said second sealing member of said first container to permit fluid flow between said chamber of said second container and said fluid flow passageway of said first container via said cannula.
20. An apparatus as defined in Claim 18 in which said liquid in said chamber of said second container comprises a diluent.
21. An apparatus as defined in Claim 20 in which said additive comprises a medicament.
22. An apparatus as defined in Claim 20 in which said additive comprises a beneficial agent.
23. An apparatus as defined in Claim 22 in which said adding means comprises an additive which provides for extended release of a beneficial agent to the fluid over time.
24. An apparatus as defined in Claim 22 in which said additive presentation means provides for extended release of said additive over time.
25. A mixing and delivery apparatus comprising:
(a) a container assembly including:
(i) a container having a fluid flow passageway and walls defining an internal chamber in communica¬ tion with said fluid passageway;
(ii) adding means disposed within said chamber for adding an additive to fluid flowing through said fluid flow passageway into said chamber, said adding means comprising an additive and an additive presen¬ tation means being disposed within said chamber in the path of fluid flowing into said chamber through said fluid flow passageway; and
(b) a delivery device comprising a housing having
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 first and second portions, said first portion including coupling means for coupling said container assembly with said first portion of said housing, said coupling means having a first passageway adapted to communicate with said fluid flow passageway of said container, said second portion of said housing comprising:
(i) a base having a fluid outlet and first and second fluid passageways formed therein, said first passageway being in communication with said first passageway of said coupling means and said second passageway being in communication with said fluid outlet; and
(ii) a thin, generally planar distendable mem¬ brane constructed of an elastic material, said mem¬ brane being adapted to overlay said base and cooper¬ ate therewith to define a reservoir for containing a fluid said reservoir being in communication with said first and second passageways of said base, said membrane being distendable by fluid introduced into said chamber under pressure and having a tendency to return to a substantially less distended configura¬ tion, whereby the fluid contained within said reser¬ voir will be urged to flow selectively into said first and second passageways of said base.
26. An apparatus as defined in Claim 25 in which said additive comprise a biologically active material.
27. An apparatus as defined in Claim 25 in which said adding means comprises a polymer.
28. An apparatus as defined in Claim 25 in which said additive presentation means comprises a scaffold disposed within said container and adapted to releasably carry said
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


additive.
29. An apparatus as defined in Claim 25 in which said additive is substantially removable from said additive presentation means using affinity chromotography techniques.
30. An apparatus as defined in Claim 29 in which a ligand is connected to said support and a target molecule is connected to said ligand.
31. An apparatus as defined in Claim 30 in which a spacer arm is connected to said support and in which a ligand is connected to said spacer arm.
32. An apparatus as defined in Claim 31 in which an enzyme is connected to said target molecule.
33. An apparatus as defined in Claim 31 in which target molecule is a protein.
34. An apparatus as defined in Claim 33 in which an antibody is connected to said protein.
35. An apparatus as defined in Claim 33 in which a immunoglobulin is connected to said protein.
36. An apparatus as defined in Claim 33 in which an antibody is covalently attached to said protein, said antibody having binding sites facing outwardly from said protein.
37. An apparatus as defined in Claim 36 in which an antibody enzyme conjugte is applied that has specificity for the bound target molecule.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
