<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636910</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Quasi-hermaphroditic-type optical fiber connection
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B624	G02B638	G02B638	G02B624	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A quasi-hermaphroditic connection comprises first and 
second substantially identical connector assemblies. Each 

connector assembly comprises a cylindrical plug member (12,13) having a 
central bore containing an optical fiber (17,30), the end of which is 

made 
flush with the front face of the plug member. A support rod (31,23) is 

affixed to the plug member with its axis parallel thereto and has a 
portion extending beyond the front of the plug member. The two 

plug members are pushed towards each other until the faces abut 
with the extended portions of each support rod contacting the other 

support rod and forming a V-groove therewith in which both plugs 
rest. The two connector assemblies are clamped together on either 

side of the region in which the faces abut, with no clamping forces 
being exerted in that region. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERGMANN ERNEST EISENHARDT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERGMANN, ERNEST EISENHARDT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to connectors for optical fibers and,
more particularly, to a quasi-hermaphroditic type connection for
such fibers and method of assembly of the connection.Optical fiber splices and connectors, collectively designated
hereinafter as "connectors", are necessary components of any optical
fiber system. Inasmuch as optical fibers have finite lengths, it is
necessary that means be provided for splicing the ends of two such
fibers together. Also, where breaks occur, some means, such as a
connector, of joining the broken fiber is necessary. In addition, in
virtually all optical fiber transmission systems, the fiber or fibers
terminate at either active or passive devices to which they must be
connected by suitable connections. Such connections also make it
possible to rearrange or reroute transmission paths. By
"connection" is meant the assembled member which joins and holds
the fibers. Such connections usually comprise one or more
connector assemblies or sub-assemblies and a clamping or holding
means.Regardless of the nature of the connection, whether splice or
connection to a device, the principal criteria for establishing such a
connection are that the connector must join two fiber ends with
minimum insertion loss and that it must be mechanically stable in
the working environment. Low insertion loss depends upon fiber
alignment, the optical flatness of the ends of the fibers to be joined.,
and a minimum gap between the fiber ends. Stability depends 
primarily upon the mechanical design of the connector, with
particular emphasis upon the minimization of thermal effects. In
those connectors, where the fibers being joined abut, the
mechanical design must maintain the abutting relationship despite
application of external forces.In the prior art, efforts to meet these criteria have often
resulted in relatively costly connectors, primarily because of the
inclusion of numerous precision machined parts, and often because
of undue complexity. Such precision and complexity may be
acceptable in trunk lines and central offices, where connector costs
represent only a small fraction of the total cost of the installation.
On the other hand, in field installations, in which labor costs
dominate, the connector cost can be a substantial percentage of the
total installation cost, and therefore, is desirably minimized where
possible.The mechanical design of the connector can also affect the
cost of its installation, in most cost sensitive applications, such as in
the field, i.e., locations remote from a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hermaphroditic-type optical fiber connection comprising:

a first cylindrical plug member (14) having a bore (16)
extending axially and longitudinally therethrough for receiving a

stripped portion of an optical fiber (17) extendable therethrough and
fixed relative thereto;
a second cylindrical plug member (24) having a bore (26)
extending axially and longitudinally therethrough for receiving a

stripped portion of a different optical fiber (30) extendable therethrough
and fixed relative thereto;
each of said plug members having a front face (22,27) and a
rear face (21, 28);
a first support rod (19) affixed to said first plug member (14)
having an axis substantially parallel to the axis of said first plug

member and extending beyond the front face thereof;
a second support rod (31) aflixed to said second plug
member (24) having an axis substantially parallel to the axis of said

second plug member and extending beyond the front face thereof;
said first and second support rods (19,31) being in contact
with each other along at least a portion of their lengths and forming

a substantially V-shaped groove, said first plug member (14) being
located in said groove and supported by said first and second

support rods and said second plug member (24) being located in said
groove and supported by said first and second support rods in

axially alignment with said first plug member with said front faces (22, 27)
in abutting relationship; and 
means (34) for maintaining said first and second plug
members in their abutting relationship.
An optical fiber connection as claimed in claim 1
wherein one end of the optical fiber (17) extending through said first

plug member is flush and co-planar with the front face thereof.
An optical fiber connection as claimed in claim 2
wherein one end of the optical fiber (30) extending through said second

plug member is flush and co-planer with the front face thereof.
An optical fiber connection as claimed in claim 1
wherein said first and second plug members (14, 24) and said first and

second support rods (19, 31) are composed of the same material.
An optical fiber connection as claimed in claim 1
wherein each of said bores in said first and second plug members (14, 24) is

substantially concentric with the outer diameter of its respective
cylindrical plug member.
An optical fiber connection as claimed in claim 1
wherein said means for maintaining said first and second plug

members (14, 24) in abutting relationship comprises spring means (34)
surrounding and in contact with said first and second plug

members and said first and second support rods (19, 31) over at least a
portion of the length thereof. 
An optical fiber connection as claimed in claim 6
wherein said spring member (34) is in contact with said first and second

plug members on either side of the region wherein said front faces
of said plug members abut, and out of contact with said plug

members in said region.
An optical fiber connection as claimed in claim 1
wherein said means for maintaining said first and second plug

members in abutting relationship comprises:

a first clamping member (39) surrounding and in contact
with said first plug member (14) and said first and second support rods;

and
a second clamping member (41) surrounding and in contact
with said second plug member (24) and said first and second support

rods.
An optical fiber connection as claimed in claim 8
wherein said first and second clamping members (39, 41) are disposed on

either side of the region in which said front faces abut.
A connector for a hermaphroditic-type optical fiber connection
having first and second substantially identical mating optical fiber

containing members (14, 24) for maintaining the ends of optical fibers (17, 30) in
abutting relationship;


said connector comprising a first plug member (17) having a
front face (22) an
d a rear face (21) and having a bore (16) extending axially
therethrough adapted to receive and hold an optical fiber; 
a cylindrical support rod (19) affixed to said plug member,
said support rod having a portion thereof in contact with said plug

member with its axis substantially parallel to the axis of said plug
member; and
said support rod having a front portion extending
beyond said front face of said plug member.
A connector as claimed in claim 10 and
further including a clamping member (34) surrounding and in contact

with said plug member and said support rod, said clamping member
being adapted to receive the support rod of a mating connector

assembly.
A connector claimed in claim 11 wherein
said clamping member (34) is located between said front and rear faces

of said plug member.
A hermaphroditic-type optical fiber connection according to claim 1
wherein the means for maintaining comprise


a clamping member (34) for holding the mating members
with the plug members (14, 24) and optical fibers (17, 30) contained therein in abutting

relationship,
said clamping member (34) having a first portion defining a
cross-sectional opening having a first area greater than the area

occupied by the assembled plug members (14, 24) and support rods (14, 31), and a second 
portion defining a cross-sectional opening having a second area less

than said first area and adapted to grip and hold the assembled
plug members (14, 24) and support rods in contact with each other.
A connection as claimed in claim 13 and further
having a third portion having a third area greater than said second

area, said third portion being spaced from said first portion and
contiguous with said second portion.
A connection as claimed in claim 14 and further
having a fourth portion defining a fourth area less than said second

area and adapted to grip and hold the assembled plug members (14, 24) and support
rods (19, 31) in contact with each other.
A connection as claimed in claim 15 and further
having a fifth portion defining a fifth area greater than said fourth

area, said fifth portion being spaced from said third portion and
contiguous with said fourth portion.
A connection as claimed in claim 16 wherein
each of said portions is joined to the adjacent portions by tapered

portions of said clamping member (34).
A method of assembling an optical fiber connection
having first and second plug members (14, 24) each having a bore (16, 26) therein

for receiving an optical fiber (17, 30) and having a front face (22,27), and a support
rod (19, 31) affixed to each plug and having an extended portion extending 

beyond the front face of the plug, said method comprising the steps
of:


inserting and affixing an optical fiber (17, 30) in the bore (16, 26) of
each of said first and second plug members (14, 24) and making one end of each fiber

flush with the front face of its plug member;
moving the front faces of the plug members (14, 24) towards
each other to cause the support rods (19, 31) to contact each other and the

plugs over a finite distance until the front faces are in abutment;
and
clamping each of the plug members (14, 24) to both of the
support rods (19, 31).
The method as claimed in claim 18 including the step
of clamping the plug members (14, 24) to both of the support rods (19, 31) on either

side of the region where the front faces abut and leaving that region
free of any clamping force.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
