<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619291</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for the preparation of highly esterified alkoxylated polyol compositions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C6700	C07C6726	C07C6900	C07C6930	C11C300	C11C300	C11C306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C11C	C11C	C11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C67	C07C67	C07C69	C07C69	C11C3	C11C3	C11C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Highly esterified alkoxylated polyol fat substitutes are obtained by reacting together 
an epoxide, an alkali metal or alkaline earth salt of an aliphatic polyol and a triglyceride, 

the molar ratio of epoxide: (triglyceride + polyol) being from 1:1 to 64:1 and the molar 
ratio of triglyceride to polyol being at least 9:3/m where m is the number of hydroxyl 

groups in the polyol. 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARCO CHEM TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CPC INTERNATIONAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARCO CHEMICAL TECHNOLOGY INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CPC INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER CHARLES F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER, CHARLES F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is related to methods for obtaining highly 
esterified alkoxylated polyol compositions useful as reduced 
calorie fat substitutes from naturally occurring triglycerides 
such as fats and oils. A wide variety of substances have been proposed for use as 
fat substitutes in food compositions. The chemical structures of 
such substances are selected such that they are more resistant to 
breakdown by the metabolic processes of the human digestive 
system which normally occur upon ingestion of conventional 
triglyceride lipids. Because of their increased resistance to 
digestion and absorption, the number of calories per gram 
available from the fat substitutes is considerably reduced as 
compared to common vegetable oils, animal fats, and other lipids. 
The use of such substances thus enables the preparation of 
reduced calorie food compositions useful in the control of body 
weight. U.S. Pat. No. 4,861,613 describes one class of particularly 
useful fat substitutes wherein a polyol such as glycerin is 
alkoxylated with an epoxide such as propylene oxide and then 
esterified with any of a number of fatty acids or fatty acid 
equivalents to form an esterified alkoxylated polyol. Generally  
 
speaking, it is desirable to accomplish nearly complete 
esterification (i.e., to react at least 95% of the hydroxyl 
groups of the alkoxylated polyol intermediate with fatty acid). 
These substances have the physical and organoleptic properties of 
conventional triglyceride lipids, yet are significantly lower in 
available (absorbed) calories than edible oils owing to their 
pronounced resistance towards pancreatic lipase enzymatic 
hydrolysis. The thermal and oxidative stability of the 
esterified alkoxylated polyols renders them especially suitable 
for use in the preparation of reduced calorie food compositions 
requiring exposure to high temperatures. The methods developed to date for the preparation of 
esterified alkoxylated polyol fat substitutes of this type have 
largely required multi-step procedures when a naturally occurring 
triglyceride is to be utilized as the source of the long chain 
acyl groups incorporated into the esterified alkoxylated polyol. 
The triglyceride is first hydrolytically split into glycerin 
(which may be employed as the polyol component) and a mixture of 
fatty acids. The fatty acids may be either used in an 
esterification reaction with an alkoxylated polyol without 
further modification (as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,983,329), 
or first converted into C₁-C₄ alkyl
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for producing a highly esterified alkoxylated polyol composition 
comprising contacting at least one epoxide, at least one alkali metal or alkaline earth salt 

of aliphatic polyalcohol, and at least one triglyceride, wherein the molar ratio of epoxide: 
(triglyceride + aliphatic polyalcohol) is from 1:1 to 64:1 and the molar ratio of 

triglyceride:aliphatic polyalcohol is at least 9:3/m wherein m is the number of hydroxy 
groups in the aliphatic polyalcohol and is an integer of from 2 to 8. 
The process of claim 1 wherein said at least one epoxide is selected from 
C₂-C₁₀ aliphatic epoxides. 
The process of claim 2 wherein the C₂-C₁₀ aliphatic epoxide is selected 
from ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, 1,2-butylene oxide, and mixtures thereof. 
The process of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said at least one triglyceride is a 
triester of glycerin and a C₆-C₂₄ fatty acid selected from caproic acid, caprylic acid, 

pelargonic acid, capric acid, undecylic acid, lauric acid, tridecylic acid, myristic acid, 
pentadecylic acid, palmitic acid, margeric acid, stearic acid, nonadecylic acid, arachidic 

acid, ricinoleic acid, behenic acid, lignoceric acid, lauroleic acids, myristoleic acids, 
palmitoleic acids, oleic acid, elaidic acid, godoleic acid, gondoic acids, cetoleic acid, 

linoleic acid, linolenic acid, eleostearic acids, and mixtures thereof. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein said at least one triglyceride is 
selected from triesters of glycerin obtained from a natural lipid selected from cottonseed 

oil, soybean oil, peanut oil, olive oil, safflower oil, rapeseed oil, sunflower oil, palm oil, 
palm kernel oil, milk fat, cocoa butter, tallow, lard, coconut oil, sesame oil, fish oils, corn 

oil, fully or partially hydrogenated derivatives thereof, and mixtures of the foregoing. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein the alkali metal or alkaline 
earth salt of the aliphatic polyalcohol is a sodium or potassium salt. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein the aliphatic polyalcohol is 
selected from C₂-C₁₀ aliphatic diols, C₃-C₁₂ aliphatic triols, pentaerythritol, sugar alcohols, 

monosaccharides, disaccharides, and alkyl glycosides. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein the temperature is from 50°C 
to 200°C. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein the fatty acid-esterified 
oxyalkylene groups have the general structure 

 
wherein OA is an 

oxyalkylene unit derived from the epoxide, n is an integer of from 1 to 8, and 
 

is a C₆-C₂₄ saturated or unsaturated acyl group. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein m is 3 and the molar ratio of 
epoxide: (triglyceride + aliphatic polyalcohol) is from 3:1 to 20:1. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein the concentration of alkali 
metal or alkaline earth is from 50
0 to 10,000 parts per million based on the total 
combined weight of epoxide, alkali metal or alkaline earth salt of aliphatic polyalcohol, 

and triglyceride. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein the highly esterified 
alkoxylated polyol composition has a degree of esterification greater than 95 percent. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein the aliphatic polyalcohol is 
glycerin, a monoglyceride, a diglyceride, or a mixture thereof. 
The process of any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the aliphatic polyalcohol 
has a number average molecular weight of from 106 to 500 and is an alkoxylated C₂-C₁₀ 

aliphatic diol, an alkoxylated C₃-C₁₂ aliphatic triol, an alkoxylated pentaerythritol, an 
 

alkoxylated sugar alcohol, an alkoxylated monosaccharide, an alkoxylated disaccharide, an 
alkoxylated alkyl glycoside, a tetrahydrofuran oligomer, an oxetane oligomer, a glycerol 

oligomer, or an alkoxylated glycerol oligomer. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein the molar ratio of triglyceride: 
aliphatic polyalcohol is at lest 19:3/m. 
A process as claimed in any preceding claim comprising contacting at least 
one C₂-C₁₀ aliphatic epoxide, at least one alkali metal salt of an aliphatic polyalcohol 

having 3 hydroxy groups, and at least one triglyceride at a temperature of from 50°C to 
200°C wherein the molar ratio of C₂-C₁₀ aliphatic epoxide: (triglyceride + aliphatic 

polyalcohol) is from 3:1 to 20:1 and the molar ratio of triglyceride: aliphatic polyalcohol 
is at least 19:1 and less than 200:1. 
The process of claim 16 comprising the additional step of removing the 
alkali metal from the highly esterified alkoxylated polyol composition. 
The process of claim 16 or claim 17 wherein the concentration of alkali 
metal is from 1000 to 5000 parts per million based on the total combined weight of 

epoxide, alkali metal salt of aliphatic polyalcohol, and triglyceride. 
The process of claim 16, claim 17 or claim 18 wherein the fatty acid-esterified 
oxyalkylene groups have the general structure 


 
wherein R¹ and R² are the same or different and are selected from hydrogen, methyl, or 

ethyl, n is an integer of from 1 to 6, and 
 

is an C₆-C₂₄ saturated or unsaturated acyl 
group. 
The process of any one of claims 16 to 19 wherein the alkali metal salt of 
the aliphatic polyalcohol is a potassium salt of glycerin, a monoglyceride, a diglyceride, an 

alkoxylated glycerin having a number average molecular weight of from 133 to 500, or a 
mixture thereof. 
The process of any preceding claim wherein said process is carried out in 
the absence of water and any alkoxide or hydroxy group-containing species other than the 

aliphatic polyalcohol salt. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 for producing a highly esterified 
alkoxylated polyol composition comprising contacting at least one epoxide selected from 

ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, 1,2-butylene oxide, and mixtures thereof, a potassium 
salt of an aliphatic polyalcohol selected from glycerin, monoglycerides, diglycerides, and 

alkoxylated glycerins having number average molecular weights of from 133 to 500, and 
at least one triglyceride at a temperature of from 80°C to 150°C, wherein the molar ratio 

of epoxide: (triglyceride + aliphatic polyalcohol) is from 3:1 to 20:1, the molar ratio of 
triglyceride: aliphatic polyalcohol is at least 19:1 and less than 200:1, and the potassium is 

present at a concentration of from 1000 to 5000 parts per million based on the combined 
weight of epoxide, the potassium salt of the aliphatic polyalcohol, and the triglyceride. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
