<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611411</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TWO-PART CONNECTOR FOR FLUID CARRYING CONDUITS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B3303	E21B33038	E21B3400	E21B3404	E21B4300	E21B43013	F16L3728	F16L37373	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B33	E21B33	E21B34	E21B34	E21B43	E21B43	F16L37	F16L37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALPHA THAMES ENG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALPHA THAMES ENGINEERING LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
APPLEFORD DAVID ERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
APPLEFORD, DAVID ERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TWO-PART CONNECTOR FOR FLUID CARRYING CONDUITSThe present invention relates to a connector for use in connecting and disconnecting fluid carrying conduits. The connector is particularly suitable for use in subsea locations where it is necessary to connect and disconnect oil and/or gas carrying conduits to and from subsea production modules and pipelines although this subsea use of the connector is preferred rather than essential as the connector can equally well be used in a land or platform based application.The need for economical development of marginal gas or oil fields is increasing. Such fields are often beyond the range of multiphase flow to an existing platform facility and too small to justify the construction of a new facility. In these cases, the option of single stage separation on the sea bed and boosting back to an existing facility becomes very attractive. 

 The increasing use of modularised processing systems for water depths of 60-180 metres has been brought about by the need to reduce the subsea installation and maintenance time. The use of interchangeable modules in a subsea system requires the need for suitable two-part connectors which will enable the module to be lowered into position and connected up to the gas/oil supply and also removed therefrom by means operated from the surface.A connector of this type is disclosed in published PCT specification No. WO 89/03002 which describes a connector for use in connecting and disconnecting fluid carrying conduits of the "plug and socket" type. The connector comprises co-operating parts in the form of a female part to be mounted on a subsea module and a complementary male part over which the female part fits. Each of the female and male parts are provided with a plurality of bores which can be connected to fluid carrying conduits. Tapered cylindrical sleeves are provided on the male and female parts respectively which have respective ports therein for intercommunicating the respective bores 

 to permit fluid flow through the communicated bores and thus through the connector. These cylindrical sleeves can be rotated to discommunicate the bores and stop fluid flow through the bores and thus through the connector in which position, the two connector parts can be disconnected. This connector also has a central guide passage in it which receives a guide post used to properly orientate the two connector parts during connection. Because of this central guide passage, the fluid carrying bores through the connector have to follow a tortuous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A two-part connector for use in connecting and disconnecting fluid carrying conduits comprising a male and female connector part each having at least one non-radially disposed fluid carrying bore therethrough, and a rotatable valve member extending across the or each bore with at least one hole therethrough adapted to align with the or each of said bores, the or each bore in the male connector part being aligned with the or each bore in the female connector part when the two connector parts are assembled together, and the or each valve member being rotatable to a first position in which the or each hole therein is aligned with the or each bore to permit fluid flow and to a second position in which the body of the valve member obturates the or each bore so that no fluid flows therethrough and releasable clamping means to retain the two connector parts together in sealing engagement. 


 2. A connector as claimed in claim 1 wherein a plurality of bores are provided in each connector part, the bores in the male and female connector parts being axially aligned in sets with one of said valve members extending across all the bores in one of said sets.
3. A connector as claimed in claim 2 wherein all the bores are parallel with the longitudinal axis of the connector along the whole of their length.
4. A connector as claimed in claim 3 wherein each valve member is a spindle, one of the spindles in the female connector part is rotatable by drive means connected thereto, first gear means are associated with said spindle which, in use, mesh with second gear means provided on the or each spindle on the male connector part when the two connector parts are clamped together by the releasable clamping means.
A connector as claimed in claim 4 wherein the 


 first gear means is a gear wheel mounted on the female connector valve spindle and the second gear means is a ring gear provided on the or each spindle on the male connector part which meshes therewith.
6. A connector as claimed in claim 3 wherein each valve member has a rotatable drive member provided thereon which includes a slot radially offset with respect to the axis of rotation of the valve member, said offset slot being adapted to receive a projection provided on an actuator movable in a plane generally normal to the axis of rotation of the valve member when the two connector parts are clamped together, the linear movement of said actuator resulting in rotation of the valve members.
7. A connector as claimed in claim 6 wherein the actuator is movable between a first closed position in which the valve members obturate the bores and prevent fluid flow therethrough and a second open position allowing fluid flow. 


 8. A connector as claimed in claim 7 wherein an actuator is provided at both ends of each valve member.
9. A connector as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the male connector part has a sealing surface adapted to co-operate with a sealing surface on the female part to make a metal to metal seal therewith.
10. A connector as claimed in any preceding claim wherein each valve member has a plurality of bores therein, each of which is surrounded by an annular seal which co-operates with the connector part in which the valve member is rotatably mounted to make a seal therewith.
11. A connector as claimed in claim 10 wherein annular seals are circumferentially located between each bore through the valve members to co-operate with the connector part receiving said valve members and make a seal therewith. 


 12. A connector as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the clamping means includes anchor means provided on one of the connector parts which are engaged by latching means on the other connector part, the clamping means also including tensioning members operably associated with locking means to releasably clamp and retain the two connector parts together under pressure, the arrangement being such that on initial activation of the clamping means, the latching means is caused to move axially against the anchor means to draw the two connector parts together, the tensioning members then being extended and elongated axially by means whereby a locking arrangement associated therewith is activated to maintain said extension and clamp the two connector parts together under pressure.
13. A connector as claimed in claim 12 wherein the axially extendable members are steel rods loosely connected at each end to a top and bottom ring, the arrangement being such that when the rods have been 


 extended, locking means are engaged with the top ring to maintain the rods in their extended condition.
14. A connector as claimed in claim 13 wherein the locking means are locking chocks which engage with the top ring to retain it in its clamped position.
15. A connector as claimed in claim 13 wherein the locking means comprise over-centre means which act between the top ring and the body of the female connector part.
16. A two part connector substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
