<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653921</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPLANTABLE OCCLUDER DEVICES FOR MEDICAL USE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An implantable occluder device (1) for medical use comprises first and second expansion assemblies (2, 3) connected to each other and provided with attachment means (6) for connection to a wire and catheter positioning system. Each expansion assembly (2, 3) comprises a respective web of material (4) and at least three resilient arms (5) projecting, when undeformed, substantially radially from the device and carrying the web of material (4), the arms (5) being resiliently biased apart to open up, and being resiliently deformable to close down, the associated web of material (4) in an umbrella-like manner. The expansion assemblies (2, 3) are joined at their central portions and arranged oppositely to each other. For occluding an orifice in a thin wall of tissue without the need for torsion springs part-way along the length of the arms, each arm (5) is bent, by means of an open curve extending uninterruptedly from a base portion to a distal portion of the arm, through an angle such that, when the webs (4) are opened up, the distal ends of the arms (5) of each web (4) point generally towards the other web (4) and the two webs (4) are biased into contact with one another at their peripheries.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT HEART 
&
 LUNG INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL HEART 
&
 LUNG INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REDINGTON ANDREW MORTLAKE ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REDINGTON, ANDREW 50 MORTLAKE ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 I plantable occluder devices for medical useThis invention relates to implantable occluder devices for medical use.A known implantable occluder device for medical use is the USCI Rashkind Occluder Implant (USCI is a Trademark and Rashkind is a Registered Trademark of William J. Rashkind, M.D. , licensed to C. R. Bard, Inc.) sometimes called the "Rashkind ductal umbrella". The Rashkind Occluder Implant resembles two miniature umbrellas joined in a straight line, top end to top end, each of the two "umbrellas" comprising a respective disk of foam plastics material (corresponding to the fabric of an umbrella) carried on resilient wire arms (corresponding to the spokes of an umbrella).The Rashkind Occluder Implant is used to occlude a blood vessel, for example, an arterial duct which is an abnormal blood vessel connecting the two major arteries in the body. The implant is deployed, with the "umbrellas" closed and sheathed, using a wire and catheter positioning system passed through a vein of the patient. When the implant is correctly positioned the sheath is removed by the doctor operating the positioning system and the resilient wire arms bias the umbrellas open against the walls of duct to create an occlusion.The Rashkind Occluder Implant is made in a 12mm size for ducts of up to 3mm narrowest diameter and in a 17mm 

size for ducts of 4mm to 9mm narrowest diameter. When the implant is in position in the duct with the "umbrellas" opened up, its shape resembles that of an hour glass and the resilient bias of the spring arms holds it firmly in position.Unfortunately, although the Rashkind Occluder Implant is highly successful for the occlusion of ducts, it is not suited to the occlusion of orifices in a thin wall of tissue such as atrial septal defects (either naturally occurring or those left after surgery) in the heart. That is because the Rashkind Occluder Implant is unable to grip a thin object placed between the "umbrellas". For that purpose, a so-called "clamshell" implant was developed by James Lock, M.D.The Lock clamshell implant is generally similar to the Rashkind Occluder Implant except that the spokes of the "umbrellas" are given a more complex form. In the Lock clamshell, each wire arm of the Rashkind Occluder, instead of running straight from its base portion, is wound part-way along its length into a tiny torsion spring. These torsions springs serve to bias the periphery of one "umbrella" back against the other "umbrella" so as to grip the wall of tissue with the orifice to be occluded.The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I M S :
1. An implantable occluder device for medical use comprising first and second expansion assemblies connected to each other and provided with attachment means for connection to a wire and catheter positioning system, each expansion assembly comprising a respective web of material and at least three resilient arms projecting, when undeformed, substantially radially from the device and carrying the web of material, the arms being resiliently biased apart to open up, and being resiliently deformable to close down, the associated web of material in a manner similar to that in which the spokes of an umbrella open up and close down the fabric of the umbrella, the first and second expansion assemblies being joined at their central portions and arranged oppositely with the distal ends of the arms of the first expansion assembly being remote from the distal ends of the arms of the second expansion assembly when the webs are closed down, characterized in that each arm is bent, by means of an open curve extending uninterruptedly from a base portion to a distal portion of the arm, through an angle such that, when the webs are opened up, the distal r.ds of the arms of each web point generally towards the r-her web and the two webs are biased into contact with one another at their peripheries.
2. An implantable occluder device as claimed in 


claim 1, wherein the said angle is greater than 10 degrees and less than 40 degrees.
3. An implantable occluder device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the said angle is greater than 10 degrees and less than 30 degrees.
4. An implantable occluder device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the said angle is greater than 10 degrees and less than 20 degrees.
5. An implantable occluder device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the said angle is approximately 15 degrees.
6. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the base portion of each arm includes a respective torsion spring formed out of the material of the arm and arranged to bias the associated arm to open up the web.
7. An implantable occluder device as claimed in claim 6, wherein each arm leaves its associated torsion spring substantially at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the device.
8. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the arms of each expansion assembly are substantially equally spaced and the arms of one expansion assembly are offset with respect to the arms of the other expansion assembly and bisect approximately the angles between the arms of the other expansion assembly. 


 9. An implantable occluder device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the webs are arranged to open up to an extent that, in the absence of an external object, the distal ends of the arms of one expansion assembly cross over the arms of the other expansion assembly.
10. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each arm follows a smooth, shallow curve in turning through the said angle.
11. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the maximum departure of each arm from a straight line is less than three millimetres.
12. An implantable occluder device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the maximum departure of each arm from a straight line is less than two millimetres.
13. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the arms are made of stainless steel.
14. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the webs are of foam plastics material.
15. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each expansion assembly has three arms.
16. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any one of claims l to 14, wherein each expansion assembly has four arms. 


 17. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the webs are circular.
18. An implantable occluder device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the webs are square.
19. An implantable occluder device substantially as herein described with reference to and as illustrated by Figure 2 of the accompanying drawing.
20. An implantable occluder device substantially as herein described with reference to and as illustrated by Figure 4 of the accompanying drawing.
21. A occlusion system comprising an implantable occlusion device as claimed in any preceding claim and a wire and catheter positioning system for deploying the device. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
