<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634011</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEQUENTIAL ION CHROMATOGRAPHY AND CONVERSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2702	G01N2702	G01N3000	G01N3002	G01N3060	G01N3064	G01N3078	G01N3084	G01N3096	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for ion chromatography having a chromatography column (10) followed by a suppressor (11) for converting the eluent electrolyte to weakly ionized form and converting analyte ions to acid or base form. First detection of analyte ions occurs in a first conductivity detector (12) followed by conversion of the analyte ions in acid or base form to salt form in a salt converter and subsequent detection in a second conductivity detector (32). Comparison of signals from the two detectors (12, 32) provides additional information about the analytes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIONEX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DASGUPTA, PURNENDU, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SEQUENTIAL ION CHRO ATOGRAPHY AND CONVERSION SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a method and apparatus using ion chromatography ("IC") followed by chemical conversion and detection of the sample ions.Ion chromatography is a known technique for the analysis of ions which typically includes a chromatographic separation zone using an eluent containing an electrolyte, and an eluent suppression stage, followed by detection, typically performed by a conductivity detector. In the chromatographic separation stage, ions of an injected sample are eluted from a separation column. In the suppression stage, electrical conductivity of the eluent electrolyte is suppressed but not that of the separated ions. This can be accomplished so long as the separated ions are not derived from very weak acids or bases and so can be determined by conductivity detection. This general technique is described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,897,213, 3,920,397, 3,925,019 and 3,956,559.The above patents describe suppression or stripping of electrolyte using an ion exchange resin bed. In an improved form of suppression, a charged membrane in the form of a fiber or sheet is used in place of the resin bed. In sheet form, the sample and eluent are passed on one side of the sheet with a flowing regenerant on the other side of the sheet. The sheet comprises an ion 

exchange membrane partitioning the regenerant from the effluent of chromatographic separation. The membrane passes ions of the same charge as the exchangeable ions of the membrane to convert the electrolyte of the eluent to weakly ionized form, followed by detection of the ions.One effective form of suppressor is described in U.S. Patent 4,999,098. In this apparatus, the suppressor includes at least one regenerant compartment and one chromatographic effluent compartment separatedby an ion exchange membrane sheet. The sheet allows transmembrane passage of ions of the same charge as its exchangeable ions. Ion exchange screens are used in the regenerant and effluent compartments. Flow from the effluent compartment is directed to a detector, such as an electrical conductivity detector, for detecting the resolved ionic species. The screens provide ion exchange sites and serve to provide site to site transfer paths across the effluent flow channel so that suppression capacity is no longer limited by diffusion of ions from the bulk solution to the membrane. A sandwich suppressor is also disclosed including a second membrane sheet opposite to the first membrane sheet
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for analysis of a plurality of analyte ions in a sample solution, each species being of a common charge, said charge being one of positive or negative, said apparatus comprising
(a) separating means including separating medium for separating the analyte ions in the presence of an eluent comprising an electrolyte,
(b) suppressor means in fluid communication with the effluent eluting from the separating means for converting the electrolyte of the effluent to weakly ionized form and the analyte ions to acid or base form,
(c) first detection means for detecting the conductivity of the suppressor effluent from said suppressor means and for generating a first signal,
(d) salt conversion means downstream of and in fluid communication with said first detection means for converting the analyte ions in acid or base form into a salt form, and (e) second detection means downstream of and in fluid communication with said salt conversion means for detecting the conductivity of effluent from said salt conversion means and for generating a second signal.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said salt conversion means comprises at least one ion source channel, a suppressor effluent flow channel, and at least one permselective ion exchange membrane partitioning said one ion source channel and suppressor effluent flow channel, said suppressor effluent flow channel being in fluid communication with the effluent from said suppressor means. 


3. The apparatus of Claim 2 further comprising means for applying an electrical potential between said one ion source channel and suppressor effluent flow channel.
4. The apparatus of Claim 2 in which said salt conversion means further comprises a second ion source channel and a second permselective ion exchange membrane of opposite charge to said first membrane and partitioning said second ion source channel from said suppressor effluent flow channel.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising means for receiving said first and second signals as input signals thereto and for providing an output signal representing a defined relationship between said input signals.
6. The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said salt conversion means comprises at least one ion source channel, a suppressor effluent flow channel, and at least one porous partition between said one ion source channel and suppressor effluent flow channel, said porous partition including pores of sufficient size to pass a base for negatively charged analyte ions or an acid for positively charged analyte ions, said apparatus further comprising means for applying an electrical potential between said one ion source channel and suppressor effluent flow channel, said latter channel being in fluid communication with the effluent from said suppressor means.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said salt conversion means comprises at least one ion source channel, a suppressor effluent flow channel, and at least one porous partition between said one ion source 


channel and suppressor effluent flow channel, said porous partition including pores of sufficient size to pass a base for negatively charged analyte ions or an acid for positively charged analyte ions, said apparatus including pumping means for supplying suppressor effluent to said suppressor effluent flow channel and for supplying said acid or base to said one ion source channel so that the pressure in said ion source channel is higher than the pressure in said suppressor effluent flow channel, whereby the flow of liquid between the two channels is in the direction of the suppression effluent flow channel.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said salt conversion means comprises sequential first and second convertors, said first convertor being capable of converting the analyte ions in acid or base form to a first salt by reaction with first salt-forming ions of opposite charge to said analyte ions by an ion exchange reaction, and said second convertor being capable of converting said first salt to a second salt by an ion exchange reaction in which the analyte ions in said first salt are converted to said second salt by reaction with a second salt-forming ion of the same charge as said analyte ions in an ion exchange process.
9. The apparatus of Claim l in which said salt conversion means comprises sequential first and second convertors, said first convertor being capable of converting the analyte ions in acid or base form to a converted acid or base by ion exchange with a single, common converting ion of the same charge as said analyte ion, and said second convertor being capable of converting said converted acid or base to salt form by 


an ion exchange reaction with a salt-forming ion of opposite charge to said analyte ions.
10. The apparatus of Claims 8 or 9 in which said first convertor comprises a first ion source channel, a first suppressor effluent flow channel, and a permselective ion exchange membrane partitioning said first ion source channel and said first suppressor effluent flow channel, said one membrane including exchangeable ions of the same charge as said analyte ions, said suppressor effluent flow channel being in fluid communication with the effluent from said first detection means.
11. The apparatus of Claim 10 in which said second convertor comprises a second ion source channel, a second suppressor effluent flow channel, and a second permselective ion exchange membrane of opposite charge to said first membrane and partitioning said second ion source channel from said second suppressor effluent flow channel.
12. The apparatus of Claim 8 in which said first convertor comprises a first salt-forming ion source channel, a first suppressor effluent flow channel, and a first permselective ion exchangemembrane partitioning said first ion source channel and first suppressor effluent flow channel, said one membrane including exchangeable ions of the same charge as first salt- forming ions of opposite charge to said analyte ions in said first ion source channel and being resistant to transmembrane passage of said analyte ions, said suppressor effluent flow channel being in fluid communication with the effluent from said first detection means. 


13. The apparatus of Claim 12 in which said second convertor comprises a second salt-forming ion source channel for a second salt-forming ion of the same charge as said analyte ions, a second suppressor effluent flow channel and a second permselective ion exchange membrane of opposite charge to said first membrane and partitioning said second ion source channel from said second suppressor effluent flow channel, wherein second salt-forming ion converts said first salt to a second salt of said first and second salt-forming ions.
14. The apparatus of Claim 8 in which said first and second convertors comprise sequential first and second ion exchange medium beds of opposite charge.
15. The apparatus of Claim 1 in which said salt conversion means comprises a bed including ion exchange medium with exchangeable ions of positive and negative charge.
16. A method for analysis of a plurality of analyte ions in a sample solution, each analyte ion being of a common charge, said charge being one of positive or negative, said method comprising:
(a) eluting said sample solution in the presence of an eluent comprising an electrolyte through separating medium effective to separate the analyte ions,
(b) flowing the effluent from the separating medium through a suppressor in which the electrolyte is converted to weakly ionized form and the analyte ions are converted to acid or base form, (c) detecting the conductivity of the effluent from the suppressor to produce a first signal, 


 (d) thereafter converting the analyte ions in the suppressor effluent into a first salt by reaction with first salt-forming ions of opposite charge, and
(e) detecting the conductivity of the effluent from the salt conversion zone to produce a second signal.
17. The method of Claim 16 in which step (d) includes the steps of flowing a first solution, containing an acid or base of said first salt-forming ions, through at least a first salt-forming ion source channel separated by at least one permselective ion exchange membrane from a suppressor effluent flow channel in a first convertor zone, said one membrane including exchangeable ions of the same charge as said first salt- forming ions and being resistant to transmembrane passage of ions of the opposite charge, flowing the suppressor effluent through said suppressor effluent flow channel, so that said first salt-forming ions pass from said one ion source channel to said suppressor effluent flow channel to form a salt with said analyte ions in an ion exchange reaction.
18. The method of Claim 16 in which said first convertor zone of step (d) further comprises a second salt-forming ion source channel for a second salt- forming ion of the same charge as said analyte ions and a second permselective ion exchange membrane of opposite charge to said first membrane and partitioning said second ion source channel from said suppressor effluent flow channel, said method further comprising flowing a second solution, containing second salt-forming ions of the same charge as said analyte ions, through said second ion source channel so that said second salt- 


forming ion converts said first salt to a second salt of said first and second salt-forming ions.
19. The method of Claim 18 in which said salt-forming ions are positively charged and selected from the group consisting of alkali metal ions, alkaline earth ions and ammonium ions.
20. The method of Claim 18 in which step (d) is performed by passing said suppressor effluent through ion exchange medium having exchangeable ions comprising said first salt-forming ions.
21. The method of Claim 16 further comprising receiving said first and second signals as input signals and providing an output signal representing a define relationship between said input signals.
22. The method of Claim 16 in which said eluent is in gradient form.
23. The method of Claim 16 in which step (d) further comprises flowing said suppressor effluent through a first convertor zone in which the analyte ions in acid or base form are converted to a first salt by reaction with first salt-forming ions of opposite charge to said analyte ions in an ion exchange reaction, and then to a second convertor zone in which said first salt is converted to a second salt by an ion exchange reaction in which said first salt is converted to said second salt by reaction with a second salt-forming ion of the same charge as said analyte ions.
24. The method of Claim 23 in which step (d) further comprises steps of flowing a first solution, containing 


an acid or base having first salt-forming ions of opposite charge to said analyte ions, through at least a first salt-forming ion source channel separated by at least one permselective ion exchange membrane from a suppressor effluent flow channel in said irst convertor zone, said one membrane including exchangeable ions of the same charge as said first salt-forming ions and being resistant to transmembrane passage of ions of the opposite charge, flowing the suppressor effluent through said suppressor effluent flow channel, so that said first salt-forming ions pass from said one ion source channel to said suppressor effluent flow channel to form a salt with said analyte ions.
25. The method of Claim 24 further comprising passing effluent from said first convertor zone into a second suppressor effluent flow channel of a second convertor zone comprising a second salt-forming source channel for a second salt-forming ion of the same charge as said analyte ions and a second permselective ion exchange membrane of opposite charge to said first membrane and partitioning said second ion source channel from said second suppressor effluent flow channel, and flowing a second salt-forming ion source of the same charge as said analyte ions through said second salt-forming ion source channel to convert said first salt to a second salt of said first and second salt-forming ions.
26. The method of Claim 23 in which said first and second salt convertor zones comprise first and second ion exchange resin beds of opposite charges.
27. The method of Claim 16 in which step (d) further comprises flowing said suppressor effluent through a first convertor zone in which the analyte ions in acid 


or base form are converted to a corresponding acid or base form by reaction with a first converting single ion of the same charge as said analyte ions in an ion exchange reaction, and then to a second convertor zone in which said corresponding acid or base is converted to a converted salt by an ion exchange reaction in which said corresponding acid or base is converted to a salt by reaction with said first salt-forming ion of opposite charge to said analyte ions.
28. The method of Claim 27 in which step (d) includes the steps of flowing a first solution, containing an acid or base having first converting single ions of the same charge as said analyte ions, through at least a first converting ion source channel separated by at least one permselective ion exchange membrane from a suppressor effluent flow channel in said first conversion zone said onemembrane including exchangeable ions of the same charge as said first converting single ions and being resistant to transmembrane passage of ions of the opposite charge, flowing the suppressor effluent through said suppressor effluent flow channel, so that said first converting single ions pass from said first converting source channel to said suppressor effluent flow channel to form said corresponding acid or base and passing effluent from said first convertor zone into a second suppressor effluent flow channel of a second convertor zone comprising a salt-forming source channel for an ion of opposite charge to said analyte ions and a second permselective ion exchange membrane of opposite charge to said first membrane and partitioning said salt-forming ion source channel from said second suppressor effluent flow channel, and flowing salt-forming ion source of opposite charge to said analyte ions through said salt-forming ion source 


channel to convert said corresponding acid or base to a second salt of said first and second salt-forming ions.
29. The method of Claim 27 in which said first and second convertors comprise sequential first and second ion exchange medium beds of opposite charge series.
30. The method of Claim 16 in which step (d) is performed by flowing said suppressor effluent through a bed including ion exchange medium with exchangeable ions of positive and negative charge. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
