<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657841</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sensing stylus position using single 1-D imge sensor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3041	G06F3042	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for determining the location of an object in an active 
area of a first plane. The apparatus includes a first reflecting device, disposed 

substantially perpendicular to the first plane at a periphery of the active area. The 
first reflecting device receives a first image of the object from the active area and 

reflects the first image back toward the active area substantially parallel to the first 
plane. A second reflecting device, disposed substantially perpendicular to the first 

plane at a periphery of the active area, receives a second image of the object from the 
active area and reflects the second image back toward the active area substantially 

parallel to the first plane. The second reflecting device is disposed at a first angle 
which is less than one-hundred eighty degrees to the first reflecting device. The angle 

opens toward the active area and toward a detecting device. The detecting device is 
disposed in the first plane at a periphery of the active area opposite the first and 

second reflecting devices. The detecting device receives the first image and the 
second image and produces a signal indicating the position of the first and second 

images. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEGEN JAKUB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEGEN, JAKUB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to sensing the position of an object in a plane 
and, more specifically, sensing the position of a stylus on a surface using a single 
camera and two mirrors. Users of pen-based computers generally input data into a computer by writing 
with a special electronic stylus directly on the computer's liquid-crystal screen, rather 
than by typing on a keyboard. Program choices can be made by checking boxes on 
the screen, as if one is filling out an electronic form. Documents can be edited by 
making movements with the stylus on the screen, such as crossing out a word. 
Diagrams can be drawn directly on the screen. When designing a pen-based computer system a significant consideration is 
determining the position of the pen or stylus. Many different techniques have 
developed to detect the stylus position. However, significant drawbacks still exist. 
The sensing (detecting) technology must be lightweight, consume little electronic 
power, be durable and withstand electromagnetic interference from other parts of the computer. Moreover, capturing handwriting requires the system to be accurate to within, 
for example, five thousandths of an inch. This level of accuracy is far more difficult 
to achieve than that required in other applications such as determining whether a finger 
is pointing to the "deposit" box or the "withdrawal" box on the touch screen of an 
automated teller machine. If the pen-sensing system makes even small errors, the 
computer might not be able to make fine distinctions, such as discriminating the letter 
"Z" from the number "2," no matter how proficient the computer's handwriting-recognition 
software is. Without a highly precise mechanism for sensing the position 
of the stylus these computer systems will not reliably and accurately function.  In addition to reliability and accuracy, the position sensing mechanism must be 
cost effective, durable and, easy to use. Some technologies, for instance, require the 
stylus to be connected to the computer by a wire, while others allow for a stylus to 
be detached. In general, it is desirable for a stylus to be detachable from the computer 
and the sensing device in order to improve the system's flexibility. However, the cost 
of manufacturing the stylus should not be excessive since a detachable stylus may be easily misplaced. In addition, some previous systems require the stylus to touch the screen in 
order to be detected. Other systems can detect the stylus when it is merely near the 
screen. It is desirable to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for determining the location of an object in an active area 
of a first plane, comprising: 

   first reflecting means, disposed substantially perpendicular to the first 
plane at a periphery of the active area, for receiving a first image of the object from 

the active area and for reflecting said first image back toward the active area 
substantially parallel to the first plane; 

   second reflecting means, disposed substantially perpendicular to the first 
plane at a periphery of the active area, for receiving a second image of the object from 

the active area and for reflecting said second image back toward the active area 
substantially parallel to the first plane, said second reflecting means disposed at a first 

angle which is less than one-hundred eighty degrees to said first reflecting means, said 
angle opening toward the active area; and 

   detecting means, disposed in the first plane at a periphery of the active 
area opposite said first and second reflecting means, for receiving said first image and 

said second image and for producing a signal indicating the position of said first and 
second images. 
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for computing the 
location of the object within the active region based on said signal from said detecting means. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: 
   said first reflecting means includes a first polarization filter; and 

   said second reflecting means includes a second polarization filter; 
   wherein a relative polarization angle between said first polarization filter 

and said second polarization filter is greater than zero degrees, for reducing the 
radiation intensity of a third image of the object, said third image being reflected off 

of said first reflecting means and said second reflecting means. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first reflecting means further 
comprises radiation intensity reducing means for reducing the radiation intensity of 

said first image. 
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said detecting means further 
comprises radiation detecting means for detecting the radiation intensity of said first 

image for determining if an image received by said detecting means has reflected off 
one of: said first reflecting means, said second reflecting means, neither said first 

reflecting means nor said second reflecting means, and both said first reflecting means 
and said second reflecting means. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the object is a radiation emitting 
stylus, or a passive stylus. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said detecting means comprises a 
one-dimensional image sensing array for receiving said first image and said second 

image of the object. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first angle is an acute angle, 
an obtuse angle, or a right angle. 
A method for determining a location of an object in an active area of 
a first plane, the method comprising: 


(1) reflecting a first image of the object back into the active area 
substantially parallel to the first plane, from a first reflecting means 

located at a periphery of the active area; 
(2) reflecting a second image of the object back into the active area 
substantially parallel to the first plane, from a second reflecting means 

located at a periphery of the active area; 
(3) receiving said first image from said first reflecting means and said 
second image from said second reflecting means at a detecting means 

located in the first plane across the active area from said first and 
second reflecting means; and 
(4) determining the position of the object in said first plane from said first 
image and said second image received at said detecting means. 
The method of claim 9, further comprising a step before step (1) of 
positioning said first and second reflecting means in the first plane such that said first 

reflecting means defines a first longitudinal axis substantially parallel to first plane and 
said second reflecting means defines a second longitudinal axis substantially parallel 

to the first plane whereby said first longitudinal axis and said second longitudinal axis 
intersect forming either an acute angle or an obtuse angle, or 

a right angle facing the active area. 
The method of claim 9, further comprising the steps, before step (1), 
of: 

   (0.1) positioning a first polarization filter between said first reflecting 
means and the active area; and 

   (0.2) positioning a second polarization filter between said second 
reflecting means and the active area, wherein a relative polarization angle between 

said first polarization filter and said second polarization filter is greater than zero 
degrees, to reduce the radiation intensity of a double reflected image detected by said 

detecting means. 
The method of claim 9, wherein step (3) further comprises the step of 
receiving a third, fourth or fifth image of the object at said detecting means and 

wherein step (4) when the third image is received, comprises the step of determining 
the position of the object from at least two of: said received first, second and third images, 

   and wherein step (4) when the fourth image is received comprises the 
step of determining the position of the object from at least two of: said received first, 

second, third, and fourth images, and wherein step (4) when the fifth image is 
received comprises the step of determining the position of the object from at least 

two of: said received first, second, third, fourth, and fifth images. 
The method of claim 9, wherein step (3) further comprises receiving 
said first image and said second image on a one dimensional image sensing array. 
The method of claim 9, further comprising the step, before step (1) of 
positioning a first radiation reducing means between said first reflecting means and 

said active area to reduce the radiation intensity of said first image received by said 
detecting means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
