<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636241</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NOSESHADE FOR MONITORING EXPOSURE TO ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02C500	G02C512	G02C1100	G02C1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02C	G02C	G02C	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02C5	G02C5	G02C11	G02C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RELIANT LASER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RELIANT LASER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLACK MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLACK, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Noseshade For Monitoring Exposure To Ultraviolet RadiationBackground — Field of InventionThe present invention relates to devices for detecting radiation, particularly to devices for determining skin-damaging levels of ultraviolet (UV) radiation.Backgroun — Description of Prior ArtSolar radiation reaching the earth consists of electromagnetic energy ranging from ultraviolet (UV) light to infrared (IR) light. UV radiation is further subdivided into three types: UV- A, UV-B, and UV-C. UV-C radiation has wavelengths in the range of 200 to 285 nanometers (nm) and is totally absorbed by the earth's atmosphere. UV-B, from about 285 to 318 nm, is known to cause skin cancer in humans. UV-A, from about 315 to 400 nm, is mosdy responsible for tanning. However, UV-A has also been found to play some role in skin cancer and is the cause of eye cataracts, solar retinitis, and corneal dystrophies.Based on general principles and techniques for radiometry and photometry, several UV radiation-measuring and warning instruments have been developed and made commercially available.A personal UV radiometer, described in U.S. patent 5,008,548 to Nahum Gat, 1991, includes an LCD display, a photocell, and an integrated circuit for processing user inputs and UV radiation data.However, this radiometer is unable to correctly monitor levels of UV radiation when it is not directly exposed to solar rays, i.e., when it is placed in the shade. Moreover, the device does not take into account the changes in skin pigmentation which occur while a person is being exposed to solar radiation. Furthermore, this device is not maximally convenient, since it is intended for attachment to an article of clothing and may restrict movement of a person during rigorous physical activity, for instance, a volleyball game.An apparatus, disclosed in U.S. patent 4,985,632 to Frank Bianco et al., 1991, comprises an electronic wristwatch having a digital readout for displaying die time, the day, and the month. It also incorporates a photodiode for detecting skin-damaging UV radiation, a microcomputer, and four function buttons.This device, however, is not user-friendly due to its large number of functions, many of which are superfluous. Moreover, like the radiometer, the wristwatch does not take into account skin 

pigmentation changes which occur during exposure to UV radiation. Furthermore, it can not monitor UV radiation when placed in the shade.All of the above the prior-art devices are based on die assumption that the amount of UV radiation that may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT I CLAIM IS:
1. A noseshade for monitoring a subject's exposure to UV radiation, comprising: a contoured portion, having clip-on means for attaching said contoured portion to a pair of glasses; and a UV dosimeter incorporated into said contoured portion.
2. The noseshade of Claim 1 wherein said UV dosimeter comprises: logic means for determining a threshold absorption dose of UV radiation; data-input means for entering data into said logic means, said data comprising said subject's skin type and skin protection factor; display means for displaying information, said information including a total UV energy dose accumulated by said subject and said subject's skin type rating; radiation-measuring means for measuring incident UV radiation and converting said radiation to electrical signals to be processed by said logic means; alarm means for issuing an audible signal indicating d e accumulation of said direshold absorption dose of UV radiation; power-supply means for powering said logic means, said data-input means, said display means, said radiation- measuring means, and said alarm means; and circuit conductor means for electronically connecting said logic means, said data-input means, said display means, said radiation-measuring means, said power-supply means, and said alarm means.
3. The noseshade of Claim 1 further including switching means for activating said UV dosimeter.
4. The noseshade of Claim 3 wherein said switching means is a pressure- sensitive switch.
5. The noseshade of Claim 2 wherein said data-input means, said display means, said logic means, said radiation- measuring means, and said power-supply means are incorporated into said contoured portion.
6. The noseshade of Claim 2 wherein said logic means comprises a Central Processing Unit, a Read-Only-Memory, a Read- And- write Memory, a clock, and an electronic driver unit
7. The noseshade of Claim 2 wherein said alarm means includes a sound- generating piezoelectric element.
TUTE SHEET 


 8. The noseshade of Claim 2 wherein said data-input means comprises a plurality of switches.
9. The noseshade of Claim 2 wherein said display means comprises a digital LCD.
10. The noseshade of Claim 9 wherein said display means further includes pushbutton means for activating said, digital LCD.
11. The noseshade of Claim 2 wherein said radiation- measuring means comprises a dual UV-enhanced photovoltaic photodetector, a plurality of bandpass filters, and an operating amplifier, said plurality of bandpass filters being arranged to transmit only UV-A and UV-B ranges of incident solar radiation to said UV enhanced photovoltaic photodetector.
12. The noseshade of Claim 2 wherein said power-supply means comprises a plurality of solar cells.
13. The noseshade of Claim 2 wherein said logic means is a Complimentary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) structure.
14. A noseshade for monitoring a subject's exposure to UV radiation, comprising: a contoured portion having clip-on means for attachment to a pair of glasses; a microcontroller including a Central Processing Unit, a Read- Only Memory, a Read- And- write Memory, a clock, and an electronic driver, said microcontroller being programmed to determine a direshold absorption dose of UV radiation, said microcontroller being incorporated into said contoured portion; a skin-type input switch and skin protection factor switch, said switches being mounted into said contoured portion; a digital Liquid-Crystal Display incorporated into said contoured portion, said digital LCD being able to display a total UV energy dose accumulated by said subject, said digital LCD also being able to display said subject's skin type; radiation-measuring means for measuring incident UV radiation and converting said radiation to electrical signals to be processed by said microcontroller; a plurality of solar cells having a pressure sensitive activation switch incorporated in said clip-on means; alarm means for issuing an audible signal indicating die attainment of said threshold absorption dose of UV radiation; and circuit conductor means for electronically connecting said microcontroller, said input switches, said digital LCD, said UV-enhanced dual photovoltaic photodetector, said operational amplifier, said plurality of solar cells, and said alarm means. 


15. The noseshade of Claim 14 wherein said radiation-measuring means comprise a dual UV-enhanced photovoltaic photodetector, a plurality of bandpass filters, and an operational amplifier.
16. The noseshade of Claim 15 wherein said plurality of bandpass filters comprises UV-A-type and UV-B-type filters.
17. The noseshade of Claim 14 wherein said alarm means includes a sound-generating piezoelectric element.
18. The sunglasses of Claim 14 wherein said digital LCD further includes push-button means for activating said digital LCD.
19. The noseshade of Claim 14 wherein said microcontroller is a Complimentary Metal
Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) structure.
TITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
