<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620680</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for rapid automatic focusing an image of an object
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B728	G06K701	G02B728	G06K7015	G06K710	G02B736	G06K710	H04N5232	G02B736	H04N5232	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G06K	G02B	G06K	G06K	G02B	G06K	H04N	G02B	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B7	G06K7	G02B7	G06K7	G06K7	G02B7	G06K7	H04N5	G02B7	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automatic focusing system comprises a lens 
system or assembly (11) which is fixed in its location 

along an optical axis (17) between an object (1) and 
its image (19). The focusing of the object (1), which 

may vary its position along the optical axis (17), 
occurs through adjusting a detector or moving an 

imager (13) to the position in image space where the 
image space is focused on its image plane (19). The 

system is structured to facilitate this focusing in an 
automatic and very rapid manner to accommodate rapid 

changes in the location of the object (1) along the 
optical axis (17), e.g. in bar code reading systems. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERMEC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERMEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARACKELLIAN KEVORK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORNELIUS CRAIG J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARACKELLIAN, KEVORK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORNELIUS, CRAIG J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to rapid image focusing of objects located in object
planes which frequently change their distance from the focusing apparatus. An example
occurs with an apparatus for sequentially focusing images of an objects located on the
surface of a series of articles of different heights being transported along a predetermined
path such as on a conveyor belt.Many optical scanning applications where target distances can change rapidly
require fast, accurate and automatic focusing systems. For example, a package scanning
system, such as one used for reading postal bar code labels from surfaces of boxes or
packages on a moving conveyor, must necessarily be capable of reading labels from
boxes of all sizes. Since such system is based on an optical configuration which must
quickly adapt to reading the bar code labels that are located at differing heights above the
conveyor, a highly responsive optical reading system is required.Typically, optical systems which must be capable of automatic focusing over a
predetermined range of object distances utilize lens element separation changes to
accomplish the required imaging on a fixed image plane. Electrical range detectors and
controlling systems for operating the mechanical adjustments are part of the systems. In
the world of commercial photography, automatic focusing cameras allow for focusing by
the movement of the lens assemblies in relation to the location of a fixed image plane
where the film would be located. Such mechanically adjustable lenses are bulky, having a 
high mass which drastically slows the response time of
the focusing adjustment. While acceptable in the field
they were designed for, such systems are undesirable in
modern needs for high speed detection and electronic
reading capability for scanned optical information.US 4 570 185 discloses an apparatus for
automatically focusing an image of an object, the
apparatus comprising:
means mounted at a fixed location for focusing theimage onto an image plane, the focusing means having an
optical axis;movable means for detecting the image; and
means for controlling the position of the detectingmeans relatively to the focusing means by moving the
detecting means with a component of motion in the
direction of the optical axis of the focusing means, to
position the detecting means substantially at the image
plane.According to one aspect of the invention there is
provided an apparatus for automatically focusing an
image of an object, the apparatus comprising:
means mounted at a fixed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for automatically focusing an image
(19) of an object (1), the apparatus comprising:


means (11) mounted at a fixed location for focusing the
image onto an image plane (19), the focusing means

having an optical axis;
movable means (13) for detecting the image; and
means (5, 7, 9) for controlling the position of the

detecting means relatively to the focusing means by
moving the detecting means with a component of motion

in the direction of the optical axis (17) of the
focusing means (11), to position the detecting means

(13) substantially at the image plane (19),

   characterised in that the means for controlling
the position of the detecting means operates in an open

loop fashion.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the
position controlling means (5, 7, 9) comprises means

(9) coupled to the detecting means (13) for
controllably moving the detecting means substantially

along the optical axis (17) and means (5, 7) for
controlling the moving means (9) to move the detecting

means (13) substantially perpendicularly to the image
plane (19).
An apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the
position controlling means comprises means (5) for

determining the position of said object along said
optical axis and for using this information when

controlling the position of the detecting means.
An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 and
comprising an image quality analyzer (20), the

controlling means being operable to determine the
position of the image plane along the optical axis from

the evaluation of the quality of the image sent it by
the analyzer (20).
An apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the 
image quality analyzer (20) is operable to evaluate the

degree of focus of the image on the detecting means to
determine the location of the image plane for moving

said detecting means thereto.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims wherein said focusing means is a lens system.
An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said
focusing means is an optical lens system.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the detecting means is a light-sensitive

chemical medium.
An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the
light-sensitive chemical medium is a photographic film.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 7
wherein the means (13) for detecting is an electronic

image detecting device.
An apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the
means for detecting is a CCD array (which may be

linear).
An apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the
means for detecting is an optically sensitive

transistorized array.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the controlling means is arranged to

move the detecting means linearly along the optical
axis.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to
12, wherein the controlling means is arranged to move

the detecting means along an arc tangential to a line
coincident with or parallel to the optical axis.
An apparatus according to claim 2 or to any one of
claims 3 to 14 when appended to claim 2, wherein the

moving means (9) is an electromechanical actuator.
An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the
actuator is a magnet-coil assembly (39, 41).
An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the 
actuator (59) is a motor magnet and coil combination.
An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the
actuator is a moving coil audio speaker combination

(90, 94).
An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the
actuator is an electrostrictive device.
An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the
actuator is a magnetostrictive device.
An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the
actuator is a piezoelectric transducer device.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the controlling means comprises an

electronic controller (7).
An apparatus according to claim 22 wherein the
controller is provided by a computer.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the focusing means is fixed on the

optical axis.
An apparatus for forming focused optical images of
objects at varying distances from the apparatus as they

pass by the apparatus along a pre-determined path, the
apparatus comprising focusing apparatus according to

any one of the preceding claims.
An apparatus according to claim 25 for forming
focused optical images of symbologies appearing on the

surfaces of articles located at varying distances from
the apparatus, the apparatus comprising a conveyor for

carrying the articles along the predetermined path, a
stationary first member held in a fixed position

relative to the predetermined path and supporting the
focusing means for producing an image of the

symbologies on the surface of one of the articles in
the image plane as the conveyor carries the articles

past the optical element, a second member supporting
the detecting means for travel therewith, the second

member being movable relative to the first member to 
selectively move the detecting means along the optical

axis and an actuator attached to move the second member
relative to the first member in response to a drive

signal indicative of the distance along the optical
axis between the position of the detecting means and

the position of the image plane to adjustable position
the detecting means at the image plane.
An apparatus according to claim 14, or to any one
of claims 15 to 26 when appended to claim 14, and

comprising a planar bed holding the detecting means
with a receiving surface of the detecting means

oriented at a predetermined angle to the plane of the
bed, at least one first pivot arm pivotally connected

to a first edge region of said planar bed, at least one
second pivot arm pivotally connected to a second,

opposite edge region of said planar bed, said first and
second pivot arms having substantially equal lengths,

said first pivot arm being connected at its end region
opposite the end region connected to the bed to a first

pivot point in a plane parallel to the bed and spaced a
predetermined distance from said
 bed, and said second
pivot arm being connected at its end region opposite

the end region connected to the bed to a second pivot
point in said plane parallel to the bed, said distance

between said first and second pivot points being
substantially equal to the distance between the

connections of said first and second pivot arms to said
bed, whereby the edge of the bed, the line between

first and second pivot points, and the first and second
pivot arms approximately form a parallelogram.
An apparatus according to claim 27 wherein the
first and second pivot arms are flexures allowing

approximate rotation about the pivot points and points
of connection to the bed.
A method for automatically focusing an image of an
object onto an image plane, which method comprises: 


(a) focusing the image of the object onto an
image plane with a focusing means fixed on the optical

axis of focusing;
(b) detecting said image with a detecting means;
(c) determining the position of the image plane
and controllably moving the detecting means to this

image plane along the optical axis where an image of
the object is in focus;

characterised in that control of the detecting means is
carried out in an open loop fashion.
A method according to claim 29 wherein the step of
determining the position of the image plane includes

the steps of:

(a) determining the distance between the focusing
means and the object; and
(b) calculating the position of the image plane
using imaging properties of the focusing means.
A method according to claim 29 wherein the step of
determining the position of said image plane includes

the steps of:

(a) evaluating the degree of focus of the image
as detected by the detecting means; and
(b) calculating the position of the image plane
using empirical algorithms previously determined from

measurements with the focusing means.
A method according to any one of claims 29 to 31
and comprising the steps of:


(a) placing a first member supporting a
stationary optical element at a fixed position relative

to the optical axis;
(b) providing a movable second member holding the
detecting means;
(c) generating a drive signal indicative of the
distance along the optical axis between the detecting

means and the image plane; and
(d) selectively moving the second member relative 
to the first member in response to the drive signal to

position the detecting means at the image plane.
A method according to claim 32 wherein the second
member is moved relative to the first member by

pivoting the second member about an axis of rotation to
move the detecting means substantially along the

optical axis.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
