<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656951</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GENETIC SEQUENCES ENCODING FLAVONOL SYNTHASE ENZYMES AND USES THEREFOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N902	A01H502	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1553	A01H502	A01H500	C12N1582	C12N904	C12N1553	C12N1582	A01H500	C12N904	C12N902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	A01H	C12N	C12N	C12N	A01H	A01H	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	A01H	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N9	A01H5	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	A01H5	A01H5	C12N15	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	A01H5	C12N9	C12N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates generally to genetic sequences encoding flavonoid pathway metabolising enzymes and in particular enzymes having flavonol synthase activity and their use such as in manipulating production of pigmentory molecules in plants. More particularly, the present invention provides genetic sequences encoding flavonol synthase (FLS).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT FLOWER DEV PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL FLOWER DEVELOPMENTS PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLTON TIMOTHY ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEAM LISA ANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLTON, TIMOTHY ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEAM, LISA, ANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to genetic sequences encoding flavonoid metabolising enzymes and in particular enzymes having flavonol synthase activity and their use such as in manipulating production of pigmentory molecules in plants.Bibliographic details of the publications referred to hereinafter in the specification are collected at the end of the description. SEQ ID No's referred to herein in relation to nucleotide and amino acid sequences are defined after the Bibliography.The flower industry strives to develop new and different varieties of flowering plants. An effective way to create such novel varieties is through the manipulation of flower colour and classical breeding techniques have been used with some success to produce a wide range of colours for most of the commercial varieties of flowers. This approach has been limited, however, by the constraints of a particular species' gene pool and for this reason it is rare for a single species to have a full spectrum of coloured varieties. For example, the development of blue varieties of the major cut flower species such as rose, chrysanthemum, carnation, lily, tulip and gerbera would offer a significant opportunity in both the cut flower and ornamental markets.The colours of flowers and other plant parts are predominantly due to two types of pigments: flavonoids and carotenoids. Flavonoids are the most common and the most important of the flower pigments. The most important classes of flavonoids with respect to flower colour are anthocyanins, flavonols and flavones. Anthocyanins are glycosylated derivatives of cyanidin, delphinidin, petunidin, peonidin, malvidin and pelargonidin, and are localised in the vacuole.One important factor for flower colour is co-pigmentation of anthocyanins with tannins and certain flavone and flavonol glycosides (Scott-Moncrieff, 1936). When compared over a range of pH values, co-pigmented anthocyanins are always found to be bluer than the normal pigment. Co-pigmentation of anthocyanins with flavonol glycosides can also be important for the development of colour in fruit (Yoshitama et al., 1992). The molar ratio of anthocyanin to co-pigment can also exert a strong influence on colour. It has recently been demonstrated that flavonol aglycones are essential for pollen germination and pollen tube growth (Mo et al.. 1992). The ability to control the production of co-pigments, such as flavonols, in plants could therefore have useful applications in altering flower colour and manipulating plant fertility.The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising

a nucleotide sequence comprising all or part of the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or a sequence having at least 50% similarity thereto, or the sequence complementary thereto,

or a nucleotide sequence capable of hybridizing to the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or the sequence complementary thereto under stringency conditions of 4-6 x SSC/1% (w/v) SDS at 37-45°C for 2-3 hours, or the sequence complementary thereto,

wherein said nucleotide sequence or the complementary sequence thereto encodes a polypeptide of plant origin having flavonol synthase activity or a derivative thereof which is capable of producing a flavonol from dihydrokaempferol (DHK), dihydroquercetin (DHQ) or dihydromyricetin (DHM).
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 1 wherein said nucleic acid is DNA.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the plant is selected from the group consisting of petunia, snapdragon, tobacco, rose, carnation, chrysanthemum, lisianthus, cyclamen, parsley and grape.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 3 wherein the plant is selected from the group consisting of petunia, tobacco, carnation and chrysanthemum.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 4 having a nucleotide sequence or complementary
 nucleotide sequence which comprises the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID No: 1 or having at least 50% similarity to all or a part thereof.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 4 having a nucleotide sequence or complementary nucleotide sequence which comprises the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2 or having at least 50% similarity to all or a part thereof.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 4 having a nucleotide sequence or complementary nucleotide sequence which comprises the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID No: 3 or having at least 50% similarity to all or a part thereof.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 4 having a nucleotide sequence or complementary nucleotide sequence which comprises the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 4 or having at least 50% similarity to all or a part thereof.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 4 having a nucleotide sequence or complementary nucleotide sequence which comprises the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 5 or having at least 50% similarity to all or a part thereof.
An isolated DNA molecule comprising a sequence of nucleotides which:

(i) encodes a polypeptide of plant origin having flavonol synthase activity; and
(ii) has at least 50% nucleotide sequence similarity to the sequence set forth in SEQ ID No: 1 to 5.
An isolated nucleic acid which:

(i) encodes a polypeptide of plant origin having
 flavonol synthase activity; and
(ii) hybridises under stringency conditions of 4-6 x SSC/1% (w/v) SDS at 37-45°C for 2-3 hours, to a nucleotide sequence complementary to the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NOS. 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 10 or 11 having a nucleotide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 10 or 11 having a nucleotide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 10 or 11 having a nucleotide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 10 or 11 having a nucleotide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 4.
An isolated nucleic acid molecule as claimed in claim 10 or 11 having a nucleotide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 5.
An antisense molecule comprising an isolated nucleic acid molecule as defined in any one of claims 1 to 16 in antisense orientation, or a part thereof, wherein said antisense molecule is capable of regulating expression of indigenous flavonol synthase.
A vector comprising the nucleic acid molecule or antisense molecule as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17.
A vector as claimed in claim 18 wherein the nucleic acid molecule or antisense molecule is operably linked to a promoter.
A vector as claimed in claim 19 capable of replication and expression in a eukaryotic cell.
A vector as claimed in claim 19 capable of replication and expression in a prokaryotic cell.
An oligonucleotide as defined in any one of SEQ ID NOS: 7 to 11.
A transgenic plant with respect to genetic sequences encoding flavonol synthase, said plant being stably transformed with a genetic sequence encoding a polypeptide having flavonol synthase activity wherein said polypeptide is encoded by a nucleotide sequence corresponding to a sequence as defined in any one of claims 1 to 16.
A transgenic plant as claimed in claim 23 wherein the genetic sequence is capable of expression and said expression is optionally regulatable.
A transgenic plant as claimed in claim 24 wherein the expression is developmentally regulated.
A transgenic plant selected from the group consisting of petunia, rose, carnation, chrysanthemum, gerbera, tobacco, lisianthus, lily, iris and pelargonium carrying a non-indigenous genetic sequence encoding a polypeptide having flavonol synthase activity, said genetic sequence optionally capable of being expressed and wherein said polypeptide having flavonol synthase activity is encoded by a DNA molecule comprising a DNA strand capable of hybridizing under stringency conditions of 4-6 x SSC/1% (w/v) SDS at 37-45°C for 2-3 hours, to a nucleotide sequence complementary to all or
 part of the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NOS. 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5.
A method for producing a transgenic flowering plant capable of exhibiting altered inflorescence properties, said method comprising introducing into a cell of a suitable plant the nucleic acid molecule or antisense molecule as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17, regenerating a transgenic plant from the cell and growing said transgenic plant for a time and under conditions sufficient to permit expression of the nucleic acid sequence into a polypeptide having flavonol synthase activity.
A method for producing a transgenic flowering plant capable of exhibiting altered inflorescence properties, said method comprising introducing into a cell of a plant carrying an indigenous polypeptide having flavonol synthase activity, the nucleic acid molecule or antisense molecule as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17, under conditions to reduce the activity of the indigenous polypeptide having flavonol synthase activity.
A method as claimed in claim 28 wherein said conditions induce co-suppression of said polypeptide.
A transgenic plant or method as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 25, 27 or 28 wherein the transgenic plant is selected from the list consisting of petunia, rose, carnation, chrysanthemum, gerbera, tobacco, lisianthus, lily, iris and pelargonium.
A method as claimed in claim 30 wherein the introduced nucleic acid is DNA and encodes a polypeptide having flavonol synthase activity and has the nucleotide sequence as set forth in at least one of the sequences
 selected from the list consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 4 and SEQ ID NO: 5.
A transgenic plant wherein said plant is the progeny of a transgenic plant as defined in any one of claims 23 to 26 or 30 and carries said introduced genetic sequence.
A seed of a transgenic plant as defined in any one of claims 23 to 26, 30 or 32.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
