<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626311</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Package conveying apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B1100	B65B1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B11	B65B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A package-conveying apparatus (10), which is useful 
with a wrapping machine (22) of a type capable of wrapping 

a package with stretch film from a roll (28) moving in an 
annular path, comprises an elongate table (12) with two 

front ledges (14), a pair of endless belts (18) for 
conveying a package toward the ledges (14), and a pair of 

package pushers (90). Each pusher (90) includes a leg with 
a pivotable foot (94), a double-acting piston-cylinder 

mechanism (80) for driving the leg frontwardly and back-wardly, 
and a double-acting piston-cylinder mechanism (96) 

for pivoting the foot (94) upwardly into an operative 
position and downwardly into an inoperative position. In 

the operative position, the foot (94) can engage a package 
(P) to enable the leg (90) when driven frontwardly to push 

the package from the endless belts (16) onto and from the 
ledges (14). In the inoperative position, the foot (94) 

clears a package (P) on the endless belts (18) when the leg 
is driven backwardly. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIMA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIMA INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHERER PHILIP G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHERER, PHILIP G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to a package-conveying 
apparatus useful with a wrapping machine of a type capable 
of wrapping a package with stretch film from a roll moving 
in an annular path. In a wrapping machine of the type noted above, a roll 
of stretch film is driven around a ring structure defining 
an annular path so that stretch film from the roll is 
wrapped around a package. If the package is a relatively 
short package, such as a carton not substantially longer 
than the wrapping machine, it is known to wrap the package 
while the package is resting on a support, such as a bed of 
rollers within the ring structure. If the package is a 
relatively long package, such as one or more pieces of 
lumber, pipe, or tubing or a roll of textile or carpeting, 
it is known to wrap the package in a spiral pattern as the 
package is being conveyed through the wrapping machine, as 
by an input conveyor, a bed of rollers within the wrapping 
machine, and an output conveyor. As exemplified by Model MSB Mima (trade mark) Stretch 
Bundlers, wrapping machines of the type noted above are 
available commercially from ITW Mima (a unit of Illinois 
Tool Works Inc.) of Boca Raton, Florida. Machines of 
related interest are disclosed in prior patents including 
Brown et al. U.S. Patent No. 2,864,303, Lancaster et al. 
U.S. Patent No. 4,110,957, Lancaster et al. U.S. Patent 
No. 4,178,734, Lancaster et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,317,322, 
Bergling et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,563,857, and Kovacs U.S. 
Patent No. 5,027,581. There has been a need, to which this invention is 
addressed, for a package-conveying apparatus useful with 
a packaging machine of the type noted above and capable of 
conveying a relatively short package, such as a carton not 
substantially longer than the wrapping machine, into the 
wrapping machine before the package is wrapped and from the 
wrapping machine after the package has been wrapped.  According to this invention a package-conveying 
apparatus useful with a wrapping machine of a type capable 
of wrapping a package with stretch film from a roll moving 
in an annular path comprises: 
(a) an elongate table having a back end and a front 
end, at least one elongate ledge mounted to the elongate 
table so as to extend frontwardly from the front end, the 
at least one elongate ledge having a front end spaced 
frontwardly from the front end of the table; (b) a package conveyor mounted operatively to the 
elongate table and including at least one endless member 
adapted to receive a package on the at least
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A package-conveying apparatus (10) useful with a 
wrapping machine (22) of a type capable of wrapping a 

package (P) with stretch film from a roll (28) moving in an 
annular path, the package-conveying apparatus comprising: 


(a) an elongate table (12) having a back end and a 
front end, at least one elongate ledge (14) mounted to the 

elongate table (12) so as to extend frontwardly from the 
front end, the at least one elongate ledge having a front 

end spaced frontwardly from the front end of the table 
(12); 
(b) a package conveyor (16) mounted operatively to 
the elongate table (12) and including at least one endless 

member (18) adapted to receive a package (P) on the at 
least one endless member (18), near the back end of the 

elongate table (12), the package conveyor (16) including 
means for driving the at least one endless member so as to 

convey a package thereon frontwardly toward the front end 
of the elongate table (12); 
(c) a pair of package pushers (90) mounted 
operatively to the elongate table in side-to-side relation 

to each other, each package pusher (90) including a 
longitudinally extending leg with a front end (94) and 

means (80) for driving the leg (90) frontwardly from a 
retracted position wherein the front end of the leg is 

spaced backwardly from the output end of the elongate 
table, through an intermediate position wherein the front 

end (94) of the leg (90) is near the output end of the 
elongate table (12), to an extended position wherein the 

front end (94) of the leg (90) is near the front end of the 
at least one elongate ledge (14) and for driving the leg 

backwardly from the extended position, through the intermediate 
position, to the retracted position, the package 

pushers (90) being operable in such manner that the leg 
(90) of one such pusher is driven frontwardly as the leg 

(90) of the other pusher is driven backwardly and that the 
 

leg of whichever of the package pushers is driven 
front
wardly at any given time is capable of pushing a 
package (P) from the at least one endless member (18) onto 

the at least one elongate ledge (14) as the leg being 
driven frontwardly is driven from the retracted position to 

the intermediate position and of pushing a package from the 
at least one elongate ledge (14) as the leg being driven 

frontwardly is driven from the intermediate position to the 
extended position. 
A package-conveying apparatus of claim 1, wherein the 
means for driving the leg of each package pusher includes 

a double-acting piston-cylinder mechanism (80) connected 
operatively between the elongate table (12) and the leg 

(90) of such package pusher. 
A package-conveying apparatus of claim 1 or 2, 
wherein a foot (94) is mounted to the leg (90) of each 

package pusher so as to be selectively movable between an 
operative position wherein the foot (94) is capable of 

engaging a package (P) on the at least one endless member 
(18) so as to enable the leg (90) of such package pusher to 

push the package (P) as the leg of such package pusher is 
driven frontwardly and an inoperative position wherein the 

foot (94) is disposed so as to clear a package (P) on the 
at least one endless member (18) as the leg (90) of such 

package pusher is driven backwardly. 
A package-conveying apparatus of claim 3, wherein the 
foot (94) is mounted so as to be selectively pivotable 

between the operative and inoperative positions. 
A package-conveying apparatus of claim 4, wherein the 
foot (94) is mounted so as to be selectively pivotable 

upwardly to the operative position and downwardly to the 
inoperative position. 
A package-conveying apparatus of claim 3, 4 or 5, 
wherein each package pusher includes means (96) for 

pivoting the foot (94) mounted to the leg (90) of such 
package pusher selectively between the operative and 

inoperative positions. 
A package-conveying apparatus of claim 6, wherein the 
foot-pivoting means of each package pusher includes a 

double-acting piston-cylinder mechanism (96) connected 
operatively between the leg (90) of such package pusher and 

the foot (94) mounted thereto. 
A package-conveying apparatus according to any 
preceding claim, wherein the at least one elongate ledge 

includes a pair of elongate ledges (14) mounted to the 
elongate table (12) in side-by-side relation to each other 

so as to extend frontwardly from the output end. 
A package-conveying apparatus according to any 
preceding claim, wherein the at least one endless member 

includes at least one endless belt (18) extending along the 
elongate table (12), the at least one belt having an upper 

run overlying the elongate table and a lower run underlying 
the elongate table. 
A package-conveying apparatus according to any 
preceding claim, wherein the at least one endless member 

includes a pair of endless belts (18) extending along the 
elongate table in side-by-side relation to each other, each 

endless belt having an upper run overlying the elongate 
table and a lower run underlying the elongate table. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
