<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610991</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for laser assisted transurethral resection of the prostate(TURP).
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61B1820	A61B1820	A61B1822	A61B1824	A61M100	A61M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention is related to treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), 
and more specifically, to a device particularly suited for performing an improved 

laser assisted transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). This invention is an 
angle firing fiber optic laser delivery device. The device has a firing tip (42) which 

has an insert (44) with a highly reflective surface (45) lying at a specific angle with 
respect to the central axis of the fiber (41). The laser energy is reflected out a 

central opening or window (49). Another embodiment features the firing tip of the 
invention mounted on a cannula member. Another embodiment of the invention 

features a fiber with a bias cut end surface with a reflective surface provided 
thereon such that radiant energy is internally reflected at an operative angle for 

performing the prostatectomy. Various combination reflection and internal 
reflectance embodiments are disclosed as well. Various embodiments allow for 

cooling of the fiber and firing tip in different ways, including the use of cooling 
vents (48) on the firing tip and the use of a hollow coaxial channel for supplying 

irrigation fluid to the firing tip of the invention. The device can also be positioned 
and manipulated precisely and conveniently with the use of the positioning device 

and the indexed rotatable coupling device used on various embodiments of this 
invention. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XINTEC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XINTEC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOU MARILYN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGAI KWOK HING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RINK JOHN LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAM HERRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YU KING JIAN JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOU MARILYN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGAI KWOK HING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RINK JOHN LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAM HERRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YU KING JIAN JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is related to treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), 
and more specifically, to a device particularly suited for performing an improved laser 
assisted transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). Benign prostatic hyperplasia or hypertrophy (BPH) refers to an abnormal 
increase in the size of the prostate gland, usually affecting men over the age of 50. 
Symptoms usually develop gradually as the enlarging prostate compresses around the 
urethra. Flow of urine is obstructed, and there is difficulty starting urination. Men 
with this condition often get out of bed four or five times every night to urinate, and 
even then they may not experience complete relief from the urge to void. The process 
of restriction to the point of becoming a problem can take from several months to 
several years. The bladder muscle which would normally be relaxed initially to let 
urine through the urethra is used to try to force urine through. That muscle can 
become distended and overdeveloped, causing abdominal swelling. Severe abdominal 
pain and inability to relieve oneself can result and would require immediate medical 
attention. It is estimated that over 450,000 transurethral prostatectomies are performed 
each year and that nearly one third of all men in the United States who reach the age 
of 80 require such treatment. Medical technology has developed extensively in this area. Between the 17th 
and 19th centuries surgical procedures were developed for removal of gall stones as 
well as for the open prostatic enucleation to relieve bladder obstruction. By the early  
 
20th century the use of the wire loop electrocautery instrument to perform 
transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) provided an alternative to open 
suprapubic or perineal incision, as was often resorted to. Over the past 60 years, the 
modern-type resectoscope with viewing capabilities in conjunction with cutting or 
reaming with an electrocautery wire loop have become what has frequently been 
referred to as the "gold standard" for treating such disease. The process includes 
heating a wire loop by electrical resistance and gradually drawing the heated loop back 
and forth longitudinally within the prostate to cut and cauterize tissue, creating a series 
of furrows along the length of the prostate until the entire area of the urethra has been 
treated circumferentially. Cooling fluid is used to irrigate the area being treated to 
minimize the risk of heat-damage to internal organs or other tissue. This is typically 
s
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fibre optic laser delivery device characterised in that it comprises means for 
deflecting the light to a predetermined angle to the axis of the waveguide, wherein the 

said means comprises a reflecting surface, said surface being positioned adjacent to 
the end of the waveguide, or in intimate contact therewith, and at an angle to the axis 

of the waveguide. 
An angle firing fiber optic laser delivery device for cutting, coagulating and 
vaporizing tissue by means of radiant energy, characterised in that said device 

comprises: 
   a fiber optic waveguide having 

a receiving end, 
a central axis, and 

a transmitting end; 
   and a firing tip, said firing tip comprising: 

   an attachment means for attaching said firing tip to said waveguide 
adjacent said transmitting end; 

   a central hollow body portion having a distal end and a proximal 
end,said attachment means attaching said central hollow body 

portion of said firing tip to said waveguide at said proximal 
end, said central hollow body portion partially cut away 

defining a central opening; 
   and a highly reflective surface, said highly reflective surface being 

positioned within said central hollow body portion of said 
firing tip in an operative position whereby said radiant 

energy is reflected through said central opening at an 
operative angle with respect to said central axis. 
An angle firing fiber optic laser delivery device for cutting, coagulating and 
 

vaporizing tissue by means of radiant energy characterised in that, said device 
comprises: 

   a fiber optic waveguide having 
a receiving end, 

a central axis, 
and a transmitting end; 

   a rigid cannula member, said cannula member having a proximal end and 
a distal end, said waveguide being axially disposed within said 

cannula member such that the transmitting end of said waveguide is 
adjacent to said distal end of said cannula member; 

   a waveguide locking means adjacent to said proximal end of said cannula 
member for locking said waveguide within said cannula member 

thereby maintaining said transmitting end of said waveguide adjacent 
to said distal end of said cannula member; and 

   a firing tip, said firing tip comprising: 
   an attachment means attaching said firing tip to the distal end of said 

cannula member; 
   a central hollow body portion having a proximal end and a distal 

end, said attachment means attaching said proximal end of 
said central hollow body portion of said firing tip to said 

distal end of said cannula member, said central hollow body 
portion partially cut away defining a central opening; and 

   a highly reflective surface, said highly reflective surface being 
positioned within said central hollow body portion of said 

firing tip in an operative position whereby said radiant 
energy is reflected through said central opening at an 

operative angle with respect to said central axis. 
A combination reflectance angle firing fiber optic laser delivery device for 
cutting, coagulating and vaporizing tissue by means of radiant energy, characterised 

 
in that said device comprises: 

   a fiber optic waveguide having 
a receiving end, 

a central axis, and 
a transmitting end, said transmitting end having a bias cut end 

surface, said end surface lying at an operative angle with 
said central axis of said fiber optic waveguide; and 

   a firing tip, said firing tip comprising: 
   an attachment means for attaching said firing tip to said waveguide 

adjacent said transmitting end; 
   a central hollow body portion having a distal end and a proximal 

end, said attachment means attaching said central hollow 
body portion of said firing tip to said waveguide at said 

proximal end, said central hollow body portion partially cut 
away defining a central opening; and 

   a highly reflective surface, said transmitting end in intimate contact 

with said highly reflective surface, said transmitting end and 
said highly reflective surface both being positioned within 

said central hollow body portion of said firing tip in an 
operative position whereby said radiant energy is reflected 

through said central opening at an operative angle with 
respect to said central axis. 
The device of claim 4 characterised in that said reflective surface is 
provided with a recess such that said bias cut end surface of said fiber optic 

waveguide is disposed within said recess whereby any normal leakage of light is 
reduced. 
The device of any of claims 1-5 characterised in that a highly reflective 
surface is placed on a first end of an insert member axially disposed within said 

 
central hollow body portion, a second end of said insert member being adjacent to 

the distal end of said central hollow body portion. 
The device of claim 6 characterised in that said central hollow body portion 
further comprises an internal circumferential shoulder located at a point 

intermediate between said central opening and said distal end of said central hollow 
body portion, said insert member further has a circumferential boss at a point 

intermediate between said first end and said second end, said boss biased against 
said shoulder. 
The device of any of claims 1-7 characterised in that said central hollow 
body portion of said firing tip further comprises a plurality of openings somewhat 

smaller in size than the central opening to act as cooling vents for said firing tip. 
The device of claim 8 characterised in that it further comprises a flowrate 
restricting means movably attached to said central hollow body portion adjacent to 

said cooling vents. 
The device of any of claims 1-9 characterised in that the reflective surface 
is a highly reflective planar surface or characterised in that the reflective surface 

is a highly reflective concave surface. 
An internal reflectance angle firing fiber optic laser delivery device for 
cutting, coagulating and vaporizing tissue by means of radiant energy, said device 

comprising: 
   a fiber optic waveguide having: 

a receiving end, 
a central axis, and 

a transmitting end; 
   and a firing tip, said firing tip comprising:

 
   a bias cut end face on said transmitting end, said end face lying at 

an operative angle to said central axis of said waveguide; and 
a highly reflective surface applied to said end face whereby said 

radiant energy is reflected at an operative angle with respect 
to said central axis. 
The device of any of claims 1-11 characterised in that said highly reflective 
surface consists of a dielectric material, and/or 

   characterised in that said highly reflective surface consists of a 
metallic material, and/or 

   characterised in that said highly reflective surface consists of a 
plurality of layers of material, said materials 

having different indices of refraction. 
The device of any of claims 1-12 characterised in that the diameter of said 
fiber optic waveguide increases at a point near the firing tip of said device forming 

a truncated ball shaped firing tip. 
The device of any of claims 1-10, 12 or 13 characterised in that said firing 
tip further comprises a protective layer applied over said central hollow body, said 

protective layer being composed of a material transparent to said radiant energy. 
The device of any of claims 11-13 characterised in that said firing tip 
further comprises a protective layer applied over said highly reflective surface, said 

protective layer being composed of a material transparent to said radiant energy. 
The device of claims 14 and 15 characterised in that there is a space 
defining a chamber interposed between said bias cut end surface of said fiber and 

 
said protective layer, said chamber being sealed by a sealing means. 
The device of claim 16 characterised in that said chamber is filled with a 
fluid, or characterised in that said chamber is filled with a gas, or characterised in 

that said chamber is evacuated. 
The device of any of claims 1-17 characterised in that said highly reflective 
surface lies in a plane at approximately 45 degrees with respect to said central axis 

such that radiant energy is reflected off of said highly reflective surface at an angle 
of 90 degrees with respect to said central axis, or characterised in that said highly 

reflective surface lies in a plane at more than 45 degrees with respect to said 
central axis such that radiant energy is reflected off of said highly reflective surface 

at an angle of more than 90 degrees with respect to said central axis, or 
characterised in that said highly reflective surface lies in a plane at less than 45 

degrees with respect to said central axis such that radiant energy is reflected off of 
said highly reflective surface at an angle of less than 90 degrees with respect to 

said central axis. 
The device of any of claims 1-18 characterised in that said receiving end of 
said waveguide further comprises a means for coupling said waveguide to a source 

of radiant energy. 
The device of any of claims 1-19 characterised in that it further comprises 
a positioning device, said positioning device having a locking means for attaching 

said positioning device to said waveguide at a point intermediate said receiving end 
of said waveguide and said firing tip. 
The device of claim 20, characterised in that the positioning device further 
comprises a rotatable section, said rotatable section being disposed between said 

locking means of said positioning device and said receiving end of said waveguide, 
 

said rotatable section being rotatable about said waveguide's central axis, and 
said rotatable section preferably being indexed so as to provide rotation into a 

plurality of predetermined positions. 
The device of claims 1-21 characterised in that said fiber is disposed within 
a hollow coaxial channel delivering coolant fluid to the transmitting end of said 

fiber optic waveguide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
