<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654961</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Enhancing electrical insulation between circuit elements.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K720	H05K720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit structure includes spaced apart first 
and second conductive elements, and a body having two 

spaced apart points in contact respectively with the 
first and second conductive elements. An electrically 

insulating medium is exposed as part of a peripheral 
outside surface of the body and spans, in the vicinity of 

the peripheral outside surface, at least a portion of the 
distance between the first and second conductive 

elements. An insulating barrier is positioned between 
the first and second conductive elements and has an 

aperture through which the body passes. The peripheral 
outside surface of the body is configured 

such that the length of the shortest discharge path 
between the first and second conductive elements is 

greater than the portion of the shortest distance between 
the first and second conductive elements which is 

spanned, in the vicinity of the peripheral outside 
surface, by the insulating medium. 
Also described is a method of forming a window in an 
insulating barrier. A layer of an insulating material is 

attached to the conductive layer. The heat sinking 
conductive layer is positioned in a known position relative 

to a cutting tool. Cuts are made through the insulating 
material, at predetermined locations relative to the 

known position of the conductive layer, to define a 
window in the insulating material. The insulating 

material is removed in the region of the window to form 
the aperture. Both the making of the cuts which define 

the window, and the removal of the material in the region 
of the window, may be accomplished by use of a laser. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VLT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VLT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDRUS LANCE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINNEMORE FRED M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VINCIARELLI PATRIZIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDRUS, LANCE L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINNEMORE, FRED M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VINCIARELLI, PATRIZIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to enhancing electrical 
insulation between circuit elements. A common issue (for safety and other reasons) in 
designing and building circuits is ensuring adequate 
electrical insulation between circuit elements. In a 
power conversion circuit to (Figure 1) , for example, it 
may be important to ensure that the electrical insulative 
capability along a creep path 4 between a printed circuit 
run 6 and a metal base plate 8 is high enough to prevent 
electrical discharge along the path when a high potential 
appears between elements 6 and 8. The insulative 
capability is affected by the length of the path (the 
creep distance) and by what lies in the space between 
electrically conductive elements 6 and 8. In general, the invention features, in a first aspect 
thereof, a circuit 
structure that includes spaced apart first and second 
conductive elements, and a body having two spaced apart 
points in contact respectively with the first and second 
conductive elements. An electrically insulating medium 
is exposed as part of a peripheral outside surface of the 
body and spans, in the vicinity of the peripheral outside 
surface, at least a portion of the distance between the 
first and second conductive elements. An insulating 
barrier is positioned between the first and second 
conductive elements and has an aperture through which the 
first component passes. The side surface of the 
component is configured such that the length of the 
shortest discharge path between the first and second 
conductive elements is greater than the portion of the 
shortest distance between the first and second conductive  
 
elements which is spanned, in the vicinity of the side 
surface, by the insulating medium. Specific embodiments may include the following 
features: At least a portion of the aperture has a 
smaller footprint than does a corresponding portion of 
the peripheral outside surface of the insulating medium. 
In some examples, the side surface has a setback in the 
vicinity of the second conductive element. In some 
examples, the side surface comprises a sloped contour. The body may include a heat generating electronic 
component and a thermally conductive medium, and the 
second conductive element may include a heat sinking 
component. The first conductive element may be a 
conductive trace on a printed circuit board. The 
insulative barrier may be a sheet of insulating material. 
The first and second conductive elements may be planar. 
The two spaced apart points may be conductive and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A circuit structure comprising: spaced apart first 
and second conductive elements; a body having two spaced 

apart points in contact respectively with said first and 
second conductive elements, and an electrically insulating 

medium exposed as part of a peripheral outside surface of 
said body and spanning, in the vicinity of said peripheral 

outside surface, at least a portion of the distance between 

said first and second conductive elements; and an insulating 
barrier having an aperture through which said body passes, 

said insulating barrier being positioned between said first 
and second conductive elements; said peripheral outside 

surface of said body 
and said insulating barrier being configured such that 

the length of the shortest discharge path between said 
first and second conductive elements is greater than the 

portion of the shortest distance between said first and 
second conductive elements which is spanned, in the 

vicinity of said peripheral outside surface, by said 
insulating medium. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein at least a 
portion of said aperture has a smaller footprint than 

does a corresponding portion of the peripheral outside 
surface of said insulating medium. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said 
peripheral outside surface comprises a setback in the 

vicinity of the second conductive element. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said peripheral 
outside surface comprises a sloped contour. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said second 
conductive element comprises a heat sinking component, and 

said body comprises a thermally conductive medium. 
The structure of Claim 5, wherein said body 
comprises a heat generating component, preferably a heat 

generating electronic component. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said first 
conductive element comprises a conductive trace on a printed 

circuit board. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said insulative 
barrier comprises a sheet of electrically insulating 

material. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein one or both of 
said first and second conductive element is(are) planar. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said two spaced 
apart points lie on parallel planar surfaces of said body. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said two spaced 
apart points are conductive. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said body 
comprises an insulative shelf mounted on and overhanging a 

conductive pedestal. 
The structure of Claim 1, wherein said first 
conductive element is on a printed circuit board and said 

printed circuit board has an aperture for receiving a 
portion of said body. 
A method for enhancing electrical insulation 
between spaced apart first and second conductive elements 

along a body which has two spaced apart points in contact 
respectively with said first and second conductive elements, 

and an electrically insulating medium exposed as part of a 
peripheral outside surface of said body and spanning, in the 

vicinity of said peripheral outside surface, at least a 
portion of the distance between said first and second 

conductive elements; the method comprising the steps of: 
positioning an insulating barrier between said first and 

second conductive elements, said insulating barrier having 
an aperture through which said body passes, and configuring 

said peripheral outside surface of said body and said 
insulating barrier such that the length of the shortest 

discharge path between said first and second 
 

conductive elements is greater than the portion of the 
shortest distance between said first and second conductive 

elements which is spanned, in the vicinity of said 
peripheral outside surface, by said insulating medium. 
A method of forming an insulating barrier having 
an aperture, on a surface of a conductive layer, comprising 

the steps of: providing a supply of sheet insulating 
material; attaching a layer of said insulating material to 

said conductive layer; positioning said conductive layer in 
a known position relative to a cutting tool; cutting through 

said insulating material, at predetermined locations 
relative to said known position of said conductive layer, to 

define a window in said insulating material; and removing 
said insulating material in the region of said window to 

form said aperture. 
A method of forming windows in insulating barriers 
attached to conductive layers moving on a production line 

and in which the configuration of the window in each of said 
insulating layers on said production line may be any 

selected one of a set of configurations, comprising, for 
each of said insulating barriers attached to one of said 

conductive layers on said production line, the steps of: 
positioning said conductive layer in a known position 

relative to a cutting tool; cutting through said insulating 
material, at predetermined locations relative to said known 

position of said conductive layer, to define said window in 
said insulating material in accordance with said selected 

configuration; and removing said insulating material to form 
said window. 
A method according to Claims 3, 15 or 16, wherein 
said cutting tool comprises a laser. 
A method according to Claim 17, wherein said 
positioning step comprises locating said conductive layer at 

 
a position at which a beam of said laser is perpendicular to 

a surface of said layer of insulating material at a point 
which is at the approximate centre of said window. 
A method according to Claim 17, wherein said 
cutting step comprises moving a beam of said laser along a 

predetermined path which defines the outline of said window 
on the surface of said insulating material. 
A method according to any of Claims 15 to 19, 
wherein said removing step comprises using a tool to lift 

said window off said conductive material. 
A method according to Claim 20, wherein said tool 
comprises a razor knife. 
A method according to any of Claims 15 to 21, 
wherein said removing step comprises heating a region of 

said window in a manner to render it unattached to said 
conductive layer. 
A method according to Claim 22, wherein said 
heating step comprises scanning the region within the window 

with a laser beam. 
A method according to any of Claims 15 to 23, 
wherein said attaching step comprises heating said 

conductive layer and said layer while they are being pressed 
together. 
A method according to Claim 24, wherein said 
attaching step further comprises selectively attaching 

portions of said layer to said conductive layer by the steps 
of heating said conductive layer, and pressing together said 

conductive layer and said layer only in selected regions. 
A method according to Claim 22, wherein said 
conductive layer heating step comprises heating at least a 

portion of said window using a laser beam to render said 
window unattached to said conductive layer. 
A method according to Claim 22 or any claims 
appendant thereto, further comprising air blowing said 

unattached insulating material off the surface of said 
conductive material. 
A method according to Claim 27, further comprising 
using a suction device to gather said unattached insulating 

material. 
A method according to any of Claims 15 to 28, 
further comprising post-bonding said insul
ating material to 
said conductive layer by heating following said removing 

step. 
A method according to any of Claims 15 to 29, 
further comprising cleaning the surface of the conductive 

layer at the window by laser scanning, after the removing 
step. 
A method according to any of Claims 15 to 30, 
further comprising precutting a small window in the layer of 

insulating material before the step of attaching. 
Apparatus for forming an insulating barrier having 
an aperture, on a surface of a conductive layer comprising: 

a supply of sheet insulating material; a bonder adapted for 
operatively attaching a layer of said insulating material to 

said conductive layer; a stage adapted for positioning said 
conductive layer in a known position relative to a cutting 

tool; a cutter configured operatively to cut through said 
insulating material, at predetermined locations relative to 

said known position of said conductive layer, to define a 
window in said insulating material; and a remover adapted 

for operatively removing said insulating material in the 
region of said window to form said aperture. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
