<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648281</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DNA/RNA TARGET AND SIGNAL AMPLIFICATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N3368	G01N3368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for detecting the presence or absence of a specific nucleic acid sequence or antibody in a sample using an oligonucleotide to bind to the nucleic acid sequence or antibody to be detected, forming double-stranded nucleic acid sequence using the bound oligonucleotide in conjunction with another oligonucleotide or DNA synthesis, synthesizing RNA transcripts from the thus-formed double-stranded nucleic acid sequence, and detecting the existence of the RNA transcripts, and oligonucleotides and kits useful in carrying out such a process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOVE JACK D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOVE, JACK D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVE JACK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVE, JACK D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DNA/RNA TARGET AND SIGNAL AMPLIFICATION— Te—c—h—n—ic—a —l^^F—ie—ld: tThe present invention relates to processes for detecting the presence or absence of nucleic acid sequences and antibodies in samples and oligonucleotides and kits useful in carrying out such processes.Background of the Invention The present invention involves processes to detect nucleic acid sequences and antibodies in samples by amplifying signals associated with the existence of such nucleic acid sequences and antibodies. In particular, an oligonucleotide sequence is bouηd to the nucleic acid sequence to be detected or, through a connector mole'cule, to an antibody to be detected, and that oligonucleotide is used to form a double-stranded nucleic acid sequence which is used to synthesize relatively large quantities of RNA transcripts in a short period of time for detection.Many target and signal amplification techniques have been described in the literature, but none of these techniques are believed to offer the combination of specificity, simplicity, and speed of the present invention. Some of these various techniques are described below. 

 a) Polvmerase Chain Reaction (PCR) PCR is described in Saiki et al. (1985) , Science. 230 1350. PCR consists of repeated cycles of DNA polymerase generated primer extension reactions. The target DNA is heat denatured and two oligonucleotides, which bracket the target sequence on opposite strands of the DNA to be amplified, are hybridized. These oligonucleotides become primers for use with DNA polymerase. The DNA is copied by primer extension to make a second copy of both strands. By repeating the cycle of heat denaturation, primer hybridization and extension, the target DNA can be amplified a million fold or more in about two to four hours. PCR is a molecular biology tool which must be used in conjunction with a detection technique to determine the results of amplification. The advantage of PCR is that it may increase sensitivity by amplifying the amount of target DNA by 1 million to 1 billion fold in about 4 hours. The disadvantage is that contamination may result in false positive results (i.e., reduced specificity).b) Transcription Amplification fTAS. TAS utilizes RNA transcription to amplify a DNA or RNA target and is described in Kwoh et al. (1989) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86, 1173. TAS uses two phases of amplification. In phase 1 of TAS a duplex cDNA is formed containing an overhanging, single stranded T7 transcription promoter by hybridizing a polynucleotide to the target. The DNA is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids, which process comprises:
(a) immobilizing said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected,
(b) treating the sample with a first oligonucleotide sequence under hybridizing conditions such that a portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence hybridizes to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected and a portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence does not hybridize to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected, wherein said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which does not hybridize to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected forms a RNA polymerase binding site and a nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA when hybridized to a complementary nucleotide sequence. 


 (c) treating the sample to remove any of first oligonucleotide sequence which is not hybridized to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected,
(d) treating the sample with a second oligonucleotide sequence under hybridizing conditions such that said second oligonucleotide sequence hybridizes to said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which does not hybridize to said specific acid sequence to be detected and forms a RNA polymerase binding site and nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA,
(e) treating the sample with RNA polymerase and nucleotide triphosphates such that said nucleotide sequence formed between a portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence and a portion of said second oligonucleotide sequence results in the synthesis of RNA transcripts, and
(f) determining whether said RNA transcripts were synthesized. 


 2. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic-acids according to claim 1, 5 wherein the sample at step (e) is further treated with said first oligonucleotide sequence capable of hybridizing to said RNA transcripts and with DNA polymerase such that said first oligonucleotide sequence hybridizes to said RNA transcripts which Q act as primers for synthesis of an extension nucleotide sequence complementary to said irst oligonucleotide sequence to form a RNA polymerase binding site and a .nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA which results in the synthesis of additional RNA transcripts.
3. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or
. mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 2, wherein the step of treating the sample with said first oligonucleotide sequence and with DNA polymerase is repeated.
4. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or 


 mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 1, wherein said RNA transcripts are virus fragments and are replicated through use of a RNA virus replicase.
5. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 1, wherein said first oligonucleotide sequence hybridizes to said specific nucleic acid sequence at the 3' end of said first oligonucleotide sequence and the treating of the sample in step (c) to remove any of first oligonucleotide sequence which is not hybridized to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected includes treating the sample with a single strand specific 3'-5' exonuclease such that the portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which forms a RNA polymerase binding site when hybridized to a complementary nucleotide sequence is cleaved from any of first oligonucleotide sequence which is not hybridized to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected. 


 6. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 1, wherein the sample at step (c) is further treated to separate said first oligonucleotide sequence from said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected and said sample is treated to remove any insoluble components.
7. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 6, wherein said first oligonucleotide sequence is separated from said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected by denaturation.
8. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 1, wherein the sample at step (d) is further treated to separate said first oligonucleotide sequence
'
 from said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected resulting in a soluble portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence hybridized to said second 


 oligonucleotide sequence forming a RNA polymerase binding site and nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA and said sample is treated to remove any insoluble components.
9. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 8, wherein said first oligonucleotide sequence is separated from said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected through use of a restriction enzyme which cleaves the portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence hybridized to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected.
10. The.process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 1, wherein said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which hybridizes to said second oligonucleotide sequence includes a nucleotide sequence identical to said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which hybridizes to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected. 



 11. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one speci ic nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic.acids according to claim 10, wherein said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which hybridizes to said second oligonucleotide sequence is identical to said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which hybridizes to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected.
12. A process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids, which process comprises:
(a) immobilizing said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected,
(b) treating the sample with an oligonucleotide sequence under hybridizing conditions such that a portion of said oligonucleotide sequence hybridizes to the
3' end of said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected which acts as a primer for said oligonucleotide sequence and a portion of said oligonucleotide 


 sequence does not hybridize to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected, wherein said portion of said oligonucleotide sequence which does not hybridize to said specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected forms a RNA polymerase binding site and a nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA when an extension product is synthesized from said primer which is complementary to said oligonucleotide sequence,
(c) treating the sample with DNA polymerase, RNA polymerase, and nucleotide triphosphates such that an extension product is synthesized from said primer which is complementary to said oligonucleotide sequence to form a RNA polymerase binding site and nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA which results in the synthesis of RNA transcripts, and
(d) determining whether said RNA transcripts were synthesized.
13. The process for detecting the presence or 


 absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 12, wherein the sample at step (c) is further treated with said oligonucleotide sequence capable of hybridizing to said RNA transcripts and with DNA polymerase such that said oligonucleotide sequence hybridizes to said RNA transcripts which act as primers for synthesis of an extension nucleotide sequence complementary to said oligonucleotide sequence to form a RNA polymerase binding site and a nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA which results in the synthesis of additional RNA transcripts.
14. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 13, wherein the step of treating the sample with said oligonucleotide sequence and with DNA polymerase is repeated.
15. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific nucleic acid sequence in a sample containing a nucleic acid or mixture of nucleic acids according to claim 13, 


wherein said RNA transcripts are virus fragments and are replicated through use of a RNA virus replicase.
16. A process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific antibody in a sample containing an antibody or mixture of antibodies, which process comprises:
(a) immobilizing either said specific antibody to be detected in the sample or an antigen which binds to said specific antibody to be detected,
(b) contacting the sample with an antigen which binds to said antibody to form an antibody-antigen complex which is immobilized,
(c) treating the sample to remove any of said antibody or said antigen which are not bound,
(d) treating the sample with a first oligonucleotide sequence such that a portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence binds to said antibody-antigen complex and a portion of said first 


 oligonucleotide sequence does not bind to said antibody-antigen complex, wherein said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which does not bind to said antibody-antigen complex forms a RNA polymerase binding site and a nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA when hybridized to a complementary nucleotide sequence,
(e) treating the sample to remove any of first oligonucleotide sequence which is not bound to said antibody-antigen complex,
( ) treating the sample with a second oligonucleotide sequence under hybridizing conditions such that said second oligonucleotide sequence hybridizes to said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which does not bind to said antibody-antigen complex and forms a RNA polymerase binding site and nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA,
(g) treating the sample with RNA polymerase and nucleotide triphosphates such that said nucleotide sequence formed between a 


 portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence and a portion of said second oligonucleotide sequence results in the synthesis of RNA transcripts, and
(h) determining whether said RNA transcripts were synthesized.
17. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific antibody in a sample containing an antibody or mixture of antibodies according to claim 16, wherein the sample at step (g) is further treated with said first oligonucleotide sequence capable of hybridizing to said RNA transcripts and with DNA polymerase such that said first oligonucleotide sequence hybridizes to said RNA transcripts which act as primers for synthesis of an extension nucleotide sequence complementary to said first oligonucleotide sequence to form a RNA polymerase binding site and a nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA which results in the synthesis of additional RNA transcripts.
18. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific antibody in a sample containing an antibody or mixture of 


 antibodies according to claim 17, wherein the step of treating the sample with said first oligonucleotide sequence and with DNA polymerase is repeated.
19. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific antibody in a sample containing an antibody or mixture of antibodies according to claim 16, wherein said RNA transcripts are virus fragments and are replicated through use of a RNA virus replicase.
20. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific antibody in a sample containing an antibody or mixture of antibodies according to claim 16, wherein said first oligonucleotide sequence is biotinylated and binds to said antibody-antigen complex through a streptavidin-complexed molecule.
21. The process for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific antibody in a sample containing an antibody or mixture of antibodies according to claim 16, wherein said second oligonucleotide sequence acts as a primer for said first oligonucleotide sequence and the RNA polymerase binding site and nucleotide sequence 


 capable of transcribing RNA are formed by the addition of DNA polymerase to the sample such that an extension product is synthesized from said primer which is complementary to said first oligonucleotide sequence. 
*
22. An oligonucleotide sequence comprising a portion which binds to a specific substance to be detected in a sample and a portion which does not bind to said specific substance to be detected, wherein said portion of said oligonucleotide sequence which does not bind to said specific substance to be detected forms a RNA polymerase binding site and a nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA when hybridized to a complementary nucleotide sequence.
23. A kit for detecting the presence or absence of at least one specific substance in a sample, which kit comprises a first oligonucleotide sequence of claim 22, a second oligonucleotide sequence which hybridizes with said portion of said first oligonucleotide sequence which does not hybridize to said specific acid sequence to be detected and forms a RNA polymerase binding site and nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA, RNA polymerase, nucleotide triphosphates, and a means 


 for determining the presence of RNA transcripts synthesized from said nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA.
24. A kit for detecting the presence' or absence of at least one specific substance in a sample, which kit comprises a first oligonucleotide sequence of claim 22, DNA polymerase, RNA polymerase, nucleotide triphosphates, and a means for determining the presence of RNA transcripts synthesized from said nucleotide sequence capable of transcribing RNA. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
