<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622321</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved rewinding machine for coreless winding of a log of web material with a surface for supporting the log in the process of winding
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H1808	B65H1922	B65H3500	B65H1816	B65H1826	B65H3510	B65H1922	B65H1814	B65H1926	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H18	B65H19	B65H35	B65H18	B65H18	B65H35	B65H19	B65H18	B65H19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rewinding machine for the production of logs (R) 
of web material (N) without a core comprises: a first 

winding roller (1) onto which the web material is fed; a 
second winding roller (3) rotating in the same direction as 

the first roller and forming a nip (4) therewith through 
which the web material passes; means (15, 17) to move the 

surface of said second winding roller (3) toward said first 
winding roller (1); and means to sever said web material at 

the end of the winding thereof to for a log (R). Provision 
is also made for a surface (21, 21A) supporting the log (R2) 

in the process of formation and located upstream of the nip 
(4) between said rollers (1, 3). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERINI FABIO SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FABIO PERINI S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIAGIOTTI GUGLIELMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIAGIOTTI, GUGLIELMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention refers to a rewinding machine for 
the production of logs of web material which have neither 
a core nor a shaft on which the web is wound, according to 
the preamble of claim 1. More in particular, the invention refers to a 
rewinding machine including: a first winding roller, onto 
which the web material is fed, and a second winding 
roller, rotating in the same direction as the first 
winding roller, which form a nip through which the web 
material passes; means for moving the surfaces of said 
winding rollers close to each other; and means for 
severing said web material at the end of the winding of a 
log and at the beginning of the winding of the next log. The invention further refers to a method for the 
production of rolls or logs of web material wound without 
central core, according to the preamble of claim 10. A rewinder according to the preamble of claim 1 
and which operates according the method of the preamble of 
claim 10 is disclosed in Italian Patent No. 1.201.220. The 
rewinder constructed according to that patent has some 
difficulties on the initial stage of the winding. The invention refers to a new rewinder and to a 
new 
method and a new apparatus which overcome the drawbacks of 
these prior art machines. A first object of the present invention is to 
provide a rewinder of the type mentioned above, wherein 
the winding of a log will start in a safe and reliable  
 
manner. A further object of the present invention is to 
provide a rewinder in which, during the initial stage of 
the formation of a log, when the free leading edge of the 
web material begins to wind up on itself to form the 
initial turns of the log, the log will not tend to move 
out of the winding nip between the two rollers. Since the winding begins at the leading edge of 
the web material itself, without a stiff tubular core or 
shaft to facilitate the start of the log winding, there is 
a need to align the log being formed with the axes of the 
winder rollers. The present invention provides a solution 
to this problem by enabling the log to immediately 
position itself in parallel to the axes of the winding 
rollers. These and further objects and advantages, which 
will become apparent to those skilled in the art by a 
reading of the following description, are achieved with a 
machine according to claim 1 and by a method according to 
claim 10. According to the invention there is provided a 
surface for supporting the log being formed upstream of 
the nip defined by said winding rollers. EP-A-0 331
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rewinding machine for the production of 
logs (R) of web material without winding core or winding 

mandrel including: 

a first winding roller (1) onto which the web 
material (N) is fed from an upstream to a downstream 

direction; 
a second winding roller (3), rotating in the 
same direction as the first winding roller and forming a 

nip (4) therebetween through which the web material (N) to 
be wound passes in an upstream to downstream direction; 
means to sever said web material at the end of 
the winding of a log (R1), 
means (15, 17) to move the surfaces of said 
winding rollers close to one another to grip the w
eb 
material, near its edge, therebetween, causing the latter 

to curl upon itself and thus starting winding of a new log 
of said web material; 
characterized in that
 said rewinding machine includes a 
support surface (21, 21A) located upstream of the nip (4) 

between said rollers (1, 3) which surface supports the log 
(R2) at the beginning of the winding thereof. 
A rewinding machine according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that said support surface (21, 21A) is 

comb-shaped and includes a plurality of teeth (21A) which 
cooperate with respective annular slots (23) on the 

surface of said second winding roller (3), the tips of said 
teeth being disposed in said annular slots at least during 

the initial stage of the winding of the log, with a 
portion of said support surface projecting upstream from 

said annular slots (23).  
 
A rewinding machine according to Claim 1 or 
2, characterized in that said second winding roller 

includes a supporting means (13) and said support surface 
(21, 21A) is fixed to said supporting means (13). 
A rewinding machine according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that it includes means (2) for 

controlling the speed of said second winding roller (3) 
relative to the first winding roller (1) whereby to 

maintain the peripheral speed of the second winding roller 
(3) slower than the peripheral speed of the first winding 

roller (1), at least during an initial winding step for 
the formation of a log. 
A rewinding machine according to Claim 4, 
characterized in that the difference in the peripheral 

speed between said first (1) and said second (3) winding 
rollers is varied in such a way as to cause first a 

movement of the log upstream from said nip towards said 
support surface and a subsequent movement downstream of 

the log through the nip (4). 
A rewinding machine according to Claim 4, 
characterized in that the difference in the peripheral 

speed between said winding rollers (1) and (3) is 
constant. 
A rewinding machine according to Claim 4, 
characterized in that the peripheral speed of the second 

winding roller (3) is decreased to cause the log to pass 
downstream through the nip, and subsequently increased 

whereby the peripheral speeds of the two winding rollers 
are approximately equal. 
A rewinding machine according to Claim 1, 
characterized in that it includes means (25, 27, 29) for 

severing the web material (N) upstream of said nip, and 
retention means (31) on said winding roller (1) for 

retaining at least the leading edge of the web material 
upstream of the cut and transferring said leading edge 

into said nip (4). 
A rewinding machine according to Claim 1,  
 

characterized in that it includes a third movable winding 
roller (5) for controlling the diameter of the log in the 

process of formation. 
A method of winding a web material (N) to 
form coreless logs, including the steps of: 


a) providing a first winding roller (1) which 
carries the web material (N); 
b) providing a second winding roller (2), defining a 
nip with the first winding roller through which the web 

material is fed, said winding rollers rotating in the same 
direction; 
c) moving said web from an upstream to a 
downstream location through said nip; 
d) forming a coreless log (R1) of said web material; 
e) severing the web material at the end of the 
winding of a log thereby generating a leading edge of said 

web for the winding of a subsequent log; 
f) moving the winding rollers close to each 
other to grip the web material, near its edge, 

therebetween, causing the latter to curl upon itself and 
thus starting the winding of a new log (R2) of said web 

material; 
g) said method characterized by retaining the 
log during formation, at least during the initial winding, 

by supporting said log (R1; R2) on a support surface (21; 21A) located 
upstream of said nip. 
A method according to Claim 10, characterized 
by controlling the speed of at least one of said first and 

second winding rollers so that the second winding roller 
will rotate at a peripheral speed temporarily higher than 

the peripheral speed of the first winding roller during 
the initial winding stage of the web material, the 

difference in the peripheral speed being such as to 
initially move the log in the process of formation 

upstream towards said support surface. 
A method according to Claim 10, characterized 
by severing the web material upstream of the nip defined  

 
by the winding rollers. 
A method according to Claim 10, characterized 
by severing the web material by pinching it between the 

surfaces of the winding rollers. 
A method according to Claim 10, characterized 
by: 


a) providing a third winding roller (5) downstream 
of the first and second winding rollers, said third roller 

being movable as the log in the process of formation grows 
in diameter; 
b) holding the log in the process of formation 
initially in contact with only the first and second 

winding rollers by carrying out a first step of the 
winding cycle between said two rollers, subsequently 

gradually moving the said first and second rollers away 
from each other as the log increases in diameter; 
c) transferring the log in the process of 
formation from the nip to a winding space defined by the 

first, second and third winding rollers, and then 
completing the winding. 
A method according to Claim 14, characterized 
in that the first and the second winding rollers are 

gradually moved away from each other by providing a servo-mechanism-controlled 
movement or by providing a yielding 

force caused by the increase in log diameter. 
A method according to Claim 14, 
characterized by changing the difference between the 

peripheral speeds of the first and second winding rollers 
during the first stage of the winding of the log between 

the two rollers as the distance between the axes of said 
two rollers changes. 
A method according to Claim 14, 
characterized by unloading the completed log (R1) by 

decelerating the second winding roller and causing the 
deceleration to begin prior to pinching the web between 

the first and the second winding rollers. 
A method according to Claim 10,  
 

characterized in bringing the approach between the 
surfaces of the first and second winding rollers, at least 

partially, by a movement in a substantially radial 
direction of a section of the surface of one of said 

winding rollers. 
A method according to Claim 10, 
characterized by carrying out transverse lines of 

perforations substantially equally spaced apart on said 
web material. 
A method according to Claim 19, 
characterized in that during pinching of the web material 

between said winding rollers, a line of perforations is 
placed immediately downstream of the pinching point 

between said first and second winding rollers with respect 
to the direction of advancement of the web material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
