<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656680</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AC traction motor with drive end bearing assembly for locomotive
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B61C948	B61C900	B61C938	F16J15447	F16J1544	F16C3376	B61F1526	B61F1500	F16C3380	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B61C	B61C	B61C	F16J	F16J	F16C	B61F	B61F	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B61C9	B61C9	B61C9	F16J15	F16J15	F16C33	B61F15	B61F15	F16C33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pinion end bearing assembly for supporting and 
sealing about a shaft which extends through the frame of a 

traction motor, such as an AC traction motor. The assembly 
having a rearward end plate assembly attached to the 

frame, a housing attached to the frame, the shaft extending 
through the housing and a rotatable element attached to and 

circumscribing the shaft between the housing and shaft. The 
rotatable element and the housing adapted to form a series 

of three labyrinth seals to restrain the flow of air from 
within the motor to a bearing chamber with the seals being 

separated by venting chambers to vent to a low pressure 
reservoir any air which may flow through the labyrinth 

seals. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIEN PAUL RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BIEN, PAUL RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to AC traction
motors and more particularly to AC traction motors for
locomotives.Locomotives typically have either a large diesel
engine which drives an alternator or are powered by
externally supplied electricity. The electrical power from
the alternator or external supply is then conducted to
traction motors located beneath a platform of the
locomotive. The traction motors convert the electrical
power to rotational power. The traction motors in turn
operatively engage axles to which wheels are attached, and
rotate the wheels thereby driving the locomotive.Traction motors are large electrical motors
having the typical motor housing, stator and rotor assembly.
Attached to the rotor is a shaft which extends through the
housing. Fixedly attached to a pinion end of the shaft is a
motor pinion which in turn engages a bull or axle gear for
rotating the axle.At the point where the shaft extends through the
housing, the motor includes a drive end bearing assembly.
The bearing assembly supports the drive end of the shaft
and allows the shaft to rotate relative to the housing. The
bearing assembly includes a rotational element such as 
roller bearings. It is known, for example from US-A-3,774,982
to provide a bearing assembly which includes
rotatable elements attached to a shaft to provide an
interface in the form of a labyrinth seal which
restrains the flow of air along the interface. This
helps to prevent the ingress of dust or water into the
bearing.Roller bearings must be lubricated to limit
frictional 
heating or the bearings will overheat and fail. The bearing
assembly also prevents the leakage of lubrication into the
interior of the traction motor.The lubrication of the bearing may be done with
different types of lubricating medium. One of the more
prevalent types is grease, and the bearings are packed with
the grease. It is also known to lubricate the bearings with
oil. The use of oil however has several drawbacks. One
drawback is that a high static oil level, although insuring an
adequate lubricant quantity, results in high viscous losses
and high operating temperature. To overcome this
drawback, oil feeds are generally employed to circulate a
flow of oil through the bearing assembly.To provide the circulation of oil to the bearing
assembly, gravity feeds may be used to eliminate the need
for pumps, etc. However, a drawback of using gravity feeds
is that there is little pressure generated to force the oil
through the oil inlet into the bearing assembly. If the
bearing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A drive end (62) bearing assembly (66) for a
traction motor (34), the motor having a pinion end plate

(52) and a pinion end chamber (78) forward of the pinion
end plate to receive pressurized cooling air for the

motor, the motor also including a rotatable shaft (56)
which extends rearward through an aperture (116) formed

in the end plate (52), the assembly comprising:

bearing means (194) operably supported within the
aperture (116) for rotatably supporting the shaft, the

bearing means being disposed within a bearing cavity;
a housing (132) attached to a forward face of the
pinion end plate, the shaft extending through the

housing;
a rotatable element (133) attached to and circumscribing
the shaft between the housing and shaft, the

housing and rotatable element forming an interface
whereby air from the pinion end chamber may flow to the

bearing cavity, the housing and rotatable element
configured to form a plurality of labyrinth sealing means

(157,174,184) for restraining the flow of the air along
the interface, the housing and rotatable element also

configured to form a plurality of venting chambers
(159,182) along the interface (197) among the labyrinth

sealing means with at least one venting chamber being
disposed between adjacent labyrinth sealing means, the

housing forming portions of venting passageways (214,224)
extending between a corresponding venting chamber and a 

first low pressure reservoir whereby air flowing into the
venting chambers is vented off to the reservoir.
The bearing assembly of claim 1 wherein the
rotatable element includes a forward collar (134)

attached to the shaft, the forward collar and a forward
end of the housing configured to form a first labyrinth

means (157) of the plurality of labyrinth means,

a means (154) affixed to and circumscribing the
shaft rearward of the forward collar, the sleeve and the

housing adapted to form a first venting chamber (159),
and
a rearward collar (162) circumscribing the shaft,
the rearward collar and a rearward end of the housing

configured to form at least a portion of a second
labyrinth means (174) of the plurality of labyrinth

means, the first venting chamber being along the
interface between the first and second labyrinth means.
The assembly of claim 2 wherein the housing is
comprised of,


a plurality of rearward annularly extending flanges
(142,144) with an outer annular (142) and an inner

annular (144) flange of the plurality forming an annular
groove therebetween,
an annular surface (132a) extending forward of the
rearward flanges, and
a groove (158) extending radially outward from the
annular surface, the groove and the sleeve (154) forming

the first venting chamber (159).
The bearing assembly of claim 3 wherein the
rear collar (162) includes a first forward extending

annular flange (164) extending about the inner annular
flange (172) of the housing.
The bearing assembly of claim 4 wherein the
rear collar (162) forms a second forward extending

annular flange (168) radially outward from the first
annular flange (164) of the rear collar, the outer flange

(176) of the housing extending between the first and the
second annular flange (164,168) of the rear collar to

form a second labyrinth sealing means (174).
The bearing assembly of claim 4 wherein the
sleeve (154), the inner annular flange (172) of the

housing and the first annular flange (164) of the rear
collar, form a second labyrinth seal.
The bearing assembly of claim 4 wherein the
first annular flange (164) of the rear collar extends

into a rear portion of the annular groove, the portion of
the annular groove forward of the forward extending

flange forming a second venting chamber (182) of the
plurality of venting chambers.
The bearing assembly of claim 7 wherein a
venting passageway (214) corresponding to the seconde

venting chamber extends between the second venting
chamber and the first low pressure reservoir whereby air

flowing rearward along the interface into the second
venting chamber is vented off to the reservoir.
The bearing assembly of claim 8 wherein the 
atmosphere forms the reservoir.
The bearing assembly of claim 1 including a
rearward end plate assembly (76) attached to the pinion

end plate (52), the shaft (56) extending through the
rearward end plate, the rearward end plate, the housing,

and the rotatable element forming the bearing cavity, the
bearing end plate forms a venting passageway (224)

extending between the bearing chamber and a second low
pressure reservoir whereby air flowing rearward along the

interface into the bearing cavity is vented off to the
second reservoir.
The bearing assembly of claim 10 wherein the
shaft extends from the motor into a gearcase (109) and

the interior of the gearcase forms the second reservoir.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
