<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626261</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Recording apparatus having thermal head and recording method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2175	B41J205	B41J205	B41J2125	B41J2125	B41J2175	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mounted thermal head is energized to 
determine a thermal change state of the thermal head 

and a driving condition of the mounted thermal head 
is set in accordance with the determined thermal 

change state. The drive condition of the recording 
head can be self-set at a high precision with a 

simple construction and the stabilization of the 
recording characteristic and the long lifetime are 

attained. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUBARA MIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUBARA, MIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a recording
apparatus and a recording method which can set a drive
condition of a recording head which records by using
heat, particularly a recording head which discharges
ink by using heat, and a recording method.In a recording apparatus which records by using
heat are included recording apparatuses of a thermo-sensitive
type, a thermal transfer type and an ink jet
type. Of those, the ink jet type recording apparatus
comprises, in many cases, a semi-permanently usable
head (hereinafter referred to as a PH) and a replaceable
ink cartridge for supplying ink to the PH. However, in
the PH, it is difficult to perfectly eliminate a
failure due to aging and a special maintenance service
system is required to maintain a recording performance
over an extended period.From a standpoint of improving the reliability,
an ink jet type recording apparatus which uses a
replaceable head cartridge having integrated ink tank
and head (hereinafter referred to as a DH) has been put
into practice. Further, an ink tank/head separable and 
replaceable ink jet type recording apparatus in which
the head and the ink tank are independently replaceable
with the consideration to a running cost and a global
environment while taking the advantage of the DH in
terms of the reliability, has also been proposed.On the other hand, in the drive of the ink jet
recording apparatus, a temperature of the ink is
critical. Thus, an invention which allows correct
detection of the ink temperature by considering a
thermal time constant of the head in detecting the ink
temperature has been proposed by the assignee of the
present invention in U.S.S.N. 921,832 of 1992 (which corresponds to
Patent Laid-Open Appln. No. 5-31906).However, in the head replaceable type recording
apparatus such as the PH type or the ink tank/head
separable and replaceable type in which a plurality
of heads are sequentially replaced for one recording
apparatus, a drive condition may vary due to a
variation in the manufacture of the recording head or
the recording apparatus. This may lead to
deterioration of the recording characteristic and the
reduction of the thermal lifetime of the recording
head and it is a serious problem to be solved.In order to avoid such a problem, for the
variation of the power supply voltage of the recording
apparatus, the adjustment of the power supply voltage
and the correction of drive conditions in 
accordance with the measurement of the power supply
voltage are carried out at the time of the manufacture
of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A recording apparatus for recording an image on a
recording medium using a recording head (5012) for

recording using thermal energy generated by drive signals
applied to the recording head, which apparatus comprises:

calibration means (60) for calibrating the recording head
prior to using the recording head for recording so as to

set driving conditions for the head; and drive means (79)
for driving the recording head by applying drive signals

determined in accordance with the set driving conditions
so as to cause recording on the recording medium,

characterised in that the calibration means comprises:
means (60, 79) for applying a signal to the recording

head for causing heating of the recording head; means
(60, 5111) for detecting the temperature change of said

recording head resulting from said heating signal; means
(60) for determining the thermal characteristic of the

recording head from the detected change in the
temperature of the recording head; and setting means (60)

for setting the driving condition for the recording head
in accordance with the detected thermal characteristic.
A recording apparatus according to claim 1 wherein
said detecting means (60, 5111) is arranged to detect a

temperature change which includes a thermal peak.
A recording apparatus according to claim 2, wherein 
said detection means (60, 5111) is arranged to detect the

temperature change by measuring the temperature
immediately before the start of a heating period and

immediately after the end of the heating period.
A recording apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said detection means (60, 5111) is arranged to detect the

temperature change by measuring a temperature change in
a period containing a heating period and a temperature

change in a heat dissipation period.
A recording apparatus according to any preceding
claim, further comprising a recording head incorporating

a temperature sensor (5111) of the detecting means for
detecting the temperature of said recording head.
A recording apparatus according to claim 5, wherein
said driving means (79), said detection means (60, 5111)

and said setting means (60) are activated when the
temperature change of said temperature sensor is small.
A recording apparatus according to claim 6, wherein
said driving means (79), said detection means (60, 5111)

and said setting means (60) are temporarily activated
when the temperature change of said temperature sensor

is large, and finally activated when the temperature
change is small. 
A recording apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
said driving means (79), said detection means (60, 5111)

and said setting means (60) are arranged to be activated
when a power supply of said recording apparatus is turned

on.
A recording apparatus as claimed in any one of
claims 1 to 4 or 8, further comprising a recording head

arranged to discharge ink by using thermal energy.
A recording apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said driving means (79), said

detection means (60, 5111) and said setting means (60)
are arranged to be activated immediately after a

discharge recovery process of said recording head.
A recording apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said driving means (79) is arranged to drive said

recording head to discharge ink from said recording head.
A recording apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said driving means (79) is arranged to drive said

recording head so as not to discharge ink from said
recording head.
A recording apparatus as claimed in claim 1, for
recording using a recording head including a plurality 

of recording elements, wherein said driving means (79)
is arranged to drive said recording head with different

conditions for recording elements to be simultaneously
driven, said detecting means (60, 5111) is arranged to

detect the thermal change states of said recording head
in accordance with said conditions, and said setting

means (60) is arranged to set the driving conditions for
said recording head in accordance with thermal states

corresponding in number to the number of recording

elements to be driven.
A recording apparatus according to claim 1, further
comprising a recording head (5012) arranged to record

using a plurality of colors.
A recording apparatus according to claim 14, wherein
said driving means (79), said detecting means (60, 5111)

and said setting means (60) are arranged to be activated
sequentially for each of the plurality of colors.
An ink jet recording apparatus as claimed in claim
1, wherein said setting means (60) is arranged to

determine the driving condition using a table to correct
a change curve including a peak of the thermal change

state to a predetermined curve.
An ink jet recording apparatus as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said determining means (60, 5111) includes

recording head temperature detection means (5111) for
measuring temperature changes during heating and heat

dissipation when said recording head is energized, and
estimation means (60) for estimating the heat generation

characteristics of said recording head by using the
temperature change data.
A recording apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, further comprising means (5014) for

replaceably mounting a recording head on said recording
apparatus.
A recording apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further
comprising a recording head (5014) permanently mounted

on said recording apparatus.
A recording apparatus according to any one of claims
1-19, wherein said setting means is arranged to set a

driving condition of a heater for adjusting a temperature
of said recording head.
A recording apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said setting means (60) is

arranged to set the width of a drive signal for said
recording head. 
A recording apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said setting means (60) is

arranged to set the width of a pre-pulse which precedes
a drive signal for said recording head.
A recording apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said setting means (60) is

arranged to set a drive voltage of said recording head.
A recording apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, further comprising a carriage (5014)

for carrying said recording head (5012).
A recording apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, further comprising transport means

(5000) for transporting a recording medium on which data
is recorded by said recording head.
A copying machine, a facsimile machine or a computer
terminal comprising a recording apparatus in accordance

with any one of the preceding claims.
A method of recording an image on a recording medium
using a recording head for recording using thermal energy

generated by drive signals applied to the recording head,
which method comprises: calibrating the recording head

so as to set driving conditions for the head prior to 
using the recording head for recording; and then driving

the recording head by applying drive signals determined
in accordance with the set driving conditions,

characterised by carrying out the calibration of the
recording head by: applying a signal to cause heating of

the recording head; detecting the temperature change of
the recording head resulting from said heating signal;

determining the thermal characteristic of the recording
head from the detected temperature change of the

recording head; and setting the driving condition for the
recording head in accordance with the detected thermal

characteristic.
A method according to claim 27, which comprises
detecting the temperature change by making a first

measurement of the temperature of said recording head
before and a second measurement of the temperature of

said recording head after the start of application of
said heating signal.
A method for recording as claimed in claim 27, which
comprises detecting the temperature change by measuring

the temperature of said recording head before applying
said heating signal and after the end of said heating

signal.
A method for recording as claimed in claim 28, 
further comprising measuring the first temperature only

when a previously measured temperature change is small.
A method for recording as claimed in claim 28,
further comprising the steps of:


making a third measurement of the temperature of
said recording head after the second temperature

measurement;
making a fourth measurement of the temperature of
said recording head after the third temperature

measurement;
detecting a heat dissipation characteristic of said
recording head based on the third and fourth measurements

of the temperature of said recording head; and
setting the driving condition of said recording head
in accordance with the detected heat dissipation

characteristic, in addition to the thermal
characteristic.
A method for recording as claimed in any one of
claims 27 to 30, which uses a recording head which

discharges ink by using thermal energy.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
