<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637980</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GOLFING APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR GOLF PLAY SIMULATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B6936	A63B6936	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B69	A63B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The golfing apparatus according to the present invention has a golf shot file providing a representation of at least one actual golf shot by the user. The golf shot representation includes at least a time and a distance of a golf ball travel. The apparatus also has a golf course file for providing a geographic representation of at least a portion of a golf course and simulation means for combining selected portions of the golf shot file and selected portions of the golf course file to simulate at least one golf shot on the selected portions of the golf course based upon at least one actual golf shot by the user. An image display responsive to the simulation means displays at least one simulated golf shot on the selected portions of the golf course. The method for simulating golf play using actual golf shots by the user includes the steps of providing data representative of at least one actual recorded golf shot by the user, providing data representative of at least a portion of a golf course, and combining selected portions of the golf shot data and selected portions of the golf course data to simulate at least one golf shot on the selected portions of the golf course based upon at least one actual golf shot by the user.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACCU SPORT INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACCU-SPORT INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROCKETT CHARLES L III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLUTTZ JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS EDGAR P JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROCKETT, CHARLES, L., III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLUTTZ, JAMES, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS, EDGAR, P., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a golfing apparatus
and, more particularly, to an apparatus for simulating
golf course play using actual pre-recorded golf shots
by the user.Various golfing simulation systems have been
developed and used over the years for simulating play
on a golf course, including famous golf courses such as
Pebble Beach or Augusta National. These conventional
golfing simulation systems typically are used at home
and involve playing a simulated hole or golf course
using computer simulated shots by the user. Although
these type of systems may somewhat educate the user
about the game of golf, these systems produce only
nominal, if any, information representative of the
player's actual ability and/or a simulation of the
player's interaction with the golf course based on the
player's skills. Without some type of actual
correlation to the user's actual golf skills, these
systems primarily serve as games for promoting golf.US Patent 3,620,537 by Coaklin et al. describes an
apparatus for simulating golf shots. The apparatus
includes a series of slides showing views of the holes of
an actual golf course, from various points on the golf
course, which are projected onto a screen and a so-called
ball spot projector which projects a spot representing the
ball's final location on the projected view after a shot.
After each shot the player manually inputs ball location
information and the apparatus selects and projects the
appropriate slide. A map representing ground conditions at
the ball's location is laid in the area in which the golfer
shrikes the ball and the ball is then struck. A computer
is used to calculate where a ball, so struck, would land
and provides this information to the player so that the 
appropriate slide can be selected. This cycle is repeated
until the ball reaches the green at which point the player
moves to an adjacent enclosure where a cup is provided into
which the ball can be hit.Other golfing simulation systems have also
been developed that use actual shots taken toward a 
simulated screen or onto a distance-marked driving
range. These systems allow the golfer to hit a golf
ball and then either simulate the distance of travel or
manually enter a shot into a computer for playing a
simulated course. These systems, however, are not
practical for home use. Moreover, simulation accuracy
is still limited because the quality of information of
user's actual golf shot is limited with these devices.The applicant of the present application
has developed systems using acoustics and/or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (20) for simulating golf using an
actual golf shot by a user, the apparatus (20) comprising:


a golf shot file (51) comprising a representation
of at least one golf shot;
a golf course file (54) comprising a geographic
representation of at least a portion of a golf course;
simulation means (63) for combining selected
portions of said golf shot file (51) and selected portions

of said golf course file (54) to simulate at least one golf
shot on the selected portions of the golf course;
image displaying means (62) responsive to said
simulation means (63) for displaying at least one simulated

golf shot on the selected portions of a golf course;

   the apparatus (20) being characterised in that:
said golf shot representation in said golf shot
file (51) includes information representative of at least

an actual time and an actual complete flight distance of a
golf ball for at least one actual golf shot; and
said simulation means (63) combines said
information representing at least one actual golf shot from

said golf shot file (51) and selected portions of said golf
course file (54) to simulate at least one golf shot on the

selected portions of the golf course based upon said at
least one actual golf shot by a user.
The apparatus (20) according to Claim 1, including
selecting means (59, 61) responsive to user inputs for

selecting predetermined portions of said golf shot file (51).
An apparatus (20) for simulating golf using an actual
golf shot by a user, the apparatus (20) comprising:


a golf shot file (51) comprising a representation of at
least one golf shot;
a golf course file (54) comprising a geographic
representation of at least a portion of a golf course; 
simulation means (63) for combining selected portions of
said golf shot file (51) and selected portions of said golf

course file (54) to Simulate at least one golf shot on the
selected portions of the golf course;
image displaying means (62) responsive to said simulation
means (63) for displaying at least one simulated golf shot on

the selected portions of a golf course;

   the apparatus (20) being characterized by
including:
means for monitoring an actual golf shot by a
golfer and generating a golf shot file therefrom including

information representative of at least an actual time and
an actual complete flight distance of a golf ball for the

actual golf shot;
said golf shot representation in said golf shot
file (51) including said information representative of at

least an actual time and an actual complete flight distance
of a golf ball for the actual golf shot;
said simulation means (63) combines said
information representing said at least one actual golf shot

from said golf shot file (51) and selected portions of said
golf course file (54) to simulate at least one golf shot on

the selected portions of the golf course based upon said at
least one actual golf shot by a user; and
selecting means (59, 61) responsive to user input for
selecting predetermined portions of said golf shot file (51).
The apparatus (20) according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein
said golf shot representation comprises golf ball roll and

wherein said simulation means (63) is responsive to the
representation of golf ball roll.
The apparatus (20) according to any preceding Claim,
wherein said golf course file (54) comprises weather

representations and wherein said simulation means (63) is
responsive to the weather representations.
The apparatus (20) according to Claim 2, 3, 4 or 5, 
wherein said selecting means (59, 61) is further responsive

to said golf course file (54).
The apparatus (20) according to any preceding Claim,
wherein said simulation means (63) comprises extrapolation

means (58) for extrapolation actual golf shot data with the
conditions of the simulated selected portions of the golf

course.
The apparatus (20) according to any preceding Claim,
wherein said golf shot file (51) comprises a plurality of

actual golf shots with a plurality of different golf clubs.
The apparatus (20) according to Claim 8, wherein said
simulation means (63) comprises means (52) for analyzing said

plurality of actual golf shots from said golf shot file (51)
according to a predetermined set of instructions, and golf

shot generating means (53) responsive to said selecting means
(59, 61) and said analyzing means (52) for generating data

representative of said selected golf shot.
The apparatus (20) according to any preceding Claim 2 to
9, wherein said simulation means (63) selects among data in

said golf shot file (51) in response to real time interaction
of a user with said selecting means (59, 61).
A method (80,80') for simulating golf using actual
golf shots by a user, comprising the steps of:


providing data representative of at least a portion
of a golf course (88,88');

   the method characterized by the steps of:
providing data representative of at least one
actual recorded golf shot (83,83'), the golf shot data

including information representative of at least an actual
time and an actual complete flight distance of a golf ball

for said at least one actual golf shot; and
combining (89,89') said information representing
said at least one actual golf shot and selected portions of

the golf course data (88,88') to simulate at least one golf
shot on the selected portions of the golf course based upon

said at least one actual golf shot by a user.
The method (80, 80') according to Claim 11, wherein the
step of providing golf shot data is preceded by the steps of:


recording at least one actual golf shot by the user (86,
86'); and
producing golf shot data representative of at least one
actual the golf shot by the user (86, 86').
The method (80, 80') according to Claim 11 or 12,
including the step of displaying at least one golf shot on

selected portions of a golf course based upon at least one
actual golf shot by the user (85, 85').
The method (80, 80') according to Claim 11, 12 or 13,
including the step of receiving data from the user responsive

to the golf shot data (91).
The method (80, 80') according to Claim 11, 12, 13 or 14,
wherein the step of providing golf shot data further comprises

the steps of analyzing an actual golf shot according to a
predetermined set of instructions (85, 85'), and generating

data representative of the actual golf shot (85, 85').
The method (80, 80') according to any one of Claims 11
to 15, wherein the step of providing golf course data further

comprises the steps of analyzing golf course data according

to a predetermined set of instructions, and generating data
representative of selected golf course data (89, 89').
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
