<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0006401</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HYDROALKYLATION CATALYST, PROCESS FOR ITS PREPARATION AND ITS USE IN HYDROALKYLATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C200	B01J2900	B01J2914	C07C274	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	B01J	B01J	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C2	B01J29	B01J29	C07C2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An aromatic hydrocarbon is contacted under hydro­
alkylation conditions and in the presence of hydrogen 

with a composition comprising at least one platinum 
compound supported on a calcined, acidic, nickel and 

rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite which additionally 
has a halide content sufficient to promote the selectivity 

of the composition to produce a desired cycloalkyl aro­
matic hydrocarbon. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILLIPS PETROLEUM COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIMOTHY PAUL MURTHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZUECH, ERNEST ADOLPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 HYDROALKYLATION PROCESS AND A COMPOSITION AND PROCESS
 FOR PRODUCING SAID COMPOSITION
 The invention relates to a hydroalkylation process, a composition useful as a catalyst in said process and a method for producing said composition.


 Prior art catalysts in the field of hydroalkylation processes suffered from several drawbacks These deficiencies of the prior art catalysts for the hydroalkylation reaction included: (1) The use of support   materials    for certain catalysts which are not able to withstand the   teinperatures    employed in   a    typical air burn-off regeneration operation.
Such regeneration operations are   co onplace    in the catalytic art for hydrocarbon conversions of various types and it is highly desirable that the catalyst for the hydroalkylation pro   cress    be stable to such typically employed regeneration conditions. (2) In the hydroalkylation of   aromatic    hydrocarbons to cycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbons, a problem in terms of selectivity to the desired product is often evident.
For example, in the conversion of benzene to cyclohexylbenzene, by-products such   as      cyclohexan    and   msthylcyclopentylbenzene    as   veil    as dicyclohexylbenzene and other   heavier    molecules can often be produced in such quantities that the pro   cess    can   become    uneconomical. Thus,   a    more selective hydroalkylation catalyst is desired with little or no decrease in catalyst activity.
It is, however, recognized that a decrease in catalyst activity can often be tolerated if there  is a concomitant increase in selectivity to the desired product. (3) A   nasber    of the catalysts of the prior art for the hydroalkylation reaction are prepared by very complex and time consuming processes. For example, starting with a powdered crystalline zeolite support, said support is cation exchanged, washed and then incorporated into a matrix of another material such as   silica-a1u:ina.   


This coibination is calcined, cooled, and impregnated with certain metal salts.


Pinally the composite is extruded into pellets and the like. Thus, it is de   sirable    that   o    more simplified and less expensive process for mating active and selective catalysts be found. (4) Certain catalysts of the prior art for the   bydroalkylation    reaction were of fixed acidity because of the type of   sup-    port material utilized. This left little variation that could be made in this/ important property of the hydroalkylation catalyst. It is therefore desirable that catalysts be developed which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS



1. A catalyst composition characterized by
 at least one platinum compound supported on a calcined,

 acidic, nickel and rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite
 which additionally has a halide content sufficient to

 promote the selectivity of the composition to produce a
 desired cycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbon when said composition

 is employed to contact an aromatic hydrocarbon in a hydroalky
 lation reaction.




2. The composition of claim 1) characterized by the fact
 that the   crystalZhe    zeolite is selected from the group

 consisting of Type X and Type Y zeolites;
 the rare earth and nickel compounds employed to treat the

 zeolite are selected from the group consisting of nitrates,
 bromides, acetates, chlorides, iodides, sulfates and

 mixtures thereof;

;
 the rare earth metal is selected from the group consisting

 of cerium, lanthanum, praseodymium, neodymium, samarium,
 europium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium,

 thulium, ytterbium, lutetium and mixtures thereof,
 the platinum compound is selected from the group consisting

 of ammonium hexachloroplatinate(IV), ammonium tetrachloro
 platinate(II), chloroplatinic acid, diaminoplatinum dinitrite,

 platinic acid, platinum tetrachloride and mixtures thereof,
 the halide source is selected from the group consisting of

 fluorine, bromine, chlorine, iodine, carbon tetrachloride,
 carbon tetraiodide, tetrachloroethylene, chloroform, bromoform,

 dichloromethane, dibromoethane, difluoromethane, chloro
 methane, bromomethane, 1,4-dichlorobutane, 1,4-dibromobutane,

 l-chlorobutane,

 l-fluorobutane,   1-bromobutane,    1,2-dichloro
 ethane,   1,2-dibromoethane,    2-chloropropane, 2-bromopropane,

 acetyl iodide, acetyl chloride, acetyl bromide, bromochloro
 methane,   l-bromo--chlorobutane,    1,2-dichloroethylene,

 1,2-dibromoethylene and mixtures thereof.



3. The composition of claim 1) characterized by the fact that
 the crystalline zeolite is the alkali metal form with the

 alkali metal content of the calcined, acidic, nickel and
 rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite in the range of from

 about 0.01 to about 2 per cent by weight of said composition;
 the rare earth content of the calcined, acidic, nickel and

 rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges from about
 2 to about 25 per cent by weight of said composition;

 the nickel content of the calcined, acidic, nickel and rare
 earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges from about 0.01 to

 about 15 per cent by weight of said composition; and
 the halogen is chlorine or bromine.  




4. The composition of claim 1) characterized by the fact
 that the crystalline zeolite is the alkali metal form

 with the alkali metal content of the calcined, acidic,
 nickel and rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges

 from about 0.05 to about 1 per cent by weight of said
 composition;

 the rare earth content of the calcined, acidic, nickel
 and rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges from

 about 5 to about 20 per cent by weight of said composition;
 the nickel content of the calcined, acidic, nickel and

 rare earth-treated crystalline zeolite ranges from about
 1 to about 8 per cent by weight of said composition; and

 the halogen is chlorine or bromine.



5. The composition of claim 1) characterized by the fact
 that the crystalline zeolite is selected from the group

 consisting of Type X and Type Y zeolites; and
 the platinum compound is chloroplatinic acid, the nickel

 compound used to treat the crystalline zeolite is nickel
 chloride hexahydrate, the rare earth metal compound used

 to treat the crystalline zeolite is a mixture of the
 chlorides of at least lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium,

 neodymium, samarium and gadolinium, and the halide is
 chloride.




6. A process for producing monocycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbon
 and alky-substituted monocycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbons

 characterized by contacting a monocyclic aromatic hydro
 carbon under hydroalkylation and in the presence of hydrogen

 with a catalyst as defined in one of claims 1) to 5).



7. The process of claim 6) characterized in that the catalyst
 is treated with hydrogen prior to being contacted with

 monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon.



8. A process of claim 6) characterized in that the monocyclic
 aromatic hydrocarbon is contacted with said catalyst

 at a liquid hourly space velocity ranging from about 1 to
 about 100, a hydrogen pressure ranging from about 690 to

 about 13800 kilopascals (100 to 2000 psig), a hydrogen
 feed rate ranging from about 0.1 to about 10 moles per

 hour of hydrogen per mole of monocyclic aromatic hydro
 carton, and a temperature ranging from about 100 to about

 250 C.  



 9. A process of claim 6) characterized in that the
 crystalline zeolite is selected from the group

 consisting of Type X and Type Y   zeolites",    and
 the platinum compound is chloroplatinic acid, the nickel

 compound used to treat the crystalline zeolite is nickel
 chloride hexahydrate, the rare earth metal compound used

 to treat the crystalline zeolite is a mixture of the
 chlorides of at least lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium,

 neodymium, samarium and gadolinium, and the halide is
 chloride.




 10. A method for the preparation of a catalyst composition
 characterized by

 contacting a crystalline zeolite with an aqueous cation
 exchange solution comprising rare earth, nickel and

 ammonium compounds;
 removing the cation exchanged zeolite from said solution

 and washing said zeolite with water to remove excess
 ions;

 calcining said cation exchanged zeolite;
 cooling said calcined zeolite;

 impregnating said cation exchanged zeolite with a
 solution comprising at least one platinum compound in

 a suitable solvent;
 removing said solvent by evaporation;

 said cation exchanged zeolite is calcined and then cooled
 either before or after said platinum compound is impreg

 nated on said zeolite;

;
 and

 contacting said platinum impregnated and calcined crystalline
 zeolite with a halogen-containing compound in an amount

 sufficient to promote the selectivity of said composition
 to produce a desired cycloalkyl aromatic hydrocarbon when

 said composition is used to contact an aromatic hydro

 carbon in a hydroalkylation process.

 


11. A method of claim 10) characterized in that said
 composition is treated with hydrogen subsequent to the

 removal by evaporation of the platinum compound solvent.  



12. A method of claim 10) characterized in that the
 crystalline zeolite is selected from the group of

 Type X and Type Y zeolites; and
 the platinum compound is chloroplatinic acid,

 the nickel compound used to treat the crystalline
 zeolite is nickel chloride hexahydrate, the rare

 earth metal compound used to treat the crystalline
 zeolite is a mixture of the chlorides of at least

 lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, samarium
 and gadolinium, and the halide is chlorine. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
