<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613240</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
High gain rail-to-rail CMOS amplifier
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F345	H03F345	H03F330	H03F330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F3	H03F3	H03F3	H03F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A CMOS operational amplifier input senses a rail-to-rail differential voltage and 
provides an amplifier rail-to-rail single-ended output voltage. A first P-channel input section 

(14) sources a first differential signal current that is proportional to a first portion of the input 
voltage, and a second N-channel input section (12) sinks a second differential signal current 

that is proportional to a second portion of the input voltage. The first and second differential 
currents are combined in a folded cascode gain stage (16) to produce an intermediate single-ended 

voltage that is not rail-to-rail. The single-ended intermediate voltage is converted to a 
rail-to-rail output voltage in a current-limited rail-to-rail output section (24). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADYAL RAJEEV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADYAL, RAJEEV
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to operational amplifiers and, more particularly, to
CMOS rail-to-rail operational amplifiers.Operational amplifiers are well known electrical components that typically amplify a
small differential input voltage to provide a highly amplified single-ended output voltage.
CMOS amplifiers are typically powered by a positive power supply voltage designated VDD
and a negative power supply voltage designated Vss, sometimes referred to as "power supply
rails" or simply "rails". One limitation of operational amplifiers, including CMOS
operational amplifiers, is that the input section cannot sense voltage throughout the entire
voltage range determined by the power supply voltages. This is due to the constraints of
most circuit designs, wherein a volt or more is necessary to bias the transistors in the input
section. Consequently, when the input voltage is within a volt of the power supply rails it
will not be sensed by the input section. Similarly, the output voltage typically cannot track
through the entire voltage range because of the necessary bias voltage overhead in the output
section.Referring now to FIG. 1, a maximum voltage, VMAX, and a minimum voltage, VMIN,
determine the effective operational range for the operational amplifier. The voltages VMAX
and VMIN can be different for the input and output sections and are determined not only by
circuit design, but by semiconductor process limitations and environmental factors such as
temperature.It is desirable to increase the operational range for both the input and output voltages
as much as possible, and even up to the supply voltages, i.e., full "rail-to-rail" operation.
While full rail-to-rail operation is desirable, existing CMOS designs are extremely complex 
and include many active devices. The complex designs
increase chip area and cost. An example of a prior art
CMOS rail-to-rail operational amplifier is shown in "A Rail-to-Rail
CMOS Op Amp" by J.N. Babanazhad, IEEE Journal of
Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 23, No. 6, Dec. 1988, pp. 1414-1417.In "A Digital Process Compatible High-Drive CMOS OP Amp
with Rail-To-Rail Input and Output Ranges" by Wen-Chung S.
Wu, Proceedings of the 33rd Midwest Symposium on Circuits
and Systems, 12/8/90, Alberta, Canada, pp. 692-695, and
"Fully Differential ADC with Rail-to-Rail Common-Mode Range
and Nonlinear Capacitor Compensation" by R.K. Hester et al.,
IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 25, No. 1, Feb.
1990, pp. 173-182, there is disclosed a CMOS amplifier
circuit having a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A CMOS amplifier circuit comprising:

a differential input and a single-ended output;
a P-channel input section (14) having a differential
input coupled to the differential input of the amplifier,

and a differential output;
an N-channel input section (12) having a differential
input coupled to the differential input of the amplifier,

and a differential output;
a folded cascode gain stage (16) having first and second
summing nodes directly coupled to the differential output of the P-channel

input section, third and fourth summing nodes
directly coupled to the differential output of the N-channel input

section, and a single-ended output; and
a rail-to-rail output section (24) having an input
coupled to the single-ended output of the folded cascode gain stage and

an output stage comprising at least two transistors (Q17,Q18) coupled to the single-ended output of the
amplifier, the rail-to-rail output section having a level

shifter (Q15,Q16) providing a one threshold voltage drop between
gates of the at least two transistors of the output stage and coupled to a single external bias voltage source

(V
B4
) for limiting the current through the output stage.
A CMOS amplifier circuit as in Claim 1, in which the
folded cascode gain stage (16) comprises:


a cascode current mirror (22) having an input, an
output, and a pair of summing nodes coupled to the

differential output of the N-channel input section;
a first cascode current source (18) having an output
coupled to the input of the cascode current mirror, 
and a
summing node; and 
a second cascode current source (20) having an output
coupled to the output of the cascode current mirror, and a

summing node, wherein the summing nodes of the first and
second cascode current sources are coupled to the

differential output of the P-channel input section.
A CMOS amplifier circuit as in Claim 2, in which the
cascode current mirror (22) comprises:


a first P-channel transistor (Q7) having a source
coupled to a source of supply voltage, a gate, and a drain

forming a first summing node;
a second P-channel transistor (Q8) having a source
coupled to the source of supply voltage, a gate coupled to

the gate of the first P-channel transistor, and a drain
forming a second summing node;
a third P-channel transistor (Q9) having a source
coupled to the drain of the first P-channel transistor, a

gate coupled to a bias voltage source, and a drain that is
coupled to the gate of the first and second P-channel

transistors forming the current mirror input; and
a fourth P-channel transistor (Q10) having a source
coupled to the drain of the second P-channel transistor, a

gate coupled to the bias voltage source, and a drain
forming the current mirror output.
A CMOS amplifier circuit as in any one of Claims 1 to
3, in which the rail-to-rail output section comprises:


a first N-channel transistor (Q15) having a drain
coupled to a first source of supply voltage, a gate forming

the input of the output section, and a source;
a second N-channel transistor (Q16) having a drain
coupled to the source of the first N-channel transistor, a 

gate coupled to the single external bias voltage source, and a
source coupled to a second source of supply voltage;

the at least two transistors of the output stage comprising:

a third N-channel transistor (Q18) having a drain
coupled to the output of the output section, a gate coupled

to the source of the first N-channel transistor, and a
source coupled to the second source of supply voltage;
a P-channel transistor (Q17) having a drain coupled to
the output of the output section, a gate coupled to the

input of the output section, and a source coupled to the
first source of supply voltage; and
means (R1,C1) for compensating the folded cascode gain
stage.
A CMOS amplifier circuit as in any one of Claims 1 to
4, in which the P-channel input section (14) comprises a

three-transistor differential amplifier.
A CMOS amplifier circuit as in any one of Claims 1 to
4, in which the N-channel input section (12) comprises a

three-transistor differential amplifier.
A method for operation of a CMOS operational amplifier with full rail-to-rail
amplification, comprising the steps of:


sensing a first portion of a rail-to-rail input voltage;
producing a differential current of a first polarity
proportional to the first portion of the input voltage;
sensing a second portion of a rail-to-rail input
voltage;
producing a differential current of a second polarity
proportional to the second portion of the input voltage; 
combining in a folded cascode gain stage the differential current of the first and
second polarities;
producing in said folded cascode gain stage a single-ended voltage in response to the
combined differential current;
converting in an output stage comprising at least two transistors the single-ended voltage into a rail-to-rail
single ended output voltage; wherein said output stage performs:
current limiting level shifting the single-ended voltage by providing a one threshold voltage drops between the control
electrodes of said at least two transistors of the output stage,

using a single external bias voltage and amplifying the single-ended
voltage to produce a rail-to-rail single-ended output

voltage with minimized power consumption, the current limiting level
shifting limiting the current through the output stage.
The method of Claim 7, in which the combining step
comprises the steps of:


generating first and second bias currents;
augmenting the value of the first and second bias
currents with one of the differential currents;
applying the augmented first and second bias currents,
respectively, to the input and output of a current mirror;

and
augmenting the output current of the current mirror with the other
of the differential currents.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
