<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647820</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPERATION CONTROL DEVICE FOR AIR CONDITIONER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24F1100	G05D2319	F24F1100	G05D2319	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24F	G05D	F24F	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24F11	G05D23	F24F11	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An on-off controller 
(5B), to which a plurality of 

indoor units (3, 3, ...) are 
connected, determines address 

setting ranges of the indoor 
units (3, 3, ...) controlled by 

the on-off controller (5B), 
and outputs setting range 

signals to respective indoor 
units (3, 3, ...) on the basis 

of the address setting ranges. 
Respective indoor units (3, 

3, ...) receive the setting 
range signals from the on-off 

controller (5B) to output 
setting permitting signals to 

a remote controller (4) and to 
store relative addresses which 

are input from the remote 
controller (4). The remote 

controller (4) is provided with 
an input button (4c) which 

is used to display the address 
setting ranges on receiving 

the setting permitting signals 
of the indoor units (3, 3, ...) 

and to input addresses of the 
indoor units (3, 3, ...). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIKIN IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIKIN INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOGABE MASAHARU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMIDA HISASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOGABE, MASAHARU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUMIDA, HISASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a driving control device for an
air conditioner, in particular, relates to measures for address
setting.In conventional air conditioners, as shown in the Japanese
Patent Laying Open Gazette No.2-146448, a plurality of
indoor units are connected to a remote control and connected
to an integral controller, in which driving signals and temperature
setting signals are transmitted and received between
the indoor units and the remote control and driving signals
are transmitted and received between each of the indoor units
and the integral controller, thereby controlling air conditioning.Further, respective indoor addresses are previously set
to the respective indoor units so that control signals are
transmitted and received between each of the indoor units and
the integral controller based on the respective indoor addresses. In the above-mentioned air conditioner, the indoor address
of the indoor unit is set by a DIP switch, a remote
control or the like. However, when an improper setting is made
between the integral controller and the indoor address managed
by the integral controller, a communication error is generated.In detail, for example, there has been recently increased
the number of indoor units to be provided in an air conditioner
and at the same time it is intended that a plurality of
integral controllers are provided to divide the indoor units
into a plurality of blocks and that the indoor units are
integrally managed in each block by each integral controller.
In this case, since the number of indoor units to be managed
by each integral controller is limited, a range of address
settings is defined in each integral controller. On the other
hand, the indoor address is set by the remote control or the
like. When an indoor address other than the range of address
settings is set to an indoor unit, communication cannot be
established between the integral controller in question and
the indoor unit in question thereby generating a communication
error.Further, once an indoor address is set to an indoor unit.
the integral controller automatically stores the indoor address
at the power-on and establishes communication with the 
indoor unit based on the stored indoor address. However, when
the indoor address is changed by the remote control or the
like, the indoor address for communication is lost, thereby
generating a communication error. As a result, in order to
recover from the communication error, the power of the integral
controller must be reset.In view of the foregoing problems,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A driving control device for an air conditioner in which
an integral controller (5B) is connected to a plurality of air

conditioning units (3, 3, ...) so that control signals are
transmitted and received between each of the air conditioning

units (3, 3, ...) and the integral controller (5B), said
driving control device comprising:


setting range specifying means (52) provided in the
integral controller (5B) for specifying a range of address

settings within which an address can be set to each of the air
conditioning units (3, 3, ...) managed by the integral controller

(5B);
signal transmitting means (53) provided in the integral
controller (5B) for outputting a signal showing the range of

address settings to each of the air conditioning units (3,
3, ...) based on the range of address settings which has been

specified by the setting range specifying means (52); and
setting allowing means (32) provided in each of the air
conditioning units (3, 3, ...) for outputting a signal allowing

an address setting when receiving the signal showing the
range of address settings which has been outputted from the

signal transmitting means (53) of the integral controller
(5B).
A driving control device for an air conditioner according
to claim 1, further comprising


address setting means (4) having: indicating means (4b)
for indicating the range of address settings when receiving

the signal allowing an address setting which has been outputted
from the setting allowing means (32) of the air conditioning

unit (3, 3, ...); and input means (4c) from which an
address of the air conditioning unit (3, 3, ...) is inputted

based on the indication of the indicating means (4b),
wherein each of the air conditioning units (3, 3, ...) is
provided with address storing means (38) for storing a set address

inputted from the input means (4c) of the address setting
means (4).
A driving control unit for an air conditioner according
to claim 2, wherein


each of the air conditioning units (3, 3, ...) is provided
with signal transmitting means (70) for outputting an

address signal of the set address inputted from the input
means (4c) of the address setting means (4), and
the integral controller (5B) is provided with address
storing means (60) for storing each address in each of the air

conditioning units (3, 3, ...) when receiving the address
signal outputted from the signal trans
mitting means (70) of 
each of the air conditioning units (3, 3, ...).
A driving control device for an air conditioner according
to claim 1, wherein


each of the air conditioning units (3, 3, ...) is provided
with error judging means (34) for judging whether a communication

error is generated between the air conditioning unit
(3) and the integral controller (5B) or not based on the

signal showing the range of address settings when receiving
the signal outputted from the signal transmitting means (53)

of the integral controller (5B).
A driving control device for an air conditioner in which
an integral controller (5B) is connected to a plurality of air

conditioning units (3, 3, ...) and each of the air conditioning
units (3, 3, ...) is connected to address setting means

(4) for setting an address of the air conditioning unit (3) so
that control signals are transmitted and received between each

of the air conditioning units (3. 3, ...) and the integral
controller (5B) based on the address set by the address setting

means (4), said driving control device comprising:

data output means (35) provided in each of the air conditioning
units (3, 3, ...) for, when the set address is changed

by the address setting means (4), outputting changed data
together with the changed address; and 
address canceling means (54) provided in the integral
controller (5B) for, when receiving the changed data outputted

from the data output means (35) of the air conditioning unit
(3, 3, ...), canceling an address registered therein with

respect to the air conditioning unit (3, 3, ...) having the
changed address and storing the changed address.
A driving control device for air conditioner according to claim 1, further comprising:

address setting means (4) having indicating means (4b) for indicating the
range of address settings when receiving the signal allowing an address setting

which has been outputted from the setting allowing means (32) of the air
conditioning unit (3, 3, ...) and and input means (4c) from which an address of the

air conditioning unit (3, 3, ...) is inputted based on the indication of the indicating
means (4b);
signal transmitting means (70) provided in each of the air conditioning units (3,
3, ...) for outputting an address signal of the set address inputted from the input

means (4c) of the address setting means (4); and
address deleting means (80) provided in the integral controller (5B) for deleting
the set address from the range of address settings in the setting range

specifying means (52) when receiving the address signal outputted from the
signal transmitting means (70) of each of the air conditioning units (3, 3, ...).
A driving control device for an air conditioner according
to claim 6, wherein 


each of the air conditioning units (3, 3, ...) is provided
with address storing means (33) for storing the set address

inputted from the input means (4c) of the address setting
means (4), and
the integral controller (5B) is provided with the address
storing means (60) for storing each address in each of the air

conditioning units (3, 3, ...) when receiving the address
signal outputted from the signal transmitting means (70) of

each of the air conditioning units (3, 3, ...).
A driving control device for an air conditioner according
to claim 6, further comprising:


address changing means (82) provided in each of the air
conditioning units (3, 3, ...) for, when the set address is

canceled by the address setting means (4), outputting canceling
data together with the canceled address; and
address adding means (81) provided in the integral controller
(5B) for adding the canceled address to the range of

address settings when receiving the canceling data outputted
from the address changing means (82) of the air conditioning

unit (3, 3, ...).
A driving control device for an air conditioner according
to claim 8, wherein 


the address setting means (4) is provided with an address
canceling button (4e) with which a canceling signal for canceling

an address is inputted.
A driving control device for an air conditioner according
to any of claims 2-9, wherein


the address setting means (4) is composed of a remote
control.
A driving control device for an air conditioner according
to any of claims 2-4 and 6-9, wherein


the input means (4c) of the address setting means (4) is
composed of an input button provided in a remote control.
A driving control device for an air conditioner according
to any of claims 2-4 and 6-9, wherein


the indicating means (4b) of the address setting means
(4) is composed so as to indicate the range of address settings

by turning on an address setting button (4d) provided in
the address setting means (4).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
