<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643500</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radio data system receiver transmitting remote control signals for controlling audio equipment.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1502	G11B1502	G11B3100	G11B3100	H04B116	H04B116	H04H100	H04H100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04B	H04B	H04H	H04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B15	G11B15	G11B31	G11B31	H04B1	H04B1	H04H1	H04H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A signal reproduction apparatus such as an audio 
apparatus consists of a plurality of devices including a 

receiver. The receiver receives a broadcast wave signal 
which includes a primary signal and data relating to a 

broadcasting station, a program, etc. and transmitted 
together with the primary signal. The receiver includes a 

tuner circuit for receiving the broadcast wave signal, a 
decoder circuit and a signal generation device. The decoder 

circuit extracts the data relating to the broadcasting 
station and the program from the broadcast wave signal 

received by the tuner circuit. The signal generation device 
generates a remote control signal based on the data output 

from the decoder circuit, and outputs the generated remote 
control signal. The audio device includes a receiving 

section for receiving the remote control signal output from 
the signal processing device. The operation of the audio 

device is controlled based on a control signal output from 
the receiving section. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIOTA SHINICHI C O SONY CORPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIOTA, SHINICHI, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a receiver and to a 
signal reproduction apparatus using it. More specifically, 
the invention relates to a receiver for receiving a 
transmission signal which includes data relating to a 
broadcast station, programs, etc. as well as a primary 
signal, and to a signal reproduction apparatus using such a 
receiver. Some FM stations in Europe provide the RDS (radio 
data system) service, in which a primary audio signal is 
broadcast together with RDS data. The RDS data is a 
collection of digital data relating to a broadcasting 
station, programs, etc., and includes the following data:
 
   PS data ... Character data indicating a broadcasting 
station name
 
   PI code ... Program identification code
 
   AF list ... List of frequencies of broadcasting 
stations that are transmitting the same program
 
   PTY code ... Identification code indicating a 
content of a program
 
   PIN code ... Program item number code
 
   EON data ... Information on other networks  The PI code is 16-bit data including a country code, a 
program code, etc., and is transmitted 11 times/sec. The AF 
list includes data of 25 stations at the maximum. The PTY 
code is a 5-bit code indicating a genre of a program such as 
news, pops, education, sports or information. The PIN code 
indicates a scheduled broadcast start time, and is used for 
a reserved reception. The RDS data is subjected to encode processing for 
error correction, and a subcarrier signal having a frequency 
of 57 kHz (three times the frequency 19 kHz of the stereo 
pilot signal) is subjected to balanced modulation by the 
encode-processed RDS data. The modulated signal is added to 
and frequency-multiplied with a primary signal, i.e., a 
monaural signal or stereo composite signal, and the 
multiplied signal is transmitted as an FM wave. Therefore, an FM radio capable of receiving the RDS 
data can be tuned to a particular broadcasting station or 
can receive a particular program. In the following description, a broadcasting station 
practising the RDS service is referred to as "RDS station," 
when necessary. Furthermore, an audio apparatus, known as a 
component stereo set, is constituted by combining a separate 
FM tuner, cassette deck, graphic equalizer (equalizer 
amplifier), pre-main amplifier, etc. However, in terms of 
functions, a user merely selectively uses the respective 
devices constituting the audio apparatus.  As a result, in conventional audio apparatuses, even if 
a decoder circuit for the RDS data is provided in an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A receiver for receiving a transmission signal 
which includes a primary signal and data which is 

transmitted together with the primary signal and which 
relates to a broadcasting station and to a program, said 

receiver comprising: 
   a tuner circuit (1) for receiving and demodulating 

the transmission signal; 
   a decoder circuit (3) for extracting, from the 

transmission signal received by the tuner circuit (1), the 
data relating to the broadcasting station and to the 

program; and 
   a signal generation device (17) for generating a 

remote control signal based on the data output from the 
decoder circuit (3) and for outputting the generated remote 

control signal. 
A signal reproduction apparatus comprising: 
   a receiver according to claim 1; 

   an audio device (20,30,40) including a receiving 
section (61,62) for receiving the remote control signal 

output from the signal generation device (17), and for 
outputting a control signal to be used for controlling an 

operation of the audio device. 
The receiver according to claim 1 or 2, further 
comprising a control circuit (11) for judging whether the 

data output from the decoder circuit (3) coincides with a preset 
 

condition, and for supplying a control signal to the signal 
generation device (17) when the data output from the decoder 

circuit (3) coincides with the preset condition, wherein, in 
use, the signal generating device (17) generates a remote 

control signal based on the supplied control signal. 
The receiver according to claim 3, wherein the 
control circuit (11) includes an input section (12) for 

receiving the preset condition. 
The signal reproduction apparatus according to 
claim 2, further comprising an input section (12) to be used 

for setting an operation state of the audio device 
(20,30,40), and a control circuit (11) for comparing a 

condition set through the input section (12) with the data 
output from the decoder circuit (3) and for supplying 

a control signal to the signal generation device (17) when 
the data output from the decoder circuit (3) coincides with 

the preset condition, wherein the signal generation device 
(17) generates a remote control signal based on the supplied 

control signal, and supplies the generated remote control 
signal to the audio device (20,30,40). 
The signal reproduction apparatus according to 
claim 5, wherein in use when receiving, from the decoder 

circuit (3), data representing a prescribed broadcast, the 
control circuit (11) causes the signal generation device 

(17) to output a remote control signal for rendering the 
audio device (20,30,40) into a reproduction state for 

reproducing the prescribed broadcast. 
The signal reproduction apparatus according to 
claim 5 or 6, wherein in use when receiving, from the 

decoder circuit (3), data representing an emergency 
broadcast with the audio device (20,30,40) in a power-off 

state, the control circuit (11) causes the signal generation 
device (17) to output a remote control signal for turning 

on a power of the audio device (20,30,40). 
The signal reproduction apparatus according to 
claim 5, 6 or 7, wherein in use when receiving, from the 

decoder circuit (3), data representing an emergency 
broadcast with the audio device (20,30,40) in a 

reproduction state, the control circuit (11) causes the 
signal generation device (17) to output a remote control 

signal for making the audio device (20,30,40) stop a current 
reproduction operation and reproduce the emergency 

broadcast. 
The signal reproduction apparatus according to 
claim 5, 6, 7 or 8 wherein in use when receiving, from the 

decoder circuit (3), data representing a prescribed 
broadcast, the control circuit (11) causes the signal 

generation device (17) to output a remote control signal 
for rendering the audio device (20,30,40) into a recording 

and reproduction state for reproducing the prescribed 
broadcast and recording the reproduced prescribed broadcast. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
