<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638001</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASONIC SPRAY COATING SYSTEM AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B1704	B05B1706	B05D100	B05D102	B05D102	B05D134	H01L2100	H01L2100	H05K300	H05K300	H05K328	H05K328	H05K1300	H05K1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05D	B05D	B05D	B05D	H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B17	B05B17	B05D1	B05D1	B05D1	B05D1	H01L21	H01L21	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K13	H05K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for effecting the continuous, in-line coating of workpieces, freely supported upon a conveyor (12), utilizes an ultrasonic spray unit (26) for delivery of a photopolymerizable coating material. The deposited liquid is immediately irradiated to initiate curing, and the system and method are particularly well adapted for the formation of conformal coatings on printed circuit boards, utilizing two-part coating compositions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DYMAX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DYMAX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACHMANN ANDREW G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACHMANN, ANDREW, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Ultrasonic Spray Coating System and MethodThis invention relates to the application and curing of liquid coating materials, so as to produce on workpieces sur¬ faces of ther oset or thermoplastic synthetic resinous mater- ials.There are many circumstances under which it is desirable to apply automatically a polymerizable liquid coating material to a workpiece, and to effect immediately thereafter curing of the liquid to a solid state. One field in which such a tech- nique is beneficially employed involves the production of con- formal coatings upon various workpieces, perhaps most notably printed circuit boards and printed wiring assemblies.To be entirely satisfactory from a commercial standpoint, any system that is offered for producing such coatings must be fast, reliable, economical, and environmentally sound. It must be sufficiently flexible to be readily accommodated in existing production lines, and it must be capable of producing, with sufficient precision to satisfy industry standards, uniform and void-free coatings. Conformal coatings have been produced heretofore by use of so-called "selective curtain coaters." Such apparatus employs a coating head that shuttles at high speed from place-to-place relative to the workpiece, and that is selectively activated so as to preferentially discharge coating material upon specific areas of the surface. Because of the precision afforded, these coaters make unnecessary the masking of workpieces that might otherwise be required to maintain selected portions of their surfaces coating-free. As a consequence of this precision, however, not only do such coaters tend to be inordinately com- plex and expensive for many applications, but moreover their proper functioning depends upon the secure positioning of the workpiece.Aerosol spray techniques are also used in the production of conformal coatings. In operating such systems, however, a high proportion of the discharged coating material is lost to over- spray, and there is also a strong tendency for air entrainment; the latter necessitates the allowance of a dwell-time for re¬ lease of entrapped air, prior to curing of the deposit. In a paper entitled "The UV Curing Process: Applications For Confor- 

mal Coating and Adhesives In Electronic Assembly," Hnojewyj et al describe the use of pneumatically atomized spray coating machines for applying and curing UV-curable and heat-curable conformal coatings. It is known as well in the art to use ultrasonic devices for applying liquids, as evidenced by the following
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS Having thus described the invention, what is CLAIMED is:
1. A system for coating a multiplicity of separate work¬ pieces conveyed sequentially therethrough, comprising: (a) chassis means;
(b) workpiece transport means;
(c) ultrasonic coating means including:
(1) at least one stationary spray head mounted on said chassis means and oriented to vibrate on an axis directed toward said transport means, said head having at least one sur¬ face that extends substantially in the direction of vibration and that terminates at one end of said head, for receiving and causing to issue from said one end, as an atomized spray, a liquid coating material delivered thereto, said head being, so dimensioned and configured as to cause the spray to cover a predetermined area of substantially constant dimensions;
(2) means for ultrasonically vibrating said spray head on said axis; and
(3) delivery means for delivering a liquid coating material to said surface of said spray head; and
(d) irradiation means disposed on said chassis directly adjacent said coating means, for irradiating a second area; said transport means providing unconstraining, underlying support for workpieces and being positioned to convey them thereon along a generally horizontal path portion past said spray head and through said first-mentioned area, and thereafter past said irradiation means and through said second area, said second area being at least equal in width to said first area, taken across said path portion; whereby a cured coating can be produced upon each of a multiplicity of workpieces during transport through said system.
2. The system of Claim 1 wherein said spray head has a second said surface extending substantially in said direction of vibration and non-intersecting with said first-mentioned surface, and wherein said, system includes second delivery means for delivering liquid coating material to said second surface.
3. The system of Claim 2 wherein said head has opposite sides, said first and second surfaces being disposed on said opposite sides in parallel planes, and has a planar end surface 


at said one end to which said first and second surfaces are perpendicular.
4. The system of Claim 1 wherein said axis is substan¬ tially vertically oriented. 5. The system of Claim 3 wherein said transport means comprises a conveyor having a loading end and an unloading end, wherein said system includes a second said conveyor for convey¬ ing the workpieces along a generally horizontal second path portion, said second conveyor being disposed with its loading end adjacent said unloading end of said first-mentioned con¬ veyor, and wherein said system includes a transfer device opera- tively disposed between said two conveyors for transferring the workpieces from said first conveyor to said second conveyor, and in doing so for inverting the workpieces, from one side to another.
6. The system of Claim 5 additionally including second said ultrasonic coating means and second said irradiation means disposed directl adjacent one another along said second path portion, whereby a cured coating can be produced on both sides of the workpieces in a single pass.
7. A method for coating a multiplicity of separate work¬ pieces, comprising the steps:
(a) providing a system in accordance with Claim 1;
(b) freely disposing a multiplicity of workpieces on said transport means, in spaced relationship to one another in the direction of said path portion;
(c) effecting operation of said transport means so as to convey said workpieces along said path portion, sequentially through said first and second areas; (d) effecting delivery of a coating material to said one surface of said spray head, and operating said coating means to produce a spray when a workpiece is within said first area, so as to deposit a coating thereon, said coating material being subject to cure-initiation by exposure to radiation produced by said irradiation means; and
(e) operating continuously said irradiation means so as to initiate curing of said coating material within said second area. 


 8. The method of Claim 7 wherein said transport means is continuously operated so as to expose each of said workpieces to irradiation in said step (e) immediately subsequent to coat¬ ing thereof in said step (d) . 9. The method of Claim 8 wherein said system includes means for sensing the proximity of a workpiece to said first area and for effecting operation of said coating means in accor¬ dance with said step (d) , said means for sensing and effecting operation serving to initiate operation of said coating means substantially upon the entry of a workpiece into said first area, and to terminate operation thereof substantially upon exiting of the workpiece therefrom.
10. The method of Claim 7 wherein a two-part, radiation- curable composition is utilized for coating of said workpieces, wherein said spray head has a second said surface extending substantially in said direction of vibration and non-inter¬ secting with said first-mentioned surface, wherein said system includes second delivery means for delivering liquid coating material to said second surface, and wherein in said step (d) a coating material is also delivered to said second surface of said spray head, said coating material delivered to said one surface comprising one of the parts of said composition and said coating material delivered to said second surface comprising the other part thereof, said surfaces of said head being so disposed as to permit interspersion of said two parts of said composition adjacent said one end of said head and spaced outwardly thereof, said head being spaced from said transport means a distance sufficient to enable such interspersion to occur prior to con¬ tact of said sprays with said workpieces. 11. The method of Claim 10 wherein said composition pro¬ duces a conformal coating upon each workpiece.
12. The method of Claim 11 wherein said composition is of non-stoichio etric character.
13. The method of Claim 12 wherein said composition cures by a radical cationic mechanism.
14. A system for coating a workpiece, comprising:
(a) support means; and
(b) ultrasonic coating means including:
(1) at least one spray head mounted on said 


support means and oriented to vibrate on a selected axis, said head having first and second, non-intersecting surfaces, extend¬ ing substantially in the direction of vibration and terminating at one end of said head, for receiving and causing to issue from said one end, as atomized sprays, liquid coating materials de¬ livered thereto, said head being so dimensioned and configured as to cause the sprays to intersperse and combine outwardly of said one end, and together to cover a predetermined area of sub¬ stantially constant dimensions; (2) means for ultrasonically vibrating said spray head on said axis; and
(3) delivery means for delivering a liquid coating material to each of said surfaces of said spray head.
15. The system of Claim 15 wherein said first and second surfaces of said spray head are disposed in substantially parallel planes, and wherein said head has a substantially planar surface at said one end that is substantially perpen¬ dicular to said first and second surfaces.
16. In a method for coating a workpiece, the steps com- prising:
(a) providing a system in accordance with Claim 14;
(b) effecting simultaneous delivery of a liquid coating material to each of said first and second surfaces of said spray head; (c) disposing a workpiece in spaced relationship to said one end, within the recited predetermined area; and
(d) operating said coating means so as to cause a spray to issue separately from each of said first and second surfaces at said one end of said head, and to cause said sprays to so inter- sperse and combine and to deposit together upon said workpiece, said coating material delivered to said one surface comprising one part of a two-part composition, and said coating material delivered to said second surface comprising the other part thereof. 17. The method of Claim 16 wherein said composition is of a non-stoichiometric character.
18. The method of Claim 17 wherein said composition cures by a radical ionic mechanism. 


 19. In a method for coating a workpiece, the steps com¬ prising:
(a) providing a two-part, non-stoichiometric, liquid coat¬ ing composition, and a workpiece; (b) producing simultaneously atomized sprays of both parts of said composition at separate locations, spaced from said workpiece;
(c) causing said sprays to intersperse, and immediately thereafter to deposit, as a combined composition, upon said workpiece; and
(d) effecting curing of said composition on said workpiece to produce a coating thereon.
20. The method of Claim 19 wherein said composition cures by a radical ionic mechanism. 21. The method of Claim 19 wherein said sprays are pro¬ duced by means other than through pneumatic pressure effects. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
