<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614081</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and a system for measuring the concentration of a substance in a fluid, and the use thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2702	G01N2702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The concentration of a substance in a fluid is 
determined by detecting the electrical conductivity of 

the fluid containing the substance before (11) and 
after (13) the total enzymatic conversion (12) of the 

substance into conversion products carried so as to 
determine a change in the electrical conductivity of 

the fluid. The difference between the two 
conductivity values thus determined is indicative of 

the concentration value sought. The preferred 
application is for determining the concentration of 

urea in an ultrafiltrate or other liquids within 
blood-purifying equipment. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BELLCO SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BELLCO S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAPUTO GIUSEPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELLA CIANA LEOPOLDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SACCO SILVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAPUTO, GIUSEPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELLA CIANA, LEOPOLDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SACCO, SILVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to the
measurement of the concentration of a substance in a
fluid.The invention has been developed with particular
attention to its possible use for determining the
concentration of urea in biological fluids, for
example, in dialysis equipment.As will be explained further below, the invention is
not limited to this possible use but is applicable, in
general, to the measurement of the concentration in a
fluid of any substance which can be converted into
conversion products so as to bring about a change in
the conductivity (the electrical conductivity) of the
fluid carrying the substance.In order to calculate the concentration of a substance
in a fluid, possibly in the form of a continuous flow,
it is generally known to correlate the variation of a
certain parameter detectable by the measurement device,
which differs from one case to another, with the
variation in the concentration of the substance in the
fluid under examination.For example, known biosensors for determining urea
concentration are based on the application of the 
potentiometric method, with electrodes having
ion-selective membranes or with electrodes having
gas-permeable membranes, or on the application of the
thermometric method, on the application of the
conductimetric method, or even on the application of
the spectrophotometric method.The relevant literature is quite extensive.By way of reference, the following articles may be
mentioned, for example:
"An enzyme electrode for the substrate urea" by G.G.
Guilbault and J.G. Montalvo, which appeared in the
"Journal of the American Chemical Society", Vol. 92,
No. 8, April 1970;"Urea coupled ammonia electrode for urease
determination in blood serum" by M. Mascini and G.G.
Guilbault, which appeared in "Analytical Chemistry",
Vol. 49, No. 6, May 1977;"Enzyme urea biosensor based on a modified
potentiometric pvc-nonactin membrane electrode for
assay of urea in blood" by S.B. Butt and K. Camman,
which appeared in "Analytical letters", Vol. 25, No. 9,
September 1992;"Determination of urea with an ammonia gas-sensitive
semiconductor device in combination with urease" by F.
Winquist, A. Spetz and I. Lundström, which appeared in
Analytica Chimica Acta 163, 1981; and
"Determination of creatinine by an ammonia-sensitive
semiconductor structure and immobilized enzymes" by F. 
Winquist, A. Spetz and I. Lundström, which appeared in
Analytical Chemistry, Vol. 58, 1986.Guilbault and Montalvo described, in the article
mentioned, a biosensor for urea prepared by
immobil
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of determining the concentration of a
substance in a fluid,

comprising the steps of:

determining (11) the electrical conductivity of the
fluid containing the substance, obtaining a first

conductivity value (11a),
subjecting the substance in the fluid to
enzymatic conversion into conversion products so as to

bring about a change in the electrical conductivity of
the fluid containing the conversion products,
determining (13) the electrical conductivity of the
fluid containing the conversion products, obtaining a

second conductivity value (13a), and
detecting (14, 15) the variation between the first
(11a) and second (13a) electrical conductivity values,

the variation being indicative of the concentration (C)
of the substance in the fluid, characterized in that

said enzymatic conversion is carried out
as a total enzymatic conversion of said substance

into said conversion products, and the temperature
of said fluid is monitored by thermometric elements (24)

to effect a temperature compensation step in obtaining
said first (11d) and second (13d) conductivity values.
A method according to Claim 1, characterized in that
the variation is detected as the difference between the

first (11a) and second (13a) electrical conductivity
values.
A method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2,
characterized in that it comprises the step of

directing the fluid containing the substance into a
flow, and in that the determination (11) of the

electrical conductivity of the fluid containing the
substance, the total enzymatic conversion (12) of the 

substance in the fluid into the conversion products,
and the determination (13) of the electrical

conductivity of the fluid containing the conversion
products are carried out on the flow in cascade.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that it comprises the step of

directing the fluid containing the substance into a
flow and the step of taking at least one branch flow

from the flow, and in that the concentration of the
substance is determined by operating on the branch

flow.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the substance is selected

from the group constituted by urea, creatinine,
glucose, barbiturate, L-arginine, penicillin and

acetylcholine.
A method according to Claim 1, characterized in that
the total enzymatic conversion is carried out with the

use of at least one enzyme corresponding to the
substance the concentration of which is to be

determined.
A method according to Claim 6, characterized in that
the total enzymatic conversion is carried out with the

use of a plurality of enzymes.
A method according to Claim 6, characterized in that
the substance is urea and the at least one enzyme is

urease.
A method according to Claim 7, characterized in that
the substance is creatinine, and in that the plurality 

of enzymes comprises creatinine amidohydrolase,
creatine amidohydrolase, and urease.
A method according to Claim 6, characterized in
that the substance is glucose, and in that the at least

one enzyme is glucose oxidase.
A method according to Claim 7, characterized in
that the substance is barbiturate and the plurality of

enzymes comprises barbiturase and urease.
A method according to Claim 7, characterized in
that the substance is L-arginine and the plurality of

enzymes comprises arginase and urease.
A method according to Claim 6, characterized in
that the substance is penicillin and the at least one

enzyme is penicillinase.
A method according to Claim 6, characterized in
that the substance is acetylcholine and the at least

one enzyme is acetylcholinesterase.
A method according to Claim 7, characterized in
that the plurality of enzymes comprises urease.
A method according to Claim 1, characterized in
that the total enzymatic conversion is carried out with

the use of at least one enzyme bonded covalently to a
respective substrate (32). 
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterized in that the first (11) and second

(13) conductivity values are detected by determining
the degree of coupling or magnetic induction between

two coils (21, 22) through which the flow passes. 
A system for carrying out the method according to
any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that

it comprises at least one flow line (20, 30, 31)
through which the fluid is intended to pass and in

which there are interposed in cascade

first conductimetric means (11) for determining the
electrical conductivity of the fluid containing the

substance in order to obtain the first conductivity
value (11a),
an enzymatic reactor (12) packed with excess enzyme
for subjecting the

substance in the fluid to total enzymatic conversion
into conversion products so as to bring about the

change in the electrical conductivity of the fluid
containing the conversion products,
second conductimetric means (13) for determining the
electrical conductivity of the fluid containing the

conversion products in order to obtain the second
conductivity value (13a), and
detector means (14, 15) for detecting the variation
between the first (11a) and the second (13a) electrical

conductivity values, the variation being indicative of
the concentration (C) of the substance in the fluid,

wherein said first (11) and second (13) conductimetric means
have associated thermometric elements (24) to monitor the

temperature of said fluid to put into effect a temperature
compensation step in obtaining said first (11a) and second (13a)

electrical conductivity values.
A system according to Claim 18, characterized in
that the detector means (14) detect the variation as 

the difference between the first (11a) and second (13a)
electrical conductivity values.
A system according to Claim 18 or Claim 19,
characterized in that the enzymatic reactor (12)

contains at least one enzyme bonded covalently to a
respective substrate (32). 
A system according to any one of the preceding
Claims 18 to 20, characterized in that each of the

first (11) and second (13) conductimetric means
comprises:


a first electrical coil (21) interposed in the flow
line,
a second electrical coil (22) interposed in the flow
line, and
means (23, 23a) which are sensitive to the coupling
or magnetic induction between the first coil (21) and

the second coil (22).
The use of the method according to any one of
Claims 1 to 17 for determining the concentration of at

least one substance in a respective fluid within
equipment for purifying at least one biological fluid.
Use according to Claim 22, in which the at least
one biological fluid is blood. 
Use according to Claim 22 or Claim 23, in which the
respective fluid is ultrafiltrate derived from a

haemofiltration process.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
