<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628831</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bidirectional boundary scan test cell
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R313185	G01R3128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R31	G01R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A test cell (12) provides boundary scan testing 
in an integrated circuit (10). The test cell (12) 

comprises two memories, a flip-flop (24) and a latch (26), 
for storing test data. A first multiplexer (22) 

selectively connects one of a plurality of inputs to the 
flip-flop (24). The input of the latch (26) is connected 

to output of the flip-flop (24). The output of the latch 
(26) is connected to one input of a multiplexer (28), the 

second input to the multiplexer (28) being a data input 
(DIN) signal. A control bus (17) is provided for 

controlling the multiplexers (22,28), flip-flop (24) and 
latch (26). The test cell allows input data to be 

observed and output data to be controlled simultaneously. 
A bidirectional cell (30) uses the test cell (12) and additional 
circuitry to provide bidirectional operation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHETSEL LEE D JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHETSEL, LEE D., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This Application is related to co-pending
Application EP-A-0 358 365
entitled "Testing
Buffer/Register".This Application is related to co-pending
Application EP-A-0 358 371
entitled "Enhanced
Test Circuit".This invention relates in general to integrated
circuits, and more particularly to a test cell used in an
integrated circuit for providing a boundary scan test
structure. Due to advances in the fields of board
interconnect technology, surface mount packaging and IC
density, board level testability is becoming increasingly
complex. The combination of advanced board interconnect
technology, such as buried wire interconnects and
double-sided boards, along with surface mount packaging
creates problems for in-circuit testing of the boards.
In-circuit testing, the most common board level testing
method, depends upon the ability to physically probe the
nodes of a circuit board. As board density (the number of
ICs on a board) increases, the process of probing the
board using traditional techniques becomes more difficult,
due to the lack of physical access.As the IC density (amount of logic on a chip)
increases, the number of test patterns required for proper
testing likewise increases. In-circuit testing relies on
back-driving techniques to force input conditions to test
a particular IC in a circuit. When such test is being
applied to one IC on a board, neighboring ICs, whose
output buffers are tied to the same nodes, may be damaged.
The chance of damaging a neighboring IC increases with the
length of time it takes to perform a test, which is
directly related to the number of test patterns applied,
and therefore, related to the IC density.Therefore, a need has arisen in the industry to
provide a test structure which provides access to
particular ICs on a board, and allows testing of
particular ICs without risk of damage to neighboring ICs. On page 720 of the article by Maunder at pages 714 to
723 of the 1987 International Test Conference Proceedings, it
is disclosed that in circuits having boundary scan test cells
additional cells may be provided to control whether the
output buffer of a 3-state output pin is enabled or to
control whether a bidirectional pin is used as an output or
an input pin. In accordance with the present invention, a boundary
scan test system is provided which substantially eliminates
the disadvantages and problems associated with prior testing
systems.According to the present invention there is provided a
boundary scan test cell as claimed in Claim 1.The present invention may provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A boundary scan test cell for to be located at the boundary of an internal application logic comprising

first (24) and second (26) memories and first (22,34)
and second (28) multiplexers each having an output and at

least two inputs,
wherein a first one and a second one of the inputs to
the first multiplexer (22,34) are connected to a serial data input

terminal (SDI), and a first circuit data input terminal (DINB)
respectively,
the input of the first memory (24) is connected to the
output of the first multiplexer (22,34)
the output of the first memory (24) is connected to the
input of the second memory (26) and to a serial data output (SDO) terminal,
and first and second ones of the inputs of the second
multiplexer (28) are connected to the output of the second

memory (26) and to the first circuit data terminal (DINB)
respectively,

   characterised in that the boundary scan test cell is
bidirectional, whereby the boundary scan test cell may be

used in connection with an input/output
pin (40), through which signals may flow

in both directions, the first multiplexer (22,34) having a third
input connected to a second circuit data input terminal (DINA) for receiving an output from said internal

application logic, the
test cell further including a third multiplexer (36) having

an output (DOUTA) and at least two inputs, a first one and a
second one of the inputs of the third

multiplexer (36) being connected to the non-inverted output (LQ), of the
second memory (26) and to the second circuit data input terminal

(DINA) respectively, and in that a fourth input of the first multiplexer (22,34) is
connected to an inverted output of the second memory (26), and in that said input/output pin (40)

is connected to both said first circuit
data input terminal (DINB) and said

output (DOUTA) of said third multiplexer (36).
A bidirectional boundary scan test cell according to
claim 1, wherein a fifth input to the first multiplexer

(22,34) is connected to the output of the first memory (24).  
A bidirectional boundary scan test cell according to
any one of claims 1 to 2, wherein the second and third

multiplexers are such that and are so connected to a common
control terminal (DMX) that, in use, they operate, in

response to a signal supplied to the control terminal, to
switch the outputs of the second and third multiplexers

between being both connected to their first inputs and being
both connected to their second inputs.
a bidirectional boundary scan test cell according to
any one of claims 1 to 3, connected to a bidirectional data

pin (40), wherein the pin is connected to both the output of
the third multiplexer (DOUTA) and the first circuit data

terminal (DINB).
A bidirectional boundary scan test cell according to
claim 4, wherein the connection of the output of the third

multiplexer to the pin is through a tristate buffer (38).
An integrated circuit comprising an application logic
circuit and boundary scan test cells, each according to any

one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the circuit data terminals, and
the outputs of the second, or second and third, multiplexers

are connected to the pins of the integrated circuit and to
the application logic circuit.
An integrated circuit according to claim 6, wherein the
first memories of a plurality of boundary scan test cells are

serially connected using the serial data terminals and the
outputs of those memories.
A use of a boundary scan test cell according to any one
of claims 1 to 5, in a load mode in which the first memory

receives data through the first multiplexer (22,34) from the
circuit data terminal to which the second, or second or

third, inputs of the first multiplexer is connected. 
A use of a boundary scan test cell according to any one
of claims 1 to 5, in a shift mode, or a use according to

claim 8 further including use in such a shift mode, wherein
in the shift mode memory receives data from the serial data

terminal.
A use of a boundary scan test cell according to any one
of claims 1 to 5, in a toggle mode, or a use according to

claim 8 or claim 9 further including use in such a toggle
mode, wherein in the toggle mode the first memory (24)

receives data from the inverted output of the second memory
(26), the toggle mode being such that the first memory

toggles between two binary values.
A use of a boundary scan test cell according to claim 2
in an idle mode, or use of such a cell according

to any one of claims 8 to 10 further including use in such an
idle mode, wherein in the idle mode the first memory (24)

receives data from its own input.
A use of a boundary scan test cell according to any one
of claims 8 to 11, wherein the load, shift, toggle, or idle

mode is performed with the output of the second multiplexer
(28) connected to its second input.
A use of a boundary scan test cell according to any one
of claims 8 to 12, wherein the load, shift, or idle mode is

performed with the output of the second multiplexer (28)
connected to its first input while the output of the second

memory (26) is maintained.
A use of a boundary scan test cell according to any one
of claims 8 to 13, wherein the toggle mode is performed with

the output of the second multiplexer (28) connected to its
first input.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
