<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612041</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Coin dispensing apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07D100	G07D900	G07D100	G07D900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07D	G07D	G07D	G07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07D1	G07D9	G07D1	G07D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coin dispensing apparatus which quickly and reliably 
collects coins remaining in an escalator 17 has a coin 

transporting disc 4 which can be rotated in reverse by a 
motor 5. Coin guide apertures 8 in the disc guide coins A 

onto a substrate 2. A coin transporting arm 9 is located 
between the substrate 2 and the disc 4, and rotates in 

forward and reverse together with the disc. A coin 
dropping onto the substrate 2 through an aperture 8 slides 

along a path of rotation on the substrate. During reverse 
rotation the transporting arm 9 dispenses a coin towards 

collection outlet 40. Reciprocating guide member 50 is 
located between the substrate 2 and the disc 4, and is 

provided between outlet slot 10 and collection outlet 40. 
This reciprocating guide member 50 makes contact with a 

dispensed coin to guide it to the collection outlet. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASAHI SEIKO CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASAHI SEIKO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKAWA YORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKAWA, YORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a coin dispensing apparatus 
equipped with an escalator and what is generally referred 
to as a coin transporting duct, and more particularly, to 
a coin dispensing apparatus which removes coins, medals and 
tokens used in, for example, money changers, gaming 
machines and the like, remaining in the escalator, as well 
as coins remaining in apparatus components. A coin dispensing apparatus of this type is disclosed 
in EP-A-0 204 405 filed by the present 
applicant. As shown in Figs. 3 and 4, the apparatus 
comprises a cylindrical case 3 provided on the bottom end 
of a hopper 1 which defines a containment space containing 
a plurality of coins. An outlet slot 10 is formed by 
providing an opening in the bottom end of the peripheral 
wall at the top of the case 3. As seen in Fig. 3, an 
inclined substrate 2 forms the bottom of case 3 and a coin 
transporting disc 4 is arranged on the substrate and driven 
to rotate in a forward direction (counter-clockwise) by the 
shaft 7 of motor 5. Formed within the disc 4 are five coin 
guide apertures 8, each of which is sized with a diameter 
sufficient to receive a coin face-wise and permit it to 
pass through the disc 4. As a result, coins in the hopper  
 
1 will fall into the apertures 8 and will lie against the 
substrate 2. Extending along a part of the circumference 
of each aperture, and disposed for transportingly 
supporting a coin which has fallen into the aperture, 
are coin transporting arms 9. As seen from the cross 
section of the disc in Fig. 3 and the hatched portion of 
Fig 4, the arm 9 is a solid structure that forms a wall 
surface of the aperture for support of the coins in the 
aperture, particularly when they are at the upper rotary 
location of the disc. The arms 9 extend between the 
substrate 2 and the coin transporting disc 4 and define a 
broken circle having a radius that passes through the 
center of each aperture 8. As the arms 9 rotate with the 
disc 4, they cause coins dropped into apertures 8 to be 
guided slidingly against substrate 2 and along a prescribed 
path of rotation on the substrate. This path leads to a 
location for dispensing the coins in the direction of 
outlet slot 10. At slot 10 is an outlet guide pin 30 which 
makes contact with coins dispensed by the arm 9 to remove 
the coins from the path of rotation and guide them to the 
outlet slot and an outlet guide member 11 arranged on the 
downstream side of outlet slot 10 between substrate 2 and 
disc 4, which guides coins A removed from the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A coin dispensing apparatus comprising: a 
substrate (2) containing a first location at which an outlet (10) is 

arranged and a second location (40) differing from said first 
position; and, a dispensing mechanism (4,8,9) arranged to freely 

rotate reversibly with respect to said substrate (2) which 
dispenses coins (A) towards said outlet (10) during forward 

rotation; wherein, said dispensing mechanism dispenses 
coins (A) returned from said outlet (10) to said second location (40) 

during reverse rotation. 
The coin dispensing apparatus as set forth in 
claim 1 wherein said substrate (2) has an escalator (17) which 

carries out coins dispensed through said outlet (10) in a 
prescribed direction. 
The coin dispensing apparatus as set forth in 
claim 2 wherein said substrate (2) has a collection outlet (40) at 

said second location which collects coins (A) that have been 
returned via said outlet (10) from said escalator. 
The coin dispensing apparatus as set forth in 
claim 3 wherein said dispensing mechanism has a reversible 

rotation rotary disc (4) opposed to said substrate (2) at a  

 
clearance essentially corresponding to the thickness of the 

coins guide apertures opened in said rotary disc which 
guide coins over said substrate (2), a dispensing arm (9) arranged 

between said substrate and said rotary disc (4) which dispenses 
coins along a prescribed path of rotation on said substrate 

corresponding to the rotation of said rotary disc (4), and an 
outlet guide member (50) arranged between said substrate and 

said rotary disc which makes contact with coins dispensed 
from said dispensing arm in the case of forward rotation by 

said rotary disc and guides said coins from said path of 
rotation to said outlet; wherein, said dispensing arm (9) 

reverse rotates corresponding to reverse rotation of said 
rotary disc, receives coins returned from said escalator 

via said outlet (10), and dispenses said coins towards said 
collection outlet (40) along said path of rotation. 
The coin dispensing apparatus as set forth in 
claim 4 wherein said coin dispensing apparatus has a 

collection outlet guide member (50) arranged between said 
substrate (2) and said rotary disc (4) which makes contact with 

coins dispensed from said dispensing arm by its reverse 
rotation and guides said coins from said path of rotation 

to said collection outlet.  
 
The coin dispensing apparatus as set forth in 
claim 5 wherein said collection outlet guide membe (50) has a 

contact surface (52) which makes contact with coins dispensed 
from said dispensing arm, and said contact surface is 

arranged transverse to said path of rotation. 
The coin dispensing apparatus as set forth in 
claim 5 wherein said outlet guide member and said 

collection outlet guide member are provided integrated into 
a single unit (50) on different sides as reciprocating rotating 

members. 
The coin dispensing apparatus as set forth in 
claim 3 wherein said dispensing mechanism has a reversible 

rotation rotary disc (4) opposed to said substrate (2), a central 
disc (41) arranged in the center of said substrate, dispensing 

pins arranged on the circumference of said rotary disc 
which receive coins between themselves and the outer edge 

of said central disc and dispense said coins along said 
path of rotation, and an outlet guide knife (43) and collection 

outlet guide knife (44) arranged mutually in opposition on both 
sides of said central disc; wherein, said outlet guide 

knife, one end of which is fixed on the outlet side of said 
substrate and the other end of which extends to the outside 

edge of said central disc, guides coins dispensed along  
 

said path of rotation to said outlet in the case of forward 
rotation by said rotary disc, and said collection outlet 

guide knife, one end of which is fixed on the collection 
outlet side of said substrate and the other end of which 

extends to the outside edge of said central disc, guides 
coins dispensed along said path of rotation to said 

collection outlet in the case of reverse rotation by said 
rotary disc. 
The coin dispensing apparatus as set forth in 
claim 8 wherein said outlet guide knife and collection 

outlet guide knife are provided retractably with respect to 
said central disc (41), said outlet guide knife moves away from 

said central disc by a distance essentially corresponding 
to at least the thickness of coins in the case of reverse 

rotation by said rotary disc, and said collector outlet 
guide knife moves away from said central disc by a distance 

essentially corresponding to at least the thickness of 
coins in the case of forward rotation by said rotary disc. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
