<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627940</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Use of immunoconjugates for the diagnosis and/or therapy of vascularized tumors
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	C07K1628	A61K3800	A61K5110	A61P3500	C07K1630	C07K1622	A61K4748	A61P3500	A61K4748	A61K5102	A61K4908	A61K4906	C07K1618	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	C07K	A61K	A61K	A61P	C07K	C07K	A61K	A61P	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	C07K16	A61K38	A61K51	A61P35	C07K16	C07K16	A61K47	A61P35	A61K47	A61K51	A61K49	A61K49	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates generally to methods and compositions for targeting the vasculature of solid tumors using immunologically-based reagents. In particular aspects, antibodies carrying diagnostic or therapeutic agents are targeted to the vasculature of solid tumor masses through recognition of tumor vasculature-associated antigens, or through the specific induction of endothelial cell surface antigens on vascular endothelial cells in solid tumors.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV TEXAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOARD OF REGENTS, THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURROWS FRANCIS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORPE PHILIP E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURROWS, FRANCIS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORPE, PHILIP E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to methods
and compositions for targeting the vasculature of solid
tumors using immunologically-based reagents. In
particular aspects, antibodies carrying diagnostic or
therapeutic agents are targeted to the vasculature of
solid tumor masses through recognition of tumor
vasculature-associated antigens, or through the specific
induction of other antigens on vascular endothelial cells
in solid tumors.Over the past 30 years, fundamental advances in the
chemotherapy of neoplastic disease have been realized.
While some progress has been made in the development of
new chemotherapeutic agents, the more startling
achievements have been made in the development of
effective regimens for concurrent administration of drugs
and our knowledge of the basic science, e.g., the
underlying neoplastic processes at the cellular and
tissue level, and the mechanism of action of basic
antineoplastic agents. As a result of the fundamental
achievement, we can point to significant advances in the
chemotherapy of a number of neoplastic diseases,
including choriocarcinoma, Wilm's tumor, acute leukemia,
rhabdomyosarcoma, retinoblastoma, Hodgkin's disease and
Burkitt's lymphoma, to name just a few. Despite the 
impressive advances that have been made in a few tumors,
though, many of the most prevalent forms of human cancer
still resist effective chemotherapeutic intervention.The most significant underlying problem that must be
addressed in any treatment regimen is the concept of
"total cell kill." This concept holds that in order to
have an effective treatment regimen, whether it be a
surgical or chemotherapeutic approach or both, there must
be a total cell kill of all so-called "clonogenic"
malignant cells, that is, cells that have the ability to
grow uncontrolled and replace any tumor mass that might
be removed. Due to the ultimate need to develop
therapeutic agents and regimens that will achieve a total
cell kill, certain types of tumors have been more
amenable than others to therapy. For example, the soft
tissue tumors (e.g., lymphomas), and tumors of the blood
and blood-forming organs (e.g., leukemias) have generally
been more responsive to chemotherapeutic therapy than
have solid tumors such as carcinomas. One reason for
this is the greater physical accessibility of lymphoma
and leukemic cells to chemotherapeutic intervention.
Simply put, it is much more difficult for most
chemotherapeutic agents to reach all of the cells of a
solid tumor mass than it is the soft tumors and blood-based
tum
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Use of a composition for the manufacture of a medicament for use in targeting a selected
therapeutic agent to intratumoral vasculature for the treatment of a vascularized tumor, said

composition comprising an antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof that binds to a marker
expressed, accessible to binding or localized on the cell surfaces of intratumoral blood vessels of

a vascularized tumor, linked to a selected therapeutic agent.
Use of claim 1, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is a monoclonal
antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof.
Use of claim 1, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is IgG, IgM,
IgA or IgE; F(ab')
2
, Fab', Fab, Dab, Fv or another univalent fragment or single domain antibody;
a recombinant antibody, a human antibody, a humanized antibody, a chimeric antibody, a

bispecific antibody or another engineered antibody.
Use of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to a tumor
vascular endothelial cell marker that is localized on the cell surfaces of intratumoral vascular

endothelial cells.
Use of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to a tumor
vascular endothelial cell marker that is expressed on the cell surfaces of i
ntratumoral vascular
endothelial cells.
Use of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to a marker
whose expression on the surface of the intratumoral vascular endothelial cells is cytokine-inducible.
Use of claim 5 or 6, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to ELAM-1, VCAM-1,
ICAM-1, a ligand reactive with LAM-1 or an MHC Class II antigen. 
Use of claim 7, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to ELAM-1.
Use of claim 7, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to VCAM-1.
Use of claim 7, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to an MHC Class II antigen.
Use of claim 5, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof is prepared by a method that
includes the steps of:


(a) stimulating endothelial cells with tumor-conditioned medium;
(b) employing the stimulated endothelial cells as immunogens to prepare a collection of
antibody-producing hybridomas;
(c) selecting from the collection a hybridoma that produces an antibody that recognizes
the activated vascular endothelium to a greater degree than it recognizes non-activated

vascular endothelium; and
(d) culturing the hybridoma to provide the antibody or fragment thereof.
Use of claim 6, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to a marker that is inducible
by the cytokine IL-1, IL-4, TNF-α, TNF-β or IFN-γ.
Use of claim 6, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to a marker that is inducible
by means of a cytokine released by leukocyte cells. 
Use of claim 13, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof binds to a marker that is
inducible by means of a cytokine released by monocytes, macrophages, mast cells, helper T cells,

CD8-positive T-cells or NK cells.
Use of any preceding claim, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is
linked to a coagulant or a selected anticellular agent capable of killing or suppressing the growth or

cell division of endothelial cells.
Use of claim 15, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is linked to a
chemotherapeutic agent, radioisotope or cytotoxic agent.
Use of claim 15, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is linked to the
coagulant Russell's Viper Venom, activated Factor IX, activated Factor X or thrombin.
Use of claim 15, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is linked to a
hormone, a steroid, a cytokine, an antimetabolite, an anthracycline, a vinca alkaloid, an antibiotic,

an alkylating agent, an epipodophyllotoxin or a cell surface lytic agent.
Use of claim 16, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is linked to a
plant-, fungus- or bacteria-derived toxin.
Use of claim 19, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is linked to an A
chain toxin, bacterial endotoxin, the lipid A moiety of bacterial endotoxin, a ribosome inactivating

protein, α-sarcin, gelonin, aspergillin, restrictocin, a ribonuclease, diphtheria toxin or 
Pseudomonas

exotoxin.
Use of claim 20, wherein the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is linked to ricin
A chain or deglycosylated ricin A chain. 
Use according to any preceding claim, wherein said medicament is for use in targeting a
selected therapeutic agent to intratumoral vasculature to destroy the tumor vasculature.
Use of a composition that comprises a selected diagnostic agent linked to an antibody or
antigen-binding fragment thereof that binds to a marker expressed, accessible to binding or

localized on the cell surfaces of intratumoral blood vessels of a vascularized tumor in the
manufacture of a medicament for use in targeting said selected diagnostic agent to intratumoral

vasculature, for the diagnosis of a vascularized tumour.
Use according to claim 23, wherein said medicament is for use in targeting a selected
diagnostic agent to intratumoral vasculature to image the tumor vasculature.
Use according to claim 23 or 24, wherein the selected diagnostic agent is a paramagnetic,
radioactive or fluorogenic agent that is detectable upon imaging.
Use according to claim 25, wherein the selected diagnostic agent is a paramagnetic ion
selected from chromium (III), manganese (II), iron (III), iron (II), cobalt (II), nickel (II), copper (II),

neodymium (III), samarium (III), ytterbium (III), gadolinium (III), vanadium (II), terbium (III),
dysprosium (III), holmium (III) and erbium (III).
Use according to claim 25, wherein the selected diagnostic agent is a radioactive ion
selected from iodine
123
, technicium
99m
, indium
111
, rhenium
188
, rhenium
186
, copper
67
, iodine
131
,
yttrium
90
, iodine
125
, astatine
211
, and gallium
67
.
Use according to any preceding claim, wherein said medicament is for administration to a
human patient having a vascularized tumour. 
A kit comprising a composition as defined in any one of claims 1 to 21 in combination with
an anti-tumor cell antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof linked to a selected therapeutic

agent.
The kit of claim 29, wherein the anti-tumor cell antibody or fragment thereof comprises an
HMFG-2, SM-3, B72.3, PRSCS, PR4D2, 9.2.27, OV-TL3, MOv18 or anti-p185
HER2
 antibody or
antibody fragment.
A kit comprising a composition as defined in any one of claims 1 to 21 in combination with
a second biological agent that selectively induces the expression of the intratumoral vasculature

marker that is targeted by the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof of said composition.
The kit of claim 31, wherein the second biological agent is a bispecific, activating
antibody that binds to both a tumor cell surface antigen and to a leukocyte cell surface activation

antigen.
The kit of claim 32, wherein the bispecific, activating antibody binds to a tumor cell
surface antigen selected from p185
HER2
, milk mucin core protein, TAG-72, Lewis a,
carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and the antigens recognized by the 9.2.27, OV-TL3, MOv18,

HMFG-2, SM-3, B72.3, PR5C5 or PR4D2 antibodies.
The kit of claim 32, wherein the bispecific, activating antibody binds to a leukocyte
activation antigen on the cell surface of a monocyte, macrophage, mast cell, helper T cell, CD8-positive

T-cell or NK cell.
The kit of claim 34, wherein the bispecific, activating antibody binds to a leukocyte cell
surface activation antigen selected from CD2, CD3, CD5, CD8, CD11/CD18, CD14, CD15,

CD16, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD32, CD44, CD45, CD54, CD64, CD71, FcR for IgE or the T-cell
receptor antigen. 
The kit of claim 35, wherein the bispecific, activating antibody binds to CD14 or CD28.
The kit of claim 34, wherein the bispecific, activating antibody induces the leukocyte to
express the cytokine IL-1, TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-4 or TNF-β.
The kit of any one of claims 34 to 37, further comprising cyclosporin or cyclosporin A.
The kit of claim 31, wherein the second biological agent is an IFN-γ-producing T-cell
clone specific for an antigen expressed on the surface of the tumor cells.
The kit of claim 39, further comprising an anti-CD4 antibody or an anti-CD4 Fab
fragment.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
