<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611121</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Systems for patterning dielectrics and structures therefrom.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21268	H01L21302	H01L21311	H01L2148	H01L2170	H01L21768	H01L2312	H01L2312	H01L2352	H01L23538	H05K103	H05K103	H05K300	H05K300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A differentiable ablation approach to patterning dielectrics 
which are not of the same absorbance uses an absorbant dielectric (20) 

at a specified laser wavelength over a non-absorbant dielectric (18) at 
that wavelength. The absorbant dielectric may be laser-patterned 

and become an integral mask enabling plasma etching of the 
underlying non-absorbant dielectric. If the patterning of the 

absorbant dielectric involves vias, polymer ridges formed around 
via surfaces during laser patterning may be removed at the same 

time the underlying non-absorbant dielectric is etched using a 
transparent, oxygen plasma resistant mask. Alternatively, an 

inert mask may be used instead of the absorbent dielectric to allow 
plasma etching of the non-absorbant dielectric. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALCH ERNEST WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLE HERBERT STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORCZYCA THOMAS BERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAIA RICHARD JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOJNAROWSKI ROBERT JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALCH ERNEST WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLE HERBERT STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORCZYCA THOMAS BERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAIA RICHARD JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOJNAROWSKI ROBERT JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to patterning of polymers. 
More particularly, this invention relates to patterning of polymers 
in a high density interconnect process in such a way as to allow 
use of low dielectric constant polymers, and to remove any 
polymer ridges which may be formed around pattern openings. Materials such as Teflon polytetrafluoroethylene (Teflon is 
a trademark of E.I. duPont de Nemours and Co.) and other 
fluorocarbon polymers have highly desirable properties in the 
manufacture of high density interconnect (HDI) circuits. 
Polytetrafluoroethylene has one of the lowest dielectric constants 
in the polymer field, optical clarity, and excellent chemical and 
temperature stability. However, laser patterning of fluorocarbon 
polymers is hindered because the various fluorocarbon polymer 
derivatives are transparent to light of wavelengths generally 
greater than 200 nm. Thus, the use of continuous wave (CW) 
scanning lasers for patterning and ablation that are in the 350-360 
nm range have been ineffective. Commonly assigned Cole et al., U.S. Application Ser. No. 
07/936,496, filed Aug. 28, 1992, entitled "Laser Ablatable Polymer 
Dielectrics and Methods," discloses a method of doping polyesters 
with a small amount of dye to make them absorb at the desired 
wavelength. Polytetrafluoroethylene, however, is not solventable 
(i.e., does not dissolve in any known solvent), and therefore this 
approach of doping with a molecule in a common solvent will not 
work. It is possible to heat Polytetrafluoroethylene above its 
melting point and blend in absorbing dyes, but, because this 
melting would require processing at elevated temperatures (in  
 
excess of 275 °C), and the dyes used are not thermally stable at 
these temperatures, it is not practiced. Another limitation on the use of fluorocarbon polymers in 
conventional procedures is the fact that metal does not readily 
adhere to the surface. Thus, it is difficult to pattern electrical 
connections on a polytetrafluoroethylene surface. Commonly assigned Cole et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,073,814, 
issued Dec. 17, 1991, discloses use of a multi-layer composite of 
alternating thin layers of Kapton polyimide (Kapton is a 
trademark of E.I. duPont de Nemours and Co.) and Teflon 
polytetrafluoroethylene as a means to provide sufficient absorption 
of optical energy in the bulk of the layer to allow laser ablation. 
This process provides a lower dielectric constant than prior 
techniques while allowing for adhesion and laser drilling; 
however,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for fabricating an opening in a dielectric 
medium which is not itself laser ablatable at a predetermined 

laser wavelength, comprising the steps of: 
   providing a first dielectric layer as said dielectric medium; 

   providing a second dielectric layer which is laser ablatable 
at said predetermined laser wavelength over said first dielectric 

layer; 
   laser ablating an opening in said second dielectric layer; 

and 
   providing an opening in said first dielectric layer aligned 

with said opening in said second dielectric layer. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said first dielectric 
layer comprises a fluorocarbon polymer and said second dielectric 

layer comprises a polyimide. 
The method of claim 1, further including the step of 
situating said first dielectric layer on a module comprising a 

substrate supporting a chip including chip pads, and wherein 
said opening in said first dielectric layer is provided in alignment 

with one of said chip pads. 
The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of 
removing said second dielectric layer after providing said opening 

in said first dielectric layer. 
The method of claim 1, further including the step of 
thinning said second dielectric layer after providing said opening 

in said first dielectric layer. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of providing 
said opening in said first dielectric layer is performed by reactive 

ion etching. 
The method of claim 1, further including the steps of: 
   applying a hard mask over said second dielectric layer prior 

to providing said opening in said second dielectric layer; 
   removing said hard mask after providing said opening in 

said first dielectric layer; and
 

   wherein the step of providing said opening in said second 
dielectric layer is performed so as to provide a corresponding 

opening in said hard mask. 
The method of claim 7, wherein the step of providing 
said opening in said first dielectric layer comprises reactive ion 

etching and is performed so that any dielectric ridge formed 
around said opening in said second dielectric layer is removed. 
A method for fabricating an opening in a low 
dielectric constant layer over a substrate, comprising the steps of: 

   providing an adhesive layer having a low dielectric constant 
over said substrate; 

   providing a layer of low dielectric constant material over 
said adhesive layer, said layer of low dielectric constant material 

having a higher melt flow viscosity than said adhesive layer; 
   applying a mask over said layer of low dielectric constant 

material patterned to leave a predetermined area of said layer of 
low dielectric constant material exposed; and 

   providing an opening in said layer of low dielectric constant 
material and said adhesive layer through said mask. 
The method of claim 9, wherein the step of providing 
an opening comprises reactive ion etching of said layer of low 

dielectric constant material and said adhesive layer. 
The method of claim 10, wherein said mask 
comprises a metal. 
The method of claim 10, wherein said mask 
comprises a material which is laser ablatable at a predetermined 

wavelength above the wavelengths at which said adhesive layer 
and said low dielectric constant material layer are laser ablatable. 
A method for fabricating a window over a 
fluorocarbon polymer layer in a multi-chip module, said method 

comprising the steps of providing a polyimide layer over said 
fluorocarbon polymer layer and laser ablating said window in 

said polyimide layer. 
A method for removing a dielectric ridge formed 
around a via surface in a dielectric layer, comprising the steps of:

 
   applying a hard mask over said dielectric layer; 

   laser dithering a via through said hard mask and said 
dielectric layer such that a portion of said dielectric layer is left 

unprotected by said mask; and 
   isotropically etching said unprotected portion of said 

dielectric layer. 
The method of claim 14, further including, as a final 
step, removing said hard mask from said dielectric layer. 
The method of claim 15, further including the step of 
situating said dielectric layer on a module comprising a substrate 

supporting a chip including chip pads and wherein the step of 
providing said via comprises providing said via in alignment with 

one of said chip pads. 
The method of claim 16, wherein the step of providing 
a via is performed using adaptive lithography. 
The method of claim 15, wherein the step of 
isotropically etching said unprotected portion of said dielectric 

layer is controlled to taper the dielectric ridge around the via 
surface. 
The method of claim 15, wherein said hard mask 
comprises silicon nitride. 
The method of claim 19, wherein said dielectric layer 
comprises Kapton polyimide. 
A method for fabricating an opening in a dielectric 
layer comprising the steps of: 

   applying a metal mask over said dielectric layer patterned 
to leave a predetermined area of said dielectric layer exposed; 

   reactive ion etching an opening in said dielectric layer 
through said metal mask; 

   applying a photoresist over said metal mask and said 
opening; 

   exposing selected areas of said photoresist; 
   developing said photoresist so that resist remains 

substantially only in the area of said opening; 
   etching off said metal mask; and

 
   removing the remaining amounts of said resist. 
A method for fabricating an opening in a dielectric 
layer comprising the steps of: 

   applying a metal mask over said dielectric layer patterned 
to leave a predetermined area of dielectric exposed; 

   reactive ion etching an opening partially through said 
dielectric layer through said metal mask; 

   removing said metal mask; and 
   reactive ion etching the partial opening into an opening 

completely through said dielectric layer. 
A dielectric overlay for facilitating interconnection of 
circuitry situated thereunder, said overlay comprising: 

   a first dielectric layer which is not laser ablatable at a 
predetermined laser wavelength; and 

   a second dielectric layer which is laser ablatable at said 
predetermined laser wavelength overlying said first dielectric 

layer; 
   said first and second dielectric layers having an opening 

extending therethrough. 
The overlay of claim 23, wherein said first dielectric 
layer comprises a fluorocarbon polymer and said second dielectric 

layer comprises a polyimide. 
The overlay of claim 23, wherein the circuitry 
situated beneath said overlay comprises a substrate, and a chip 

supported by said substrate and including chip pads, said opening 
being aligned with one of said chip pads. 
An overlay for facilitating interconnection of circuitry 
situated thereunder, said overlay comprising: 

   an adhesive layer having a low dielectric constant; and 
   a low dielectric constant layer overlying said adhesive layer, 

said low dielectric constant layer having a higher melt flow 
viscosity than said adhesive layer; 

   said low dielectric constant layer and said adhesive layer 
having an opening extending through both said layers. 
The overlay of claim 26, further comprising a 
polyimide layer situated over said low dielectric constant layer 

and having an opening aligned with said opening extending 
through said dielectric and adhesive layers. 
The overlay of claim 26, wherein the circuitry 
situated beneath said overlay comprises a substrate, and a chip 

supported by said substrate and including chip pads, said opening 
being aligned with one of said chip pads. 
A circuit package for an integrated circuit chip 
comprising: 

   a substrate for supporting said chip; 
   a fluorocarbon polymer layer overlying said substrate and 

said chip; and 
   a polyimide layer overlying said fluorocarbon polymer 

layer, said polyimide layer having a window through which said 
fluorocarbon polymer layer is exposed. 
The circuit package of claim 29, wherein said 
window through which said fluorocarbon layer is exposed is 

situated over a damage sensitive area of said chip. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
