<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621980</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FORMING A LAYER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2100	H01L2100	H01L2102	H01L21285	H01L213205	H01L2170	H01L21768	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The method comprises depositing a layer (10) of a material (10) on the surface of an article (1) such that the layer (10) covers the mouth of a recess (3) leaving a void below the closed mouth. Subsequently, without elevating their temperature, the article (1) and layer (10) are subjected to elevated pressures (e.g. pressurised liquid) sufficient to cause the layer (10) to deform into the recess (3). Furthermore, the invention provides a method for forming a layer on such a surface, using the technique of magnetron sputtering and heating the article to increase the mobility of the deposited material. Also provided is apparatus for use in carrying out these methods, which methods are of particular use in the processing of semiconductor wafers.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROTECH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROTECH LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOBSON CHRISTOPHER DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOBSON, CHRISTOPHER DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FORMING A LAYER The present invention relates to arrangements in which a layer of material is formed on a surface, so that the material is introduced into holes or trenches in the surface. It is particularly, but not exclusively, concerned with arrangements in which that surface is a surface of a semiconductor wafer (or substrate used for integrated circuits)-There are a number of situations during the formation of a semiconductor device in a semiconductor wafer where it is necessary to deposit a layer onto the wafer. One such situation arises when conductive or semiconductive tracks are to be formed over the wafer, so that those tracks may make contact with active regions of the device or circuit. Normally, such tracks must then extend through an insulating layer on the surface of the wafer so as to make contact with active regions below that insulating layer, or with further conductive tracks below that insulating layer (when the holes are usually called "vias"). Where the track extends through a hole in this way, it is important that the amount of material e.g. metal filling that hole is sufficient to ensure good electrical contact. Another situation is when an electrically insulating layer is to be formed over the wafer, in order to isolate active regions and/or conductive tracks from each other, or to form a protective covering known as a passivation layer. Such a layer 

is often required to cover conductive tracks or other structures on the wafer, and these structures may be close to each other so that the gaps between them form narrow trenches. It is important that the insulating material covers all the surface with sufficient thickness to provide good electrical insulation, and that the top surface of the insulating layer shall be sufficiently smooth for the next stage of wafer processing. The normal way of forming layers on the surface of a semiconductor wafer, is by the use of a deposition technique, such as sputtering for conductive layers, or chemical vapour deposition for insulating layers. In such a technique, the surface on which the layer to be formed is bombarded with particles of the material to be deposited until a layer of a suitable thickness has been achieved.Where that surface is the surface of a layer with a hole or trench therein extending to the surface of the wafer, the particles of the material are deposited on the sides and base of the hole or trench, but it has been found that there is a tendency for the particles to be deposited primarily at the mouth of the hole or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for forming a layer of a material on the surface of an article, in which surface there is a recess such as a hole or trench, comprising the steps of depositing a layer of the material on to the surface such that the layer covers the mouth of the recess leaving a void below the closed mouth, and subsequently, without elevating their temperature, subjecting the article and deposited layer to an elevated pressure sufficient to cause the layer to deform into the recess.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the article is a semiconductor wafer.
3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the material deposited on the surface of the article is aluminium or an aluminium alloy.
4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the material to be deposited is an aluminium alloy having the composition Al/0-2% Si/0-4% Cu/0-2% Ti.
5. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pressure to which the article and deposited layer are subjected is greater than 200 x 10
6
 Pa (30,000 p.s.i. ).
6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the pressure to which the article and deposited layer are subjected is greater than 700 x 10
6
 Pa (100,000 p.s.i. ).
7. A method according to any one of the preceding 


claims, wherein the layer of material is deposited on the particle surface using a sputtering technique.
8. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the article is subjected to an elevated temperature during deposition of the layer of material on the article surface.
9. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the elevated pressure to which the article and deposited layer are subjected is achieved using a pressurised liquid.
10. A method for forming a layer of a material on the surface of an article, in which surface there is a recess such as a hole or trench, comprising the steps of depositing a layer of the material onto the surface such that the layer covers the mouth of the recess leaving a void below the closed mouth, and subsequently contacting at least the exposed surface of the deposited layer with a pressurised liquid so as to cause the layer to deform into the recess.
11. A method according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the pressurised liquid is a liquid which does not leave behind residues on the article following its contact with the article and deposited layer.
12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the pressurised liquid is a liquid containing substantially no dissolved solids.
13. A method according to any one of claims 9-12, wherein the pressurised liquid is a liquid which can 


be allowed to evaporate from the article following its contact with the article and deposited layer.
14. A method according to any one of claims 9-13, wherein the pressurised liquid is ethanol.
15. A method according to any one of claims 9-13, wherein the pressurised liquid is liquid carbon dioxide.
16. A method according to any one of claims 9-13, wherein the pressurised liquid is water.
17. A method according to any one of claims 10-16, wherein the article is a semiconductor wafer.
18. A method according to any one of claims 10-17, wherein the article and deposited layer are subjected to elevated temperatures as well as to contact with the pressurised liquid.
19. A method according to claim 18, wherein the elevated temperature to which the article and deposited layer are subjected is between 350°C and 400°C, and the pressurised liquid is at a pressure greater than 20 x 10
6
 Pa (3,000 p.s.i.).
20. A method for forming a layer of material on the surface of an article, in which surface there is a recess such as a hole or trench, the method comprising the steps of depositing a layer of the material onto the surface using magnetron sputtering, such that the flux of the material is from a large range of angles to the surface of the article, and heating the article so as to increase the mobility of the deposited 


material .
21. A method according to claim 20, wherein the material to be deposited is an aluminium alloy, and a platen temperature of between 350 and 450°C is used.
22. A method for forming a layer of a material on the surface of an article, in which surface there is a recess such as a hole or trench, the method being substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying illustrative drawings.
23. Apparatus for use in forming a layer of a material on the surface of an article, in which surface there is a recess such as a hole or trench, the apparatus comprising means for depositing a layer of the material on to the surface such that the layer covers the mouth of the recess leaving a void below the closed mouth, and pressurising means for subsequently subjecting the article and deposited layer to an elevated pressure sufficient to cause the layer to deform into the recess.
24. Apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the pressurising means comprises means for contacting at least the exposed surface of the deposited layer with a pressurised liquid.
25. Apparatus for use in forming a layer of a material on the surface of an article, the apparatus being substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying illustrative drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
