<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643861</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISPLAY APPARATUS FOR A FIRST OUT TYPE OF FAULT STATUS ANNUNCIATOR HAVING A SERIES STRING OF INTERLOCK SWITCHES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23N524	F23N524	G08B2514	G08B2514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23N	F23N	G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23N5	F23N5	G08B25	G08B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERTEN GREGORY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATTON PAUL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERTEN, GREGORY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATTON, PAUL, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DISPLAY APPARATUS FOR A FIRST OUT TYPEOF FAULT STATUS ANNUNCIATOR HAVING ASERIES STRING OF INTERLOCK SWITCHESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMany types of control systems are used to operate apparatus which has the potential for causing harm or injury if various parameter levels are outside of predetermined ranges. A simple example is the automobile whose engine will be severely damaged if the oil pressure is too low or the coolant temperature is too high. In this situation the system relies on the good judgment of the driver to stop the auto as soon as the warning light or gauge indicates the problem.In many of these systems however, human monitoring of the apparatus parameters may be unacceptable because the apparatus is intended to operate automatically, or because the result of improper, that is to say human, monitoring may result in serious damage or injury. Neither is it desirable to rely on the control system to monitor every one of these parameter levels and shut down of the system when needed because this adds substantial complexity to the controller. Also, the control system can on occasion fail, for example because of power outages. Instead, in most systems these parameters are used to directly control interlock switches which open if the parameter level is outside of the predetermined range. In these systems, the interlock switches are typically arranged in a series circuit which passes the current for operating the apparatus (and parts of the control system as well in many cases) so that if any of the parameter levels are outside the range specified for it, the apparatus will not receive power and cannot operate. Examples of these series circuits of interlock switches are found in a number of different types of apparatus and their controls, including as one example burner systems and controls. In burner controls, the interlock switch series circuit is used to control power which operates the fuel valves. If any of the burner system parameters are outside the specified ranges, power is not available to the fuel valves, with the result that the burner cannot operate.A problem which arises in these systems is determining the cause of a malfunction. If an interlock switch opens, power to the system is interrupted of course, but the problem can be in any of the parameters controlling the interlock switches or in other aspects of the system. For example, in burner systems flame failure does not control an interlock switch. In this particular situation, the control system itself interprets the flame
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. In an annunciator of the status of a plurality of interlock switches each having first and second contacts and connected by a plurality of conductors to form therefrom a series circuit of interlock switches in a preselected sequence for connection by an end interlock switch thereof to a power source to pass current through the series circuit to a load, and including: a) a plurality of voltage sensors each associated with an interlock switch and connected to a conductor connected to the interlock switch with which the voltage sensor is associated and each voltage sensor providing a status signal having a first state responsive to presence of power voltage on the conductor to which it is connected and a second state otherwise; b) a display unit having a display panel with a plurality of display elements mounted thereon with each display element associated with one of the voltage sensors, each of said display elements receiving a display signal and entering a first display state responsive to a first state of the display signal and a second display state responsive to a second state of the display signal; c) a memory receiving the status signals from the voltage sensors, recording the state of at least one of the status signals at a selectable instant, and providing at least one memory signal encoding the state of a single status signal at the selectable instant; and d) a plurality of display drivers, each display driver associated with a single display element, that display element's corresponding interlock switch, and that interlock switch's associated voltage sensor, each display driver providing to its associated display element a display signal having its first and second states responsive respectively to the first and second states of a control signal, wherein the improvement comprises: multiplexer means receiving the status signals from the voltage sensors, the memory signal from the memory, and a selection signal having first and second states, for providing control signals to the display drivers encoding the states of the status signals responsive to the first state of the selection signal and encoding the states of the memory signals responsive to the second state of the selection signal; and mode selecting means for providing the selection signal with its first state responsive to a first state of the mode selecting means, and for providing the selection signal with its second state responsive to a second state of the mode selecting means. 


 2. The annunciator of claim 1, for use with a controller monitoring operation of the load and issuing a fault signal entering a second level responsive to a preselected status of the load and having a first level otherwise, wherein the mode selecting means further comprises: a) toggle means receiving the fault signal and a switch signal, for providing a toggle signal having first and second levels, said toggle signal having its second level responsive to the fault signal entering its second level, and changing its level responsive to a level change in a switch signal; b) switch means including an alterable element, for providing the switch signal with a level change therein to the toggle means responsive to operation of the alterable element; and c) gate means receiving the fault signal and the toggle signal, for providing the selection signal with the second level responsive to the second levels of both the fault signal and the toggle signal.
3. The annunciator of claim 2, wherein the toggle means comprises a toggle flip-flop having a toggle terminal receiving the switch signal, a set terminal receiving the fault signal, and a data terminal providing the toggle signal to the gate means, said toggle flip-flop changing the level of the toggle signal responsive to a predetermined change in the level of the switch signal, and setting the toggle signal to its second level responsive to the fault signal changing from its first state to its second state.
4. The annunciator of claim 3 wherein the gate means comprises an AND gate.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, and wherein the memory records a plurality of status signals provided by voltage sensors associated with a plurality of sequential interlock switches and provides for each recorded status signal, an associated memory signal encoding the value of the recorded status signal, said multiplexer further comprising: a) an oscillator providing an oscillator signal having first and second states each of preselected duration; b) a flash logic means receiving a pair of memory signals associated with a pair of status signals provided by the voltage sensors connected to the contacts of a single interlock switch and the oscillator signal, for providing a control signal encoding the state of a preselected one of the status signals encoded in the pair of memory signals when at least one of the conditions exist of i) the states of the status 


signals encoded in the pair of memory signals are the same, and ii) the oscillator signal has its first state, and a second state otherwise.
6. The annunciator of claim 5, wherein the flash logic means comprises an exclusive OR gate receiving the pair of memory signals as inputs, and providing a logic signal having a first state when the pair of memory signals have opposite states, an AND gate receiving the exclusive OR gate output signal and the oscillator signal as input signals and providing an output signal having the second state when both input signals have the second state, and an OR gate receiving one memory signal and the AND gate output as input signals and providing an output signal having the second state when at least one of the input signals have the second state, and having the first state otherwise.
7. The annunciator of claim 5, wherein the oscillator provides an oscillator signal changing state from two to 20 times per second. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
