<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data demultiplexer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N592	H04N9806	H04N5928	H04N752	H04N726	G11B2010	H04N584	H04J300	H04N760	H04N9804	H04J300	H04N726	H04N585	G11B2010	H04N592	H04N5928	H04N752	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	G11B	H04N	H04J	H04N	H04N	H04J	H04N	H04N	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N9	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	G11B20	H04N5	H04J3	H04N7	H04N9	H04J3	H04N7	H04N5	G11B20	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A data demultiplexer (5) for separating multiplex data including 
coded video data, coded audio data, timing data (DTSV) indicative of a 

video decoding start time, timing data (DTSA) indicative of an audio 
decoding start time, and timing data (SCR) indicative of a system clock 

reference time. The demultiplexer (5) comprises a circuit (21) for 
separating the multiplex data into the component data, and comparators 

(23,25) for comparing input data with the reference timing data. When 
the timing data (DTSV) indicative of a video decoding start time is 

inputted and detected, the video data is written in a video code buffer 
(6) at the maximum transfer rate. During such time period, the 

reference timing data (STC) indicative of the current time is 
monitored, and the operation of decoding the video data is started when 

the reference timing data has become equal to the video timing data 
(DTSV). A similar operation is performed with regard to the audio data 

as well, so that the video and audio data can be inputted fast 
consequently to enhance the responsivity at the start of reproduction. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJINAMI YASUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VELTMAN MARKUS HENDRIKUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUJINAMI, YASUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VELTMAN, MARKUS HENDRIKUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to data demultiplexers and
demultiplexing methods such as those for reproducing time-division
multiplex data recorded on an optical disk or the like and separating
the same into video data and audio data.Fig. 5 of the accompanying drawings is a block diagram showing an
exemplary constitution of a previously-proposed data demultiplexer. In
this diagram, a drive 1 reproduces the data recorded on an optical disk
incorporated therein. On this optical disk, there are recorded both
video data and audio data in a time-division multiplex form. The
reproduced data outputted from the drive 1 is supplied to a demodulator
2 so as to be demodulated. An error correction (ECC) circuit 3 detects
and corrects any error in the data outputted from the demodulator 2 and
supplies the processed data to a ring buffer 4. The ring buffer 4
stores a predetermined amount of the supplied data therein and
subsequently outputs the data to a data demultiplexer 5.The data demultiplexer 5 has a data separation circuit 21 which
demultiplexes the data supplied from the ring buffer 4 thereby to
separate the same into video data and audio data, and further into
timing data such as SCR (system clock reference) and DTS (decoding time
stamp) inclusive of DTSV for the video data and DTSA for the audio
data.The format of the data supplied to the data demultiplexer 5 may
be standardized as shown in Fig. 6. This format is prescribed as a
multiplex bit stream in the MPEG (IS011172 standard). As shown in Fig.
6, a multiplex bit stream is composed of one or more packs (PACKS),
each of which is composed of one or more packets (PACKETS). A pack
header (PACK HEADER) is disposed at the top of each pack and has a pack
start code (PACK START CODE) indicating a start point of the pack, and
also SCR and MUX RATE. This SCR indicates the time when the last byte
is inputted to the data demultiplexer 5 (the time when demultiplexing
is started), and the MUX_RATE signifies a transfer rate.In the example of Fig. 6, a video packet (VIDEO PACKET) and an
audio packet (AUDIO PACKET) are disposed next to the pack header. A
packet header is disposed at the top of each of such packets and has a
video packet start code (VIDEO PACKET START CODE) or an audio packet 
start code (AUDIO PACKET START CODE) indicating a start point of the
video or audio packet, and further has DTSV or DTSA indicating a
decoding start time of the video or audio data. Video data or audio
data is disposed next to each packet header. However, since the amount
of video
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data demultiplexer (5) for separating multiplex data which
includes at least first coded data, first timing data (DTSV) indicative

of a decoding start time of the first coded data, and second timing
data (SCR) indicative of a system clock reference time, said data

demultiplexer comprising:

a separation means (21) for separating the multiplex data into
the first coded data, the first timing data (DTSV) and the second

timing data (SCR) ;
a comparison means (23) for comparing the time which is indicated
by the first timing data (DTSV) separated by said separation means (21)

with the time indicated by the second timing data (SCR) during an
initialise mode, and for comparing the time which is indicated by the

first timing data (DTSV) separated by said separation means (21) with
the time indicated by a system time clock signal (STC) during a decode

mode; and
a control circuit (28) for monitoring the output of the
comparison means (23), for setting the data demultiplexer (5) either in

said initialise mode or in said decode mode, and for supplying
multiplex data at a maximum transfer rate to the separation means (21)

when the data demultiplexer (5) is set in the initialise mode and the
time indicated by the second timing data (SCR) is temporally anterior

to the time indicated by the first timing data (DTSV).
A data demultiplexer according to claim 1, wherein said first
coded data is coded video data.
A data demultiplexer according to claim 1 or claim 2,
comprising means (26,27) for generating the system time clock signal

(STC) by setting an initial value thereof on the basis of the first
timing data (DTSV) and then incrementing predetermined clock pulses.
A data demultiplexer according to claim 3, comprising means
(23,53) for generating a first decoding start signal by comparing the

first timing data (DTSV) with the system time clock signal (STC).
A data demultiplexer according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein
the multiplex data further includes second coded data, and third timing

data (DTSA) indicative of a decoding start time of the second coded
data, and said data demultiplexer (5) comprises means (25,54) for

generating a second decoding start signal by comparing the third timing
data (DTSA) with the system time clock signal (STC). 
A data demultiplexer according to claim 5, wherein said
second coded data is coded audio data.
A data demultiplexer according to claim 5 or claim 6, wherein
said control circuit (28) is operable to compare the time which is

indicated by the first timing data (DTSV) separated by said separation
means (21) with the time indicated by the third timing data (DTSA)

during the initialise mode, and to cause said separation means (21) not
to supply the second coded data when the time indicated by the third

timing data (DTSA) is temporally anterior to the time indicated by the
first timing data (DTSV).
A data demultiplexing method for separating multiplex data
which includes at least first coded data, first timing data (DTSV)

indicative of a decoding start time of the first coded data, and second
timing data (SCR) indicative of a system clock reference time, said

method comprising the steps of:

setting (28) a data demultiplexer (5) either in an initialise
mode or in a decode mode;
separating (21) the multiplex data into the first coded data, the
first timing data (DTSV) and the second timing data (SCR) ;
comparing (23) the time which is indicated by the separated first
timing data (DTSV) with the time indicated by the second timing data

(SCR) during the initialise mode, and comparing the time which is
indicated by the separated first timing data (DTSV) with the time

indicated by a system time clock signal (STC) during the decode mode;
monitoring the output of the comparing step (23); and
supplying multiplex data at a maximum transfer rate for said
separating step (21) when the data demultiplexer (5) is set in the

initialise mode and the time indicated by the second timing data (SCR)
is temporally anterior to the time indicated by the first timing data

(DTSV).
A method according to claim 8, wherein said first coded data
is coded video data.
A method according to claim 8 or claim 9, comprising the
step of generating (26,27) the system time clock signal (STC) by

setting an initial value thereof on the basis of the first timing data
(DTSV) and then incrementing predetermined clock pulses.
A method according to claim 10, comprising the step of
generating a first decoding start signal by comparing the first timing

data (DTSV) with the system time clock signal (STC). 
A method according to claim 10 or claim 11, wherein said
multiplex data further includes second coded data, and third timing

data (DTSA) indicative of a decoding start time of the second coded
data, and said method comprises the step of generating a second

decoding start signal by comparing the third timing data (DTSA) with
the system time clock signal (STC).
A method according to claim 12, wherein said second coded
data is coded audio data.
A method according to claim 12 or claim 13, comprising the
steps of comparing (28) the time which is indicated by the separated

first timing data (DTSV) with the time indicated by the third timing
data (DTSA) during the initialise mode, and supplying none of the

second coded data to a decoder (9) when the time indicated by the third
timing data (DTSA) is temporally anterior to the time indicated by the

first timing data (DTSV).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
