<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613780</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for heating ink in an ink-jet printhead
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2175	B41J2175	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple-orifice phase-change ink-jet print 
head (28, 44) is heated by a composite laminate heater 

(29, 58) having multiple heating zones (31A-31K, Z1-Z28) 
spanning the X- and Y-directions of the print head. The 

print head has multiple rows of ink-jet orifices (34, 46) 
spread across its face in the Y-direction with the ink in 

each orifice in each row requiring substantially the same 
temperature to ensure a uniform jetting velocity from 

every orifice. In one embodiment, the print head is in 
fluid communication with a thermally massive multicolor 

ink reservoir (52) that conducts heat through a region of 
contact (92) with the print head. A rotating drum (32), 

spaced across a gap (90) from the print head, draws air 
through the gap thereby cooling the print head 

differentially in the Y-direction. Radiation and 
convection are further thermal transfer mechanisms that 

contribute to a nonuniform temperature throughout the 
print heads. The heating zones of the print head heaters 

compensate for the various thermal transfer mechanisms to 
cause a uniform temperature throughout the print heads. A 

temperature controller (16) requires only a single 
temperature sensor (18, 104) to regulate print head 

temperature. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALAVIZADEH NASSER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON BRYAN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STANLEY DOUGLAS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALAVIZADEH, NASSER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, BRYAN F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STANLEY, DOUGLAS M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to phase-change ink-jet printing and more particularly to an improved heater for heating the ink in a multiple-orifice ink-jet print head to a uniform temperature throughout the print head.Previously known apparatus and methods provide phase-change ink to a multiple-orifice ink-jet print head, apply heat to melt the ink in a controlled manner, and selectively jet the melted ink toward a print medium to form a printed image. Phase-change ink is particularly advantageous because of its convenience, image quality, economy, and use of conventional print media.In particular, U.S. Pat. No. 4,418,355 for an INK JET APPARATUS WITH PRELOADED DIAPHRAGM AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME describes a multiple-orifice ink-jet print head having an elongated serpentine-shaped heater element pressed against a heat-spreading ink reservoir wall plate for melting phase-change ink contained in the reservoir. A thermistor is inserted into a centrally located well in the ink reservoir wall plate to sense the ink reservoir temperature. The ink-jet print head reciprocates back and forth across a print medium while selectively jetting ink from piezoelectric transducer-driven jets to print an image.Skilled workers know that an ink-jet head ejects ink drops at a velocity that is determined by various parameters including the energy imparted to the ink by the piezoelectric transducer, the geometry of features in the head, and the ink viscosity. In particular, the viscosity of phase-change ink varies widely with temperature, a typical ink being solid at room temperature, rubbery near its 86 degree Celsius melting point, and a flowing liquid at its jetting temperature of about 130 degrees to about 140 degrees Celsius. Given a typical ink-jet head and a fixed amount of transducer energy, ink drop ejection velocity changes about two to about three percent per degree Celsius.Because the ink-jet print head moves relative to the print medium while ejecting drops of ink, the landing points of the drops will vary in proportion to changes in drop ejection velocity. Therefore, to ensure acceptable drop landing accuracy, the phase-change ink temperature should be regulated and should be substantially the same for each jet of the multiple-orifice ink-jet print head. Ink temperature variations of greater than about three degrees Celsius can cause visible ink drop landing errors.Factors causing temperature nonuniformity from jet to jet include nonuniform heat conduction losses, convection losses into the air, and radiation losses
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for maintaining a predetermined ink temperature profile throughout a multiple-orifice, phase-change ink-jet print head (44), the print head losing heat at different rates from a set of regions distributed along multiple axes of the print head, the apparatus comprising a temperature sensor (104) electrically connected to a temperature controller and thermally connected to the print head (44), and a print head heater (58) electrically connected to the temperature controller, the print head heater having multiple heating zones each in thermal communication with a corresponding region of the print head, wherein each heating zone has a preferred resistance value so that the heating zones have a proportional watt-density that compensates for the rates of heat loss from each of the regions to maintain the predetermined ink temperature profile throughout the print head.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 in which the predetermined ink temperature profile is a substantially uniform.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which the heating zones are distributed along an X-dimension spanning substantially a width of a print head orifice array.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 3 in which the print head orifice array width is at least 24 centimeters.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which the heating zones are distributed along an X-dimension and a Y-dimension substantially spanning a respective width and height of the print head.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 5 in which the heating zones are distributed obliquely along an X-dimension and a Y-dimension substantially spanning a respective width and a height of the print head.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in which the print head heater is shaped such that the heating zones are distributed around a perimeter of an area that is in thermal communication with a print head orifice array.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6 in which the print head heater is shaped such that the heating zones are distributed throughout an area that is in thermal communication with an orifice array.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding Claim in which the heating zones are proportioned to provide a uniformly tapered watt-density distribution in the print head heater.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in which the print head heater is of unitary construction and is the only heater in thermal contact with the print head.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding Claim in which the print head heater is separated from direct thermal contact with the print head by an intervening substrate.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding Claim in which the print head heater is constructed as a flexible composite laminate having at least one resistance foil heater element that is formed of multiple line portions defined by line-widths and line-spacings between them, either the line-widths or the line-spacings being of varying size to achieve a predetermined electrical resistance value in each of the heating zones.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in which the temperature controller is arranged to drive the print head heater with a pulse duration modulated electrical voltage.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 13 in which the electrical voltage is an alternating current power-line voltage.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in which the temperature sensor is the only temperature sensor in thermal contact with the print head.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in which the temperature sensor is in thermal contact with a substantially central location along an X-axis of the print head.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in which the temperature sensor is a thermistor that is embedded in the print head.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 16 in which the temperature sensor is of a chip-type that is surface-mounted to a major surface of the print head.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in which the temperature sensor, temperature controller, and print head heater comprise components of a print head temperature control loop that has a thermal response time not exceeding ten seconds.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 19 in which the thermal response time has a range of from one to seven seconds.
A method for maintaining a uniform ink temperature throughout an orifice array width of a substantially media-width, phase-change ink-jet print head, the print head losing heat at different rates from a set of regions located throughout the orifice array width of the print head, the method comprising sensing the temperature of the print head; communicating the sensed temperature to a temperature controller; controlling a print head heater that is thermally connected to the print head; and partitioning the print head heater into multiple differential heating zones each in thermal communication with a corresponding region of the print head wherein each of the differential heating zones has a preferred resistance value so that the heating zones compensate for the different rates of heat loss from the set of
 regions to maintain a uniform ink temperature throughout the orifice array width of the print head.
A method as claimed in Claim 21 in which the print head Joses heat at different rates from a set of regions located throughout the orifice array width and height, and the differential heating zones compensate for the different rates of heat loss from the set of regions, thereby maintaining a uniform ink temperature throughout the orifice array width and height.
A print head system for an inkjet printer operable with phase-change ink, the system comprising a multiple orifice print head which in use loses heat at different rates from a set of regions distributed along multiple axes thereof, a temperature sensor, a temperature controller, the temperature sensor being thermally connected to the print head and electrically connected to the temperature controller, and a print head heater electrically connected to the temperature controller, the print head heater having multiple heating zones each in thermal communication with a corresponding region of the print head wherein each heating zone has a preferred resistance value so that the heating zones have a proportional watt-density that compensates for the rates of heat loss from each of the regions to maintain the predetermined ink temperature profile throughout the print head.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
