<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619781</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF FORMING TAPERED ORIFICE ARRAYS IN FULLY ASSEMBLED INK JET PRINTHEADS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2600	B41J216	B23K2638	B23K26067	B41J2135	B41J2135	B41J216	B23K2606	B23K2600	B23K2606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B41J	B23K	B23K	B41J	B41J	B41J	B23K	B23K	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K26	B41J2	B23K26	B23K26	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method of manufacturing ink jet 
printheads and, more particularly, to a method of forming 
tapered orifice arrays in fully assembled ink jet printheads. A popular form of non-impact printing is generally referred 
to as ink jet printing. In this technique, ink is forced, most 
commonly under pressure, through a tiny nozzle to form a 
droplet. The droplet is electrostatically charged and then 
attracted towards an oppositely charged platen located behind a 
sheet paper. Using electrically controlled deflection plates 
similar to those in a CRT, the trajectory of the droplet can be 
controlled to hit a desired spot on the paper. Unused drops are 
deflected any from the paper into a reservoir for recycling of 
the ink. Due to the small size of the droplet and the precise 
trajectory control, ink jet printing quality can approach that  
 
of formed-character impact printing. Most commonly, prior ink jet printheads include a body 
portion having a plurality of ink-carrying channels formed 
therein for the ejection of ink droplets therefrom. A pressure 
pulse is then generated in the ink-filled channel. For example, 
a wall of the channel may be mechanically deflected to compress 
or expand the size of the channel. The resultant pressure wave 
would then cause the ejection of a droplet from the front end of 
the channel. Many ink jet printheads also include a cover plate fixedly 
mounted on the front end of the body portion. Extending through 
the cover plate would be a plurality of orifices which comprise 
the orifice array for the ink jet printhead. In most ink jet 
printheads, each orifice in the orifice array corresponds to one 
of the channels extending through the body portion. The cover 
plate is positioned on the front end of the body portion such 
than each orifice is in communication with the corresponding 
channel. When a pressure wave is created in a channel, the ink 
droplet is forcedly ejected from the ink jet printhead through 
the orifice in communication with that channel. While many of 
such orifices are formed in a generally cylindrical shape, they 
are often tapered so that the speed and/or directional control 
of the droplet being ejected may be affected by the orifice 
shape. For example, by inwardly tapering the orifice by 
narrowing the circumference of the orifice as it extends from 
the back side of the cover plate (the side mounted to the front 
end of the body portion) towards the front side of the cover 
plate where the ink droplets are ejected, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming an orifice (16) for an ink jet 
printhead (10) comprising the steps of:
 
   providing a main body portion (12) and a cover plate 

(14) for an ink jet printhead, the main body portion having 
a front side (12a) and an ink-carrying channel (22) axially 

extending therethrough for the ejection of ink from the 
front side thereof, the cover plate formed from an 

ablateable material and having front and back sides;
 
   mounting the back side of the cover plate onto the 

front side of the ink jet printhead body, the cover plate 
covering the ink-carrying channel;
 
   generating first and second light beams capable of 

ablating the material used to form the cover plate;
 
   forming an ink-carrying channel communicating orifice 

extending through the cover plate and tapering outwardly 
from the front side of the cover plate to the back side of 

the cover plate by directing the first and second light 
beams at the front side of the cover plate at first and 

second angles, respectively, such that the first and second 
light beams form the outwardly tapered orifice in 

communication with the ink carrying channel. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of 
forming an outwardly tapered orifice (16) further comprises 

the step of forming an orifice having a height which 
increases from the front side of the cover plate (14) to 

the back side of the cover plate. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of 
forming an outwardly tapered orifice (16) further comprises 

the step of forming an orifice having a first opening at 
the front side of the cover plate (14) and first and second 

openings in communication with the ink-carrying channel 
(22) at the back side of the cover plate (14).  

 
A method according to claim 1 and further comprising 
the step of varying the width and/or height of the orifice 

(16) at the back side of the cover plate (14). 
A method according to claim 4, wherein the step of 
varying the width of the orifice (16) at the back side of 

the cover plate (14) further comprises the step of forming 
a cover plate having a selected thickness based upon the 

desired width of the orifice at the back side of the cover 
plate. 
A method according to claim 4, wherein the step of 
varying the width of the orifice (16) at the back side of 

the cover plate (14) further comprises the step of 
directing the first and second light beams at the cover 

plate at first and second angles selected based upon the 
desired width of the orifice at the back side of the cover 

plate. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of 
forming an ink-carrying channel communicating orifice (16) 

extending through the cover plate (14) and tapering 
outwardly from the front side of the cover plate to the 

back side of the cover plate by directing the first and 
second light beams at the front side of the cover plate at 

first and second angles, respectively, such that the first 
and second light beams form the outwardly tapered orifice 

in communication with the ink-carrying channel (22) further 
comprises the steps of:
 
   directing the first and second light beams at a 

primary reflecting surface (28);
 
   reflecting the first and second light beams at first 

and second (32) second reflecting surfaces, respectively;
 
   reflecting the first light beam reflected to the first 

secondary reflecting surface at a specified location on the 
front side of the cover plate; and
  
 

   reflecting the second light beam reflected to the 
second secondary reflecting surface at the specified 

location;
 
   wherein the first and second light beams reflected at 

the specified location ablate the cover plate material to 
form the outwardly tapered orifice in communication with 

the ink-carrying channel (22). 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of 
forming an ink-carrying channel communicating orifice (16) 

extending through the cover plate (14) and tapering 

outwardly from the front side of the cover plate to the 
back side of the cover plate by directing the first and 

second light beams at the front side of the cover plate at 
first and second angles, respectively, such that the first 

and second light beams form the outwardly tapered orifice 
in communication with the ink-carrying channel further 

comprises the step of shaping the generated light beam to 
ablate the outwardly tapering orifice when directed at the 

front side of the cover plate. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims, 
wherein a plurality of orifices (16) are formed, and first 

and second beams are generated for each orifice. 
A method according to claim 9, wherein the method 
includes the prior steps of: selecting a cover plate to be 

mounted onto the front side of the ink jet printhead body 
(44) based upon the desired size of the orifices (16) at 

the inner side of the cover plate; and,
 
   mounting the cover plate onto the front side of the 

ink jet printhead body to cover the ink-carrying channels 
(22). 
A method according to claim 10, further comprising the 
steps of:
  
 

   selecting a filter (26) based upon the number and 
location of orifices (14) forming the orifice array; and
 
   directing the cover plate ablating light towards the 

filter, the filter passing cover plate ablating light beams 
for forming the orifice array of outwardly tapered 

orifices. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
