<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618861</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LASER BONDING OF ANGIOPLASTY BALLOON CATHETERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	B29C3508	A61M2500	B29C6500	B29C6514	B29C6514	B29C3508	B29C6500	B29C6516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	B29C	A61M	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	B29C35	A61M25	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C35	B29C65	B29C65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHNEIDER USA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHNEIDER (USA) INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORMAN MICHAEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORMAN, MICHAEL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to dilatation balloon catheters employed in
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty (PTCA) procedures, and more particularly to the means for forming fluid
tight seals between these catheters and their associated dilatation balloons.Balloon catheters are well known for their utility in treating certain types of
obstructions or occlusions in blood vessels, such as plaque build up. Angioplasty
catheterization typically involves aligning a balloon catheter within the vessel to position
its dilatation balloon at or along the obstruction. Then, fluid under pressure is supplied
to the balloon through a balloon inflation lumen in the catheter, expanding the balloon
against the obstruction.In the manufacture of balloon catheters, it is essential that the bonds between
the catheter and the surrounding dilatation balloon material be consistent, fluid tight and
of sufficient strength to withstand the fluid pressures involved in balloon dilatation.
Typically the dilatation balloon is mounted along the distal end region of the catheter
and surrounds the catheter. A main body portion or medial region of the balloon has
a diameter substantially larger than that of the catheter, with proximal and distal shafts
or neck regions of the balloon having inner diameters substantially equal to the outer
diameter of the catheter. Proximal and distal tapered portions, or cones, join the medial
region to the proximal and distal shafts, respectively, with each cone diverging in the
direction toward the medial region. The bonds between the balloon and catheter are
formed along the proximal and distal shafts.One known bonding approach for heat fusible materials involves the resistance
heating of copper jaws, while the jaws press the respective balloon shafts onto and
against the catheter. One result of the deformation of the balloon and catheter material
is the formation of small, random channels at the balloon/catheter interface, giving rise
to variations in the strength of different bonds. To compensate for this variance, bonds
are given a sufficient length to provide the requisite burst strength, typically axial
dimensions in the range of about (0.070-0.150 inches) 0.178-0.381 cm. The copper
jaws heat the balloon shafts and catheter primarily by conduction but also by radiation.
The heat causes crystallization and stiffening of the balloon and catheter material, not 
only at the bond site, but also in both directions axially of the bond, due to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for forming a fluid tight seal between a polymeric body (18) and a polymeric
dilatation member (20) surrounding the body (18)


comprising positioning the dilatation member along and in surrounding relation to the body (18)
with the dilatation member and body aligned to place a first surface portion of the dilatation

member and a second surface portion of the body in a contiguous and confronting relation,
generating substantially monochromatic energy at a wavelength selected to at least
approximately match a wavelength of high spectral absorption of at least one of the polymeric

materials forming the dilatation member and body,
controllably directing the monochromatic energy onto the body and the dilatation member to
concentrate the monochromatic energy in a narrow bond site circumscribing the body and

running along the interface of the first and second surface portions, thus to melt the polymeric
materials along said bond site and the immediate region thereof
and allowing the previously melted polymeric material to cool and solidify to form a fusion
bond (36) between the body and dilatation member,
wherein the body is a length of catheter tubing (18) and the dilitation member is a catheter balloon
positioned along a distal end region of the catheter tubing (18) and including proximal and distal

neck portions (28, 30), a medial region (22) having a diameter substantially larger than that of
the neck portions, and proximal and distal tapered conical regions (24,26) between the medial

region and respective neck regions,
and wherein the step of directing the monochromatic energy includes forming the bond site
along the interface between the proximal or distal neck and the catheter tubing (18) separated

from the proximal or distal tapered conical region, respectively, by an axial distance of less
than 0.0762 cm (0.030 inches).
The process of claim 1 wherein the wavelength of the monochromatic energy is
selected to approximately match wavelengths of high spectral absorption of the polymeric

materials forming both the dilatation member and the body.
The process of claim 1 or 2 wherein said interface of the first and second surfaces is
annular and the step of directing the monochromatic energy includes focusing the beam to

position a focal area of the beam substantially at the interface and moving the focal area,
relative to the body and the dilatation member, in an annular path along the interface to define

said bond site.
The process of claim 3 wherein the step of moving the focal area includes mounting
the body and dilatation member substantially concentrically on an axis and rotating the body

and dilatation member about the axis while maintaining the beam stationary.
The process of claim 4 wherein the focal area is circular and has a diameter of about
0.254 cm (0.10 inches) and wherein the monochromatic energy is generated using a laser

(44) and the power of the laser is in the range of from 1-10 watts.
The process of claim 5 wherein the body and dilatation member are rotated at a
speed of about 400 rpm for a duration in the range of from 0.5 to 3 seconds.
The process of claim 3 wherein the step of rotating the focal area relative to the body
and dilatation member includes mounting the body concentrically about an axis and

optomechanically rotating the beam about the axis while maintaining the body and dilatation
member stationary. 
The process of any one of the preceding claims wherein the monochromatic energy is
laser energy having a wavelength in the far infrared range.
The process of claim 8 wherein the wavelength of the laser energy is approximately
10.6 microns.
The process of claim 1 or 2 wherein the step of directing the monochromatic energy
includes providing multiple optical carriers (122, 124, 126, 128, 130, 132) arranged generally

radially about the body and the dilatation member and providing the monochromatic energy to
the optical carriers simultaneously whereby the energy is directed in multiple beams that

penetrate the body and dilatation member assembly at least to the interface.
The process of claim 10 wherein the multiple beams overlap one another at the
interface.
The process of claim 10 or 11 wherein the monochromatic energy comprises laser
energy in the near infrared range.
The process of claim 12 including the further step of, prior to positioning the polymeric
dilatation member, coating at least one of said first and second surfaces with a polymeric film

highly absorbant of energy in the near infrared range of wavelength.
The process of claim 1 or 2 including the further step of positioning a polymeric shrink
fi
t member (64) in surrounding relation to the dilatation member and body before said step of
directing the monochromatic energy.
The process of claim 14 including the further step of removing the polymeric shrink fit
member following the step of allowing the melted polymeric material to cool and solidify.
The process of any one of the preceding claims wherein the bond site is formed along
the interface between the distal neck and the catheter tubing.
A balloon catheter comprising

an elongate pliable length of catheter tubing (18) formed of a polymeric material and having a
proximal end and a distal end,
a polymeric dilatation balloon (20) mounted to the catheter tubing (18) near the distal end and in
surrounding relation to the catheter tubing,
said balloon including a medial region (22), proximal and distal neck regions (28,30) each
substantially smaller in diameter than the medial region, and proximal and distal tapered

regions (24,26) between the medial region and the proximal and distal neck regions,
respectively, each tapered region diverging in the direction from its associated neck region to

the medial region, and
a proximal or distal fluid tight fusion bond between the catheter tubing (18) and the proximal or
distal neck region, respectively, wherein the proximal or distal fusion bond is within 0.0762 cm

(0.030 inches) of its associated tapered region and wherein the associated tapered region is
substantially free of crystallisation.
The balloon catheter of claim 17 wherein the fusion bond is formed by a process as
claimed in claim 1 or 2.
The balloon catheter of claim 17 or 18 wherein the inner diameter of the proximal or
distal neck portion is substantially equal to the outer diameter of the catheter tubing (18) in the

region of the proximal or distal fusion bond.
The balloon catheter of claim 19 wherein the catheter tubing, neck regions and fusion
bonds are annular. 
The balloon catheter of claim 20 wherein the axial dimension of the distal fusion bond
is at most 0.0762 cm (0.030 inches).
The balloon catheter of claim 21 wherein the axial dimension of the distal fusion bond
is about 0.0508 cm (0.020 inches).
The balloon catheter of claim 22 wherein the distal fusion bond is less than 0.0254 cm
(0.010 inches) from the distal tapered region.
The balloon catheter of claim 17 or 18 wherein the catheter tubing (18) comprises an
extrusion of at least one thermoplastic polymeric material chosen from the group consisting of

polyesters, polyolefins, polyamides, thermoplastic polyurethanes and their copolymers.
The balloon catheter of claim 24 wherein the balloon is formed of at least one of the
materials from the group consisting of polyethylene terephthalate, nylon, polyolefin, and their

copolymers.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
