<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0560810</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STRUCTURAL MEMBER AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D1300	B21D1304	B31D300	B31D300	B65D6540	B65D6540	E04C232	E04C232	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B31D	B31D	B65D	B65D	E04C	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D13	B21D13	B31D3	B31D3	B65D65	B65D65	E04C2	E04C2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A structure is provided which may be formed from a sheet of paper, synthetic plastics or metal. The structure when assembled comprises a series of parallelograms arranged in a tessellating fashion. Uses of the structure include as a membrane for use in heat transfer equipment, or as a filter; as a structure arranged to absorb energy such as in crumpling or in sound absorption; as a mixing promotor so as to improve heat transfer or turbulence within reaction vessels or as a building slab, when suitably supported. The advantages of the structure depend on the particular use. For example when used as a slab for building it has a very high strength to weight ratio.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELLIS COLIN MARK RICHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELLIS, COLIN, MARK, RICHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLIS COLIN MARK RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLIS, COLIN, MARK, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STRUCTURAL MEMBER AND METHOD OF MANUFACTUREThis invention concerns a structural member and method of manufacture thereof . In one embodiment the structural member is of light weight, but capable of withstanding substantial compressive, tensile, bending or torsional loads.Known such structural members include generally honeycomb formations sandwiched between outer covering sheets .One object of the present invention is to provide structural members having improved weight/strength characteristics .Further objects of the invention are to provide members structural and otherwise, having one, some or all of the improved characteristics; improved weight/strength; improved surface area; improved insulation; improved absorption; improved turbulence; improved heat transfer.According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a structural member comprising a corrugated sheet wherein the ridges on one 

 face thereof are coplanar and of saw-tooth shape extending in axially spaced parallel relationship, the intermediate nadirs (which form the ridges on the opposite side of the sheet) being of identical saw-tooth shape, there being two panels of identical parallelogram shape joining any two transversely adjacent linear ridge sections.The inventor has realised that the structural member may be used in a myriad situations as a structure per se. This is because the structure has not only superior strength to weight characteristics, but also it has a very high surface area to volume ratio.According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a structure comprising a plurality of cells arranged in an array, the cells comprising first, second, third and fourth sub-groups of planar regions, each region being in the form of a parallelogram, the sub-groups being arranged in groups such that in a transverse direction: a first group of regions comprises alternating members of a first and second sub-group; and a second group of regions comprises alternating members of the third and fourth sub-groups; and in a transverse direction: a third group of regions comprises alternating members of the second and third sub-groups; and a fourth group of regions comprises members of the first and fourth sub-groups, each member of each sub-group sharing a common interface with members of two 

different sub-groups along alternating edges.Preferably the members of each sub-group are parellograms comprising two equilateral triangles, joined along a common vertex. These are referred to as regular parallelograms. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A structural member comprising a corrugated sheet wherein the ridges on one face thereof are coplanar and of saw-tooth shape extending in an axially shaped parallel relationship, the intermediate nadirs, being in the form of ridges on the opposite side of the sheet, are of identical saw-tooth shape, there being two panels of identical parallelogram shape joining any two transversely adjacent linear ridge sections.
2. A structure comprising a plurality of cells arranged in an array, the cells comprising first, second, third and fourth sub-groups of planar regions, each region being in the form of a parallelogram, the sub-groups being arranged in groups such that in a transverse direction a first group of regions comprises alternating members of a first and second sub-group; and a second group of regions comprises alternating members of a third and fourth sub-group; and in a transverse direction a third group of regions comprises alternating members of the second and third sub-groups ; and a fourth group of regions comprises members of the first and fourth sub-groups, each member of each sub-group sharing a common interface with members of two different sub-groups along alternating edges.
3. A structure according to claim 1 or claim 2 formed 


from a substantially planar sheet by arranging each planar region of a sub-group to be displaced so as to form alternating peaks and troughs defined by the parallelogram elements, wherein points defining the upper and lower regions can join so as to define zig-zag lines.
4. A structure according to claim 3 wherein the zig-zag lines defining the peaks and troughs are of identical length, the interspacing between adjacent zig-zag lines being defined by the characteristic length of an edge of the parallelogram.
5. A structure according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein parallelograms of the array are congruous.
6. A structure according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the parallelograms in the array are of different sizes and are arranged in a predetermined pattern.
7. A structure according to claim 6 wherein the pattern of parallelograms is such that when the structure is assembled so that they form a fan.
8. A structure according to any of claims 2 to 7 wherein the first and second groups of parallelograms in the array are substantially parallel to one another so as to define a corrugated sheet which in longitudinal and transverse cross sections define a saw tooth like 


 profile .
9. A structure according to any preceding claim which is deformed about an axis parallel to the axis defining a first sub group so as to form a cylindrical or part cylindrical structure.
10. A structure according to any of claims 1 to 6 wherein the structure is deformed about two non linear axes so as to form compound curves.
11. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use in processing vessels so as to promote mixing of substances within the vessel.
12. A structure according to claim 11 for use in closed processing vessels.
13. A tessellated parellelogram structure for use as a separating medium between a first and a second fluid, the first fluid being of a higher temperature than the second fluid, into position of the tessellated structure between the two fluids so as to promote effective heat transfer from the hotter fluid to the colder fluid.
14. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use as a shock absorber. 


15. A structure according to claim 14 wherein different cell sizes are provided within the structure.
16. A structure according to claim 14 or 15 wherein the thickness of the membrane of the structure is varied so as provide different strengths of material .
17. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use as a sound absorber.
18. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use as an energy absorber.
19. A tessellated parallelogram structure adapted to be sandwiched between first and second planar structures so as to provide a slab for use in buildings.
20. A tessellated parallelogram structure wherein the angle included between any two axially adjacent linear ribbed sections is 60 .
21. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from a metal .
22. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from a synthetic plastics material.
23. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from 


 card .
24. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from card for use as a package.
25. Apparatus for producing a tessellating parallelogram structure comprising a die and means for urging a preform through the die.
26. Apparataus according to claim 25 wherein at least one roller is arranged to urge the preform through the die.
27. Apparatus according to claim 25 to 26 wherein means is provided to form lines of weakness onto a sheet of material.
28. Apparatus for producing a tessellating parallelogram structure comprising means for urging an edge of a preform towards an opposite edge of the preform.
29. Apparatus according to claim 28 wherein the means 
*
comprises a pneumatic ram.
30. Apparatus according to claim 28 or 29 wherein a height restrictor means is provided
'
, so as to limit the height of the structure. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 13 Apri l 1992 ( 13.04.92) ; original claims 20 deleted; original claims 1 and 2 amended ; new claims 3-6,9,23,25,26,31 added; remaining claims unchanged but renumbered (7 pages )]
1. A structure comprising a corrugated sheet wherein the ridges on one face thereof are coplanar and of saw-tooth shape extending in an axial ly shaped paral lel relationship , the intermediate nadirs , being in the form of ridges on the opposite side of the sheet, are of identical saw-tooth shape , there being two panels of identical paral lelogram shape joining any two transversely adjacent linear ridge sections characterised in that an angle , included between any two axial ly adjacent linear ribbed sections is substantially 60 .
2 . A structure comprising a plurality of cel ls arranged in an array, the cells comprising first, second, third and fourth sub-groups of planar regions , each region being in the form of a paral lelogram, the sub-groups being arranged in groups such that in a transverse direction a first group of regions comprises alternating members of a first and second sub-group ; and a second group of regions comprises alternating members of a third and fourth sub-group ; and in a transverse direction a third group of regions comprises alternating members of the second and third sub-groups ; and a fourth group of regions comprises members of the first and fourth sub-groups , each member of each sub-group sharing a common interface with members of two different sub-groups 


 along alternating edges characterised in that an angle, included between any two axially adjacent linear ribbed sections is substantially 60 .
3. A structural member comprising a corrugated sheet wherein the ridges on one face thereof are coplanar and of saw-tooth shape extending in an axially shaped parallel relationship, the intermediate nadirs, being in the form of ridges on the opposite side of the sheet, are of identical saw-tooth shape, there being two panels of identical parallelogram shape joining any two transversely adjacent linear ridge sections characterised in that means is provided to restrain lateral movement of the structure within a housing.
4. A structure comprising a plurality of cells arranged in an array, the cells comprising first, second, third and fourth sub-groups of planar regions, each region being in the form of a parallelogram, the sub-groups being arranged in groups such that in a transverse direction a first group of regions comprises alternating members of a first and second sub-group; and a second group of regions comprises alternating members of a third and fourth sub-group; and in a transverse direction a third group of regions comprises alternating members of the second and third sub-groups ; and a fourth group of regions comprises members of the first and fourth sub-groups, each member of each sub-group sharing 


a common interface with members of two different sub-groups along alternating edges characterised in that means is provided to restrain lateral movement of the structure within a housing.
5. A structure according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein means is provided to restrain lateral movement of the structure within a housing.
6. A structure according to claim 3 or 4 wherein an angle included between two adjacent linear ribbed sections is substantially 60 .
7. A structure according to any preceding claim wherein the zig-zag lines defining the peaks and troughs are of identical length, the interspacing between adjacent zig-zag lines being defined by the characteristic length of an edge of the parallelogram.
8. A structure according to any preceding claim wherein parallelograms of the array are congruous.
9. A structure according to any preceding claim wherein apertures are provided in the material from which • the structure is formed.
10. A structure according to any claims 1 to 9 wherein the parallelograms in the array are of different sizes 


 and are arranged in a predetermined pattern.
11. A structure according to claim 10 wherein the pattern of parallelograms is such that when the structure is assembled so that they form a fan.
12. A structure according to claim 2 or 4 wherein the first and second groups of parallelograms in the array are substantially parallel to one another so as to define a corrugated sheet which in longitudinal and transverse cross sections define a saw tooth like profile.
13. A structure according to any of claims 1 to 4 which is deformed about an axis parallel to the axis defining a first sub group so as to form a cylindrical or part cylindrical structure.
14. A structure according to any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the structure is deformed about two non linear axes so as to form compound curves.
15. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use in processing vessels so as to promote mixing of substances within the vessel.
16. A structure according to claim 14 for use in closed processing vessels. 


17. A tessellated parellelogram structure for use as a separating medium between a first and a second fluid, the first fluid being of a higher temperature than the second fluid, interposition of the tessellated structure between the two fluids so as to promote effective heat transfer from the hotter fluid to the colder fluid.
18. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use as a shock absorber.
19. A structure according to claim 18 wherein different cell sizes are provided within the structure.
20. A structure according to claim 18 or 19 wherein the thickness of the membrane of the structure is varied so as provide different strengths of material.
21. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use as a sound absorber.
22. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use as an energy absorber.
23. A tessellated parallelogram structure for use as an insulator.
24. A tessellated parallelogram structure adapted to be 


 sandwiched between first and second planar structures so as to provide a slab for use in buildings.
25. A tessellated parallelogram structure according to claim 24 wherein the sides of the slab have means arranged to restrain lateral movement of the tessellated parallelogram structure.
26. A tessellated parallelogram structure according to claim 23 wherein the means arranged to restrain comprises planar walls.
27. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from a metal.
28. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from a synthetic plastics material.
29. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from card. 
J
30. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from card for use as a package.
31. A tessellated parallelogram structure formed from an absorbant material.
32. Apparatus for producing a tessellated 


parallelogram structure comprising a die and means for urging a preform through the die.
33. Apparataus according to claim 25 wherein at least one roller is arranged to urge the preform through the die.
34. Apparatus according to claim 27 to 28 wherein means is provided to form lines of weakness onto a sheet of material.
35. Apparatus for producing a tessellated parallelogram structure comprising means for urging an edge of a preform towards an opposite edge of the preform.
36. Apparatus according to claim 30 wherein the means comprises a pneumatic ram.
37. Apparatus according to claim 32 or 33 wherein a height restrictor means is provided, so as to limit the height of the structure. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
