<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659380</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Liquid soap dispensing system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47K500	A47K512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47K	A47K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47K5	A47K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A liquid soap dispenser (20) for dispensing repeated doses 
of liquid soap from an associated cartridge (90) with a 

compressible outlet nipple without collapsing the side walls 
of the cartridge (90), the cartridge includes a blow molded thin 

walled plastic container (91) with an externally threaded neck 
for connection to the compressible nipple (110) and a wall. A 

receptacle (103) is positioned in the wall of the cartridge having 
an aperture therein, and a plastic filter (109) is in the 

receptacle (103) having a sealing mechanism (109b) connected thereto 
movable between a sealing position wherein the sealing 

mechanism seals the aperture and a filtering position 
wherein the sealing mechanism is away from the aperture and 

the filter (109) is in contact with the aperture establishing an 
air path between the inside and outside of the cartridge (90). 

The filter (109) having an average pore diameter of about .25 
microns and is compressed within the receptacle such that 

upon repeated activation of said pump member the vacuum 
inside said cartridge (90) does not exceed 12" of water. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEINER CO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEINER COMPANY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZNER CHARLES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZNER, CHARLES R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus for 
dispensing liquid soap, normally in discrete small 
quantities or charges. Such dispensing apparatus is used 
particularly for hygienic purposes, in public or 
institutional washrooms or the like or wherever there are a 
relatively large number of different users. The invention is an improvement over the device 
disclosed in U.S. patent no. 5,082,150 issued January 1, 
1992, entitled "Liquid Dispensing System Including a 
Discharge Assembly Providing A Positive Air Flow Condition", 
and U.S. patent no. 5,174,476 issued December 29, 1992, 
entitled "Liquid Soap Dispensing System", the entire 
disclosures of which including all drawing figures are 
incorporated by reference. One prior type of soap dispenser utilizes a container 
or cartridge of liquid soap which is removably mounted on a 
dispensing apparatus so that it can be replaced by another 
cartridge when it is empty. Such a dispenser is disclosed 
in U.S. Patent No. 1,326,880. However, the soap container 
of that dispenser is of the refillable type. This means 
that the spent containers must be collected, sterilized and 
refilled and sealed for reuse, which is a time consuming and 
expensive operation. Because the container is refillable, 
it has a refill opening which, although normally closed, is 
accessible to users and could permit contamination of the 
contents or refilling with soap from an unauthorized source. 
Furthermore, the container is readily removable from the 
dispenser by any user, so that the entire container could 
easily be replaced by a "bootleg" container. To avoid this problem, it is known to provide 
dispensers with closed, lockable cabinets in which the 
refill cartridge or container is enclosed, so as to prevent 
access by unauthorized persons. But this type of housing is 
relatively expensive. Furthermore, such prior dispensers 
have relatively complex construction, frequently using a 
large number of parts, the assembly of which entails 
substantial labor.  Efforts have been made to simplify the design of soap 
dispensers with replaceable cartridges while retaining the 
ability to restrict access to the dispenser, for instance 
refer to U.S. Patent Nos. 4,673,109 and 4,886,192. While 
solving the problem of design simplification for easier 
maintenance as illustrated in the construction of the '109 
and '192 patents, there has arisen the problem of dispensing 
doses of soap upon rapid and repeated (5-15) compressions of 
the nipple. Repeated attempts to solve this problem
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A soap cartridge (90) for a liquid soap 
dispensing system including a housing (30) and a discharge 

mechanism (50) carried thereby for movement between a normal 
rest configuration and an actuating configuration for 

dispensing repeated doses of liquid soap, said soap 
cartridge (90) having a wall (95a), a receptacle (103) 

having an aperture therein positioned in the wall (95a) of 
the soap cartridge, a plastic filter (109) compressed within 

and by said receptacle (103) such that upon repeated 
dispensing of doses of liquid soap from the cartridge, a 

vacuum which results therefrom inside said cartridge does 
not exceed 12 inches (30.5cm) of water, characterised in 

that said filter (109) is in sliding contact within said 
receptacle (103) and has a sealing mechanism (109b) 

connected to said filter (109) movable between a sealing 
position wherein said sealing mechanism (109b) seals said 

aperture and a filtering position wherein said sealing 
mechanism (109b) is away from said aperture and said filter 

(109) establishes an air path between the inside and outside 
of said cartridge (90). 
A cartridge comprising a blow moulded thin 
walled plastic container (90) with a parallelepiped body 

portion having a rear wall and an externally threaded 
cylindrical neck (105a) extending therefrom, a receptacle 

(103) having an aperture therein positioned in a wall (95a) 
of the cartridge, a plastic filter in said receptacle and 

compressed within said receptacle (103) such that upon 
repeated activation of a pump member to dispense contents 

from the cartridge, the vacuum inside said cartridge does 
not exceed 12 inches (30.5cm) of water, characterised in 

that said plastic filter (109) has a sealing mechanism 
(109b) connected thereto axially movable between a sealing 

position wherein said mechanism seals said aperture and a 
filtering position wherein said sealing mechanism is away 

from said aperture and said filter is in contact with said 
aperture establishing an air path between the inside and 

 
outside of said cartridge. 
A cartridge according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that said soap cartridge wall includes a 

back wall (95a) and said receptacle (103) is in the back 
wall of the soap cartridge substantially near a top of the 

cartridge. 
A liquid soap cartridge according to claim 1, 2 
or 3, characterised in that said receptacle (103) extends 

into said soap cartridge (90) thereby separating said filter 
(109) outside of said soap cartridge (90) from soap inside 

the soap cartridge. 
A liquid soap cartridge according to any of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that said filter (109) is 

made of polytetrafluoroethylene having an average pore 
diameter of about 0.25 microns. 
A liquid soap cartridge according to any of the 
preceding claims, characterised in that said receptacle 

(103) is cylindrical and said filter (109) is cylindrical. 
A cartridge according to any of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that said sealing mechanism is 

shiftable, and means are provided for shifting said sealing 
mechanism between the sealing and filtering positions 

thereof. 
A cartridge according to any of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that said sealing mechanism 

includes a rigid member having a stopper at one end thereof 
and said filter material at the other end thereof, shifting 

movement of said rigid member in said receptacle moving said 
stopper from a sealing position with said aperture in said 

receptacle to the filtering position wherein said stopper is 
spaced from said aperture and said filter is frictionally 

positioned within said receptacle in contact with said 
aperture. 
A liquid soap dispenser and associated cartridge 
which can be assembled without the use of fastening means; 

the cartridge having side walls with a compressible outlet 
nipple for dispensing repeated does of liquid soap without 

collapsing said walls, said dispenser comprising a housing 
member adapted to receive the associated cartridge with the 

nipple, a pump member freely receivable in said housing 
member and movable therein between a pumping position for 

compressing the nipple to discharge liquid soap therefrom 
and a release position out of engagement with the nipple, a 

handle member carried by said housing member in a supported 
condition for engagement with said pump member, said handle 

member in its supported condition being pivotally movable 
between an actuating position for driving said pump member 

to its pumping position and a retracted position for 
accommodating movement of said pump member to its release 

position, said pump member and said handle member 
cooperating when engaged to retain said handle member in its 

supported condition, and a bias unit engageable with said 
housing member and said pump member for resiliently urging 

said pump member to its release position and into engagement 
with said handle member, thereby to urge said handle member 

to its retracted position, said cartridge including a blow 
moulded thin walled plastic container with an externally 

threaded neck for connection to the compressible nipple and 
front and rear walls interconnecting said side walls, a 

receptacle positioned in one of the walls of the cartridge 
having an aperture therein, and a plastic filter compressed 

within and by the receptacle and establishing an air path 
between the inside and outside of said cartridge, said 

filter having an average pore diameter of about .25 microns 
such that upon repeated activation of said pump member a 

vacuum is formed inside said cartridge which does not exceed 
12 inches (30.5cm) of water, characterised in that said 

filter (109) has a sealing mechanism (109b) connected 
thereto movable between a sealing position wherein said 

sealing mechanism seals said aperture and a filtering 
position wherein said sealing mechanism is away from said 

aperture and said filter (109) is in contact with said aperture. 
A liquid soap dispenser and associated cartridge 
according to claim 9, characterised in that said sealing 

mechanism (109b) is shiftable between the sealing and 
filtering positions thereof. 
A liquid soap dispenser and associated cartridge 
according to claim 9 or 10, characterised in that said 

sealing mechanism (109b) includes a rigid member (109a) 
having a stopper (109b) at one end thereof and said filter 

material (109) at the other end thereof, shifting movement 
of said rigid member (109a) in said receptacle (103) moves 

said stopper (109b) from a sealing position with said 
aperture in said receptacle to the filtering position 

wherein said stopper (109b) is spaced from said aperture and 
said filter is frictionally 
positioned within said 
receptacle (103) in contact with said aperture. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
