<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632900</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND MEANS FOR DETERMINING DIRECTIONAL CHARACTERISTICS OF LARGE SENSOR OR RADIATOR ARRAYS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2910	G01R2910	G01S740	G01S740	H01Q300	H01Q300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01S	G01S	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R29	G01R29	G01S7	G01S7	H01Q3	H01Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for the measurement of the directional characteristics, both in azimuth and in elevation, of sensors or radiators or arrays of sensors or radiators in which a reference antenna is located in close vicinity to the array under test such that the reference antenna and the array substantially simultaneously transmit or receive signals provided by a signal source. The signal is modulated to facilitate analysis in both range and Doppler.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMW OF AUSTRALIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA CARE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EARL GEORGE FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASSIE ANGUS DAVIDSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS PETER MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EARL, GEORGE, FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASSIE, ANGUS, DAVIDSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS, PETER, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD AND MEANS FOR DETERMINING DIRECTIONAL CHARACTERISTICS OF LARGE SENSOR OR RADIATOR ARRAYSThis invention relates to a method of measurement of the directional characteristics, both in azimuth and in elevation, of sensors or radiators, or arrays of sensors or radiators.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONA particular application of this method is the measurement of the polar radiation pattern of the large receiving and transmitting antenna arrays for an Over-the Horizon Radar.The method is not restricted to this application. The apparatus used to demonstrate the method of measurement, is not the only possible implementation of the method, nor is it necessarily the broadest implementation of the method.The following discussion of the method will be based on the measurement of the directional gain characteristics of a large array for electromagnetic transmissions in the frequency band 3-30 MHz, known as the High Frequency Band, or simply HF band. Signals in this frequency range can travel for large distances via the ionosphere, and the band is typically used for long range communications, and more recently for Over-the-Horizon Radar.While the discussion uses an electromagnetic array as the example, it must be understood that the technique applies equally well to other sensing or radiating arrays, and that the method is not confined to a particular band of electromagnetic radiation, but could also be applied to other frequency bands in the electromagnetic spectrum, or other wave phenomena such as acoustic waves for example.The method can be applied to the measurement of single elements, but it is especially effective, when compared to previous methods, for the measurement of the patterns of large arrays of elements.The difficulty that arises in testing large arrays is that the test probes (whether 

receivers of test transmissions or transmitters of test signals) must be remote from the array under test by a sufficient distance that the wavefronts of the signals can be considered to be almost planar, that is, within some acceptable tolerance on the geometric error in measurement. The large separation between the array under test and the test probe, however, ensures that uncertainties about the magnitude, phase, and polarisation of transmission in the signal propagation path are increased, thus inhibiting accurate measurement. The difficulty is compounded if the intervening medium of propagation itself imposes fluctuations in the magnitude, phase or polarisation of transmission in the signal paths, or imposes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A method of measurement of directional characteristics of an array of sensors or radiators which comprises the steps of : locating a reference antenna in close vicinity to the array; causing the array and reference antenna to substantially simultaneously transmit or receive signals provided by a signal source such that the signal associated with the reference antenna is distinguishable from the signal associated with the array; and analysing and comparing said signals in a receiving system.
2. A method of measurement of the directional characteristics of a transmitting array which comprises the steps of : locating a reference antenna in close vicinity to the array; locating at least one suitably adapted antenna and receiving system at a distantly spaced location from the array; transmitting a signal substantially simultaneously from the reference antenna and array such that the remote receiving system can distinguish the signal transmitted from the reference antenna from the signal transmitted from the array; and effecting a comparison of the received magnitude of at least one characteristic of the respective signals.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the signals are propagated through a propagating medium, reflected towards the receiver from a substantially large reflecting surface, such as the Earth, and traverse the propagating medium a second time.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the remote receiving system is adapted to receive signals primarily from the direction of the reflecting surface.
5. The method of claim 2 wherein the signal transmitted through the reference antenna and array has at least two dimensions, one dimension of which contains identifying information to allow discrimination in range between signals travelling by way of different paths, and another dimension of which contains information to allow discrimination between signals travelling by way of substantially equal path lengths to the receiving system from respectively the reference antenna and the array. 


6. The method of claim 2 further including the step of modifying the signal transmitted through either the one or the other of the reference antenna and array, to allow the remote receiving system to effect a discrimination between signals arriving at the receiving system by substantially equal path lengths.
7. A method of measurement of the directional characteristics of a receiving array which comprises the steps of : locating a reference antenna in close vicinity to the array; locating at least one suitably adapted transmitting system at a distantly spaced location from the array; transmitting a signal from the transmitting system to be substantially simultaneously received by the array and the reference antenna such that the signal received by the array can be distinguished from that received by the reference antenna; and effecting a comparison of the received magnitude of at least one characteristic of the signals received by the array and the reference antenna.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the signals are propagated through a propagating medium, reflected towards the receiver from a substantially large reflecting surface, such as the Earth, and traverse the propagating medium a second time.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the transmitting system is adapted to transmit primarily towards the reflecting surface.
10. The method of claim 7 further including the step of modifying the signal received by either the one or the other of the reference antenna and array, to allow the receiver or receivers to effect a discrimination between signals received by respective array and reference antenna, and to allow the signals from these two antenna systems to be measured substantially simultaneously.
11. An arrangement for the measurement of the directional characteristics of a transmitting array including : a transmitting array to be measured; a reference antenna having known directional characteristics located in close vicinity to the array; 


a signal source adapted to provide signals to be transmitted by the transmitting array and reference antenna; a splitter adapted to direct signals from the signal source to both the array and the reference antenna; a modulator adapted to modulate the signals directed to either the transmitting array or the reference antenna; and an antenna and receiving system distantly spaced from the array location and adapted to receive and analyse signals from the array and the reference antenna.
12. An arrangement for the measurement of the directional characteristics of a receiving array including : a receiving array to be measured; a reference antenna having known directional characteristics located in close vicinity to the array; a signal source distantly spaced from the array location and adapted to effect the transmission of signals to be received by the respective array and reference antenna; a combiner adapted to combine signals received by the receiving array and the reference antenna; a modulator adapted to modulate the signals received by either the receiving array or the reference antenna; and a receiving system adapted to receive and analyse signals from the array and the reference antenna.
13. The arrangement of claim 11 or 12 wherein the receiving system consists of a receiver and a processor said processor being adapted to analyse the received signals in two dimensions with a first dimension containing information allowing discrimination between signals travelling by way of different paths and a second dimension allowing discrimination between signals travelling by way of similar paths.
14. An apparatus for the measurement of directional characteristics of arrays comprising: a signal source whiGh allows signal analysis in at least two dimensions; a reference element with substantially known characteristics; a modulator to modify a dimensional characteristic of a signal without changing its range discrimination and without interfering with the 


unmodulated signal; a signal combiner or splitter and receiver or transmitter; and a signal processor capable of processing a two-dimensional signal.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the first dimension is range and the second dimension is a Doppler dimension.
16. A method as herein described with reference to the attached figures.
17. An apparatus or arrangement as herein described with reference to the attached figures. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
