<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649281</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BAKED PRODUCT CONTAINING VIABLE MICROORGANISMS AND PROCESS FOR PREPARING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21D1300	A21D1300	A21D1500	A21D1500	A23L103	A23L103	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21D	A21D	A21D	A21D	A23L	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21D13	A21D13	A21D15	A21D15	A23L1	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Dietetically improved bakery products having a content of viable microorganisms which is in the range of 103 to 2 x 1010 per g and a method of preparing such bakery products. The improved bakery products include ryebread, wheat flour-containing bread products or cakes, muffins and scones.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FAELLESFORENINGEN FOR DANMARKS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FAELLESFORENINGEN FOR DANMARKS BRUGSFORENINGER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RASMUSSEN BENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOLSTOY ALEX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RASMUSSEN, BENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOLSTOY, ALEX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
BAKED PRODUCT CONTAINING VIABLE MICROORGANISMS AND PROCESS FOR PREPARING SAMEFIELD OF INVENTIONThe present invention provides baked products containing dieteticaliy desirable viable microorganisms and a process for preparing such products.TECHNICAL BACKGROUNDUnder normal conditions, the gastrointestinal tract of ani¬ mals including humans is colonized by a numerous and diverse population of indigenous microorganisms. This naturally occurring intestinal microflora plays a significant role in maintaining the hosting macroorganism in a healthy condition due to several ecological effects of this microflora. First of all an intact intestinal flora will constitute a barrier against colonization of pathogenic organisms passing the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a natural protec¬ tion against microbial diseases. Secondly, the indigenous microflora produce a number of enzymes and other metabolites which may supplement the digestion of nutrients which is caused by the natural digestive enzymes of the macroorganism.Under certain conditions, however, the number of these nat¬ urally occurring intestinal microorganisms may be decreased or the beneficial balance between the species hereof may become less favourable to the host organism. Examples of such conditions are stress conditions, treatments with anti¬ microbial medicaments or inappropriate diets. These condi¬ tions may result in an increased susceptibility to acquiring diseases or in functional disturbances in the digestive tracts such as e.g. diarrhoea or constipation. 

Under such less favourable conditions it may be advantageous to correct the disturbances of the natural microbial flora by administering to an individual suffering from such disturb¬ ances a large number of beneficial microorganisms which are capable of surviving or even colonizing the gastrointestinal tract. Examples of microorganisms which are currently admin¬ istered with this purpose are lactic acid bacteria and yeast cultures.The administration of beneficial microorganisms is not only considered advantageous for individuals having recognizable disturbances of their gastrointestinal flora. It is thus contemplated that even individuals without such recognizable disturbances may benefit from the administration as the above-defined function of their indigenous flora may be enhanced hereby.Administration of dieteticaliy effective microbial cultures may be via the diet such as by consumption of fermented dairy products or other food products including meat products and fermented
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of preparing a bakery product containing viable microorganisms, comprising the following steps:
(1) preparing a baked product and cooling it to a tempera- ture in the range of 0 to 70°C,
(2) preparing a suspension of microorganisms, containing 10
7
 to 10
12
 viable organisms per mL,
(3) injecting into the baked product a volume of the sus¬ pension of microorganisms which is in the range of 2 to 20 mL per kg of product,
to obtain the baked product having a content of viable micro¬ organisms which is in the range of 10
3
 to 2 x 10
10
 per g.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the microorganisms are selected from a yeast species and a bacterial species.
3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the microorganisms are lactic acid bacteria selected from the group consisting of a Lactobacillus species, a Bifidobacterium species, a Lactococcus species, a Streptococcus species, a Leuconostoc species and a Pediococcus species.
4. A method according to claim 3 wherein the microorganisms are lactic acid bacteria which is a mixture of two or more lactic acid bacterial species.
5. A method according to claim 4 wherein the microorganisms are a mixture of Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifido- .bacterium Jbifidum. 


6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the suspension of microorganisms is prepared by suspending 1 part of a con¬ centrate of microorganisms containing 10
8
 to 10
13
 cells per g, in 5 to 20 parts of an aqueous medium comprising at least one microbial nutrient and at least one salt.
7. A method according to claim 1 wherein the suspension of microorganisms contains 10
9
 to 10
11
 organisms per mL.
8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the volume of the suspension of microorganisms injected into the baked product is in the range of 3 to 15 mL per kg of product.
9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the baked product is selected from a ryebread product, a yeast-leavened bakery product and a chemically leavened bakery product.
10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the suspension of microorganisms is injected into the baked product through a multiplicity of needles having a length which is in the range of 5 to 100 cm and a diameter being in the range of 0.5 to 3 mm, the needles being connected to a reservoir containing the suspension.
11. A method according to claim 1 wherein the suspension of microorganisms is injected longitudinally into the baked product.
12. A method according to claim 1 wherein the baked product being prepared is a rye bread prepared from a dough contain- ing a leaven.
13. A method according to claim 1 wherein the suspension of microorganisms is injected by means of an apparatus compris¬ ing
(1) means for introducing the suspension into the baked product, 


 (2) means for containing the suspension to be injected,
(3) means for connecting the reservoir with said means for introducing the suspension,
(4) means for pneumatically transporting the suspension from the containing means and to the introducing means, and for pneumatically introducing the means for introducing the suspension into the baked product,
(5) means for adjusting the volume to be injected,
(6) means for maintaining the baked product to be injected in a position which allows the introduction of the suspen¬ sion thereinto.
14. A method according to claim 13 wherein the means for introducing the suspension into the baked product is a multi¬ plicity of needles.
15. A method according to claim 14 wherein the means for introducing the suspension into the baked product comprises a number of needles which is in the range of 2 to 20.
16. A method according to claim 14 wherein the needles have a length which is in the range of 5 to 100 cm.
17. A method according to claim 14 wherein the needles have a diameter which is in the range of 0.5 to 3 mm.
18. A method according to claim 14 wherein the needles have a diameter which is about 2 mm.
19. A method according to claim 13 wherein the means for containing the suspension is provided with agitating means.
20. A method according to claim 13 wherein the means for pneumatically transporting the suspension is activated during 


introduction of the means for introducing the suspension into the baked product.
21. A method according to claim 13 wherein the means for adjusting the volume to be injected allows adjustment to a volume which is in the range of 3 to 15 mL.
22. A baked product having a content of viable microorganisms which is in the range of 10
3
 to 2 x 10
10
 per g.
23. A baked product according to claim 22 wherein the micro¬ organisms are selected from a yeast species and a bacterial species.
24. A baked product according to claim 23 wherein the micro¬ organisms are lactic acid bacteria selected from the group consisting of a Lactobacillus species, a Bifidobacterium species, a Lactococcus species, a Streptococcus species, a Leuconostoc species and a Pediococcus species.
25. A baked product according to claim 24 wherein the micro¬ organisms are lactic acid bacteria which is a mixture of two or more lactic acid bacterial species.
26. A baked product according to claim 25 wherein the micro- organisms are a mixture of Lactobacillus acidophilus and
Bifidobacterium Jbifidum.
27. A baked product according to claim 22 wherein the suspen¬ sion of microorganisms comprises 1 part of a concentrate microorganisms containing 10
8
 to 10
13
 cells per g, in 5 to 20 parts of an aqueous medium comprising at least one microbial nutrient and at least one salt.
28. A baked product according to claim 22 wherein the injected suspension of microorganisms contains 10
9
 to 10
11
 organisms per mL. 


29. A baked product according to claim 22 wherein the volume of the suspension of microorganisms injected thereinto is in the range of 3 to 15 mL per kg of product.
30. A baked product according to claim 22 which is a product prepared by injecting the suspension of microorganisms into a baked product selected from a ryebread product made from a dough containing leaven, a yeast-leavened bakery product and a chemically leavened bakery product.
31. A baked product according to claim 30 which is a yeast- leavened baked product selected from a wheat flour-containing loaf product not containing rye flour, a roll and a bun.
32. A baked product according to claim 31 which is a chemi¬ cally leavened product selected from a cake, a muffin and a scone. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
