<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623211</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ASSESSMENT OF CHARACTERISTICS OF FLUIDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2159	G01N2129	G01N2125	G01N33533	G01N2159	G01N3326	G01N2103	G01N2103	G01N3330	A61B1900	G01N2127	G01N3304	A61B1900	G01N33533	G01N3302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N33	G01N21	G01N33	G01N21	G01N21	G01N33	A61B19	G01N21	G01N33	A61B19	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of, and apparatus for, assessing a characteristic of a fluid, particularly for assessing the degree of contamination of a fluid by a substance which causes the fluid to become progressively less transparent to radiation with increasing contamination, wherein the fluid is introduced into a chamber having wall portions which are spaced differently from one another at different parts of the chamber, and the attenuation of the radiation by passage through the fluid in the chamber at the different parts therein is examined. The invention is particularly applicable to assessment of contamination of a mainly aqueous liquid by blood, and the apparatus comprises a container (63) with walls (64, 62) approaching one another towards one part of the container, and a visible marking such as a pattern and/or graduated scale (65) behind the rear wall (62) of the container to be looked at through the liquid in the container by a user, the arrangement being such that the point where the marking becomes invisible to the user provides a measure of the contamination.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKED EYE LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAKED EYE LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROONEY MATTHEW JONATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROONEY, MATTHEW JONATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of, and apparatus for, assessing 
characteristics of fluids. More particularly, it relates to the quantitative 
assessment of a change in a fluid, e.g. dilution or contamination thereof, or 
chemical change therein, which change alters the characteristics of the fluid with 
respect to transmission of radiation therethrough. The invention is particularly applicable to the assessment of the 
concentration of a substance present in a fluid, the fluid being relatively 
transparent to radiation and the substance in the fluid causing an increasing 
resistance to the passage of radiation through the fluid as its concentration 
increases. The invention has been devised in relation to the situation wherein the 
fluid is a liquid and the substance therein is another liquid, such two liquids 
respectively being substantially transparent to visible light and resistant to the 
passage of visible light therethrough, such that increasing concentration of the 
latter liquid in the former liquid causes a progressive decrease in the transparency 
of the mixed liquids to light. However, it will be appreciated that the principle 
of the invention is also applicable when the substance whose concentration is 
required to be assessed is a solid which may form a solution or suspension in the 
liquid to cause a progressive decrease in the transparency of the liquid with 
increasing concentration of the solid. The principle of the invention is also 
applicable to mixtures of gases or vapours wherein a change in the concentration 
of one such gas or vapour in another causes a change in the transparency of the 
mixture to light or other radiation, or to the presence of particles in gases, e.g. 
smoke.  
 Existing devices are known for assessing the concentration of a 
substance in a fluid by measuring transparency of said fluid to radiation when 
the fluid contains said substance. For example cuvets are widely known and 
used especially in relation to sophisticated instrumentation such as 
spectrophotometers for measuring the optical absorbence, turbidity and diffuse 
scattering of fluids. Such a device is described in the Journal of Physics 
E/Scientific Instruments Vol. 21, No. 11, November 1988, pages 1033-1037. 
A similar sort of device is also described, specifically in relation to 
spectroscopy in Applied Spectroscopy, Vol. 39, pages 426-430. Notably, 
these devices are not for use in isolation of other sophisticated equipment and 
are purposely adapted to be used with complex
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for assessing a characteristic of a fluid in respect of its effect 
on the transmission of visible light through the fluid, comprising a chamber (10) 

for receiving the fluid, said chamber including front wall (11, 15) and rear wall (12) 
portions transparent to visible light and arranged for passage of visible light 

therethrough and through fluid therebetween, said wall portions being spaced 
differently from one another at different parts of the chamber so that the light 

travels different distances through the fluid, and characterised in that said 
apparatus further comprises a fixed means (18, 25) viewable by a user through 

the wall portions of the chamber and the fluid contained therebetween, said fixed 
viewable means (18, 25) being disposed, in use, at a fixed position gen
erally 
adjacent to and generally along the length of said rear wall (12) portion and 

having a visible marking (19, 26) adapted to be distinguishable to the user 
viewing it for examining the effect of transmission of light through the fluid at 

said different parts of the chamber. 
An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the spacing between opposed 
wall portions of the chamber varies non-linearly. 
Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein at least one of said wall portions 
of the chamber is of curved configuration, approaching the other wall portion 

asymptotically from one end of the chamber to the other. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
chamber comprises or forms part of a liquid-tight container for retaining a liquid 

during assessment thereof. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims comprising a 
graduated scale (26) disposed along the chamber, to provide a direct reading of 

concentration of a substance in the fluid.  
 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
chamber is defined by a dividing wall (51) portion in a container having 

substantially parallel opposite walls, said dividing wall portion providing a further 
chamber for containing uncontaminated fluid. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims comprising a one-piece 
moulding of plastics material. 
Apparatus according to claim 7 as appendant to claim 4 wherein said 
marking for observation by the user is provided on a wall portion of said plastics 

moulding. 
Apparatus according to claim 7 as appendant to claim 4 wherein said marking 
for observation by the user is provided on an element (25) adapted to be held in 

relation to the container so as to be visible therethrough. 
Apparatus according to claim 4 or any claim appendant thereto wherein 
said container includes a portion defining said chamber and a further portion in 

communication with said chamber, said portions together defining a predetermined 
volume. 
Apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said container is supplied filled 
with a dilutant liquid, and contains means for introduction of a further liquid for 

assessment into said dilutant liquid. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 10 incorporated in or associated 
with a catheter or catheter bag. 
A method of assessing a characteristic of a fluid in respect of its effect on 
the transmission of visible light through the fluid, comprising passing visible light  

 
through the fluid in a chamber having front wall (11, 15) and rear wall (12) portions 

which are spaced differently from one another at different parts of the chamber 
so that the light travels different distances through the fluid at such parts of the 

chamber, and characterised in that the method further comprises visual 
observation through the chamber and fluid therein of a fixed viewable element 

(18, 25) and observing the position in the chamber at which such viewable 
element (18, 25) is no longer clearly discernable, such position providing an 

assessment of the relevant characteristics of fluid. 
A method according to claim 13 for assessing the concentration of a 
substance in a liquid, the presence of said substance in the liquid causing a 

decrease in transparency of the liquid to visible light. 
A method according to claim 14 wherein said substance is a liquid. 
A method according to claim 15 wherein in said substance is blood. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
