<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612201</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved heating apparatus for induction ladle and vacuum furnaces
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F27D1106	F27B308	H05B624	B22D41005	H05B636	B22D41015	F27D1100	F27B1400	F27B1406	H05B636	H05B602	H05B602	F27B308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F27D	F27B	H05B	B22D	H05B	B22D	F27D	F27B	F27B	H05B	H05B	H05B	F27B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F27D11	F27B3	H05B6	B22D41	H05B6	B22D41	F27D11	F27B14	F27B14	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	F27B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An induction heating furnace (10) comprises 
an induction coil assembly (16) and a ladle (12) having 

a metallic shell (14) that supports a crucible holding 
metal to be heated by the furnace. The ladle (12) is 

readily separated from the induction coil assembly (16) 
so that the heated metal may be conveniently and 

reliably moved among operational stations. The 
induction coil assembly (16) has a pres
elected length 
which is less than the length of the shell (14). The 

induction coil assembly (16) surrounds, but does not 
touch, the shell (14) and generates an electromagnetic 

induction field. The induction coil assembly (16) 
comprises a coil (20), upper and lower yokes (28 and 

34) and an intermediate yoke (40) coextensive with the 
coil (20). The upper and lower yokes (28 and 34) are 

separated from each other and electromagnetically 
coupled together by the intermediate yoke (40). The 

upper, lower and intermediate yokes (28,34 and 40) 
preferably each comprise stacked laminates (72 and 74) 

formed of sheets of ferrous material. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INDUCTOTHERM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INDUCTOTHERM CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIGNETTI NICHOLAS P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEINE HANS G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CIGNETTI,NICHOLAS P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEINE,HANS G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to induction furnaces. More
particularly, the invention is concerned with induction
furnaces having an induction coil assembly with yokes and a
ladle with a metallic shell comprising non-magnetic bars. The
induction coil assembly and the shell both allow the
electromagnetic field created by the induction coil assembly
to be more advantageously delivered to the material being
heated within the furnace.Induction furnaces for melting or otherwise heating metal
by generating magnetic fields which induce eddy currents to
flow within and heat the metal are well known. One such
induction furnace is the well-known "coreless" type having an
induction coil assembly located external to the furnace
itself. The induction coil assembly creates the magnetic flux
which comprises the magnetic fields which, in turn, create the
eddy currents to heat the metal. Typically, the metal to be
heated by the furnace is contained by a liner which is of a
refractory material. The eddy currents, induced by the
magnetic fields generated by the induction coil assembly
surrounding the liner, cause power (I2R) to be dissipated in
the metal, thereby increasing the temperature of the metal.
In effect, for induction heating, the metal advantageously
serves as its own heat source, thereby increasing the
efficiency of the heating itself. The eddy currents are
induced in the metal when alternating current is passed
through the induction coil so as to generate an alternating
magnetic field, or induction field.It is known from EP-A-0053070 to support a crucible at 
the top and at the bottom by annular rings which are connected
and clamped together by tie rods spaced circumferentially
around the crucible.EP-A-0152849 shows a refractory crucible with reinforcing
bars embedded in the refractory material of the crucible.
US-A-2929906 is concerned with the use of magnetic
laminations in induction heating coils.FR-A-2368542 shows a similar arrangement to that shown
in EP-A-0053070, again using tie rods to apply axially
directed compressive forces between a top ring and a bottom
ring, with refractory material between the tie rods.The vessel in which the metal is heated must meet certain
stringent physical standards. It must have a sufficiently
high melting point so that it will not be melted by the heat
of the metal, it must have a high strength to hold the weight
of the metal, it must not interfere with the passage of
magnetic flux from the induction coil through and around the
metal, and in certain cases it must be removable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An induction heating furnace comprising:

(a) an induction coil assembly (16) having a central axis
and a preselected axially extending length, said induction

coil assembly comprising a coil (20); and
(b) means for holding a material to be heated by said
furnace comprising a crucible, having a preselected shape, and

a rigid mechanical support (14) surrounding and generally
conforming to the shape of said crucible to provide support

circumferentially for the crucible, said support comprising
elongate members of non-magnetic metallic material located so

as to be surrounded by, but not touching, said induction coil
assembly;

characterised in that:

i) the support (14) is composed only of non-magnetic
metallic bars (64) fabricated as a substantially

continuous circumferential shell;
ii) the coil assembly comprises an upper, a lower and an
intermediate yoke (28, 34, 40), said upper and lower

yokes being axially separated from each other by a
predetermined distance and electromagnetically coupled

together by said intermediate yoke (40);
iii) the bars (64) extend past both said upper and lower
yokes (28, 34) each by a respective preselected distance.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 1,
characterised in that said upper, lower and intermediate yokes

(28, 34, 40) each comprise stacked laminates (72, 74) formed
of sh
eets of ferrous material.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 2,
characterised in that said upper and lower yokes (28, 34) 

comprise laminates of a non-grain-oriented electrical steel
material, and said intermediate yoke (40) comprises laminates

of a grain-oriented electrical steel material.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 1, 2
or 3, characterised in that said crucible, said shell (14),

and said upper and lower yokes (28, 34) all have a cylindrical 
shape.
An induction heating furnace according to any
preceding claim, characterised in that said bars (64) have

opposite ends respectively joined to top and bottom rings
respectively positioned above and below said upper and lower

yokes (28, 34).
An induction heating furnace according to claim 5,
characterised in that said bottom ring has a flange.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 6,
characterised in that said holding means further comprises a

bottom plate resting on said flange of said bottom ring.
An induction heating furnace according to any
preceding claim, characterised in that said upper and lower

yokes (28, 34) are separated from said coil (20) by at least
one respective insulating segment and said intermediate yoke

(40) is also separated from said coil (20) by at least a sheet
of dielectric material.
An induction heating furnace according to any
preceding claim, further characterised by upper and lower

covers (30, 36) respectively connected to said upper and lower
yokes (28, 34).
An induction heating furnace according to any
preceding claim, characterised in that said induction coil

assembly (16) is separated from said shell (14) by a layer of
insulating material (18) and an air gap (22).
An induction heating furnace according to claim 10,
characterised in that the layer (18) of insulating material

is of grout material.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 8,
characterised in that said coil (20) has a layer of silicon

rubber material separating the coil from said sheet of 
dielectric material.
An induction heating furnace according to any
preceding claim, characterised in that said coil (20) is pre-stressed

by said upper and lower yokes (28, 34) so as to
reduce its operational movement, vibration and noise.
An induction heating furnace according to any
preceding claim, characterised in that:


(a) said upper and lower yokes (28, 34) each have
substantially the same inner and outer diameter dimensions

referenced to said central axis; and
(b) said intermediate yoke (40) has an inner diameter
which is greater than the inner diameter dimension of said

upper and lower yokes, and an outer diameter which is less
than the outer diameter dimension of said upper and lower

yokes.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 14,
characterised in that the upper and lower yokes (28, 34) each

comprise stacked laminates, and said arrangement of stacked
laminates of said upper and lower yokes comprises:


(a) groups of first and second sheets each having
different lengths and with the length of the second sheets

being less than the length of the first sheets; and
(b) sequential and repeating arrangements of a pair of
said first sheets and then a single one of said second sheets,

wherein each of said second sheets is sandwiched between
multiples of pairs of said first sheets, each of said first

multiples sheets having their width spanning said inner and
outer diameter dimensions of said upper and lower yokes, and

each of said second sheets having one of its ends coinciding
with a circumference defined by said outer diameter dimension.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 14, 
characterised in that the upper and lower yokes (28, 34) each

comprise stacked laminates, and said arrangement of stacked
laminates of said upper and lower yokes comprises:


(a) groups of first and second sheets having different
lengths and with the length of the second sheets being less

than the length of the first sheets; and
(b) sequential and repeating arrangements of one of said
first sheet and then one of said second sheet, each of said

first sheets having a width spanning said inner and outer
diameter dimensions of said upper and lower yokes, and each

of said second sheets having one of its ends coinciding with
a circumference defined by said outer diameter dimension.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 15,
characterised in that at least one of said upper and lower

yokes (28, 34) includes at least one non-magnetic wedge
therein, having provisions for accepting a power cable for

operation of said coil.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 16,
characterised in that each of said upper and lower yokes (28,

34) further comprises one or more ceramic wedges (190, 192)
located at areas of said induction coil assembly (16) having

provisions for accepting a power cable for operating said
coil.
An induction heating furnace according to any of
claims 14 to 18, characterised in that said intermediate yoke

(40) comprises groups of sheets each having the same length
and spanning said inner and outer diameter dimensions of said

intermediate yoke, said groups being uniformly distributed
about the region of a circumference defined by said inner and

outer diameter dimensions of said intermediate yoke.
An induction heating furnace according to any 
preceding claim, further characterised by an upper member

serving as a top portion, a central portion, and a lower
member serving as a bottom portion, said top, central and

lower portions being mated together by sealing members, said
upper member, central portion and lower member providing a

sealed environment for said induction furnace allowing it to
serve as a vacuum type induction furnace.
An induction heating furnace according to claim 20,
characterised in that said sealing members comprise O-rings

(172, 176).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
