<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652561</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Disc storage medium, and apparatus for recording and reproducing data to and from a disc storage medium.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B700	G11B700	G11B7005	G11B7007	G11B7007	G11B1100	G11B1110	G11B11105	G11B1912	G11B1912	G11B1926	G11B1926	G11B1928	G11B1928	G11B2010	G11B2010	G11B2012	G11B2012	G11B2719	G11B2719	G11B2724	G11B2730	G11B2730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B11	G11B11	G11B11	G11B19	G11B19	G11B19	G11B19	G11B19	G11B19	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B20	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for reproducing data from a CD-ROM
at a constant angular velocity and for recording and reproducing

data to and from a magneto-optical compact disc (CD-MO) at a
constant angular velocity. Data reproduced from the CD-ROM is

demodulated in accordance with an amount of reproduction time of
a sync signal contained in the reproduced data. The clock rate

of data to be recorded to or reproduced from the CD-MO is
determined in accordance with the position or zone on the CD-MO

at which the data is to be recorded or from which it is
reproduced. The position or zone may be identified by address

data which is reproduced from the CD-MO. In addition, a constant
rotational velocity of the CD-MO is maintained by measuring an

amount of reproduction time of the address data and varying the

rotational velocity of the CD-MO in accordance with the measured
reproduction time.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMOTO HIDETOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WACHI SHIGEAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMOTO, HIDETOSHI,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WACHI, SHIGEAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a compact disk storage 
medium and a compact disk drive, and, more particularly, to disk 
storage medium and to apparatus for recording and reproducing 
data to and from a disk storage medium. The invention also 
relates to apparatus for recording and reproducing data at a 
constant angular velocity to and from a disk storage medium, and 
for adjusting the rotational velocity of the disk storage medium. Currently, compact disks (CDs) are utilized for 
recording digital audio signals thereon by a known optical 
process. A 12cm CD has a data storage capacity of approximately 
640 megabytes and an 8cm CD has a data storage capacity of 
approximately 200 megabytes. Hence, such CDs are useful for the 
storage of large quantities of digital audio data. Compact disk read-only memories, known as CD-ROMs, 
store digital data, other than audio data, which are recorded in 
the same manner as audio data is recorded onto a CD. CD-ROMs 
generally are used in the 12cm format, where spiral tracks of 
digital data are stored on the CD-ROM by a known optical process 
after the digital data is double-coded with a "cross interleave 
Reed-Solomon code" (CIRC) and modulated by an eight-to-fourteen 
(EFM) modulation process. Generally, each sector (i.e., 
information unit) of a CD-ROM stores one subcode block of data  
 
consisting of 98 frames. Each frame in an audio CD contains 8 
bits of subcodes "P" to "W". CD-ROMs are increasingly being used for the 
distribution of computer software because of their large storage 
capacity. Such uses include the storage of application software, 
statistical data (e.g., software encyclopedias), manuals, etc. 
In addition to their large storage capacity, CD-ROMs are well 
suited for mass reproduction because of their decreasing 
production costs and low error and failure rates. The CD-ROM is an optical-type storage medium in which 
digital data is stored thereon with the disk being driven at a 
constant linear velocity (CLV), that is, the angular rotation of 
the disk varies in relation with the radial distance from the 
center of the disk of the location at which data is stored. When 
reproducing, a spindle motor in a CD-ROM drive rotates a 12cm CD-ROM 
at the rotational (i.e., angular) velocity of 200 revolutions 
per minute (rpm) to reproduce data stored in the outermost tracks 
and rotates the disk at the rotational velocity of 535 rpm to 
reproduce data stored in the innermost tracks. However, because 
of the large inertia of the spindle motor, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A disk storage medium, comprising: 
   a plurality of data areas having data stored 

therein, said data in each of said data areas being stored 
at respectively different clock rates; and 

   a plurality of address areas each associated 
with a respective data area having address data stored 

therein, all of said address data being stored at the same 
constant clock rate. 
The disk storage medium of claim 1, wherein 
said plurality of data areas are located in respective 

concentric circular zones on said disk storage medium, 
said clock rate of said data in each of said data areas 

corresponding to said zone in which said respective data 
area is located. 
The disk storage medium of claim 2, wherein 
said concentric circular zones include outer zones and 

inner zones, and said clock rate of data stored in a data 
area located in one of said outer zones is greater than 

said clock rate of data stored in a data area located in 
one of said inner zones. 
The disk storage medium of claim 2 or 3, 
wherein said address data in each of said address areas 

identifies said zone in which said respective address area 
and associated data area are located. 
The disk storage medium of claim 1, 2, 3 or 
4, wherein said address data in each of said address areas 

is stored in a pre-pit format, and said data in each of 
said data areas is stored in a magneto-optical format. 
The disk storage medium of any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said disk storage medium is a 

compact disk magneto-optical (CD-MO) type storage medium. 
Apparatus for reproducing data from a disk 
storage medium, said data including a sync signal, said 

apparatus comprising: 
   means for rotating said disk storage medium at a 

constant rotational velocity; 
   means for reproducing said data from said disk 

storage medium; 
   means for measuring an amount of reproduction 

time needed to reproduce said sync signal contained in 
said reproduced data; and 

   means for decoding said reproduced data in 
accordance with said measured amount of reproduction time. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said disk 
storage medium includes data previously stored at a 

constant linear data rate. 
The apparatus of claim 7 or 8, wherein said 
measured amount of reproduction time identifies a position 

on said disk storage medium from which said data was 
reproduced. 
The apparatus of claim 7, 8 or 9, wherein 
said measured amount of reproduction time identifies a 

clock rate of said reproduced data, and said means for 
decoding is operable to decode said reproduced data in 

accordance with said identified clock rate. 
The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said 
clock rate of said reproduced data corresponds to a bit 

frequency of said reproduced data, and said means for 
decoding is a demodulator for demodulating said reproduced 

data at said bit frequency of said reproduced data. 
The apparatus of claim 7, 8, 9, 10 or 11, 
further comprising means for converting said measured 

amount of reproduction time to a base voltage, means for 
generating from said base voltage a clock signal having a 

frequency and phase, said frequency and phase of said 
clock signal correspond to a frequency and phase of said 

reproduced data, means for changing said base voltage in 
accordance with a phase difference between said phase of 

said reproduced data and said phase of said clock signal, 
and wherein said means for decoding is operable to decode 

said reproduced data in accordance with said clock signal. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 7 to 12, 
wherein said sync signal included in said data is a frame 

synchronizing signal. 
The apparatus of claim 7 to 13, wherein 
said disk storage medium is a compact disk read only 

memory (CD-ROM) type storage medium. 
Apparatus for adjusting a rotational 
velocity of a disk storage medium having a plurality of 

address areas, each of said address areas having 
respective address data stored therein, said apparatus 

comprising: 
   means for rotating said disk storage medium at a 

rotational velocity;
 

   means for reproducing address data from an 
address area on said disk storage medium; 

   means for measuring an amount of reproduction 
time for reproducing said address data from said address 

area; and 
   means for adjusting said rotational velocity of 

said disk storage medium in accordance with said measured 
amount of reproduction time such that said rotational 

velocity of said disk storage medium remains substantially 
constant. 
The apparatus of claim 15, further 
comprising means for reproducing data stored on said disk 

storage medium in data areas separate from said address 
areas; and wherein said address data stored on said disk 

storage medium are stored in a pre-pit format, and said 
data stored on said disk storage medium are stored in a 

magneto-optical format. 
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said 
means for measuring is operable to distinguish reproduced 

data stored in said pre-pit format from reproduced data 
stored in said magneto-optical format, and is operable to 

measure the amount of reproduction time for reproducing 
data stored in said pre-pit format. 
The apparatus of claim 15, 16 or 17, 
further comprising means for recording data in a data area 

associated with one of said address areas on said disk 
storage medium, said data being recorded at a clock rate 

corresponding to a location on said disk storage medium at 
which said data is recorded. 
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said 
means for recording is operable to record said data in a 

selected one of a plurality of concentric circular zones 
on said disk storage medium, said recorded data having a 

clock rate corresponding to said zone in which said data 
is recorded. 
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said 
means for recording is operable to record said data in 

outer or inner ones of said plurality of zones, said data 
recorded in one of said outer zones having a clock rate 

greater than the clock rate of data recorded in one of 
said inner zones. 
Apparatus for recording data on a disk 
storage medium having a plurality of address areas and 

corresponding data areas, each of said address areas 
having respective address data stored therein, all of said 

address data being stored on said disk storage medium at 
the same clock rate, said apparatus comprising: 

   means for setting the clock rate of data to be 
recorded in said data areas in accordance with a position 

of a respective data area on said disk storage medium in 
which said data is to be recorded; and 

   means for recording said data at said set clock 
rate in said respective data area on said disk storage 

medium. 
The apparatus of claim 21, further 
comprising means for rotating said disk storage medium at 

a substantially constant rotational velocity. 
The apparatus of claim 21 or 22, wherein 
said means for setting is operable to set said clock rate 

of said data to a clock rate associated with a selected 
one of a plurality of concentric circular zones on said 

disk storage medium in which said data is to be recorded, 
and said means for recording is operable to record said 

data in said selected zone. 
The apparatus of claim 21, 22 or 23, 
further comprising means for reproducing said address data 

from an address area corresponding to said data area in 
which said data is to be recorded, and wherein said means 

for setting is operable to set said clock rate of said 
data in accordance with said reproduced address data. 
The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said 
means for reproducing is operable to decode said reproduced 

address data in accordance with a known clock rate. 
The apparatus of claim 24 or 25, further 
comprising means for rotating said disk storage medium at 

a substantially constant rotational velocity during 
reproducing of said address data and during recording of 

said data. 
The apparatus of claim 24, 25 or 26, 
wherein said address area and corresponding data area are 

located in one of a plurality of concentric circular zones 
on said disk storage medium, and said address data in said 

address area identifies said zone in which said address 
area and corresponding data area are located. 
The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said 
means for setting is operable to set said clock rate of 

said data in accordance with said zone identified in said 
reproduced address data. 
The apparatus of claim 28, wherein data in 
each of said zones has a different clock rate. 
The apparatus of claim 28 or 29, wherein 
said concentric circular zones include outer zones and 

inner zones, and the clock rate of data stored in said 
outer zones is greater than the clock rate of data stored 

in said inner zones. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 27 to 
30, wherein said means for setting includes means for 

generating predetermined clock pulses of a clock 
frequency, means for dividing the clock frequency of said 

predetermined clock pulses in accordance with said zone 
identified by said address data to provide frequency-divided 

clock pulses, and means for establishing said 
clock rate of said data from said frequency-divided clock 

pulses. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 21 to 
31, further comprising means for modulating said data to 

be recorded at said clock rate to provide modulated data, 
and wherein said means for recording is operable to record 

said modulated data in said respective data area on said 
disk storage medium. 
Apparatus for reproducing data from a disk 
storage medium having address and corresponding data areas 

thereon, said address and data areas having respective 
address data and information data stored therein, all of 

said address data being stored on said disk storage medium 
at the same clock rate, said apparatus comprising: 

   means for reproducing information data from a 
data area on said disk storage medium;

 
   means for ascertaining a clock rate of said 

reproduced information data in accordance with a position 
on said disk storage medium from which said information 

data was reproduced; and 
   means for decoding said reproduced information 

data in accordance with said ascertained clock rate. 
The apparatus of claim 33, further 
comprising means for rotating said disk storage medium at 

a substantially constant rotational velocity. 
The apparatus of claim 33 or 34, wherein 
said means for reproducing is operable to reproduce said 

information data from a data area located in a selected 
one of a plurality of concentric circular zones on said 

disk storage medium, and said means for ascertaining is 
operable to ascertain said clock rate of said reproduced 

information data in accordance with said selected zone 
from which said information data was reproduced. 
The apparatus of claim 33, 34 or 35, 
wherein said means for reproducing is operable to 

reproduce address data from an address area corresponding 
to said data area from which said information data is 

reproduced, and wherein said means for ascertaining is 
operable to ascertain said clock rate of said reproduced 

information data in accordance with said reproduced 
address data. 
The apparatus of claim 36, wherein said 
means for reproducing is operable to decode said 

reproduced address data in accordance with a known clock 
rate. 
The apparatus of claim 36 or 37, wherein 
said address area and corresponding data area are located 

in one of a plurality of concentric circular zones on said 
disk storage medium, and said address data in said address 

area identifies said zone in which said address area and 
corresponding data area are located. 
The apparatus of claim 38, wherein said 
means for ascertaining is operable to ascertain said clock 

rate of said reproduced information data in accordance 
with said zone identified in said reproduced address data. 
The apparatus of claim 39, wherein 
information data reproduced from each of said zones has a 

different clock rate. 
The apparatus of claim 39 or 40, wherein 
said concentric circular zones include outer zones and 

inner zones, and the clock rate of data reproduced from 
one of said outer zones is greater than the clock rate of 

data reproduced from one of said inner zones. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 38 to 
41, wherein said means for ascertaining includes means for 

generating a base voltage from said zone identified in 
said address data, means responsive to said base voltage 

for generating a clock signal having a frequency and 
phase, and means for changing said base voltage in 

accordance with a phase difference between a phase of said 
reproduced information data and said phase of said clock 

signal, such that said frequency and phase of said clock 
signal correspond to a frequency and phase of said 

reproduced information data; and wherein said means for 
decoding is operable to decode said reproduced information 

data in accordance with said clock signal. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 
42, wherein said means for decoding is a demodulator for 

demodulating said reproduced information data at said 
clock rate ascertained by said means for ascertaining. 
The apparatus of any one of claim 15 to 43, 
wherein all of said address areas on said disk storage 

medium have substantially the same angular length and an 
amount of reproduction time for reproducing address data 

from each of said address areas is substantially the same 
when said rotational velocity of said disk storage medium 

remains substantially constant. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 15 to 
44, wherein said disk storage medium is a compact disk 

magneto-optical type storage medium. 
Method of reproducing data from a disk 
storage medium having data stored thereon, said data 

including a sync signal, said method comprising the steps 
of: 

   rotating said disk storage medium at a constant 
rotational velocity; 

   reproducing said data from said disk storage 
medium; 

   measuring an amount of reproduction time needed 
to reproduce said sync signal contained in said reproduced 

data; and 
   decoding said reproduced data in accordance with 

said measured amount of reproduction time. 
The method of claim 46, wherein said 
measured amount of reproduction time identifies a clock 

rate of said reproduced data, and said step of decoding is 
carried out by decoding said reproduced data in accordance 

with said identified clock rate. 
The method of claim 46 or 47, further 
comprising the steps of converting said measured amount of 

reproduction time to a base voltage, generating from said 
base voltage a clock signal having a frequency and phase, 

said frequency and phase of said clock signal correspond 
to a frequency and phase of said reproduced data, changing 

said base voltage in accordance with a phase difference 
between said reproduced data and said clock signal; and 

wherein said step of decoding is carried out by decoding 
said reproduced data in accordance with said clock signal. 
Method of adjusting a rotational velocity 
of a disk storage medium having a plurality of address 

areas, each of said address areas having respective 
address data stored therein, said method comprising the 

steps of: 
   rotating said disk storage medium at a 

rotational velocity; 
   reproducing address data from an address area on 

said disk storage medium; 
   measuring an amount of reproduction time for 

reproducing said address data from said address area; and 
   adjusting said rotational velocity of said disk 

storage medium in accordance with said measured amount of 
reproduction time such that said rotational velocity of 

said disk storage medium remains substantially constant. 
The method of claim 49, further comprising 
the step of reproducing data stored on said disk storage 

medium in data areas separate from said address areas; and 
wherein said address data stored on said disk storage 

medium are stored in a pre-pit format, and said data 
stored on said disk storage medium are stored in a 

magneto-optical format. 
The method of claim 50, wherein said step 
of measuring is carried out by distinguishing reproduced 

data stored in said pre-pit format from reproduced data 
stored in said magneto-optical format, and by measuring 

and providing the amount of reproduction time for 
reproducing data stored in said pre-pit format. 
Method of recording data on a disk storage 
medium having a plurality of address areas and 

corresponding data areas, each of said address areas 
having respective address data stored therein, all of said 

address data being stored on said disk storage medium at 
the same clock rate, said method comprising the steps of: 

   setting the clock rate of data to be recorded in 
said data areas in accordance with a position of a 

respective data area on said disk storage medium in which 
said data is to be recorded; and 

   recording said data at said set clock rate in 
said respective data area on said disk storage medium. 
The method of claim 52, wherein said step 
of setting is carried out by setting said clock rate of 

said data to a clock rate associated with a selected one 
of a plurality of concentric circular zones on said disk 

storage medium in which said data is to be recorded, and 
said step of recording is carried out by recording said 

 
data in said selected zone. 
The method of claim 52 or 53, further 
comprising the step of reproducing said address data from 

an address area corresponding to said data area in which 
said data is to be recorded, and wherein said step of 

setting is carried out by setting said clock rate of said 
data in accordance with said reproduced address data. 
Method of reproducing data from a disk 
storage medium having address and corresponding data areas 

thereon, said address and data areas having respective 
address data and information data stored therein, all of 

said address data being stored on said disk storage medium 
at the same clock rate, said method comprising the steps 

of: 
   reproducing information data from a data area on 

said disk storage medium; 
   ascertaining a clock rate of said reproduced 

information data in accordance with a position on said 
disk storage medium from which said information data was 

reproduced; and 
   decoding said reproduced information data in 

accordance with said ascertained clock rate. 
The method of claim 55, wherein said step 
of reproducing is carried out by reproducing said information 

data from a data area located in a selected one of 
a plurality of concentric circular zones on said disk 

storage medium, and said step of ascertaining is carried 
out by ascertaining said clock rate of said reproduced 

information data in accordance with said selected zone 
from which said information data was reproduced. 
The method of claim 55 or 56, wherein said 
step of reproducing includes the step of reproducing 

address data from an address area corresponding to said 
data area from which said information data is reproduced, 

and wherein said step of ascertaining is carried out by 
ascertaining said clock rate of said reproduced 

information data in accordance with said reproduced 
address data. 
The method of claim 57, further comprising 
the step of rotating said disk storage medium at a 

substantially constant rotational velocity during 
reproduction of said address data from said address area 

and said information data from said data area. 
The method of any one of claims 52 to 58, 
further comprising the step of rotating said disk storage 

medium at a substantially constant rotational velocity. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
