<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621970</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PORTABLE OPTICAL READER SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K710	G06K710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A portable optical reader system for reading optical information over a substantial range of distances includes a casing having a light receiving opening for alignment with optical information. Further included is a reading sensor for converting a reflected light image of optical information into an information signal and reflected light optical elements for forming a reflected light image. The optical system is adjustable to tend to focus a reflected light image of optical information, located within a substantial range of distances, onto the reading sensor. A light beam generator is associated with the casing and directed relative to the optical elements and the light receiving opening such that a light beam generated thereby will impinge on an information carrier, having optical information to be read, and will be reflected therefrom through the light receiving opening and via the optical elements to the reading sensor. Since the position of impingement of the reflected light beam on the reading sensor is a function of the range of the information carrier from the image sensor, the optical system may be adjusted to focus a reflected light image of optical information associated with the information carrier, at least in part, according to the position of impingement of the reflected light beam on the reading sensor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORAND CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORAND CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LASER VADIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LASER, VADIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PORTABLE OPTICAL READER SYSTEMTechnical Field The present invention is directed to optical information readers and more particularly to portable optical reader systems for instantaneously reading optical information over a substantial range of distances.Description of the Prior ArtMany industries designate their products with optically readable information such as bar code symbols consisting of a series of lines and spaces of varying widths. Various bar code readers and laser scanning systems have been employed to decode the symbol pattern to a multiple digit representation for inventory and checkout purposes.Old in the art are conventional contact and non-contact wand and pen bar code readers. However, these devices are incapable of instantaneously reading optical information.Portable instantaneous optical information readers are also known to the art, e.g., as represented by Danielson and DurbinU.S. Patent Na 4,877,949 assigned to the assignee herein.Therefore, it is a principal object of the present invention to provide an improved portable optical reader system for reading optical information over a substantial range of distances.Another object of the present invention is to provide a new ranging system for portable optical readers which enables optical information to be read instantaneously over a substantial range of distances. Another object of the present invention is to provide a portable optical reader system which is capable of rapid and efficient alignment with optical information located a substantial distance from the reader. 

 A further object of the present invention is to provide a portable optical reader system which is easy to use, simple in construction, and trouble free. Other objects will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the detailed disclosure. Summary of the InventionThe present invention provides a novel system capable of instantaneously reading optically readable information over a substantial range of distances. A preferred embodiment comprises a hand-held data collection terminal with a combined reader and RF module which includes a casing having a Ught receiving opening for alignment with optical information. Housed within the casing are optical means which include light generating means and reflected light collecting means for forming a reflected light image. Also included are reading sensor means for converting a reflected light image of optical information into an information signal. The optical means is adjustable such that a reflected light image of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A portable optical reader system for reading optical information over a substantial range of distances, comprising:
(a) a casing having a hght receiving opening for alignment with optical information to be read;
(b) optical means comprising reflected hght collecting means for forming a reflected hght image and reading sensor means for converting a reflected image of optical information into an information signal, said optical means being adjustable such that said collection means tends to focus a reflected hght image of optical information located within said substantial range of distances onto said reading sensor means;
(c) hght beam generating means associated with said casing and directed relative to said optical means and said hght receiving opening such that a hght beam generated thereby will impinge on an information carrier having optical information to be read and will be reflected therefrom through said hght receiving opening and via said collecting means to said reading sensor means, the position of impingement of the reflected light beam on said reading sensor means being a function of the range of the information carrier from said image sensor; and
(d) control means for adjusting said optical means to tend to focus a reflected hght image of optical information associated with the information carrier at least in part in accordance with the position of impingement of the reflected hght beam on said reading sensor means.
2. The portable optical reader system of claim 1, wherein said reading sensor means comprises a sohd state photoelectric sensor array capable of resolving elements of optically readable information simultaneously incident thereon. 3. The portable optical reader system of claim 1, wherein said optical means include at least one lens.
4. The portable optical reader system of claim 3, wherein said optical means further include a first mirror for collecting hght from said lens and reflecting said light. 


 5. The portable optical reader system of claim 4, wherein said optical means further include a movable mirror for effecting focusing of hght reflected from said first mirror onto said sensor means.
6. The portable optical reader system of claim 5, wherein said optical means further include means for adjustably moving said mirror in relation to said sensor means without change of the aiming axis of the optical means which is to be ahgned with the optical information.
7. The portable optical reader system of claim 6, wherein said mirror is adjustably movable about at least one axis. 8. The portable optical reader system of claim 6, wherein said mirror is adjustably movable about at least two axes.
9. The portable optical reader system of claim 1, wherein said control means controls movement of said sensor means to effect focusing of the reflected hght image. 10. The portable optical reader system of claim 1 , wherein said lens means comprises a lens, and a lens system component, and said control means controls movement of at least one of said lens and said lens system component to effect focusing of the reflected hght image.
11. The portable optical reader system of claim 1, wherein said optical means comprises: a lens associated with said casing; and a mirror mounted within said casing such that hght entering said h ght receiving opening passes twice through said lens.
12. The portable optical reader system of claim 1, further comprising: a carriage having a focus adjusting mirror movable therewith to effect focusing; pivot means for pivotably connecting said carriage to said casing; drive linkage means associated with said carriage; and electric motor means for drivingly moving said carriage about at least two axes via said drive linkage means.
13. The portable optical reader system of claim 1, further comprising: 


 a carriage having a focus adjusting mirror movable therewith to effect focusing; drive means for movably adjusting said carriage relative to casing; and cam means associated with said carriage such that said carriage moves said focus adjusting mirror about at least two axes during movable adjustment of said carriage.
14. A portable optical reader system for reading optical information over a substantial range of distances, comprising: (a) a casing having an opening for facing optical information; (b) adjustable optical means, disposed in said casing, for imaging at a predetermined reading position in said casing an image of optically readable information facing said opening by hght reflected therefrom, said information located on the surface of an optically readable information carrier; (c) reading sensor means, disposed at said predetermined reading position and having a hght receiving plane, for converting an image into an electric signal;
(d) means for emitting a hght beam, positioned in said casing, such that said hght beam is reflected from a surface of an optically readable information carrier without being refracted by said optical means, said carrier at an unknown distance from the plane of said reading sensor means, such that said reflected light beam is refracted by said optical means onto the plane of said reading sensor means such that the optically refracted and reflected hght beam is converted into an electric signal;
(e) means for obtaining a measure of any needed focus adjustment based in part on said electric signal produced by said reading sensor means from the refracted hght beam reflected from said carrier surface, (f) means for adjusting said optical means in accordance with said measure of needed focus adjustment such that said optical means focuses the image of optically readable information, located on the surface adjacent said information carrier, at said predetermined reading position; and 


 (g) means for producing a digital information set corresponding to the image of said opticahy readable information focused at said predetermined reading position.
15. A portable optical reader system for reading optical information over a substantial range of distances, comprising:
(a) means for emitting a hght beam, such that said hght beam is reflected from a surface of an object at an unknown distance from said emitting means, said hght beam having a center and a peripheral edge; (b) receiving means, including a receiving surface disposed in a plane, for receiving at least a portion of said reflected hght beam and converting at least said portion of said reflected hght beam into an electrical signal;
(c) means for obtaining a measure of any needed focus adjustment based in part on said electrical signal produced from said hght beam;
(d) an adjustable optical system disposed to receive the reflected image of said object and adjustable to affect focus of said image at said receiving surface;
(e) means for adjusting said optical system in accordance with said measure of needed focus adjustment such that said optical system focuses the image of said object on said receiving surface; and
(f) means for producing a digital information set corresponding to the image of said object focused on said receiving means.
16. A method of determining focusing quahty according to a contrast gradient, comprising:
(a) reflecting a hght beam from an object having an image to be focused;
(b) opticahy directing the image of said reflected hght beam such that said hght beam impinges on the surface of a photosensitive array; (c) processing the output of said photosensitive array such that an image contrast gradient is determined; and (d) focusing said image with said contrast gradient wherein focus quahty is a function of the slope rate of the contrast gradient. 


 17. A method of determining focusing quahty according to a distribution of modulations, comprising:
(a) optically directing the image of an object to be focused such that the reflected hght image of said object impinges on the surface of a photosensitive array;
(b) determining the modulation transfer function of at least certain areas of the image of said object from the output of said array;
(c) sorting the pulse modulations of said at least certain areas of the image of said object by pulse width; (d) separating the sorted pulse modulations into a group of narrow pulse widths and a group of wide pulse widths;
(e) calculating the average pulse modulation of each group; and
(f) focusing said image with said average pulse modulation for each group wherein focus quahty is a function of the ratio of the narrow pulse width group and wide pulse width group.
18. A method of determining the focusing quahty of an image of pulses of various widths, comprising:
(a) optically directing the image of an object to be focused such that the reflected light image of said object impinges on the surface of a photosensitive array;
(b) determining the extreme values of bright pulses (B,) and dark pulses (D,) of the image of said object from the output of said array;
(c) determining the average values of bright extremes (B„) and dark extremes (D„); (d) determining the number of pulse pairs (n);
(e) statistically evaluating said pulse data according to the following expression: = Σ(A, - A
0
)/nA
0
 + ∑(B, - B
0
)/nB
0
 wherein: Q, is a measure of focus quahty,
A, is a current extreme value of a bright pulse,
A
0
 is an average value of bright extremes ((l/n)∑Ai),
B, is a current extreme value of a dark pulse,
B
0
 is an average value of dark extremes ((l/n)∑Bj), and 


 n is the number of pulse pairs. 19. The method of determining focusing quahty of claims 16, 17, and 18, further comprising the step of controlhng the signal level of said array output such that said signal is maintained within a dynamic range. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
