<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646880</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dynamic neural net
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06N304	G06N300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06N	G06N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06N3	G06N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An information processing system includes a feed-forward neural net that 
is functionally comprised of a plurality of interconnected neurons. At least a particular 

one of the neurons is operative to receive a plurality of input signals for in response 
thereto producing an output signal that is a function of the input signals, and of at least 

one of following quantities: a rate of change of at least one of the neuron input signals; 
a rate of change of the particular neuron output signal. The net exhibits dynamic 

behaviour as represented by signal-dependent delays, signal dispersion and phase shifts. 
The net can be trained to display stimulus-response characteristics of substantially any 

dynamic system. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEIJER PETER BARTUS LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEIJER, PETER BARTUS LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an information processing system with a feed-forward
neural net that is functionally comprised of a plurality of interconnected
neurons. Each respective one of the neurons is operative to receive a respective plurality
of neuron input signals for in response thereto producing a respective neuron output
signal. The invention also relates to a method using such an information processing
system for simulation of a dynamic system.A neural net handles information in a highly parallel and distributed
manner. The neural net is functionally comprised of a plurality of elementary processing
units, called neurons, that are interlinked through weighted interconnections, called
synapses, thus forming a massively interconnected architecture. Each synapse scales the
signal supplied by a neuron acting as a source and transfers the scaled or weighted
signal to a further neuron acting as a destination. Each neuron typically receives a
plurality of weighted input signals either via the synapses from other neurons or from a
neural net input. In a conventional neural net, each neuron sums the weighted input
signals and applies a non-linear function to the sum, thereby generating an output signal
for transmission to other neurons.Neural net operation is model-free. That is, neural net operation does not
require a pre-specified algorithm to perform a given task. Instead, a neural net
adaptively handles data while learning from examples. Processing in a neural net is
achieved in a collective manner. The simple, simultaneous operation of individual
neurons and the distribution of signals throughout the neural net result in the
sophisticated functioning of the neural net as a whole. This kind of organization enables
a plurality of neurons to collectively and simultaneously influence the state of an
individual neuron according to the application of simple rules. The expression "feed-forward
neural net" refers to the arrangement of neurons in a plurality of successive 
layers, wherein a neuron of a particular layer supplies its output signal to another
neuron in the next layer. Such a neural net can be trained, e.g., by error-backpropagation,
to carry out a specific processing task. The processing capacity
acquired through learning is encoded in the plurality of synapses rather than in
individual memory elements. A neural net is typically suitable for handling optimization
problems, carrying out pattern recognition and performing classification tasks.European Patent Application EP-A 0 540 168 describes a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information processing system with a feed-forward neural net that is
functionally comprised of a plurality of interconnected neurons, wherein each respective

one of the neurons is operative to receive a respective plurality of neuron input signals
for in response thereto producing a respective neuron output signal, characterized by a

particular one of the neurons being operative to produce a particular neuron output
signal that substantially is a function of the neuron input signals to the particular one of

the neurons and of at least one of following quantities: a rate of change of at least one
of the neuron input signals; a rate of change of the particular neuron output signal.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the function depends on a linear
combination of the neuron input signals to the particular one of the neurons, and on at

least one of the following: a first-order time derivative of the particular neuron output
signal; a second-order time derivative of the particular neuron output signal; a first-order

time derivative of at least a specific one of the neuron input signals to the
particular neuron.
The system of Claim 2, wherein the particular neuron is operative to
render a further linear combination of the particular neuron output signal and of first-order

and second-order time derivatives of the particular neuron output signal
substantially equal to a non-linear function of a first argument including the neuron

input signals to the particular neuron, and of a second argument involving a first-order
time derivative of at least one of the neuron input signals to the particular neuron.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the function involves at least one
parameter and wherein the system comprises means to adjust a value of the parameter.
The system of Claim 1, comprising a computer programmed to function
as the neural net.
A method of employing the system of Claim 4, the method including
training the neural net to produce a desired output resulting from a pre-specified

input
to the net, the training comprising the steps of:


a) initializing the neural net by assigning a value to the at least one parameter; 
b) supplying the pre-specified input to the neural net;
c) comparing an obtained output of the net, acquired as a result of the pre-specified
input, to the desired output;
d) if a result of the comparing is not acceptable according to a predetermined
criterion, then updating the value of the parameter according to an update procedure and

returning to step b);
e) if the result of the associating is acceptable according to the criterion, then
terminating the training and validating the last obtained value.
The method of Claim 6, wherein the neural net is implemented on a
computer included in the information processing system, and wherein supplying the prespecified

input includes supplying a plurality of time domain tuples, each respective one
thereof comprising:


a time indicator indicative of a respective time moment;
a respective input sample corresponding to the respective time moment;
and wherein the comparing includes:
determining a discrepancy between an obtained respective output sample, produced by
the net as a result of the respective input sample, and a respective desired output sample

corresponding to the respective time moment.
A method of employing the system of Claim 4, the method including
training the neural net to produce a respective harmonic output of a respective given

frequency when supplied with a respective harmonic input of said respective frequency
through a respective desired transfer matrix, the training comprising the steps of:


a) initializing the neural net by assigning a value to the at least one parameter;
b) determining a respective obtained transfer matrix for the respective frequency;
c) comparing the respective obtained transfer matrix to the respective desired transfer
matrix;
d) if a result of the comparing is not acceptable according to a predetermined
criterion, then updating the value of the parameter according to an update procedure and

returning to step b);
e) if the result of the associating is acceptable according to the criterion, then
terminating the training and validating the last obtained value.
The method of Claim 8, wherein the neural net is implemented on a host
computer included in the information processing system. 
The method of Claim 8, including training the neural net to produce a
respective harmonic output of a respective given frequency when supplied with a

respective harmonic input of said respective frequency through a respective desired
transfer under a respective bias condition, the respective bias conditions determining

respective quiescent states.
The method of Claim 7, including training the neural net to produce a
respective harmonic output of a respective given frequency when supplied with a

respective harmonic input of said respective frequency through a respective desired
transfer matrix, the training comprising the steps of:


a) determining a respective obtained transfer matrix for the respective frequency;
b) comparing the respective obtained transfer matrix to the respective desired transfer
matrix;
c) if a result of the comparing is not acceptable according to a predetermined
criterion, then updating the value of the parameter according to an update procedure and

returning to step a);
d) if the result of the associating is acceptable according to the criterion, then
terminating the training.
The method of Claim 7 or 9, further comprising mapping the neural net
onto at least one of the following: an electronic circuit; a simulator system.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
