<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631691</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IC CHIP PACKAGE AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2312	H01L2313	H01L2348	H01L23498	H01L2350	H01L2510	H01L2510	H01L2511	H01L2518	H01L2518	H05K1300	H05K1300	H05K1304	H05K1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H05K13	H05K13	H05K13	H05K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An IC chip package (12) and method of making the package (12) includes a chip having an upper active surface (34) bonded to the lower surface (42) of a substrate (24). Terminals (36) on the active surface (34) are wire bonded (32) through apertures (38) in a lower layer (24) of the substrate (22) to bonding pads (56) on the upper surface (46) of the substrate (24). Metallized strips (54) couple the bonding pads (56) to conductive pads (48) at the outer edges (50, 52) of the substrate (24). The substrate (22) includes an upper layer (26) having apertures (58) therein. After wire bonding (32), the apertures (58, 38) in the upper (26) and lower substrate layers are filled with epoxy (74), then the chip package (12) is electrically tested at various temperatures. The chip package (12) is programmed by wire bonding (32) a chip enable trace (37) to one of a plurality of optional bonding pads (57) of a bonding option array (55) on the lower substrate layer (24). The chip package (12) may then be assembled together with other chip packages (12) into a stack (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DENSE PAC MICROSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DENSE-PAC MICROSYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EIDE FLOYD KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EIDE, FLOYD, KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IC CHIP PACKAGE AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to the high density packaging and stacking of integrated circuit chips to achieve, for example, an increased memory capacity in a memory circuit.2. Description of Related ArtKnown memory circuit systems are provided with several printed circuit boards, each having a plurality of integrated circuit (IC) chips encapsulated within packages mounted on the board. The printed circuit boards are typically arranged in a parallel relationship, with each board being disposed adjacent to and spaced from the other boards. If the chip packages are arranged in a single level on each circuit board, then a relatively large amount of space is required, particularly for large capacity memory systems. Moreover, the space between adjacent printed circuit boards is largely unused.It has therefore become popular in recent years to arrange the chip packages in stacks so as to increase the density of the IC chips within the space available. U.S. Patent No. 4,956,694 of Floyd Eide, which issued September 11, 1990 and is assigned to the assignee of the present application, describes arrangements in which leadless chip carriers are stacked in order to greatly increase chip density. Each of the leadless chip carriers encapsulates a chip therein and has side faces provided with conductors extending between top and bottom surfaces of the leadless chip carrier. The data signal input and/or output terminals, power and ground terminals of each encapsulated chip are electrically connected to these conductors on the sides of the leadless chip carriers. The chip carriers are stacked, one above the other, such that the various conductors of the chip carriers are in alignment and 

are electrically connected to one another. The result is a relatively dense stack of chips wired in parallel. At the same time, each chip is connected to a different set of aligned enable signal conductors so as to be enabled independently of all of the other chips in the stack.The chip packages or carriers used to accomplish chip stacking can assume various different forms. An example of a chip package or carrier which is externally configurable is described in a copending patent application, Serial No. 07/552,578 of John Forthun, filed July 13, 1990 and commonly assigned with the present application. The Forthun application describes a chip carrier having a central cavity in which the chip is encapsulated. A carrier terminal provided on the outside of the chip
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of making a chip package comprising the steps of: providing a chip having a plurality of terminals on a surface thereof; providing a substrate having a plurality of bonding pads on a surface thereof and at least one aperture therein; attaching the chip to the substrate; and wire bonding the terminals of the chip to the bonding pads of the substrate through the at least one aperture in the substrate.
2. A method of making a chip package in accordance with claim 1, comprising the further steps of: filling the at least one aperture in the substrate with epoxy after the step of wire bonding the terminals is completed; and grinding the epoxy flush with an upper surface of the substrate.
3. A method of making a chip package in accordance with claim 2, further comprising the step of: lapping the chip to a desired thickness after the step of grinding the epoxy is completed.
4. A method of making a chip package in accordance with claim 3, further comprising the step of: electrically testing the chip package after the step of lapping the chip is completed. 


5. A method of making a chip package in accordance with claim 4, further comprising the step of: programming the chip package after the step of electrically testing the chip package is completed, the step of programming being carried out by wire bonding a chip enable trace to one of a plurality of optional bonding pads in a bonding option array located within the substrate.
6. A method of making a chip package in accordance with 1, wherein: the chip has an active side on which the plurality of terminals is located; the substrate has a lower layer having a lower side and an opposite upper side on which the plurality of bonding pads is located; and the step of attaching the chip comprises attaching the active surface of the chip to the lower side of the lower substrate layer.
7. A method of making a chip package in accordance with claim 6, wherein: the step of wire bonding comprises coupling at least some of the plurality of terminals of the chip to corresponding ones of the plurality of bonding pads by wires extending through the at least one aperture in the substrate.
8. A method of making a chip package comprising the steps of: providing a chip; providing a substrate; attaching the chip to the substrate to form a chip package; and lapping the chip of the chip package to a desired thickness. 


9. A method of making a chip package in accordance with claim 8, wherein: the chip has a plurality of electrical terminals thereon and an outer periphery defined by a plurality of outer edges; the substrate has a plurality of electrical terminals therein; and conducting the further step of wire bonding the plurality of electrical terminals of the chip to the plurality of electrical terminals of the substrate so that the wire bonding is confined within the outer periphery of the chip.
10. A method of making a chip package comprising the steps of: providing a chip having a plurality of electrical terminals thereon; providing a substrate having a plurality of electrical terminals thereon; attaching the chip to the substrate; electrically coupling the plurality of electrical terminals on the chip to the plurality of electrical terminals on the substrate to form a chip package; and electrically testing the chip package.
11. A method of making a chip package in accordance with claim 10, wherein: the step of electrically testing the chip package is carried out at a plurality of different temperatures. 


12. A method of making a chip package in accordance with claim 10, comprising the further step of: programming the coupling of one of the plurality of electrical terminals of the chip to one of the plurality of electrical terminals on the substrate after the step of electrically testing has been completed.
13. A method of making a stack of chip packages comprising the steps of: making a plurality of chip packages, each having a chip attached to a substrate; electrically testing each of the chip packages; and assembling the electrically tested chip packages into a stack.
14. A chip package comprising the combination of: a chip having opposite side edges defining a peripheral wall of the chip; a substrate coupled to the chip and having a plurality of electrical terminals contained within the peripheral wall of the chip; and a plurality of bonding wires contained within the peripheral wall of the chip and each coupling one of the plurality of electrical terminals of the chip to one of the plurality of electrical terminals of the substrate.
15. A chip package in accordance with claim 14, wherein the substrate extends beyond the peripheral wall of the chip at opposite sides thereof.
16. A chip package in accordance with claim 14, wherein the chip has at least one aperture therein for receiving the plurality of bonding wires. 



17. A chip package comprising the combination of: a chip having a plurality of terminals on an active surface thereof; a lower substrate layer having opposite upper and lower surfaces and at least one aperture extending between the upper and lower surfaces and a plurality of bonding pads on the upper surface, the lower surface of the lower substrate being coupled to the active surface of the chip; a plurality of bonding wires, each extending through the at least one aperture in the lower substrate layer and coupling one of the plurality of terminals on the active surface of the chip to one of the plurality of bonding pads on the upper surface of the lower substrate layer; and an upper substrate layer disposed on the upper surface of the lower substrate layer.
18. A chip package in accordance with claim 17, wherein the upper substrate layer has at least one aperture therein communicating with the at least one aperture in the lower substrate layer; and the at least one aperture in the upper substrate layer and the at least one aperture in the lower substrate layer are filled with epoxy.
19. A chip package in accordance with claim 17, wherein the lower substrate layer has a plurality of conductive pads on an outer periphery of the upper surface thereof coupled to the plurality of bonding pads on the upper surface by metallized strips. 


20. A chip package in accordance with claim 19, wherein the lower substrate layer and the upper substrate layer together define a plurality of outer edges of the chip package, and further including a plurality of conductive elements mounted on at least one of the plurality of outer edges of the chip package and coupled to the plurality of conductive pads on the lower substrate layer.
21. A chip package in accordance with claim 17, wherein the plurality of terminals on the active surface of the chip are divided into first and second groups of terminals adjacent opposite ends of the chip, the lower substrate layer has two apertures therein disposed over the first and second groups of terminals respectively on the chip, and the plurality of bonding pads on the upper surface of the lower substrate layer are divided into first and second groups of bonding pads adjacent the first and second apertures respectively in the lower substrate layer.
22. A chip package in accordance with claim 21, wherein the upper substrate layer has first and second apertures therein disposed over and larger in size than the first and second apertures respectively in the lower substrate layer.
23. A chip package in accordance with claim 22, wherein the first and second apertures in the lower substrate layer and the first and second apertures in the upper substrate layer are filled with epoxy. 


24. A chip package in accordance with claim 17, further including a bonding option array disposed on the upper surface of the lower substrate layer and including a central terminal coupled to one of the plurality of bonding pads, a plurality of optional bonding pads and a bonding wire coupling the central terminal to one of the plurality of optional bonding pads.
25. A chip package in accordance with claim 24, wherein the upper substrate layer has an aperture therein disposed over the bonding option array.
26. A chip package in accordance with claim 25, wherein the aperture in the upper substrate layer is filled with epoxy.
27. A stack of chip packages comprising the combination of: a base; a stack of chip packages mounted on the base and each of the chip packages having a plurality of conductors at an outer periphery thereof coupled to a plurality of conductors on the other chip packages by a plurality of vertical conductors; and each of the chip packages comprising a chip bonded to an underside of a substrate and having a plurality of electrical terminals wire bonded within the chip package to a plurality of electrical terminals within the substrate. 


28. A stack of chip packages in accordance with claim 27, wherein each chip package includes a lower substrate layer bonded to the chip and having the plurality of electrical terminals on an upper surface thereof adjacent at least one aperture therein, and the plurality of electrical terminals on the chip are bonded to the plurality of electrical terminals on the upper surface of the lower substrate layer by bonding wires extending through the at least one aperture in the lower substrate layer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
