<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629261</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WELL UPLIFT SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B4312	E21B4312	E21B4334	E21B4340	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B43	E21B43	E21B43	E21B43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of raising material, such as production fluid (6), from a bore hole (3) involves pumping water down a pipe (7) to a fluidising unit (A) so that the water activates and entrains the material and carries it up through a discharge conduit (8) to a separator (B).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MERPRO TORTEK LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MERPRO TORTEK LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS JOHN EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH ROBERT MELVILLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, JOHN EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, ROBERT MELVILLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 WELL VPLTFT SYSTEMConventionally, production fluids, such as oil, are lifted out of a predrilled or naturally formed well hole in the ground, by the pressure under which an underground reservoir of the product is maintained, either naturally or artificially by injection in the neighbourhood of the reservoir of fluid such as water. Alternatively they are recovered by lowering a pump into the well hole at the lower end of a discharge conduit. If the product reservoir is no. under a naturally occurring pressure, and the local pressure is raised by injection of, for example, water, the system is inefficient in that the applied pressure is dispersed throughout the ground and is not effective to direct the product up the well hole. Downhole pumps are also inefficient in that they necessarily transfer with the product spoil, in the form of particulate solids, which abrade, and at worst block, the pump. Production fluids are usually two phase, and include liquid and gas in varying proportions. Pumps have difficulty in handling such mixtures. Mechanical pumping also tends to shear liquid oil and to form, with the water present, an emulsion ¥hich akes a long time to separate again. Downhole pumps are al~o expensive and have high maintenance costs as a esult of the inaccessibility of their moving parts.In accordance with the present invention, a method of raising production fluid or material from a bore hole in the ground comprises pumping water down a first conduit in the bore hole into contact with the material whereby the material is entrained and carried up through a second conduit in the bore hole to a separator where at least partial separation of the water and material takes place.By means of this method production fluids can readily be recovered from down a well, particularly as oil and gas will tend to rise in the water, quite apart from being entrained by it. Slugs of gas in the production fluid can be accommodated without difficulty. Emulsification of the oil with water is minimal so that preliminary separation of 

the oil, gas and water at the surface can be conducted comparatively simply with a short residence time in, for example, a settling tank or cyclone system. Although the method may not be quite as efficient in transferring the production fluids, as the downhole pump, the previously mentions problems of using pumps downhole are avoided and the trade off is considered to be beneficial.The water may be taken at source, ie may be deaerated aquafier water thereby avoiding compatibility problems.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of raising production fluid or other material from a bore hole (3) in the ground, the method comprising pumping water down a first conduit (7) in the bore hole into contact with the material whereby the material is entrained and carried up through a second conduit (8) in the bore hole to a separator (B) where at least partial separation of the water and material takes place.
2. A method according to claim 1, in which the water which has been at least partially separated from the material passes around a closed loop (14,G) and is pumped down the first conduit (7) again.
3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which the first and second conduits (7,8) lead respectively to and from a fluidising unit (A) located downhole and of a kind having a supply duct (SD) which is connected to the first conduit and a discharge duct (DD) which is connected to the second conduit and which is located within the supply duct (SD) , the end of the discharge duct (DD) extending beyond the end of the supply duct.
4. A method according to claim 3, in which the water is arranged to swirl as it leaves the supply duct (SD) .
5. A system for raising material from a bore hole in the ground, the system comprising a fluidising unit (A) which is arranged to be located downhole and which includes a supply duct (SD) having an outlet at its end and being connected to a first conduit (7) which extends from a pump (PI) down through the bore hole to supply fluid under pressure to the supply duct, and, within the supply duct, a discharge duct (DD) , which has at its end an inlet located beyond the fluid supply duct outlet, the discharge duct being connected to a second conduit (8) which extends 


up through the bore hole to a separator (B) for at least partially separating the fluid and the material.
6. A system according to claim 5, in which the supply duct (SD) is provided with means (11) for causing the fluid to leave the supply duct outlet with a swirling motion.
7. A system according to claim 5 or claim 6, in which there is a closed loop (14,G) interconnecting an outlet from the separator for the separated fluid and an inlet of the pump. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 23 August 1993 (23.08.93); original claims 1 and 3 replaced by amended claim 1; claims 4 - 7 amended and renumbered as claims 3 - 6 other claims unchanged (2 pa
1. A method of raising production fluid from a well (3) in the ground, the method comprising pumping water down a
5 first conduit (7) in the well into contact with the material whereby the material is entrained and carried up through a second conduit (8) in the well to a separator (B) where at least partial separation of the water and fluid takes place; characterised in that the first and second
10 conduits (7,8) lead respectively to and from a fluidising unit (A) located downhole and of a kind having a supply duct (SD) which is connected to the first conduit and a discharge duct (DD) which is connected to the second conduit and which is located within the supply duct (SD) ,
15 the end of the discharge duct (DD) extending beyond the end of the supply duct.
2. A method according to claim 1, in which the water which has been at least partially separated from the
20 material passes around a closed loop (14,G) and is pumped down the first conduit (7) again.
3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which the water is arranged to swirl as it leaves the supply duct
25 (SD) .
4. A system for raising production fluid from a well in the ground, the system comprising a fluidising unit (A) which is arranged to be located downhole and which includes
30 a supply duct (SD) having an outlet at its end and being connected to a first conduit (7) which extends from a pump (PI) down through the well to supply fluid under pressure to the supply duct, and, within the supply duct, a discharge duct (DD) , which has at its end an inlet located
35 beyond the fluid supply duct outlet, the discharge duct being connected to a second conduit (8) which extends up 


through the well to a separator (B) for at least partially separating the fluid and the material.
5. A system according to claim 4, in which the supply duct (SD) is provided with means (11) for causing the fluid to leave the supply duct outlet with a swirling motion.
6. A system according to claim 4 or claim 5, in which there is a closed loop (14,G) interconnecting an outlet from the separator for the separated fluid and an inlet of the pump. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE19
Old claims 1 and 3 have been combined. Old claims 4 to 7 have been renumbered and their dependencies have been amended accordingly.
The introduction will be amended during the international preliminary examination for consistency with amended claim 1.
Claim 1 has been amended in order to distinguish from the art cited in the international search report. It is submitted that this claim is not an obvious combination of US-A-4603735 and FR-A-2633263. The present invention relates to removing production fluids such as oil and gas from a bore hole in the ground. FR-A-2633263 relates only to an apparatus for fluidising a bed of solid particles to produce a slurry. There is nothing in this citation to suggest that the apparatus is applicable to the transportation of fluids. There is therefore no reason why a person skilled in the art would consider using this apparatus in a bore hole to remove production fluid as there is no indication that it would be practical in such circumstances.
To clarify the distinction over this citation, the claims have been amended to refer to "raising production fluid from a well", instead of "raising production fluid or other material from a bore hole".
The invention offers a considerable improvement over the apparatus of US-A-4603735. The jet pump of this citation will work at high velocity and will therefore tend to shear liquid oil to form with the water present an emulsion containing very fine droplets of oil which are difficult to separate from the water after pumping up to the surface. The present invention allows the production fluid to be removed from the bore hole much more gently without causing oil droplet breakup. This allows much easier separation at the surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
