<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619011</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POLARIZERLESS MAGNETO-OPTIC SPEED AND TORQUE SENSOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R33032	G01P342	G01L312	G01P3486	G01R33032	G01P3488	G01L312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01P	G01L	G01P	G01R	G01P	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	G01P3	G01L3	G01P3	G01R33	G01P3	G01L3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION PRODUCTS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDD ROBERT E III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDD, ROBERT, E., III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a sensor for determining 
speed/torque of a rotatable member, comprising a 
magneto-optic material, a magnetic field source, and optic 
fiber means connectable to a source of light for providing 
an optical path for input light between said light source 
and said magneto-optic material and for output light 
exiting said magneto-optic material, said material being 
positionable within said magnetic field and said magnetic 
positionable within said magnetic field and said magnetic 
field being modulated by rotation of the member so that 
said magnetic field modulation corresponds to speed/torque 
of the rotatable member. The invention also relates to a method for determining the 
speed/torque of a rotatable member, comprising the steps 
of providing a magnetic field, positioning a magneto-optic 
material within a portion of the magnetic field so that 
the material responds to changes in the magnetic field, 
and modulating said magnetic field portion in relation to 
speed/torque of the rotatable member. One such sensor and method are known from Patent Abstracts 
of Japan, vol, 1, No. 102 (P-448), 18th April 1986, and 
from JP-A-6 0 235 065. In this known sensor and method, 
however, the operation is dependent on the use of  
 
polarisers. Accordingly, the magneto-optic material is positioned in 
the light path between input and output polarisers (or 
between an input polariser and an output analyser which is 
effectively a polariser). The need for polarisers 
introduces complication and expense - in particular, 
because polarisers use expensive material and may be 
adversely affected by harsh environments such as high 
temperatures within a turbine engine for example. The 
invention aims to overcome these problems. According to one aspect of the invention, therefore, the 
known sensor is characterised in that said magneto-optic 
material has domains responsive to said modulated magnetic 
field and diffracting said light, said output light having 
a diffraction pattern with an energy distribution that 
changes in response to said modulated magnetic field, said 
optic fiber means receiving a predetermined portion of 
said output light without a polarizer. According to another aspect of the invention, the known 
method is characterized by the steps of directing light 
into the material and using the modulated magnetic field 
to change domains of the material resulting in a 
diffraction pattern for the light that has an energy 
distribution that changes in correspondence with the 
modul
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sensor (50) for determining speed/torque of a 
rotatable member (T), comprising a magneto-optic material 

(40), a magnetic field source (60), and optic fiber means 
(52) connectable to a source of light for providing an 

optical path for input light between said light source and 
said magneto-optic material (40) and for output light 

exiting said magneto-optic material (40), said material 
being positionable within said magnetic field and said 

magnetic field being modulated by rotation of the member 
(T) so that said magnetic field modulation corresponds to 

speed/torque of the rotatable member (T), characterized in 
that said magneto-optic material (40) has domains 

responsive to said modulated magnetic field and 
diffracting said light, said output light having a 

diffraction pattern with an energy distribution that 
changes in response to said modulated magnetic field, said 

optic fiber means (52) receiving a predetermined portion 
of said output light without a polarizer. 
A sensor according to claim 1, characterised in that 
the output light includes a centre beam (74) at the centre 

of the diffraction pattern, the optic fibre means (52) 
being positioned to receive the centre beam (74).  

 
A sensor according to claim 2, characterised in that 
the domains cause changes in intensity of the centre beam 

(74) by diffracting the input light in response to the 
modulated magnetic field. 
A sensor according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the magneto-optic material (40) has 

random domains in an unsaturated state which cause a 

conical diffraction pattern having the said centre beam 
(74) and concentric ring-like diffracted orders (e.g. 76). 
A sensor according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the modulated magnetic field (60) 

causes the magneto-optic material (40) to alternate 
between saturation and non-saturation at a frequency 

corresponding to the speed of the rotatable member (T). 
A sensor according to claim 3 or 4, characterised in 
that energy in diffracted higher orders (76) transfers 

into the centre beam (74) as the magnetic field increases 
towards saturation of the magneto-optic material (40). 
A sensor according to claim 6, characterised in that 
the modulated magnetic field is normal to a planar surface 

of the magneto-optic material (40).  
 
A sensor according to claim 7, characterised in that 
the domains in the magneto-optic material (40) have a 

polarisation rotation of 90° so that energy in the 
centre beam (74) is substantially diffracted when the 

normal magnetic field is substantially zero. 
A sensor according to claim 8, characterised in that 
the magnetic field source is a permanent magnet (60) 

positioned near the rotatable member (T). 
A sensor according to claim 9, characterised in that 
the permanent magnet is a ring magnet (60) and the 

rotatable member includes magnetically responsive elements 
(T) that rotate with the member and pass in proximity to 

the ring magnet (60) to modulate the normal magnetic 
fields through the magneto-optic material (40). 
A sensor according to claim 10, characterised by a 
photo-detector which receives the said predetermined 

portion of the output light from the optic fibre means 
(66) and converts the intensity of the output light 

portion to an electrical signal having a period 
corresponding to the speed or torque of the rotatable 

member (T). 
A sensor according to any preceding claim,  
 

characterised in that the optic fibre means (52) transmits 
input light from the light source to the magneto-optic 

material (40) through a lens (54) and transmits the output 
light portion from the magneto-optic material (40) through 

the lens (54) to the light detector, the magneto-optic 
material having a light reflective surface for directing 

the output light portion towards the optic fibre means 
(52) along a folded optical path. 
A sensor according to claim 12, characterised in that 
the optic fibre means comprises a single optic fibre (82, 

Fig. 8B). 
A sensor according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the magneto-optic material is a thin 

diffractive Faraday film (40). 
A sensor according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the magneto-optic material exhibits 

stripe domains which are responsive to the modulated 
magnetic field to change a diffraction pattern of the 

output light, and by in-plane magnetic field means (60) to 
form the stripe domains in the said material (40). 
A sensor according to claim 15, characterised in that 
the optic fibre means (52) receives a predetermined  

 
portion of the output light from a diffracted beam of 

higher order than zero. 
A sensor according to claim 15 or 16, characterised 
in that the modulated magnetic field is normal to a planar 

surface of the magneto-optic material, the domain having a 
duty cycle which changes in response to the normal 

magnetic field. 
A sensor according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said optic fiber means (52) transmits light from said 

light source to said magneto-optic material (40) to create 
a diffraction pattern having a zero order light beam (74) 

and one or more higher order diffracted light beams (76), 
said fiber optic means (52) including means (66,68) 

positioned to receive said zero order beam. 
A sensor according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that said input light is unpolarized. 
A method for determining the speed/torque of a 
rotatable member (T), comprising the steps of providing a 

magnetic field, positioning a magneto-optic material (40) 
within a portion of the magnetic field so that the 

material responds to changes in the magnetic field, and 
modulating said magnetic field portion in relation to  

 
speed/torque of the rotatable member (T), characterized by 

the steps of directing light into the material and using 
the modulated magnetic field to change domains of the 

material resulting in a diffraction pattern for the light 
that has an energy distribution that changes in 

correspondence with the modulated magnetic field portion, 
and monitoring without using a polarizer a predetermined 

portion of the diffraction pattern to determine the 
speed/torque of the rotatable member. 
A method according to claim 20, characterized by the 
step of using an optic fiber (52) to receive a portion of 

said diffraction pattern and to transmit said portion to a 
light detector that converts intensity of said portion to 

an electrical signal that corresponds to the magnetic 
field. 
A method according to claim 20 or 21, characterised 
in that the diffraction pattern includes an undiffracted 

center beam (74) that is received by the optic fiber (52) 
and using a random domain magneto-optic material (40) to 

diffract the light. 
A method according to claim 22, characterised in that 
the step of using a random domain magneto-optic material 

(40) produces a conical diffraction pattern, and by the  
 

step of placing the material (40) in the magnetic field so 
that the changing magnetic field is normal to a planar 

surface of the material (40) and using the normal magnetic 
field to vary the duty cycle of the domains thereby 

modulating the energy distribution of the diffraction 
pattern. 
A method according to claim 22 or 23, characterised 
in that the domains exhibit a 90 degree polarization 

rotation. 
A method according to claim 24, characterised in that 
the step of placing the magneto-optic material (40) in the 

magnetic field results in saturation and non-saturation 
magnetic field conditions as the magnetic field changes so 

that diffraction of energy away from the center beam 
decreases as the material approaches saturation. 
A method according to claim 25, characterised by the 
additional step of providing the magnetic field using a 

permanent magnet (60). 
A method according to claim 25, characterised in that 
the step of modulating the magnetic field portion is 

performed by using one or more magnetizable elements on 
the rotatable member in proximity to the magnet so as to  

 
effect modulation of the magnetic field. 
A method according to claim 27, characterised in that 
the monitoring step includes the step of placing an optic 

fiber (52) at a predetermined distance from the material 
(40) so that the center beam is transmitted into the optic 

fiber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
