<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CURABLE AQUEOUS DISPERSIONS OF ACRYLATE-MODIFIED POLYAMIDE RESIN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G6900	C08G6948	C08L7700	C08L7700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G69	C08G69	C08L77	C08L77	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Aqueous dispersions of acrylate-modified polyamide resin having unreacted acrylate functionality are provided. These acrylate-modified polyamide dispersions cure upon exposure to either ultraviolet radiation or thermal energy to form cross-linked films useful, for example, as adhesive coatings. In a preferred embodiment, acrylate-modified dispersions are formed by the addition of a polyol ester having a multiplicity of acrylate ester groups to a polyamide resin having a multiplicity of free amino groups under conditions effective to form the Michael addition product thereof.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNION CAMP CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNION CAMP CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIHART CHARLES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUMACK DANIEL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH GEORGE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIHART CHARLES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUMACK DANIEL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH GEORGE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CURABLE AQUEOUS DISPERSIONS OF ACRYLATE-MODIFIED POLYAMIDE RESINBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to aqueous dispersions of 5 polyamide resin, to modifying such resin dispersions by Michael addition with polyacrylates, and to curing acrylate-modified resin dispersions by exposure to radiation or thermal energy.Polyamide resins are well known as a class of 10 resins, as are numerous methods for their preparation.Polyamide resins are typically manufactured by reacting a di- or polyfunctional amine with a di- or polyfunctional acid. The properties of the polyamide resins will vary considerably depending upon the particular reactants 15 employed in their synthesis. A known subclass of polyamides are aminoamide polymers having free (i.e., non-acylated) primary and secondary amino groups.Polyamide resins are widely used in a variety of industrial applications. Polyamides are especially useful 20 as adhesives and for forming water and solvent resistant coatings on substrates such as paper. An important related use of polyamide resins is as binders in printing inks and the like where film toughness, flexibility, and adhesion * are important properties.25 However, most polyamides are thermoplastic ft, polymers which readily deform under heat and pressure and offer no practicable means by which they can be cured to form cross-linked, thermoset polymers. Cross-linked polyamides would be useful for many applications where 30 properties such as solvent resistance are important. In 

addition, non-crosslinked, thermoplastic polyamides can be subject to cold flow, re elting, moisture degradation, and other modes of deterioration.Unlike most polyamides, certain means are known for cross-linking aminoamides. However, such cross-linking generally requires a "two package" system, the aminoamide resin being one package, and a co-reactive resin — typically an epoxy resin — being the other package. Such "two package" systems are extensively used, but they require that two containers be employed and that considerable measuring and mixing be performed at the point of use. In addition, "two package" systems provide limited working time after mixing and generally require substantial time and/or heating to effect even partial cure. One known approach to curing hot melt adhesives involves blending acrylate polymers into certain polyamides. However, the acrylate groups in these polymers have already been polymerized and are nonfunctional. Thus, the polyamides and acrylate polymers in such blends are not chemically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for preparing a curable aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin, comprising contacting an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having a multiplicity of free amino groups with a polyacrylate having a multiplicity of non-polymerized acrylate groups under conditions which effect Michael addition of the polyamide resin and the polyacrylate through said free amino groups and said non-polymerized acrylate groups, the initial ratio of non-polymerized acrylate groups to free amino groups being greater than 1.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the curable aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin is radiation curable,
3. The method of Claim 1 wherein the aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin is derived from polymerized unsaturated fatty acid.
4. The method of Claim 1 wherein the aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin is derived from dimer acid.
5. The method of Claim 1 wherein said polyacrylate is a polyol ester having a multiplicity of non-polymerized acrylate ester groups.
6. The method of Claim 1 wherein said polyacrylate is trimethylolpropane triacrylate.
7. The method of Claim 1 wherein the initial ratio of acrylate groups to free amino groups is greater than about 2. 


 8. The method of Claim 1 wherein the initial ratio of acrylate groups to free amino groups is greater than about 3.
9. A product produced by the method of Claim 1.
10. A method for preparing an aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin curable upon exposure to thermal energy, comprising contacting an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having a multiplicity of free amino groups with a polyacrylate having a multiplicity of non-polymerized acrylate groups under conditions which effect Michael addition of the polyamide resin and the polyacrylate through said free amino groups and said non- polymerized acrylate groups, the initial ratio of non- polymerized acrylate groups to free amino groups being greater than 1.
11. The method of Claim 10 wherein the polyamide resin has an amine number of between about 5 and about 20.
12. A product produced by the method of Claim 10.
13. The method of Claim 10 further comprising admixing with said polyamide resin and said polyacrylate an effective amount of an initiator for thermal curing.
14. A method for preparing an aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin curable upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation, comprising contacting an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having a multiplicity of free amino groups with a polyacrylate having a multiplicity of non-polymerized acrylate groups under conditions which effect Michael addition of the polyamide resin and the polyacrylate through said free amino groups and said non- polymerized acrylate groups, the initial ratio of non- 


polymerized acrylate groups to free amino groups being greater than 1.
15. The method of Claim 14 wherein the polyamide resin has an amine number of between about 5 and about 20.
16. A product produced by the method of Claim 14.
17. The method of Claim 14 further comprising admixing with said polyamide resin and said polyacrylate an effective amount of an initiator for ultraviolet curing.
18. A method for preparing an aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin curable upon exposure to thermal energy or ultraviolet radiation, comprising the steps of: providing an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having free amino groups; and mixing a surfactant and at least one polyacrylate having non-polymerized acrylate groups with said aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin under conditions effective to form an adduct of the polyacrylate and the polyamide resin.
19. The method of Claim 18 wherein the aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin is derived from polymerized unsaturated fatty acid.
20. The method of Claim 18 wherein the aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin is derived from dimer acid.
21. The method of Claim 18 wherein said polyacrylate is a polyol ester having a multiplicity of non-polymerized acrylate ester groups. 


 22. The method of Claim 18 wherein said polyacrylate is trimethylolpropane triacrylate.
23. The method of Claim 18 further comprising admixing a cationic surfactant with said polyamide resin and said polyacrylate.
24. A product produced by the method of Claim 18.
25. A curable aqueous dispersion of acrylate- modified polyamide resin prepared by contacting an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having a multiplicity of free amino groups with a polyacrylate having a multiplicity of non-polymerized acrylate groups under conditions which effect Michael addition of the polyamide resin and the polyacrylate through said free amino groups and said non- polymerized acrylate groups, the initial ratio of non- polymerized acrylate groups to free amino groups being greater than 1.
26. The aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin according to Claim 25 that is curable by exposure to radiation.
27. An aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin curable upon exposure to thermal energy, prepared by contacting an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having a multiplicity of free amino groups with a polyacrylate having a multiplicity of non-polymerized acrylate groups under conditions which effect Michael addition of the polyamide resin and the polyacrylate through said free amino groups and said non-polymerized acrylate groups, the initial ratio of non-polymerized acrylate groups to free amino groups being greater than 1. 


 28. The aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin of Claim 27 further comprising an effective amount of an initiator for thermal curing.
29. An aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin curable upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation, prepared by contacting an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having a multiplicity of free amino groups with a polyacrylate having a multiplicity of non- polymerized acrylate groups under conditions which effect Michael addition of the polyamide resin and the polyacrylate through said free amino groups and said non- polymerized acrylate groups, the initial ratio of non- polymerized acrylate groups to free amino groups being greater than 1.
30. The aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin of Claim 29 further comprising an effective amount of an initiator for ultraviolet curing.
31. An aqueous dispersion of acrylate-modified polyamide resin which is polymerizable upon exposure to thermal energy or ultraviolet radiation, prepared by mixing an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having free amino groups with a surfactant and at least one polyacrylate under conditions sufficient to form an adduct of the polyacrylate and the polyamide resin.
32. An adhesive coating prepared from the aqueous acrylate-modified dispersion of Claim 25.
33. An adhesive coating prepared from the aqueous acrylate-modified dispersion of Claim 27.
34. An adhesive coating prepared from the aqueous acrylate-modified dispersion of Claim 29. 


 35. An adhesive coating prepared from the aqueous acrylate-modified dispersion of Claim.31.
36. A Michael addition product of an aqueous dispersion of polyamide resin having a multiplicity of free amino groups and a polyacrylate having a multiplicity of non-polymerized acrylate groups, wherein the polyamide resin and the polyacrylate are reacted through said free amino groups and said acrylate groups. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
