<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653361</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pourer for pouring at least two different liquids.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D4706	B65D4706	B65D6700	B65D6702	B65D8132	B65D8132	G01F1110	G01F1126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D47	B65D47	B65D67	B65D67	B65D81	B65D81	G01F11	G01F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pourer (1,190,200,210,250,300,350,360) of at least two 
different liquids for concurrently pouring from 

adjacent containers (B,C) of a bottle (A) has a main pourer 
body (2) with pourer body sections (3,4) which is engagable, 

for example by snap fitting, with the respective container 
(B,C). Each pourer body section (3,4) has a liquid passageway 

(10,11) which extends from a liquid inlet (10a,11a) to a 
pouring outlet (10b,11b). The liquid passageways (10,11) 

comprise upstand portions (10c,11c) extending into the 
containers (B,C) and separate upper bend portions (10d,11d) 

leading to the outlets (10b,11b). The angle between the 
longitudinal axes of the outlets (10b,11b) is approximately 

120° for concurrent pouring of the liquids to opposite 
sides of a glass (F). 
Separate air passageways (30,31) extend from air inlet parts 
(30a,31a) to air outlets (30b,31b). The air flow is 

controlled by an air pot (50) over each outlet (30b,31b). The 
air pots (50) are sized and positioned so that fluid does 

not enter the air passageways on pouring and only air is 
forced up the air passageways on finishing pouring. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDV OPERATIONS IRELAND LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDV OPERATIONS IRELAND LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOY BRIAN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUGG SIMON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGHT RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOY BRIAN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUGG SIMON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGHT RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a pourer and in particular to a 
pourer for pouring liquids such as alcoholic beverage 
liqueurs and the like from two or more containers. A new liqueur product has recently been introduced which 
is provided in a single container having two sub-containers, 
one for each liqueur. One of the liqueurs is 
white coloured cream liqueur and the other is a dark 
coloured coffee liqueur. It is intended that a user pours 
the dark liqueur from one of the sub-containers into a 
glass and the white liqueur is then poured down the 
sidewall of the glass to lie on top of the dark liqueur 
and present an aesthetically pleasing and pleasant tasting 
liqueur drink. Conventionally, the sub-containers are 
closed by separate stoppers which are removed as required 
for pouring a desired liqueur from its sub-container. This invention is particularly directed towards providing 
a pourer for pouring from two or more sub-containers of 
this type. According to the invention there is provided a pourer for 
pouring at least two different liquids from containers, 
the pourer comprising a pourer body section associated 
with each container, each pourer body section having an 
air passageway and a pouring passageway, the passageways 
being arranged for substantially concurrent pouring of the 
different liquids from the containers.  One of the advantages of the invention is in providing a 
pourer which allows two different liquids to be poured 
simultaneously. In a preferred body of the invention the pouring 
passageways are arranged for substantially concurrent 
pouring of the liquids into a receptacle such as a glass. In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention, 
the passageways are arranged for substantially concurrent 
pouring of the liquids to different locations in a 
receptacle. The pouring of the separate liquids to different locations 
in a glass allows the liquids to be concurrently poured 
without substantial mixing. Thus, the liquids are allowed 
to separate to form a layered beverage. In a particularly preferred arrangement the passageways 
are arranged for substantially concurrent pouring of the 
liquids to opposite sides of a receptacle. Preferably, the angle between the axes of adjacent liquid 
outlets is at least 90°, most preferably approximately 
120°. This is the preferred angle at which the liquids can 
be poured concurrently while avoiding substantial mixing. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the liquid 
passageway outlets are at substantially the same level. In a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pourer for pouring at least two different liquids 
from containers, the pourer comprising a pourer body 

section associated with each container, each pourer 
body section having an air passageway and a pouring 

passageway, the passageways being arranged for 
substantially concurrent pouring of the different 

liquids from the containers. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the pouring 
passageways are arranged for substantially concurrent 

pouring of the liquids into a receptacle such as a 
glass. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
passageways are arranged for substantially concurrent 

pouring of the liquids to different locations in a 
receptacle. 
A pourer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein 
the passageways are arranged for substantially 

concurrent pouring of the liquids to opposite sides 
of a receptacle. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 3 or 4 wherein the angle 
between the axes of adjacent liquid outlets is at 

least 90°. 
A pourer as claimed in any of claims 3 to 5 wherein 
the angle between the axes of adjacent liquid outlets 

is approximately 120°. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the liquid passageway outlets are at substantially 

the same level. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the air inlet to the air vent passageway is offset 

from the associated liquid outlet. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the air inlet is located above the associated fluid 

outlet in the pouring position. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the air passageway includes a lower leg for extending 

into a liquid container and an upper leg which is 
offset from the lower leg, preferably the upper leg 

extends substantially at right angles to the lower 
leg. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the air passageway includes a constriction means to 

substantially prevent the flow of liquid through the 
air passageway. 
A pourer as claimed in any of claims 9 to 11 wherein 
the air passageway includes an end portion to promote 

the flow of liquid from the inside surface of the air 
passageway back into a container, preferably the end 

portion of the air passageway is a scarf portion. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
an air flow management means is provided at the 

outlet of the air passageway to promote the formation 
of air bubbles during pouring and to substantially 

retain air at the outlet on finishing pouring to 
substantially prevent liquid passing through the air 

passageway on finishing pouring. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 13 wherein the air flow 
management means comprises an air pot over the outlet 

of the air passageway, preferably the outlet of the 
air passageway defines, together with the air pot, an 

air management volume. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 14 wherein the air pot 
includes a base wall and a side wall which extends 

upwardly from the base wall, the base and/or side 
wall defining together with the outlet of the air 

passageway, the air management volume, preferably the 
air pot includes a location means for receiving the 

air passageway, preferably the location means 
comprises an entry hole in a top wall of the air pot 

through which the air passageway extends. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 14 or 15 wherein the air 
management volume is from 1 ml to 3 ml, preferably 

the air management volume is approximately 1.6 ml. 
A pourer as claimed in any of claims 14 to 16 wherein 
the air pot includes a drain hole to allow liquid to 

drain from the pot, preferably the air pot is shaped 
to provide a lead-in for the pourer on placement on 

a container. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the pourer includes a receptacle locating means to 

locate the pourer in a desired pouring position, 
preferably the receptacle locating means comprises a 

receptacle rim engaging recess in the pourer body. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the pouring passageways are arranged for concurrent 

pouring of the liquids at a predetermined volume 
ratio. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 19 wherein the pouring 
passageways and/or liquid outlets are of different 

cross-sectional area for concurrent pouring at a 
predetermined volume ratio. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
each pouring passageway includes an upstand portion 

which extends from the pourer body section into a 
container. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 21 wherein each liquid 
passageway includes an upper bend portion extending 

from the upstand portion to an outlet portion. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 22 wherein the upstand 
portion is generally elliptical in cross section to 

provide a smooth transition between the upstand and 
bend portions. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 22 or 23 wherein the 
angle, in front view, between the longitudinal axis 

of the bend portion of each passageway and the 
horizontal is from 40° to 80°, preferably 

approximately 60°. 
A pourer as claimed in any of claims 22 to 24 wherein 
the angle, in side view, between the longitudinal 

axis of the bend portion of each pouring passageway 
and the horizontal is from 20° to 60°, preferably 

approximately 40°. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the angle between the longitudinal axis of the outlet 

of each liquid passageway and the horizontal is from 
2° to 12°, preferably 8°. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the bore of each liquid pouring passageway gradually 

increases from the liquid outlet towards the liquid 
inlet. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the pourer body includes a cover for each pouring 

outlet. 
A pourer as claimed in any preceding claim including 
a sealing cap. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 37 wherein the cap 
includes a fluid seal for sealing each fluid outlet, 

preferably the cap includes an air seal for sealing 
each air vent. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 29 or 30 wherein the cap 
is arranged to prevent removal of the cap on lifting 

of the cap. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 31 wherein the cap is 
at least partially of flexible material and is a 

push-on fit to the body of the pourer, preferably the 
sidewall means of the cap is pressed inwardly to 

release the cap from the pourer. 
A pourer as claimed in any of claims 29 to 32 wherein 
the cap is configured to roll-on to the pourer body, 

on fitting, preferably a fluid seal engages with the 
fluid outlet on rolling of the cap into position on 

the pourer. 
A pourer as claimed in any of claims 29 to 33 wherein 
one of the pourer body and cap includes a ramp over 

 
which the cap rides on rolling into the closed 

position, preferably the ramp is provided on the 
pourer body. 
A pourer as claimed in claim 34 wherein the ramp 
defines a lead-in for engaging an air seal with the 

air vent on movement of the cap into the closed 
position. 
A pourer as claimed in any of claims 29 to 35 wherein 
the cap or pourer body includes a projection for 

engaging with a complementary recess on the other of 
the pourer body or cap when the cap is moved to the 

closed position. 
A bottle having at least two separate containers for 
different liquids and having a pourer as claimed in 

any preceding claim. 
A bottle as claimed in claim 37 wherein the bottle 
and pourer are integral. 
A bottle as claimed in claim 37 wherein each 
container has a neck and the pourer is fitted to the 

necks of the containers. 
A bottle as claimed in claim 39 including a jig to 
align the necks of adjacent containers on assembly of 

the containers so that the surfaces of the container 
necks presented to the pourer are substantially in a 

common plane. 
A bottle as claimed in claim 40 wherein the jig 
includes recesses to receive the respective container 

necks, the jig having lugs which project into the 
recesses to contact the respective container necks, 

 
preferably there are three lugs associated with each 

recess to define a three point contact with a 
respective container neck, preferably a first lug is 

located substantially on the centre line of the 
container neck and a second and third lug are located 

on the other side of the container neck, the second 
and third lugs being equi-angularly spaced from the 

centre line of the container neck. 
A bottle as claimed in any of claims 39 to 41 wherein 
each pourer body section includes snap projections to 

snap fittingly engage a corresponding formation on 
the container neck, preferably a seal is interposed 

between each pourer body section and the associated 
container, preferably the seal is of a compressible 

elastomeric material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
