<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640441</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device and method for enveloping a construction to be treated.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B24C300	B24C306	B63B5900	B63B5906	E04G2300	E04G2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B24C	B24C	B63B	B63B	E04G	E04G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B24C3	B24C3	B63B59	B63B59	E04G23	E04G23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Device and method for the treatment, in particular 
gritblasting, of a construction, a sealing being effected 

by means of an inflatable wall (3) and in case of open 
constructions an opposing wall (19). By preference the wall 

(3) is attached to a cabin (1) and the space between the 
wall and construction, and opposing wall respectively is 

kept under-pressured. With regard to the construction, the 
opposing wall may be secured and sealed respectively with 

any suitable means, such as magnetic means (23), velcro, 
means of suction (22). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLMAN HARM WILLEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLMAN, HARM WILLEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMAN HARM WILLEM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMAN, HARM WILLEM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a device for enclosing at least 
part of a construction to be treated, which device has been 
provided with a wall enclosing at least said part of the 
construction to be treated, and to a method for the 
treatment of constructions. Such devices are very much desired and have in many cases 
even been prescribed by law in the event of the treatment 
giving off substances that may be harmful to environment or 
health. This may occur when, for example, gritblasting 
constructions which in the process gives off substances 
that are harmful to environment or health, such as the grit 
itself, the primer which for steel constructions often 
contains lead, other paint residues, flue gas residues that 
may be found in chimneys, and polycyclic aromatic 
hydrocarbons or halogenated hydrocarbons, which 
constructions may have a closed wall such as a ship's hull, 
or an open framework, or else constructions that have 
seriously been contaminated due to fire damage, and so on. 
It is, however, also possible that the treatment itself 
causes undesired fumes to be given off, originating for 
instance from chemical substances used during the 
treatment. Increasingly more stringent environmental legislation 
prohibits in many cases undesired contaminations from being 
carried into the environment, i.e. into the soil, air or 
water, and therefore enforces the use of the devices 
outlined. So far this problem of covering a construction to be 
treated has been solved by a cloth covering fixed onto 
bars. This has many disadvantages, in particular the 
necessity for many working hours, problems with the sealing 
off with regard to the construction, and the latter in 
particular with an open construction when also at its other  
 
side a covering wall has to be attached. The invention aims at providing a construction which offers 
a considerable saving of time and allows for a better 
sealing off. In accordance with the invention this becomes possible by 
providing that the wall has at least one inflatable 
compartment, which in inflated state gives the wall a 
shape that at least on one side defines a volume that 
contains said part of the construction. In order to prevent substances released in the treatment 
from reaching the environment, it is provided according to 
a further elaboration of the invention that means are 
present to maintain an under-pressure in said volume. In 
case of possible leaks this means that due to these leaks 
outer air is drawn in and that the exhaust of the air from 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device for enclosing at least part of a construction to 
be treated, which device has been provided with a wall 

enclosing at least said part of the construction to be 
treated, characterized in that the wall has at least one 

inflatable compartment, which in inflated state gives the 
wall a shape that at least on one side defines a volume 

that contains said part of the construction. 
Device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that 
means are provided to maintain an under-pressure in said 

volume. 
Device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the wall is secured to a cabin having a side provided with 

an opening around which the wall has been fixedly mounted, 
which cabin is supported by an adjustable supporting 

structure. 
Device as claimed in any of the claims 1-3, 
characterized in that in inflated state the wall has a rim 

devised to be accommodated against a surface of the 
construction to be treated. 
Device as claimed in any of the claims 1-4 for the 
treatment of an open construction such as an open steel 

construction, characterized in that an opposing wall 
cooperates with the wall, which opposing wall is located on 

the other side of the construction parts with which the rim 
is in contact. 
Device as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that 
fastening means are present to attach the opposing wall to 

the wall's rim and/or the construction. 
Device as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the 
fastening means may contain magnetic means, suction means, 

velcro and/or mechanical means such as press-studs, hooks, 
 

toggles, etcetera. 
Device as claimed in claims 4-7, characterized in that 
the wall and the opposing wall between said construction 

parts join together and are provided with sealing means to 
form a sealing adjacent to a construction part. 
Device as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the 
sealing means are formed by flexible strips of air-impermeable 

material, brushes, teeth, pieces of foam 
plastic. 
Device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the 
wall is provided with pressure compartments that give it a 

different curved shape at different pressures. 
Device as claimed in claim 1 or 10, characterized in 
that the wall consists of a number of flexible sheets 

which, when the pressures in the compartments are changed, 
envelop a different volume. 
Device as claimed in any of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that it contains a supply for compression 

air and blasting granules and an exhaust for air, blasting 
granules and material blasted from the construction. 
Device as claimed in any of the claims 5-12, 
characterized in that the opposing wall has been provided 

with inflatable compartments. 
Device as claimed in claim 13, characterized in that 
the wall and the opposing wall have been provided with 

means of sealing and/or passage cooperating with each 
other, to allow under
 pressure passage of gas from the wall 
to inflatable compartments of the opposing wall. 
Device as claimed in any of the claims 5-14 
characterized in that the wall accommodates under-pressure 

compartments that exit near the wall and there secure by 
 

means of suction parts of the opposing wall. 
Device as claimed in claim 1 characterized in that 
it accommodates an inflatable ring with in the middle a 

funnel of flexible material. 
Device as claimed in claim 16 characterized in that the 
ring has been provided with inflatable legs at its bottom 

side. 
Device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that it 
is composed of a plurality of wall parts at least one of 

which has a duct and wing parts connected to said duct, 
said wing parts having first and second end surfaces in 

inflated state the first being convex and the second being 
concave, said convex end surfaces in inflated state 

protruding into the cavity of the opposed concave end 
surface, the concave end surfaces in their central regions 

being connected by connection means to the convex end 
surfaces. 
Device as claimed in claim 18, characterized in that 
the connecting means consist in gauze sheets connected to 

the convex and concave end surfaces. 
Method for the treatment, in particular the blasting, 
of a construction part, when successively different parts 

of the construction are enveloped and blasted, 
characterized in that a rim of the wall of a device as 

claimed in any of the claims 1-15 is accommodated against 
the construction, the part enveloped by the wall of the 

construction is treated, the blasting granules and the 
blasted-off material together with air are extracted in 

such way that a predetermined under-pressure is maintained, 
that, subsequently, the wall is released from the 

construction and is brought to another part of the 
construction and that there the blasting is repeated. 
Method as claimed in claim 18, characterized in that
 

after the termination of the blasting the opposing wall is 
released from said first part and is brought to another 

part of the construction, that the wall is connected to 
said other part in similar manner and that then the 

treatment of this part is effected. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
