<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615491</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A TARPAULIN PROVIDED WITH A DECORATION OF A REFLECTING MATERIAL AND A METHOD OF MAKING IT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06N300	B68B100	B60J708	B60J710	D06N300	D06N702	B68B100	B44F102	D06Q100	B44F100	D06Q100	D06N700	D06N318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06N	B68B	B60J	B60J	D06N	D06N	B68B	B44F	D06Q	B44F	D06Q	D06N	D06N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06N3	B68B1	B60J7	B60J7	D06N3	D06N7	B68B1	B44F1	D06Q1	B44F1	D06Q1	D06N7	D06N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tarpaulin comprising a fabric coated with a plastics material, preferably PVC, polyamide or polyprene, is provided with a decoration of a reflecting material by anchoring a reflecting sheet to a piece of tarpaulin cloth, whose plastics coating is of the same type as or is compatible with that of the tarpaulin, by high frequency welding or heat application, and then applying the piece of tarpaulin cloth provided with reflecting sheet, optionally formed in the desired shape, to the tarpaulin by hot air fusion. The reflecting sheet is preferably a retroreflecting PVC sheet of the naked prism type which is anchored to the piece of tarpaulin cloth by high frequency welding. Other types of reflective sheet may be applied to the piece of tarpaulin or directly to the tarpaulin by means of an adhesive and anchored thereto by placing a transparent flexible polymeric film on top of the reflecting sheet with its edges extending beyond those of the sheet and high frequency welding it to the piece of tarpaulin or the tarpaulin itself along the edges.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPPENHEJM ULRICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPPENHEJM, ULRICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OPPENHEJM ULRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OPPENHEJM, ULRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a tarpaulin comprising a fabric 
coated with a plastics material, preferably PVC, polyamide 
or polyprene, and provided with a reflecting decoration, as 
well as a method of providing a tarpaulin with such a 
reflecting decoration. Today tarpaulins usually consist of a fabric coated with a 
plastics material. The fabric must be strong and durable and 
is therefore most frequently made of polyester. The plastics 
coating must likewise be strong and durable, and it must 
moreover have a certain toughness and flexibility. It is 
mostly made of PVC or of a polyamide, such as nylon or 
aramide, or a polyprene, such as chloroprene rubber. 
Tarpaulins are used for many cover purposes, e.g. within the 
building industry, and in particular for covering trucks. 
They are also used for making larger tents, e.g. for use in 
temporary military quarters and refugee camps as well as for 
public events. It is common practice to print logos, company names, 
slogans, instructions and other decorations on truck 
tarpaulins, for informative and for advertising purposes. 
It would be a great advantage, both with respect to the 
advertising value and the traffic safety, if such 
decorations could be made of a reflecting material or could 
be combined with reflecting stripes or patterns, e.g. along 
the edges of the tarpaulins. In particular, this could 
contribute to making the trucks visible at night when the 
usually dark tarpaulins are otherwise difficult to see. 
According to UN rules on traffic safety, trucks and trailers 
are to be provided with rear truck planks, i.e. usually 
aluminium plates with yellow reflection, downwardly on the 
rear end. In general, the ordinary rules are that rearward  
 
reflectors are to be red, lateral reflectors to be yellow 
and forward reflectors to be white. However, reflectors 
arranged on the body or chassis of trucks will often be 
coated with dirt, and even when visible they do not give a 
sufficient impression of the size of the vehicle. Various reflective materials may be considered for application 
on tarpaulins. Paint or inks containing reflecting 
pigments are not suitable, partly because they are not 
durable exposed to wind and weather. The best reflection 
effect is obtained with so-called retroreflecting films or 
sheets, of which substantially two types are known: One is 
the glass bead type comprising a large number of fine glass 
beads embedded with specular base in a plastics sheet. The 
other is the prism (or cube corner) type with a large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tarpaulin comprising a fabric coated with a plastics 
material, preferably PVC, polyamide or polyprene, and provided 

with a decoration of a reflecting material, CHARACTERIZED 
in that it carries a piece of reflecting sheet anchored 

by high frequency welding or heat application to a piece of 
tarpaulin cloth, whose plastics coating is of the same type 

as or is compatible with that of the tarpaulin, said piece 
of tarpaulin cloth provided with reflecting sheet, optionally 

formed in a desired shape, being applied to the tarpaulin 
by hot air fusion. 
A tarpaulin according to claim 1, CHARACTERIZED in that 
it comprises a polyester fabric coated with PVC. 
A tarpaulin according to claim 1 or 2, CHARACTERIZED in 
that the reflecting sheet is a retroreflecting sheet of the 

glass bead type comprising a large number of fine glass 
beads embedded with a specular base in a plastics sheet or 

of the prism (cube corner) type with a large number of 
prisms impressed in the surface of a plastics sheet so that 

light is reflected through the sheet. 
A tarpaulin according to claim 3, CHARACTERIZED in that 

the reflecting sheet is a retroreflecting PVC sheet of the 
naked prism type. 
A tarpaulin comprising a fabric coated with a plastics 
material, preferably PVC, polyamide or polyprene, and provided 

with a decoration of a reflecting material, CHARACTERIZED 
in that it carries a piece of reflecting sheet of the 

glass bead type or the metallised or sealed prism type 
applied by adhesion to a piece of tarpaulin cloth, whose 

plastics coating is of the same type as or is compatible 
with that of the tarpaulin, and anchored to said piece and 

protected by an overlying transparent flexible film of a  
 

polymeric material compatible with the plastics coating of 
said piece, the edges of said film extending beyond those 

of the reflecting sheet and being high frequency welded to 
the piece of tarpaulin cloth, said piece of tarpaulin cloth 

provided with reflecting sheet, optionally formed in a 
desired shape, being in turn applied to the tarpaulin by hot 

air fusion. 
A tarpaulin comprising a fabric coated with a plastics 
material, preferably PVC, polyamide or polyprene, and provided 

with a decoration of a reflecting material, CHARACTERIZED 
in that it carries a piece of reflecting sheet of the 

glass bead type or the metallized or sealed prism type 
applied by adhesion directly to the tarpaulin and anchored 

to the tarpaulin and protected by an overlying transparent 
flexible film of a polymeric material compatible with the 

plastics coating of the tarpaulin, the edges of said film 
extending beyond those of the reflecting sheet and being 

high frequency welded to the tarpaulin. 
A method of providing a tarpaulin comprising a fabric 
coated with a plastics material, preferably PVC, polyamide 

or polyprene, with a decoration of a reflecting material, 
CHARACTERIZED in that a reflecting sheet is anchored by high 

frequency welding or heat application to a piece of tarpaulin 
cloth, whose plastics coating is of the same type as or 

is compatible with that of the tarpaulin, and then the piece 
of tarpaulin cloth provided with reflecting sheet, optionally 

formed in a desired shape, is applied to the tarpaulin 
by hot air fusion. 
A method according to claim 7, CHARACTERIZED in that the 
tarpaulin comprises a polyester fabric coated with PVC. 
A method according to claim 7 or 8, CHARACTERIZED in 
that the reflecting sheet is a retroreflecting sheet of the 

glass bead type comprising a large number of fine glass  
 

beads embedded with a specular base in a plastics sheet, or 
of the prism (cube corner) type with a large number of 

prisms impressed in the surface of a plastics sheet so that 
light is reflected through the sheet. 
A method according to any of claims 7-9, CHARACTERIZED 
in that the reflecting sheet is a retroreflecting PVC sheet 

of the prism type. 
A method of providing a tarpaulin comprising a fabric 
coated with a plastics material, preferably PVC, polyamide 

or polyprene, with a decoration of a reflecting material, 
CHARACTERIZED in that a reflecting sheet of the glass bead 

type or the metallized or sealed prism type is applied by 
means of an adhesive to a piece of tarpaulin cloth, whose 

plastics coating is of the same type as or is compatible 
with that of the tarpaulin, and is anchored to said piece 

and protected by placing a transparent flexible film of a 
polymeric material compatible with the plastics coating of 

said piece on top of the reflecting sheet with its edges 
extending beyond those of the reflecting sheet and high 

frequency welding it to the piece of tarpaulin cloth along 
the edges, and then the piece of tarpaulin cloth provided 

with reflecting sheet, optionally formed in a desired shape, 
is applied to the tarpaulin by hot air fusion. 
A method according to any of claims 7-11, CHARACTERIZED 
in that the piece of tarpaulin cloth provided with reflecting 

sheet is applied to the tarpaulin by means of a hot air 
apparatus (heat gun), whose hot air jet is introduced 

between the underside of the tarpaulin cloth and the surface 
of the tarpaulin so that the tarpaulin cloth fuses to the 

tarpaulin without the reflecting sheet being damaged. 
A method according to claim 12, CHARACTERIZED in that 
the temperature of the hot air jet is 400-600 °C.  

 
A method of providing a tarpaulin comprising a fabric 
coated with a plastics material, preferably PVC, polyamide 

or polyprene, with a decoration of a reflecting material, 
CHARACTERIZED in that a reflecting sheet of the glass bead 

type or the metallized or sealed prism type is applied 
directly to a tarpaulin by means of an adhesive and is 

anchored to the tarpaulin and protected by placing a transparent 
flexible film of a polymeric material compatible with 

the plastics coating of the tarpaulin on top of the reflecting 
sheet with its edges extending beyond those of the 

reflecting sheet and high frequency welding it to the tarpaulin 
along the edges. 
A piece of tarpaulin cloth to which a reflecting sheet 
is anchored by high frequency welding or heat application 

to be applied as a reflective decoration to a tarpaulin by 
hot air fusion. 
A piece of tarpaulin cloth according to claim 15 
wherein the reflecting sheet is a retroreflecting sheet of 

the glass bead type comprising a large number of fine glass 
beads embedded with a specular base in a plastics sheet or 

of the prism (cube corner) type with a large number of 
prisms impressed in the surface of a plastics sheet so that 

light is reflected through the sheet. 
A piece of tarpaulin cloth according to claim 16 wherein 
the reflecting sheet is a retroreflecting PVC sheet of 

the naked prism type. 
A piece of tarpaulin cloth to which a reflecting sheet 
of the glass bead type or the metallized or sealed prism 

type is applied by adhesion and is anchored to said piece 
and protected by an overlying transparent flexible film of 

a polymeric material compatible with the plastics coating 
of said piece, the edges of said film extending beyond those 

of the reflecting sheet and being high frequency welded to  
 

said piece, to be applied as a reflective decoration to a 
tarpaulin by hot air fusion. 
A piece of tarpaulin cloth acording to any one of 
claims 15-18 being in the form of a narrow band. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
