<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618561</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Display system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G518	G09G500	G09G500	G06F3153	G09G512	G09G116	G09G518	G06F314	G09G116	G09G512	G06F3153	G06F314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G06F	G09G	G09G	G09G	G06F	G09G	G09G	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	G06F3	G09G5	G09G1	G09G5	G06F3	G09G1	G09G5	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display system is described, comprising a display device (88) for 
generating a visual output in response to a plurality of data signals 

defining the data to be displayed, a display adapter circuit (92) for 
generating the data signals in a form specified by control data 

identifying the display device (88), an output port (94) for connecting 
the data signals from the display adapter circuit to the display device 

(88) and for connecting the control data from the display device (88) to 
the display adapter circuit (92), characterised in that the display 

system further comprises a non-volatile memory (9) located in the display 
device (88) for storing the control data in the form of a plurality of 

control codes, and communication logic (95) for communicating a control 
code between the memory and the output port (94) in response to a command 

signal (21) generated by the display adapter circuit (92). The 
communication logic comprises a serial data link (3) for communicating 

the control code between the display device and the output port, device 
logic (97) located in the display device for communicating the control 

code between the memory and the serial data link, and adapter logic (96) 
located in the display adapter circuit for communicating the control code 

between the serial data link and the display adapter circuit. The 
control data, such as the signal timing requirements of any new display 

device, can be stored in the form of digital control codes held within 
the memory of the display device, the display system programming does not 

require updating every time a different display device is connected to 
the output port. Instead, the display adaptor can read the new timing 

requirements from the memory of the new display device for the purpose of 
generating video and sync signals for correctly driving the new display 

device. Furthermore, where the display system comprises a multiple mode 
display device, the display adapter circuit can use the serial link to 

configure the display device to operate in a desired display mode. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAWDON DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAWDON, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is related to a display system in which 
control data is communicated between a computer system and a display 
device. The control data includes parameters for specifying the geometry 
and resolution of an image presented on the display device. In a display 
system comprising a raster-scanned display device such as a Cathode Ray 
Tube (CRT) display device, these parameters are determined by the rates 
and amplitudes of horizontal and vertical scan signals generated for 
producing the raster scan by electrical circuits in the display device. 
In order to generate the image, the scan signals are synchronised to 
video signals from a video source such as a computer system by 
synchronisation (sync) pulses also generated by the video source. Some display devices can only operate in a single display mode in 
accordance with a single set of parameters. Other display devices can be 
configured to operate in any one of a number of display modes 
characterised by different sets of parameters. The latter will 
hereinafter be referred to as multiple mode display devices. In a 
display device controlled by a computer system it is desirable for the 
computer system to identify the type of the display device so that 
appropriate video and sync signals can be generated. Many examples of 
such computer systems, including the IBM PS 2 range, comprise a video 
graphics adapter (VGA adapter) having an output port for connecting video 
and sync signals to a display device. The VGA adapter also has logic 
responsive to the manner in which identification pins in the output port 
are terminated when connected to the display device. The logic 
identifies the type of display device connected to the VGA adapter from 
these terminations. UK Patent No 2,162,026 describes an example of a display system 
employing a multiple-mode display device receiving video and sync signals 
from a computer system display adapter. The display device can operate 
in any one of four display modes. The computer system can be instructed 
to provide sync pulses of either positive or negative polarities. Each 
polarity combination indicates a different display mode. The display 
device includes decoding logic for configuring the display device to  
 
operate in a particular display mode in response to predetermined sync 
pulse polarities. The display systems of the prior art have the disadvantage that the 
display interfaces of the prior art can identify, and therefore generate 
appropriate control signals for, only a limited
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display device (88) for connection to a display adaptor circuit 
(92) of a computer system, the display device comprising: 


means for generating a visual output in response to a plurality of 
data signals generated by the display adaptor circuit (92); 
characterised in that the display device (88) comprises: 
a memory (9) to store control data in the form of a plurality of 
control codes identifying the display device (88); and 
device logic means (97) responsive to a command signal from the 
display adaptor circuit (92) to read control codes from the memory (9) 

for transfer to the display adaptor circuit (92). 
A display device as claimed in claim 1, comprising:
 
   a serial data link (3) for communicating the control code between 

the display device and the adaptor logic circuit. 
A display device as claimed in claim 2 wherein the device logic 
means comprises a second receiver for receiving a command bit stream (22) 

from the adaptor logic circuit along the serial link, a deserialiser for 
translating the command bit stream (22) into the command signal (21), a 

command decoder for translating the command signal (21) into a memory 

address for accessing the stored control code, a serialiser for 
translating the control code into the control bit stream, and a line 

driver connected for communicating the control bit stream to the adaptor 
logic circuit along the serial link. 
A display device as claimed in claim 3 wherein the serialiser and 
the deserialiser are combined in a single integrated circuit module. 
A display device as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the line 
driver and the receiver are incorporated in the a single integrated 

circuit module.  
 
A display device as claimed in claim 2 and further comprising means 
for configuring the display device to operate in different display modes 

in response to mode control signals communicated from the adapter logic 
circuit to the device logic means along the serial link. 
A display device as claimed in claim 2 or claim 6 and further 
comprising means for adjusting operating parameters of driver circuitry 

of the display device in response to parameter control signals 
communicated from the adapter logic circuit to the device logic means 

along the serial link. 
A display device as claimed in claim 7 and further comprising means 
for obtaining digital samples of signals at nodes of the drive circuitry 

and for communicating the samples from the device logic means to the 
adapter logic circuit along the serial link in response to a data request 

signal communicated from the adapter logic circuit to the device logic 
means along the serial link. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
