<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613720</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Nickel catalyst for the cyanation of aromatic halides.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J3116	B01J3124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J31	B01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a nickel compound which can be used 
as a catalyst, said nickel compound having a central nickel 

atom complexed by a diphosphine ligand. In said diphosphine 

ligand the P-atoms are interconnected through a metallocene 
biradical or an aromatic bivalent radical.

 
The invention also relates to the use of said nickel compound 

and to a method of preparing an aromatic cyanide from an 
aromatic halide and an alkali metal cyanide in a substantially 

anhydrous non-dipolar aprotic solvent under the influence of 
said phosphine-nickel catalyst, in the presence of a reducing 

agent. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a nickel compound which can be used 
as a catalyst, in particular for the cyanation of aromatic 
halides, and to a method of preparing said compound. The 
invention further relates to a method of preparing an aromatic 
cyanide by reacting an aromatic halide with an alkali metal 
cyanide under the influence of said nickel catalyst. It is well-known that certain nickel complexes can catalyse 
the cyanation of aromatic halides, i.e. the conversion of 
aromatic halides into the corresponding aromatic cyanides 
under the influence of an alkali metal cyanide. Cassar and coworkers (Adv. in Chem. Series 1974, 132, 252-273) 
have extensively studied the nickel-catalyzed cyanation of 
aromatic halides. In addition to nickel(0) complexes with 
triphenylphosphine and tris(o-tolyl)phosphine as ligands, 
these authors have investigated the use of nickel, complexed 
with two molecules 1,4-bis(diphenylphosphino)butane. This last 
compound appeared to be less effective than the former 
compounds in the cyanation of 1-chloronaphthalene under the 
conditions applied, viz. in ethanol at 60°C. This result is 
not an impetus for further research into the use of 
diphosphines as ligands for nickel(0) complexes. Also the 
mechanism of the nickel-catalysed cyanation, as suggested by 
Cassar et al., is not stimulating for any further 
investigation in this direction. In this mechanism a five 
coordinated nickel complex is postulated as an intermediate, 
wherein the diarylphosphine ligands are perpendicularly 
positioned on the planar structure, formed by nickel with its 
remaining ligands, and consequently are in the trans position 
to each other. More recently, Cassar and coworkers have reported the nickel-catalyzed 
cyanation of aromatic halides under phase-transfer 
conditions: J. Organometal. Chem. 1979, 173, 335-339. The  
 
presence of a phase-transfer catalyst, viz. an ammonium salt 
or a crown ether, should make the process more attractive for 
the industrial production of aromatic cyanides. Nevertheless, 
in a suitable solvent, viz. benzene, the cyanation occurs only 
if the NaCN is added slowly to keep the NaCN-concentration in 
the aqueous phase below approx. 0.1 mol/l. This is, of course, 
not favourable for the realization of a process on an 
industrial scale. Sakakibara et al. (Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1988, 61, 1985-1990) 
suggest, that the cyanide ion itself has an inhibitory action 
on the catalyst activity. In an attempt to avoid this problem, 
Sakakibara and coworkers have performed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A nickel compound which can be used as a catalyst, having 
the general formula 

 
wherein: 

R₁, R₂, R₃ and R₄ are each independently phenyl groups or 
heteroaryl groups, which groups may be substituted with alkyl, 

halogen, haloalkyl, cyano, amino, N-alkylamino, N,N-dialkylamino, 
alkoxy or alkylthio, wherein the alkyl groups have 1 to 

4 carbon atoms; 
Y is a metallocene biradical, an α,ω-(C₃-C₈)alkylene biradical 

or a bivalent aromatic radical of the general formula- Ar - (R)m - Ar -   (XIV)
 

   wherein: 
   Ar is phenyl or heteroaryl, 

   m is 0 or 1, and 
   R is (C₁-C₈)alkylene, if desired interrupted with 1-3 

heteroatoms selected from O and S; 
R₅ is a (C₁-C₄)alkyl group, an aryl group or a heteroaryl group, 

which (hetero)aryl group may be substituted with 1-5 
substituents, selected from the group consisting of alkyl, 

alkoxy, alkylthio, haloalkyl, haloalkoxy, halogen, formyl, 
alkylcarbonyl, optionally substituted phenyl, optionally 

substituted phenylcarbonyl, optionally substituted phenoxy, 
optionally substituted phenoxycarbonyl, optionally substituted 

phenylalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl and cyano, wherein the alkyl 
groups have 1 to 8 carbon atoms; and 

R₆ is a (C₁-C₄)alkyl group, an aryl group or a heteroaryl group, 
which (hetero)aryl group may be substituted with (C₁-C₄)alkyl; 

or a halogen atom selected from Cl, Br and I;
 

or wherein R₅ and R₆ together constitute a diene molecule 
having the general formulaR₉ - CH = CH -(CH₂)n - CH = CH - R₁₀   (XI)

 
   wherein: 

   n is 1-4, and 
   R₉ and R₁₀ are each (C₁-C₈) hydrocarbyl, or 

   R₉ and R₁₀ together constitute a (C₁-C₄) alkylene group; 
with the provisos, 


(1) that R₆ is alkyl if R₅ is alkyl; and 
(2) that R₆ is halogen or (hetero)aryl if R₅ is (hetero)aryl. 
A nickel compound as claimed in Claim 1, having the general 
formula 

 
wherein: 

R₁' is an unsubstituted phenyl group, an unsubstituted thienyl 
group or a phenyl group substituted with (C₁-C₄)alkyl, halogen 

or (C₁-C₄)haloalkyl; 
Y' is a metallocene biradical; 

R₅' is a (C₁-C₄)alkyl group, an unsubstituted phenyl group or a 
phenyl group substituted with 1-4 substituents selected from 

(C₁-C₄)alkyl, (C₁-C₄)alkoxy, halogen, (C₁-C₄)haloalkyl, (C₁-C₄)haloalkoxy, 
formyl, phenyl, phenoxy, (C₁-C₄)-alkylcarbonyl, 

cyano, phenylcarbonyl and phenyl(C₁-C₄)alkyl; 
or wherein R₅' is a naphthyl group or a heteroaryl group 

selected from thienyl, pyrrolyl and furyl; and 
R₆' is a (C₁-C₄)alkyl group or a halogen atom selected from Cl, 

Br and I; or wherein 
R₅' and R₆' together constitute a (C₅-C₁₀) cycloalkadiene 

 
molecule; 

with the provisos, 

(1) that R₆' is alkyl if R₅' is alkyl; and 
(2) that R₆' is halogen if R₅' is (hetero)aryl. 
A method of preparing a nickel compound as claimed in Claim 
1 or 2, 

characterized in that a nickel compound of the general formula 
 

wherein: 
   R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄ and Y have the meanings given in Claim 1, and 

   R₇ is a (C₁-C₄)alkyl group or an optionally substituted 
(hetero)aryl group, 

is prepared by reacting a compound of the general formula 
 

wherein X is a halogen atom selected from Cl, Br and I, 
with a compound of the general formulaR₇MgX   or   R₇ZnX   (V)
A method of preparing a nickel compound as claimed in Claim 
1 or 2,

 
characterized in that a nickel compound of the general formula 

 
wherein: 

   R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄ and Y have the meanings given in Claim 1, 
   X has the meaning given in claim 3, and 

   R₈ is an aryl group or a heteroaryl group, which (hetero)aryl 
group is optionally substituted with one or more 

substituents, selected from the group consisting of alkyl, 
alkoxy, alkylthio, haloalkyl, haloalkoxy, halogen, formyl, 

alkylcarbonyl, optionally substituted phenyl, optionally 
substituted phenylcarbo
nyl, optionally substituted phenoxy, 
optionally substituted phenoxycarbonyl, optionally 

substituted phenylalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl and cyano, wherein 
the alkyl groups have 1 to 8 carbon atoms; 

is prepared by reacting a compound of the general formula 
 

and a compound of the general formulaR₈ - X   (VIII)
 

with NiX₂, 
under the influence of a reducing agent. 
A method of preparing a nickel compound as claimed in Claim 
1 or 2, 

characterized in that a nickel compound of the general formula  
wherein the symbols have the meanings given in Claim 1, 

is prepared, either 

(i) by reacting a nickel complex of the general formula 
 

with a compound of the general formula VII, as presented in 
Claim 4; or 
(ii) by reacting a compound of the general formula IV, as 
presented in Claim 3, with a compound of the general formulaR₉ - CH = CH -(CH₂)n - CH = CH -R₁₀   (XI)

 
under the influence of a reducing agent. 
Use of a nickel compound as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 as a 
catalyst for the conversion of an aromatic halide of the 

general formulaAr - X   (XII)
 

wherein: 
Ar is an aryl or heteroaryl group, which groups may be 

 
substituted with 1-5 substituents, selected from the group 

consisting of alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, haloalkyl, haloalkoxy, 
halogen, formyl, alkylcarbonyl, optionally substituted phenyl, 

optionally substituted phenylcarbonyl, optionally substituted 
phenoxy, optionally substituted phenoxycarbonyl, optionally 

substituted phenylalkyl, alkoxycarbonyl and cyano, wherein the 
alkyl groups have 1 to 8 carbon atoms; 

and 
X has the meaning given in Claim 3; 

into an aromatic cyanide of the general formulaAr - CN   (XIII)
 

under the influence of an alkali metal cyanide and in the 
presence of a reducing agent. 
A method of preparing an aromatic cyanide of the general 
formulaAr - CN   (XIII)

 
wherein Ar has the meaning given in Claim 6, 

characterized in that an aromatic halide of the general 
formulaAr - X   (XII)

 
wherein K has the meaning given in Claim 3, 

is reacted with an alkali metal cyanide in a substantially 
non-dipolar aprotic solvent under the influence of a catalytic 

amount of a nickel compound as claimed in claim 1 or 2, and in 
the presence of a metallic reducing agent and a compound of a 

metal of group 2 of the Periodic Table, preferably a zinc 
salt. 
A method as claimed in Claim 7, characterized in that the 
solvent is selected from tetrahydrofuran, dioxan and methyl 

tert.-butyl ether, preferably tetrahydrofuran, in that the 
metallic reducing agent is zinc, and in that the zinc salt is 

zinc chloride. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
