<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640940</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Contactless chip card.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B42D1510	B42D1510	G06K1907	G06K1907	G06K19077	G06K19077	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B42D	B42D	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B42D15	B42D15	G06K19	G06K19	G06K19	G06K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a card for contactless 
information transfer, such as an identification card or a 

smart card, comprising a housing accommodating a coil 
construction and an electronic circuit coupled to the coil 

construction. The housing is composed of two top layers and an 
intermediate layer interposed between the top layers and 

comprising the coil construction and the electronic circuit. 
Each top layer is attached to the intermediate layer through a 

bonding layer located between the relevant top layer and the 
intermediate layer and whose softening point is lower than the 

softening point of the top layers and the intermediate layer. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE JONG WILLEM OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAKKERS ALBERT JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE JONG, WILLEM OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAKKERS, ALBERT JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a card for contactless 
information transfer, such as an identification card or a 
smart card, comprising a housing accommodating a coil 
construction and an electronic circuit coupled to the coil 
construction, the housing being composed of two top layers and 
an intermediate layer interposed between the top layers and 
comprising the coil construction and the electronic circuit. The invention also relates to a method for manufacturing a 
card for contactless information transfer, such as an 
identification card or a smart card, comprising a housing 
accommodating a coil construction and an electronic circuit 
coupled to the coil construction, the housing being composed 
of two top layers and an intermediate layer interposed between 
the top layers and comprising the coil construction and the 
electronic circuit. Such a card is disclosed in Dutch patent application 
9001180, where the coil construction and the electronic 
circuit are embedded in a plastic filling which is covered 
with a film on opposite sides. Such a card often cannot meet 
the flexibility requirements as laid down in ISO standard 
10373. The top layers are attached to a coil construction 
which has been wound helically in a single layer from wire in 
the form of film, the turns being insulated from each other by 
means of glue, for instance. The top layers provide the card 
with transverse bracing, so that the turns, upon being bent, 
do not end up overlying each other, and thus a stable 
construction is provided. The present invention, on the other hand, provides a card 
with a stable construction obtained in an entirely different 
manner, which card moreover meets the flexibility requirements 
referred to. The present invention further provides a card 
which enables a loose arrangement of the windings of the coil 
construction in the card. This last also promotes the  
 
possibilities of meeting the flexibility requirements as 
discussed hereinabove. The characteristic feature of the card according to the 
invention is that each top layer is attached to the 
intermediate layer through a bonding layer located between the 
relevant top layer and the intermediate layer and whose 
softening point is lower than the softening point of the top 
layers and the intermediate layer. Dutch patent application 9200835 discloses a card which is 
built up from a fairly large number of parts in order to 
realize a structure whereby the coil ends up in loose 
arrangement in the card. This is necessary to satisfy the 
flexibil
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A card for contactless information transfer, such as an 
identification card or a smart card, comprising a housing 

accommodating a coil construction and an electronic circuit 
coupled to the coil construction, the housing being composed 

of two top layers and an intermediate layer interposed between 
the top layers and comprising the coil construction and the 

electronic circuit, characterized in that each top layer is 
attached to the intermediate layer through a bonding layer 

located between the relevant top layer and the intermediate 
layer and whose softening point is lower than the softening 

point of the top layers and the intermediate layer. 
A card according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
bonding layer consists of a plastic layer coextruded with the 

top layer and/or the intermediate layer. 
A card according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
bonding layer consists of glue. 
A card according to claim 1 or 3, characterized in that 
the bonding layer consists of a thermotransfer layer. 
A card according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the coil construction and a coil space 

in the housing in which the coil construction is located are 
mutually adjusted, in such a manner that the coil construction 

is accommodated in the coil space with some clearance, in such 
a manner that no tensions arise between the coil construction 

and the housing upon temperature variations. 
A card according to claim 5, characterized in that the 
intermediate layer consists of a first film piece provided 

with an opening and a second film piece fitted in the opening, 
the coil space being formed between the first and second film 

pieces. 
A card according to claim 6, characterized in that the 
first and/or second film piece is provided with an opening in 

which the electronic circuit is accommodated. 
A card according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the turns of the coil construction are 

provided with a thermoadhesive or baking lacquer with a 
softening point higher than the softening point of said 

bonding layers. 
A card according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the coil construction is attached 

directly to a chip of the electronic circuit through a 
thermocompression weld. 
A card according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the coil construction and the electronic 

circuit are accommodated within the contours of the 
intermediate layer. 
A card according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the coil construction and the electronic 

circuit are accommodated within the contours of the 
intermediate layer with bonding layers. 
A card according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that at least one of the top layers consists 

of a film of transparent material having images printed 
thereon on the side facing the intermediate layer. 
A card according to claim 12, characterized in that a 
light barrier is present between the printing and the 

intermediate layer, so that the coil construction and the 
electronic circuit are not visible through the transparent top 

layer. 
A card according to claim 13, characterized in that the 
light barrier is formed by a covering printing. 
A card according to claim 13, characterized in that the 
light barrier is formed by a non-transparent plastic layer 

located between the top layer and the intermediate layer. 
A card according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that on the outside of at least one top layer 

a thermally sensitive coating has been provided which can be 
written on by means of, for instance, a thermal printer, and 

which can also be erased through heat supply. 
A method for manufacturing a card for contactless 
information transfer, such as an identification card or a 

smart card, comprising a housing accommodating a coil 
construction and an electronic circuit coupled to the coil 

construction, the housing being composed of two top layers and 
an intermediate layer interposed between the top layers and 

comprising the coil construction and the electronic circuit, 
characterized in that at least one of the two top layers 

and/or the intermediate layer is provided with a bonding layer 
whose softening point is lower than the softening point of the 

top layers and the intermediate layer and that subsequently 
the top layer is attached to the intermediate layer through a 

lamination process. 
A method according to claim 17, characterized in that 
each top layer is attached to the intermediate layer through a 

bonding layer by means of the lamination process. 
A method according to claim 17 or 18, characterized in 
that the lamination process is carried out at a temperature 

above the softening point of the bonding layer and below the 
softening point of the intermediate layer and the top layer. 
A method according to any one of claims 17-19, 
characterized in that at least the top layer or the 

intermediate layer is coextruded together with the bonding 
layer before the lamination process is carried out. 
A method according to claim 20, characterized in that 
not only the intermediate layer is coextruded together with a 

first bonding layer but also the top layer is coextruded 
together with a second bonding layer before the first and 

second bonding layers are bonded to each other through the 
lamination process. 
A method according to claim 20, characterized in that 
the intermediate layer is coextruded together with two bonding 

layers, so that the intermediate layer is provided with a 
bonding layer on opposite sides thereof before a top layer is 

atttached on each side of the intermediate layer through the 
lamination process. 
A method according to claim 20, characterized in that 
each top layer is coextruded together with a bonding layer 

before these top layers are attached to the intermediate layer 
through the lamination process. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
