<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653951</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVING BOTTOMS FROM A MIXTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1502	B01D1502	B01D2400	B01D2436	C02F128	C02F128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D15	B01D15	B01D24	B01D24	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Process for removing bottoms or isolating useful products from a liquid mixture which in addition to, e.g., water contains solid matter, in which process the mixture is passed through a packed filter bed in a vessel, characterized in that the filter bed is composed of bottoms and useful products-absorbing filter particles and situated in such a space that, when the greater part of any present solid matter or the like is passed through it, expansion or fluidisation of the filter bed may occur as the pressure in it increases during operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AKZO NOBEL NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AKZO NOBEL N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER MEER ABELE BROER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER MEER, ABELE, BROER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR REMOVING BOTTOMS FROM A MIXTUREThe invention relates to a process for removing bottoms or isolating useful products from a liquid mixture which in addition to, e.g., water contains solid matter, in which process the mixture is passed through a packed filter bed in a vessel. The invention further comprises an apparatus for working said process.In the recovery of petroleum and gas large quantities of waste matter are obtained in addition to the main product of oil or gas. A major portion of this waste matter takes the form of so-called production water, which is a mixture composed for the most part of a carrier liquid in the form of water containing said bottoms, such as a few thousand pp of oil and a few hundred pp of solids, such as sand, heavy metals, radioactive material or the like. Needless to say, with the present strict environmental requirements said waste matter increasingly comes to be problem. A problem is constituted- in particular by the aforementioned production water, since in that case usually a mixture of water, oil, and solids is involved.A process of the type mentioned in the opening paragraph is known from GB Patent Specification 1445692, where a mixture in the form of a water, oil, and solids-containing dispersion is passed through a densely packed filter bed, the solid matter being retained in the filter bed while the oil and the water flow through the filter and separate to collect at different levels as determined by their relative densities. Next, the separated oil and water layers are discharged individually. In this process the filter becomes saturated with solids after some time, whereupon the feeding of the aforementioned mixture is stopped and the filter is washed out with washing water, the washing out being simplified by the rinsing water fluidising the filter elements. The filter is composed of lengths of tubular knitted mesh structures composed of stainless steel wires and 

polypropylene filaments.Although, all things considered, reasonable results may be attained using this known process, it has the drawback that the mixture to be treated can be supplied only at a comparatively low rate. A too high feeding rate would cause the fiuidisation of the filter bed sections, which would prevent proper separation of the oil and the water into individual layers and would render the separate discharge of oil and water impossible, in other words, at higher feeding rates the known process ceases to function in a satisfactory manner. At comparatively low
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A process for removing bottoms or isolating useful products from a liquid mixture which in addition to, e.g., water contains solid matter, in which process the mixture is passed through a packed filter bed in a vessel, characterised in that the filter bed is composed of bottoms- or useful products- absorbing filter particles and situated in such a space that, when the greater part of any present solid matter is passed through the it, expansion or fiuidisation of the filter bed may occur as the pressure in it increases during operation.
2. A process according to claim 1 for removing bottoms, such as hydrocarbons, characterised in that the filter particles are bottoms-absorbing particles, such as polymer particles, of which the specific weight is lower than that of the supplied mixture, and the supplied mixture is passed through the f lter bed essentially from the top downwards, such that during operation a buffer volume essentially composed of the carrier liquid, e.g., water, is present between the bottom of the filter bed and the bottom end of the vessel provided with an outlet for the mixture treated in the filter bed.
3. A process according to claim 1 for isolating useful products, such as proteins, characterised in that the filter particles are protein-absorbing particles, such as activated carbon particles, of which the specific weight is higher than that of the supplied mixture, and the supplied mixture is passed through the filter bed essentially from the bottom upwards, such that during operation a buffer volume essentially composed of the carrier liquid, e.g., water, is present between the top of the filter bed and the top end of the vessel provided with an outlet for the mixture treated in the filter bed. 


 A process according to claim 1 in which the supplied mixture contains solid particles enclosed in hydrocarbons, such as oil, characterised in that such a treatment is carried out in the filter bed that solid particles present in the treated liquid downstream of the filter bed are virtually free of hydrocarbons.
A process according to claim 2 or 3, characterised in that during operation the buffer volume makes up 5 to 50% of the overall volume of filter bed and buffer volume.
6. A process according to claim 2 or 3, characterised in that use is made of a filter bed essentially of filter particles, such as polymer particles, of a size in the range of 50 μ to 5000 μ .
7. A process according to claim 2, characterised in that use is made of a filter bed of which the filter particles are essentially composed of polyolefin, preferably polypropylene.
8. A process according to claim 2, characterised in that use is made of filter particles having pores with an average diameter in the range of 0,1 to 50 μ , which pores are interconnected and make up 10 to 90 vol .%, preferably 60 to 90 vol .%, of the particles.
9. A process according to claim 8, characterised in the pores are filled wholly or in part with an extracting agent composed of a hydrophobic substance exhibiting great affinity for the constituents to be extracted from the water.
10. A process according to claim 8, characterised in that the porous particles are obtained by cooling a solution composed of 


 a polymer and a substance inert to said polymer down to the temperature range in which decomposition occurs and to below the temperature at which the polymer solidifies, optionally with the porous polymer being reduced to the desired particle size and followed by washing out of the inert substance if so desired.
11. A process according to claim 1, characterised in that use is made of a vessel through which the mixture flows essentially in
10 vertical direction.
12. A process according to claim 11, characterised in that a preferably cylindrical vessel of virtually even cross-section in the mixture's direction of flow is employed.
15
13. A process according to claim 11, characterised in that a preferably conical vessel of increasing cross-section in- the mixture's direction of flow is employed.
2
Q
 14. A process according to claim 2, characterised in that a filter bed is used which is essentially composed of filter particles, such as polystyrene particles, which respond to contact with hydrocarbons, such as benzene, by swelling.
?ς
 15. An apparatus for carrying out the process according to claim 1, said apparatus having a treatment vessel with an inlet and an outlet, with the vessel containing a filter bed, characterised in that the treatment vessel is essentially in the vertical position, with the inlet at the one end, preferably the upper end, and the outlet at the other end, preferably the lower end, of the vessel, the vessel preferably has an expanding cross- section from the top downwards, and the filter bed is composed of a plurality of filter particles, such as polymer particles, 


 having a density smaller than that of the supplied mixture, preferably smaller than 1.
16. An apparatus according to claim 15, characterised in that the
5 filter bed is essentially composed of a plurality of porous filter particles of which the pores are wholly or partially filled or not with an extracting agent for the extraction of bottoms present in the water.
ιn
 17. An apparatus according to claim 15, characterised in that the filter bed is essentially composed of filter particles, such as polystyrene particles, which respond to contact with hydrocarbons by swelling.
15
20
25
30 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
