<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0699010</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data communication system using spectral overlay
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W1600	H04W1610	H04W1632	H04W4800	H04W4810	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W16	H04W16	H04W16	H04W48	H04W48	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A data communication system is provided for use with a
cellular system containing an array of cells and a cellular

transmitter/receiver located within each cell of the array.
Each cellular transmitter/receiver is adapted for

transmitting and receiving voice and/or data communication
over predetermined channelized frequencies associated with

the particular cell in which the cellular
transmitter/receiver is located. In accordance with the

invention a base data transmission station is located in
each cell and is adapted for transmitting a single data

stream across a plurality of channels, each of which
channels is adapted to carry a single stream of

information. Each base data transmitting station does not
transmit on the predetermined channels that are assigned to

the particular cell in which the base data transmitting
station is located (i.e., those channels are "notched"). In

one embodiment used channels that are carrying streams of
information in adjacent cells are detected and the base

data transmission station does not transmit over the
frequencies of the used channels (i.e., the used channels

are "notched").

In this manner, the single data stream transmitted by the

base data transmitting station is transmitted over all of
the channels of the cellular array except for the channels

that are notched. The base data transmitting station also
transmits a notching pattern, which is continuously

updated, to mobile transmitters within the cell. The
notching pattern comprises information concerning the

channels in the cell that are notched and information
concerning used channels of adjacent cells that are

notched. The mobile transmitters in the cell will transmit
a single data stream over all of the plurality of channels

of the cellular array except for the notched channels.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RACOTEK INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RACOTEK, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN ERIC J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEIMAN YEHUDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHPANTZER ISAAC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN, ERIC J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEIMAN, YEHUDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHPANTZER, ISAAC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a novel data communication 
system and, more particularly, a system providing a data 
overlay over radio infrastructures carrying voice 
communication. In U.S. Patent No. 5,282,204, assigned to Racotek, Inc. of 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, a time domain data overlay over 
trunked radio infrastructures is disclosed. Although this 
time domain overlay has been found to be excellent in many 
respects, there are certain deficiencies. One of the deficiencies of the time domain overlay is that 
the effective data transmission rates are limited due to 
the channelized scheme (25-30 Khz channel bandwidth) 
primarily designed for voice. Using the time domain overlay 
the data stream is transmitted over a single channel, and 
the baud rate is limited by the bandwidth of the channel. 
Typically, using the time domain system, the data 
transmission rate is 4800 baud. Under certain conditions 
however, it is highly desirable to transmit larger amounts 
of data much faster than 4800 baud. Another deficiency of 
the time domain data overlay is that it is tightly coupled 
to the voice infrastructure resulting in high data latency 
and access time. As additional channels in a cellular radio 
system are being used, the latency increases exponentially. 
Since the load/latency characteristics of the voice and 
data structure affect each other, the result is a 
requirement for complex load balancing schemes. For 
example, in the Racotek time domain data overlay system it 
is recognized that voice should be given priority and that 
data may not have to be transmitted immediately. If data is  
 
to be transmitted, the channels are searched and if there 
is an available channel, the data is transmitted on that 
channel. However, if there is no available channel the 
system backs off and there is a programmed delay before it 
attempts retransmission. The back off time increases during 
subsequent attempts to transmit data and, with severe 
congestion, the back off time may run into minutes. Complex 
algorithms are required by the Racotek system to balance 
the channel seeking and back off times to prevent the 
system from being overloaded, to prevent the system from 
being driven into instability and to attempt to only 
marginally affect the existing customer base. Another deficiency of the time domain overlay is that 
temporarily unused channels are not able to be pooled to 
increase the data transmission rates. The effective data 
rates are limited due to the fact that transmission is only 
in one
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data communication method for use in a radio system in 
which voice communication is transmitted over channelized 

frequencies, each of which channels is adapted to carry a 
single stream of information, comprising the steps of: 

notching channels in a selected physical area; and 
transmitting a single data stream across a plurality of 

channels but not transmitting said single data stream on 
said notched channels. 
A data communication method for use in a cellular radio 
system capable of transmitting and receiving voice and/or 

data communication and including a plurality of adjacent 
cells with each cell having a cellular base transmitter 

for transmitting over predetermined channelized 
frequencies associated with the particular cell in which 

the cellular base transmitter is located, comprising the 
steps of: 

providing a base data transmitting station in each cell; 
programming each said base data transmitting station not 

to transmit in frequencies of the cell in which said base 
data transmitting station is located; and 

operating each base station to transmit a single data 
stream across a plurality of channels of frequencies of 

adjacent cells but not to transmit over the frequencies of 
the cell in which said base data transmitting station is 

located. 
A data communication method for use in a cellular radio 
system capable of transmitting and receiving voice and/or 

data communication and including a plurality of adjacent 
cells with each cell having a cellular base transmitter 

for transmitting over predetermined channelized 
 

frequencies associated with the particular cell in which 
the cellular base transmitter is located, comprising the 

steps of: 
transmitting a notching pattern to mobile transmitters 

within the cell; and 
transmitting from each mobile transmitter a single data 

stream across a plurality of channels, except for the 
channels that are notched. 
A data communication method as defined by Claim 3, 
including the steps of detecting used channels in adjacent 

cells and transmitting to said mobile transmitters a 
notching pattern comprising information concerning the 

detected used channels. 
A data communication system for use in a radio system in 
which voice communication is transmitted over channelized 

frequencies, each of which channels is adapted to carry a 

single stream of information, which comprises: 
means for notching channels in a selected physical area; 

means for detecting used channels in an adjacent physical 
area that are carrying streams of information; 

means for notching said used channels; and 
means for transmitting a single data stream across a 

plurality of channels but not transmitting said single 
data stream on said notched channels. 
A data communication system as defined by Claim 5, in 
which said physical area comprises a cell of a cellular 

system containing an array of cells and said adjacent 
physical area comprises cells that are adjacent to said 

selected cell. 
A data communication system as defined by Claim 5, 
including means for transmitting a notching pattern to 

mobile transmitters located within said selected physical 
area. 
A data communication system as defined by Claim 5, in 
which said selected physical area comprises a cell of a 

cellular system containing an array of cells and said 
adjacent physical area comprises cells that are adjacent 

to said selected cell. 
A data communication system for use with a cellular system 
containing an array of cells and a cellular 

transmitter/receiver located within each cell of said 
array, with each cellular transmitter/receiver being 

adapted for transmitting and receiving voice and/or data 
communication over predetermined channelized frequencies 

associated with the particular cell in which the cellular 
transmitter/receiver is located, which comprises: 

a base data transmission station located in each cell and 
adapted for transmitting a single data stream across a 

plurality of channels, each of which channels is adapted 
to carry a single stream of information; 

each base transmitting station including means for 
notching the predetermined channels that are transmitted 

by the cellular transmitter/receiver within the particular 
cell in which the base data transmitting station is 

located; and 
means for transmitting the single data stream over 

substantially all of said plurality of channels except for 
the notched channels. 
A data communication system as defined by Claim 9, in 
which each base data transmitting station includes means 

for transmitting a notching pattern to mobile transmitters 
 

located within the cell of the base data transmitting 
station. 
A data communication method for use with a cellular system 
containing an array of cells and a cellular 

transmitter/receiver located within each cell of said 
array, with each cellular transmitter/receiver being 

adapted for transmitting and receiving voice and/or data 
communication over predetermined channelized frequencies 

associated with the particular cell in which the cellular 
transmitter/receiver is located, which comprises the steps 

of: 
locating a base data transmission station in each cell for 

transmitting a single data stream across a plurality of 
channels, each of which channels is adapted to carry a 

single stream of information; 
notching the predetermined channels that are transmitted 

by the cellular transmitter/receiver within the particular 
cell in which the base data transmitting station is 

located; 
detecting used channels in adjacent cells that are 

carrying streams of information; 
notching said used channels whereby the base data 

transmission station within a particular cell is prevented 
from transmitting in said used channels; and 

transmitting a single data stream by the base data 
transmitting station over substantially all of said 

plurality of channels except for the notched channels. 
A data communication method as defined by Claim 11, 
including the steps of transmitting a notching pattern to 

mobile transmitters within the cell, said notching pattern 
comprising information concerning the channels in the cell 

that are notched and information concerning used channels 
 

of adjacent cells that are notched; and transmitting from 
each mobile transmitter a single data stream across a 

plurality of channels except for the channels in which the 
mobile transmitter is located and the channels that are 

being used in adjacent cells. 
A data communication method, comprising the steps of: 
transmitting a single data stream across a plurality of 

channels, each of which channels is adapted to carry a 
single stream of information; 

detecting used channels that are carrying streams of 
information; 

notching said used channels; and 
transmitting the single data stream over a plurality of 

channels while not transmitting said single data stream 
over the notched channels. 
A data communication method for use with a cellular system 
containing an array of cells and a cellular 

transmitter/receiver located within each cell of said 
array, with each cellular transmitter/receiver being 

adapted for transmitting and receiving voice and/or data 
communication over predetermined channelized frequencies 

associated with the particular cell in which the cellular 
transmitter/receiver is located, which comprises the steps 

of: 
locating a base data transmission station in each cell and 

adapted for transmitting a single data stream across a 
plurality of channels, each of which channels is adapted 

to carry a single stream of information; 
detecting used channels that are carrying streams of 

information;
 

notching said used channels whereby the base data 
transmission station within a particular cell is prevented 

from transmitting in said used channels; and 
transmitting the single data stream over a plurality of 

channels while not transmitting the single data stream 
over the notched channels. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
