<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636391</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Golf club irons and method of manufacture of iron sets.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B5300	A63B5300	A63B5304	A63B5304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B53	A63B53	A63B53	A63B53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The set of irons have a cavity back 
surrounded by a perimeter where the perimeter is 

formed such that the geometric center or other 
intended impact position on the club face and the 

center of gravity of the club head coincide. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACUSHNET CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACUSHNET CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOEFLICH JOHN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOEFLICH JOHN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to golf clubs and, 
more particularly, to irons having a back cavity where 
the perimeter outside the back cavity is varied such 
that the geometric center of the face of the club head 
coincides with the center of gravity of the club head. Golf clubs comprise a shaft and a club head 
and are generally classified into three categories: 
woods, irons and putters. Irons are classified by 
loft angle. Irons with low loft angles, e.g. 20째-30째, 
are classified as long irons while irons with large 
loft angles, e.g. 40째-50째, are classified as short 
irons. Typically, irons are numbered from long to 
short, i.e. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, PW (pitching 
wedge), SW (sand wedge), and LW (lob wedge). The club head of an iron has a face, for 
hitting the golf ball, and a back. The back may have 
either a cavity or a smooth surface. Each face has an 
area referred to as a sweet spot. The sweet spot is 
that area on the face of a club head which, when it 
impacts a golf ball, provides the most favorable 
results. Cavity back irons have larger sweet spots 
than solid back irons. There have been suggestions to 
vary the size and position of the back cavity; see 
U.S. Patent Nos. 4,715,601 issued December 29, 1987 
and 4,848,747 issued July 18, 1989. Varying the 
position of the center of gravity from club to club 
within a set has been suggested (U. S. Patent No. 
5,160,136). However, none of these references teach 
the achieving of aligning the geometric center of the 
face of an iron with the center of gravity of the club 
head by varying the perimeter weight of the back of 
the club head.  It has now been discovered that an 
exceptionally playable cavity back iron can be made by 
adjusting the perimeter weighting outside the cavity 
in the back of the iron so that the center of gravity 
of the club head and the geometric center of the face 
of the club head coincide. According to the present invention it is 
important that the weight adjustment be in the 
perimeter of the club head and not in the cavity 
itself. This achieves better heel-toe balance than 
can be achieved by adjusting the weight in the cavity 
itself. It is especially desirable to maintain a flat 
cavity bottom. This can be achieved by maintaining a 
constant distance between the face and the cavity 
bottom throughout a substantial portion of the cavity. In addition to adjusting the perimeter 
weight in the back of the club head, the hosel length 
of the irons is maintained at substantially the same 
length, preferably within
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A set of irons each of which has a 
club head, and a shaft, each said club head having a 

front playing face and a back, said back having a 
cavity therein, said front playing face having a 

geometric center and the perimeter weighting of the 
club head outside of the cavity being adjusted such 

that each said club head has a center of gravity which 
coincides with said geometric center of said club 

head. 
The set of irons of claim 1 wherein 
each club head has an offset and said offset 

progressively decreases from long irons to short 
irons. 
The set of irons of claim 1 wherein 
there are included long irons, medium irons and short 

irons and wherein the long irons have a negative 
bounce angle, the medium irons have a neutral bounce 

angle, and the short irons have a positive bounce 
angle. 
The set of irons of claim 1 wherein 
said cavity has a volume and said volume is greater in 

the long irons than in the short irons. 
The set of irons of claim 1 wherein 
said club head has a hosel length and said hosel 

length remains substantially constant. 
The set of irons of claim 1 wherein 
said club head has an overall weight, a sole weight 

 
and a toe weight and the ratio of combined toe weight 

and sole weight to said overall weight is greater in 
the short irons than in the long irons. 
A set of irons having a plurality of 
irons within said set, each iron within said set 

comprising a club head and a shaft; each iron within 
said set having a club head comprising a hosel for 

attachment of said club head to said shaft, the hosel 
length being substantially the same for each club head 

in the said set, a face for striking a golf ball, and 
a back having a cavity therein; each iron within said 

set having a geometric center of said face of said 
club head and a center of gravity of said club head; 

each of said irons within said set having said cavity 
within said back vary in volume, with long irons 

having a greater volume than short irons and the 
perimeter weighting of each club head outside of the 

cavity being such that said geometric center and said 
center of gravity of each of said irons in said set 

coincide. 
The set of irons of claim 7 wherein 
each iron within said set have substantially identical 

hosel lengths. 
A set of irons each of which has a club 
head, and a shaft, each said club head having a front, 

a back, a playing face, a blade, a sole, a toe, a back 
cavity and a perimeter portion surrounding said back 

cavity, said back defined by a continuous surface 
between a continuous outer perimeter and a continuous 

interior perimeter with said interior perimeter having 
a lower half and an upper half, said back cavity in 

said back having a volume defined by (a) said interior 
 

perimeter, (b) a wall having a variable depth which 
wall intersects with said back surface and said wall 

having a lower portion which intersects with the 
entire lower half of said continuous interior 

perimeter, said lower wall portion being continuous 
and uninterrupted throughout its intersection with 

said interior perimeter lower half and (c) by a flat 
cavity bottom surface substantially parallel to said 

front playing face throughout a substantial portion of 
the cavity, said front playing face having a geometric 

center wherein the weighting of the perimeter portion 
of the club head outside of said defined back cavity 

is varied such that each said club head has a center 
of gravity which coincides with said geometric center 

of said club head. 
A set of irons of claim 9 in which the 
geometric center of each club in the set is located on 

a vertical line upwardly from the club blade midpoint. 
A set of irons of claim 10 in which the 
center of gravity of each club in the set is offset 

from the said vertical line by perimeter weighting to 
cause the center of gravity to coincide with a 

position of ball impact. 
The set of irons of claim 1 wherein 
each club head is connected to a hosel having a front 

edge lying in a vertical plane said plane being offset 
from the front playing face and said offset 

progressively decreasing from long irons to short 
irons. 
The set of irons of claim 1 wherein 
said club head has an overall weight, a sole weight 

 
and a toe weight and the ratio of combined toe weight 

and sole weight to said overall weight is greater in 
the short irons than in the long irons. 
The set of irons of claim 1 wherein the 
geometric center of each club face is midpoint of the 

blade length along the sole and moving upward a 

distance about equal to the radius of a USGA 
regulation size golf ball in the range of one-half 

inch to about one inch. 
A method for making a plurality of sets 
of irons with each set having cavity back club heads 

with geometric centers on their faces defined by a 
position on a vertical line comprising 


a) selecting a size and shape for each 
club face in the set; 
b) determining for each club face the 
intended position of ball impact on 

each face; 
c) forming a perimeter portion surrounding 
the back cavity for each club head, 

said perimeter portion defined by a 
continuous surface between a continuous 

outer perimeter and a continuous 
interior perimeter and sized and shaped 

to create on the face a selected center 
of gravity location; 
d) the back cavity formed having a volume 
defined by 


i) said interior perimeter which 
perimeter defines an interior area 

within it; 
ii) a continuous wall of variable 
depth which wall intersects with 

 
said interior perimeter through 

lower and upper halves, said wall 
having an area substantially equal 

to said interior perimeter area; 
iii) a flat bottom substantially 
parallel to said club face; 
 
said perimeter portion formation being such that the 

center of gravity of each club head coincides with the 
geometric center or other intended position of ball 

impact. 
The method of claim 15 in which the 
intended position of impact coincides with the 

geometric center for each club in the set. 
The method of claim 15 in which the 
center of gravity is located a short distance from the 

geometric center toward the toe. 
The method of claim 15 in which the 
center of gravity is located a short distance from the 

geometric center toward the heel. 
An iron with a club head including a 
hitting face where the head comprises 


i) a club head blade having a length 
between 2.75 inches to 3.2 inches; 
ii) a face thickness between 0.135 inch and 
0.250 inch; 
iii) a head weight between 220 grams and 310 
grams; 
iv) a sole width at the toe between and at 
the heel between 0.600 and 1.25 inches; 
v) a top line thickness between 0.190 inch 
and 0.300 inch; 
vi) a back cavity having a volume between 
0.015 cubic inch and 0.80 cubic inch 

and a shape defined by a 

a) continuous perimeter 
b) a flat bottom spaced from and 
forward of the continuous 

perimeter; 
c) a continuous wall intersecting the 
perimeter and the bottom; and 
d) the area defined by the continuous 
perimeter and the area of the 

bottom being substantially the 
same. 
A set of irons of claim 9 in which the 
volume of the cavity for the one iron is about 0.6 

cubic inch, for the five iron is about 0.28 cubic inch 
and for the nine iron is about 0.35 cubic inch and in 

which the weight of the head of the one iron is about 
235 grams and the weight of the head of the nine iron 

is about 286 grams. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
