<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616970</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sealed elevator cab entrance assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B66B1330	B66B1102	B66B1330	B66B1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B66B	B66B	B66B	B66B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B66B13	B66B11	B66B13	B66B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The entrance to an elevator cab is provided with 
wedge gaskets (26,36) both above and below the cab door 

opening. The upper gasket (26) is mounted on the door 
opening header (16), and the lower gasket is mounted in 

the door sill (32). Gasket-engaging brackets (30,38) 
are mounted on the top and bottom of each door to snugly 

engage the gaskets when the cab doors are closed. The 
closed cab is substantially sealed against penetration 

by hoistway air so as to provide a quieter smoother 
ride, especially at high operating speeds. The seal is 

not established until the doors are completely closed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTIS ELEVATOR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIVERA JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TONNA CHRISTIAN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIVERA, JAMES A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TONNA, CHRISTIAN G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an elevator cab structure 
and more particularly, to an elevator cab structure 
having a sealed door system which, when closed, seals 
the interior of the cab from the hoistway environment. Structures for sealing elevator hoistway doors from 
the landings in buildings have been proposed. The 
reason for sealing the hoistways from the remainder of 
the building is to prevent the hoistways from becoming 
conduits for smoke from one building floor to another in 
the event of a fire in the building. These systems have 
vertically reciprocating sealing panels on the upper and 
lower portions of the door frame. These panels are 
reciprocated vertically as a result of contact With the 
landing doors as the latter are opened and closed. U.S. 
Patents Nos. 3,734,238, granted May 22, 1973 to A.V. 
Secresty, et al; and 4,735,293, granted April 5, 1988 to 
L.R. Everhart, et al. are representative of such 
elevator systems. These systems are fine for the 
limited purpose for which they are intended. With modern-day elevator systems operating at ever 
increasing speeds, chiefly due to the extremely tall 
buildings being built, the problem of hoistway cab-induced 
air turbulence adversely affecting cab ride and 
passenger comfort has increased. The higher the cab 
speed, the more noise and buffeting of the cab will 
occur. With present cab door systems, at high cab 
speeds air drafts inside of the cab can occur through 
the cab doors. The net result is a less than ideal ride 
from the passenger's viewpoint. The ride quality in 
such high speed elevators could be enhanced by the 
provision of a cab door system which effectively seals 
the interior of the cab from the hoistway when the cab 
doors are closed. Ideally, such a system would be  
 
susceptible to use in original equipment and would be 
factory installed as original equipment; and could also 
be installed as retrofit equipment in existing elevator 
systems in the field. Various aspects of the present invention are set 
forth in the appended claims. In a preferred embodiment this invention is 
directed toward an elevator cab assembly having a door 
system which effectively seals the interior of the cab 
from the hoistway environment. The system provides a 
seal with no auxiliary moving parts, except for the 
doors and the door actuator. The doors are mounted on 
tracks which are secured to the cab entrance header. A 
tapered wedge-shaped gasket is mounted on the cab door 
opening header and is engaged by wedge brackets mounted 
on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In an elevator cab structure, a passenger door 
assembly comprising: 


a) at least one elevator door (14) translationally 
reciprocally movably mounted on said cab structure 

adjacent a door opening therein, said door being 
movable between a door-open position and a door 

closed position; 
b) a track (16,32) mounted on said cab structure and 
engaged by said door, said track providing a guide 

for said translational door movement; 
c) a first horizontally extending seal means (26,36) 
mounted on said cab structure adjacent to said door 

opening, said first seal means including a first 
vertically inclined sealing surface (25,37) 

thereon; and 
d) a second horizontally extending seal means (30,38) 
mounted on said door adjacent to a horizontal edge 

thereof, said second seal means having a second 
vertically inclined sealing surface (31,39) 

thereon, said second sealing surface being 
laterally offset from said first sealing surface 

when said door is in said door-open position, and 
said second sealing surface being disposed in 

substantially hermetically sealing engagement with 
said first sealing surface when said door is in 

said door-closed position. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first 
(26,36) and second (30,38) seal means are both fixed 

against vertical movement on said cab and door 
respectively. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said first 
(25,37) and second (31,39) sealing surfaces are  

 
substantially parallel to each other when spaced apart 

from each other. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein there are upper (26) and lower (36) first seal 

means which are mounted adjacent to upper and lower 
edges respectively of said cab door openin
g, and wherein 
there are upper (30) and lower (38) second seal means 

mounted adjacent to upper and lower edges respectively 
of said door. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said lower 
first seal means (36) is mounted in a sill portion (32) 

of said cab door opening. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said lower 
second seal means (38) is mounted on an edge of said 

door (14) which nests in said sill portion (32) of said 
cab door opening. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, 
wherein there are two separate cab doors (14) which are 

reciprocally slidable on said tracks (16,32) in opposite 
directions relative to each other to open and close said 

door opening; each of said doors having a second seal 
means (30,38) mounted thereon with respective second 

sealing surfaces (31,39); and wherein said first seal 
means comprises a gasket (26) mounted above said door 

opening, said gasket having oppositely extending tapered 
first sealing surfaces (25), said gasket being mounted 

adjacent to said door opening between said doors, and 
said oppositely extending tapered sealing surfaces 

tapering downwardly and outwardly toward opposite 
vertical sides of said door opening. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein each of 
said cab doors (14) comprises upper (30) and lower (38)  

 
edge sealing brackets; and wherein there are upper (26) 

and lower (36) complementary sealing gaskets mounted on 
said cab above and below said door opening between said 

doors. 
An elevator system comprising: 

a) a passenger cab including an entrance opening 
formed in one wall thereof; 
b) a track (16) mounted on said cab above said 
entrance opening; 
c) a sealing gasket (26) mounted on said cab adjacent 
to said track, said gasket including opposed 

gasket sealing surfaces (25) on one side thereof 
which taper toward opposite sides of said gasket; 
d) a pair of doors (14) mounted on said track for 
sliding movement thereon; said doors being movable 

between a spaced apart entrance-open position, and 
an abutting entrance-closed position; and 
e) a sealing bracket (30) mounted on each door 
opposite to said sealing gasket, each sealing 

bracket having a bracket sealing surface (31) 
thereon which is positioned to abut a complementary 

one of said gasket sealing surfaces when said doors 
are in said entrance-closed position whereby at 

least one horizontal edge of said entrance opening 
is sealed against passage of hoistway air. 
An elevator system as claimed in claim 9, wherein 
said gasket (26) and brackets (30) are fixed against 

vertical movement, and each of said bracket sealing 
surfaces (31) is parallel to a complementary one of said 

gasket sealing surfaces (25). 
An elevator system as claimed in claim 9 or 10, 
further comprising a sill means (32) at a lower 

horizontal edge of said entrance opening; a sill gasket 
(36) mounted on said sill, said sill gasket having  

 
oppositely tapered sill gasket sealing surfaces (37) 

thereon; and a sill bracket (38) mounted on each said 
door (14), said sill brackets each having a sill bracket 

sealing surface (39) thereon translationally aligned 
with complementary ones of said sill gasket sealing 

surfaces whereby said sill gasket and said sill brackets 
will combine to seal said entrance sill against hoistway 

air when said doors are in said entrance-closed 
position. 
An elevator system comprising: 

a) a cab having a passenger entrance therein; 
b) a movable door assembly (14) mounted on said cab 
for selectively opening and closing said passenger 

entrance; 
c) first vertically immobile sealing means (26,36) 
mounted on said cab above and below said passenger 

entrance; and 
d) second vertically immobile sealing means (30,38) 
mounted on said door assembly and translationally 

aligned with said first sealing means, said first 
and second sealing means being brought into 

mutually abutting sealed engagement with each other 
when said passenger entrance is closed by said door 

assembly, and being thus operable to seal upper and 
lower edges of said passenger entrance against 

hoistway air. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
