<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622060</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvement in or relating to prosthetic cardiac valve and to the method of manufacturing same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L2716	A61L2750	A61L2700	A61F224	A61F224	A61L2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61F	A61F	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	A61F2	A61F2	A61L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided an improved valve assembly having a valve housing, 
a sewing ring component held to the outer surface of the valve housing 

and a disc occuder tiltably held on suitable supports within the 
housing. The sewing ring is of polyester, the valve housing is of 

cobalt-nickel or cobalt-chromium-tungsten based alloy or of 
titanium/titanium alloys. The valve disc is made of modified ultra high 

molecular weight polyethylene. There is also disclosed a process for the 
manufacture of the valve assembly in which the valve disc and 

modification of the UHMW-PE take place simultaneously. The special 
process comprises cryo machining of a blank of UHMW-PE, solid state 

compaction of the blank, annealing of the compact followed by further 

cryo machining, anealing and cleaning steps. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to improvements in or relating
to prosthetic cardiac valve and to the method of manufacturing
same.It is already known to have several types of artificial
heart valves all of which generally operate due to the
continuous pumping action of the heart. These heart valves
usually function as check valves ensuring unidirectional
flow of blood.This invention more particularly relates to improvements
in or relating to artificial heart valves which have a plate
or disc mounted tiltably in a cage, which cage has an outer
ring of a sewing component adapted to be secured inside the
heart where required. Bileaflet heart valves are also in
vogue of several constructions like single plate heart valves.Since heart valves are to function continuously and the
disc which is tiltably mounted has to flutter more than 1,
15,000 times per day in a normal person having 72 to 80
beats per minute, the artificial disc used has to have long
operational life, abrasion and wear resistance and should
also maintain the same clerance between it and the valve
housing for a long time so that replacement is not necessary.
Once installed, the heart valve has to function flawlessly
for years together and, therefore, it is most important to
have proper choice of the materials of the various components 
and optimize their construction. There are a number of
Patents already granted and a considerable amount of literature
is also available on heart valves including the
Applicants own earlier U.S. Patent No.4,822,355 (Ind. Pat.
159244, 167706). Several other U.S. Patents of relevance
that have already been studied by the Applicant include
U.S. Patent No.4,532,659, U.S. Patent No.4,687,487, U.S.
Pat. No.4,263,680, U.S. Pat. No.2,947,716, U.S. Pat. No.
4,057,857, U.S. Pat. No.4,494,253,
U.S. Pat. No.3,959,827, U.S. Pat. No.3.824,629, U.S. Pat.
No.3698018, U.S.Pat No. 3737919, U.S. Pat. No.383547 5,
U. S. Patent No.5,026,391 and German Patent DE-A. 3504962
and several other literature.As already stated there are many types of mechanical
heart valve prostheses currently in use, viz. caged ball
valves (E.g. Starr - Edwards ball valve), tilting disc
valves (e.g. Bjork-Shiley valve, Medtronic - Hall valve)
and bileaflet valves (St. Jude Medical Valve).The disc of a tilting disc valve has to open and close
40 million times a year at an average, causing tremendous
strain on the material. So the material used should be
extremely durable in terms of wear resistance and fatigue
strength. A valve may have to operate inside the human 
b
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the preparation of improved heart valve disc from polyethylene which
comprises;


(i) subjecting a ram extruded UHMW-PE rod of suitable size to machining under
Cryo-machining conditions at temperatures below 0°C to obtain a blank corresponding

to the shape of the heart valve disc;
(ii) subjecting the blank obtained in step (i) above to a solid state compaction step at
temperatures not exceeding 150°C and at forces not exceeding 30 kN, in a suitable die,

to obtain compacted disc of the required profile and corresponding to the die used;
(iii) annealing the compacted disc in a water bath to relieve the disc of any thermally
generated stress in step (ii) above;
(iv) subjecting the annealed disc to a step of edge trimming under cryo-machining
conditions to remove any thin flashes produced on the edge of the disc in step (i)

above;
(v) followed by a further annealing step in water to relieve from the formed disc any
thermal stress produced in step (iv); and ;
(vi) finally subjecting the so formed disc to a step of ultrasonic cleaning to remove any
surface contamination.
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the disc annealing is done for a suitable
duration between 1 to 6 hrs at a temperature below 120°C.
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the cooling of annealed disc is carried out by
cooling at a rate of less than 1°C per minute.
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the ram extruded UHMW-PE rod is subjected
to cryo-machining at temperatures below 0°C.
A method as claimed in claims 1 or 4, wherein the cryo-machining is carried out in the
presence of anti-freeze and anti-rust coolant.
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the anti-freeze and anti-rust coolant is a
mixture of polypropylene glycol and water.
A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein said mixture comprises polypropylene glycol
and water in the ratio of 1:1.5 by volume.
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the said coolant also includes inorganic salts
such as potassium di-chromate, sodium nitrate, sodium bicarbonate and borax in

suitable weight percentages/ratios so that the pH of the medium is around 8.5.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the valve disc is one which
has been simultaneously fabricated and modified.
An improved heart valve assembly comprising a sewing ring component, mounted on

the outer circumference of a valve housing component, a disc occluder mounted within
the inner circumference of the valve housing, said disc occluder being held tiltably on

supports within the enclosed space of the valve housing component, said valve housing
component having a grooved ring portion externally on which is mounted said sewing 

ring component, the sewing ring component being fabricated from polyester, the valve
housing component being fabricated of a cobalt - nickel based or cobalt-chromium

tungsten based alloy or titanium and its alloys, wherein the valve disc is fabricated from
PE,

characterized in that said PE from which said valve disc is fabricated is UHMW-PE
modified according to the method of any one of the preceding claims.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
