<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613650</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bending device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1005	A61B1005	A61M2501	A61M2501	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B1	A61B1	A61M25	A61M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bending device for use in an endoscope, a catheter or 
the like is of a simple construction having a coil (31), an 

operating wire (51) and a pair of limitation members (33;55) 
for limiting an axial compression of the coil. The pair of 

limitation members are arranged along the length of the coil, 
and are mounted respectively on diametrically-opposite 

portions of the coil. The coil is bendable in a direction 
perpendicular to a plane in which the pair of limitation 

members are disposed. Instead of the coil, a bellows (60) can 
be used. In this case, the limitation members (69) comprise 

strips corrugated along a lateral edge to correspond to the corrugated 
outer peripheral surface of the bellows (60). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACHIDA ENDOSCOPE CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACHIDA ENDOSCOPE CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIKAMA TOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIKAMA TOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a bending device for use, for 
example, in an endoscope. As is well known, an endoscope comprises a hollow body, a 
flexible insertion portion extending from a front end of the 
body, a flexible bending portion extending from a distal end 
of the insertion portion, and a rigid portion provided at a 
distal end of the bending portion. An inspection window and 
an illumination window are formed at the rigid portion. Japanese Utility Model Publication No. 9274/77 discloses 
a flexible tube structure for an endoscope which structure has 
one coil and a resilient thin plate. Fig. 1 of Japanese Laid-Open 
(Kokai) Utility Model Application No. 10605/80 shows an 
example in which this flexible tube structure is applied to a 
bending portion of an endoscope. More specifically, in the 
bending portion, the resilient thin plate is received in an 
internal space defined by the coil and extends in the 
longitudinal direction of the coil. Recesses are formed in 
each of opposite lateral edges of the resilient thin plate, 
and are juxtaposed in the longitudinal direction of this 
plate. The turn portions of the coil are engaged in the 
recesses. The bending portion is bent in a direction 
perpendicular to the plane of the resilient thin plate by an 
operating wire, so as to direct an inspection window and an 
illumination window of the rigid portion toward a desired 
direction. The above resilient thin plate performs two functions. 
The first function is to prevent the coil from being axially  
 
compressed when pulling the operating wire, thereby ensuring a 
proper bending of the bending portion. The second function is 
to limit the direction of bending of the bending portion to a 
direction perpendicular to the plane of the resilient thin 
plate. The above bending portion is simple in construction, and 
can be easily manufactured. However, since the resilient thin 
plate is received in the internal space of the coil in such a 
manner that this plate divides the internal space into two 
space portions, the resilient thin plate is obstructive when 
optical fiber bundles, guide tubes and etc., are to be 
inserted into the internal space. As a result, considerable 
limitations are imposed on the thicknesses or diameters of the 
optical fiber bundles and the guide tubes. Moreover, a dead 
space tends to be present in the two space portions, thus 
failing to make effective use of the internal space. Referring to another prior art, Japanese Laid-Open 
Utility Model Application No. 110443/77
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bending device comprising: 
   a bellows having an internal space therein, and having 

a corrugated peripheral wall defined by first and second 
portions arranged alternately in a direction of an axis of 

said bellows, said first portions being bulged radially 
outwardly whereas said second portions are bulged radially 

inwardly; CHARACTERIZED by the provision of: 

(a) operating wire means (51 to 54) for bending said 
bellows (60), said operating wire means having a proximal 

end portion adapted to receive an operating force, said 
operating wire means having a distal end portion 

substantially fixed to a distal end portion of said bellows; 
and 
(b) at least one pair of limitation means (62; 63, 
64; 69) for limiting an axial compression of said bellows, 

said pair of limitation means being independent from each 
other, said pair of limitation means being arranged in an 

axial direction of said bellows and mounted respectively on 
diametrically-opposite portions of said peripheral wall of 

said bellows, each of said pair of limitation means 
including insertion portions fitted respectively in at least 

one of said first portions (60a) and second portions (60b) 
of said bellows, and said bellows being bendable in a 

direction perpendicular to a plane in which said pair of 
limitation means are disposed. 
A bending device according to claim 1, in which said 
pair of limitation means (62; 69) extend over generally an 

entire length of said bellows (60), and are disposed in a 
common plane. 
A bending device according to claim 1, in which said 
peripheral wall of said bellows (60) has first and second 

regions (Q, P) arranged alternately in the axial direction 
of said bellows, each of said first and second regions 

comprising a predetermined number of said alternate first 
and second portions (60a, 60b) of said bellows, a plurality 

of pairs of said limitation means (63, 64) being provided, 
a pair of said limitation means being mounted respectively 

 
on diametrically-opposite sections of each of said first 

regions which sections are spaced from each other in a first 
direction (X), and a pair of said limitation means being 

mounted respectively on diametrically-opposed sections of 
each of said second regions which sections are spaced from 

each other in a second direction (Y) perpendicular to said 
first direction. 
A bending device according to claim 3, in which each 
of said limitation means comprises a row of alternate first 

and second pieces (63, 64) serving as said insertion 
portions, said first pieces being disposed inside said 

peripheral wall of said bellows (60), said second pieces 
being disposed outside said peripheral wall of said bellows, 

said first pieces being fitted in and fixedly secured to 
said first portions (60a) of said bellows, respectively, 

said second pieces being fitted in and fixedly secured to 
said second portions (60b) of said bellows, respectively, 

each of said first pieces having a projecting portion 
extending radially inwardly of an inner periphery of said 

second portion, said projecting portion having an insertion 
hole (63a) formed therethrough, and said wire operating 

means being passed through said insertion hole. 
A bending device according to claim 1, in which each 
of said pair of limitation means comprises a limitation 

member (69) extending in the axial direction of said bellows 
(60), said limitation member being disposed outside said 

peripheral wall of said bellows in such a manner that said 
insertion portions (69a) are fitted respectively in said 

second portions (60b) of said bellows. 
A bending device according to claim 1, in which each 
of said limitation means comprises a row of alternate first 

and second pieces (62, 63, 64) serving as said insertion 
portions, said first pieces being disposed inside said 

peripheral wall of said bellows (60), said second pieces 
being disposed outside said peripheral wall of said bellows, 

said first pieces being fitted in and fixedly secured to 
said first portions (60a) of said bellows, respectively, and 

said second pieces being fitted in and fixedly secured to 
 

said second portions (60b) of said bellows, respectively. 
A bending device according to claim 6, in which each 
of said first and second pieces (62) has a spherical shape. 
A bending device according to claim 1, in which a row 
of insertion holes (65) are formed through the corrugations 

of said peripheral wall of said bellows (60), said row of 
insertion holes being disposed on a straight line parallel 

to the axis of said bellows, and said operating wire means 
(51, 52) being passed through said row of insertion holes. 
A bending device according to claim 1, in which a row 
of notches (66) are formed in the outer peripheries of said 

first portions of said bellows (60), said row of notches 
being disposed on a straight line parallel to the axis of 

said bellows, and said operating wire means (51, 52) being 
received in said row of notches. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
