<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0989730</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Read-out apparatus for an image detector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B4202	G03B4202	G21K400	G21K400	H04N104	H04N104	H04N1195	H04N1195	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G21K	G21K	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B42	G03B42	G21K4	G21K4	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A read-out apparatus for an image detector scans
the image detector, on which image information has been

recorded as an electrostatic latent image, with a reading
electromagnetic wave and detects electric currents caused

by the scanning to flow out of the image detector in accordance
with the electrostatic latent image. The read-out apparatus

comprises a surface-shaped wave source constituted of a
plurality of small wave sources, which are arrayed in a

surface form and each of which produces the reading
electromagnetic wave, and a wave source controller for

performing the scanning by driving the small wave sources
one after another. The read-out apparatus reads out the

electrostatic latent image without mechanical scanning being
required.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IMAI SHINJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IMAI, SHINJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a read-out apparatus for
an image detector. This invention particularly relates to
a read-out apparatus for reading out an electrostatic latent
image from an image detector, which generates a current in
accordance with latent image charges carrying image
intonation. This invention also relates to an image
detecting and read-out apparatus comprising the read-out
apparatus and the image detector, which are combined with
each other.Apparatuses utilizing image detectors, e.g.
facsimile apparatuses, copying machines, and radiation image
sensors, have heretofore been known.For example, systems for recording and reading out
radiation image intonation utilizing image detectors have
heretofore been proposed. With the proposed systems for
recording and reading out radiation image intonation, such
that a radiation dose delivered to an object during a medical
X-ray image recording operation may be kept small, and such
that the image quality of an image and its capability of
serving as an effective tool in, particularly, the efficient 
and accurate diagnosis of an illness may be enhanced, a
photo-conductive material sensitive to X-rays, such as a
selenium plate constituted of, e.g., a-Se, is employed as
a photosensitive material or an electrostatic recording
material. The photosensitive material (or the electrostatic
recording material) is exposed to radiation, such as X-rays,
carrying radiation image information, and latent image
charges carrying the radiation image information are thereby
accumulated in the photosensitive material. Thereafter, the
photosensitive material is scanned with a laser beam, and
currents occurring in the photosensitive material are
detected via flat plate-shaped electrodes or comb tooth-shaped
electrodes, which are located on opposite surface
sides of the photosensitive material. In this manner, the
electrostatic latent image represented by the latent image
charges, i.e. the radiation image information, is read out.
Such systems for recording and reading out radiation image
information are described in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos.
4,176,275, 5,440,146, and 5,510,626, "A Method of Electronic
Readout of Electrophotographic and Electroradiographic
Image," Journal of Applied Photographic Engineering, Volume
4, Number 4, Fall 1978, pp. 178-182 (hereinbelow referred
to as the Literature 1), and "23027 Method and device for
recording and transducing an electromagnetic energy
pattern," Research Disclosure, June 1983 (hereinbelow 
referred to as the Literature 2).With
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A read-out apparatus for an image detector,
wherein a reading electromagnetic wave is caused to scan an

image detector, on which image information has been recorded
as an electrostatic latent image, and electric currents

caused by the scanning to flow out of the image detector in
accordance with the electrostatic latent image are detected,

the read-out apparatus comprising:

i) a surface-shaped wave source constituted of a
plurality of small wave sources, which are arrayed in a

surface form and each of which produces the reading
electromagnetic wave, and
ii) wave source control means for performing the
scanning by driving said small wave sources one after another.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 1
wherein the read-out apparatus further comprises

electromagnetic shield means located at least on the side
of said surface-shaped wave source, which stands facing the

image detector.
A read-out apparatus as defined in claim 1
wherein said wave source control means is capable of

simultaneously driving the plurality of said small wave
sources so as to irradiate a pre-exposure electromagnetic

wave to the image detector.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 2
wherein said wave source control means is capable of

simultaneously driving the plurality of said small wave
sources so as to irradiate a pre-exposure electromagnetic

wave to the image detector.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 1, 2,
3, or 4 wherein the plurality of said small wave sources are

point-shaped small wave sources, and said surface-shaped wave
source is constituted of the plurality of said point-shaped

small wave sources, which are arrayed in a matrix form.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 1, 2,
3, or 4 wherein the plurality of said small wave sources are

line-shaped small wave sources, and said surface-shaped wave
source is constituted of the plurality of said line-shaped

small wave sources, which are arrayed so as to stand side
by side along a direction normal to a longitudinal direction

of each small wave source.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 6
wherein each of said line-shaped small wave sources is

constituted of a plurality of point-shaped small wave sources,
which are arrayed in a line form.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 1, 2,
3, or 4 wherein said surface-shaped wave source is constituted

of an electroluminescence device.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 8
wherein said electroluminescence device is an organic

electroluminescence device.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 9
wherein said organic electroluminescence device is provided

with a dielectric multi-layer film, which is located on the
side facing the image detector.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 1,
2, 3, or 4 wherein said surface-shaped wave source is

constituted of a liquid crystal and a back light source, which
is located on a side of said liquid crystal that is opposite

to the side of said liquid crystal facing the image detector.
A read-out apparatus as defined in Claim 1,
2, 3, or 4 wherein the image detector records radiation image

information as the electrostatic latent image.
An image detecting and read-out apparatus,
comprising:


i) an image detector, which records image
information as an electrostatic latent image and which

generates electric currents in accordance with the
electrostatic latent image when it is scanned with a reading

electromagnetic wave,
ii) current detecting means for detecting the
electric currents generated by said image detector,
iii) a surface-shaped wave source constituted of
a plurality of small wave sources, which are arrayed in a

surface form and each of which produces the reading
electromagnetic wave, and
iv) wave source control means for performing the
scanning by driving said small wave sources one after another,
said image detector, said current detecting means,
said surface-shaped wave source, and said wave source control

means being combined with one another.
An image detecting and read-out apparatus as
defined in Claim 13 wherein said image detector records

radiation image information as the electrostatic latent
image.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
