<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616550</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
UNIVERSAL COLLISIONAL ACTIVATION ION TRAP MASS SPECTROMETRY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J4934	H01J4938	H01J4942	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J49	H01J49	H01J49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to contract no. DE-AC05-84OR21400 
between the United States Department of Energy and Martin Marietta Energy 
Systems, Inc., and funded by the Office of Safeguards and Security. The present invention relates to collisional activation ion trapping instruments and 
methods of using same, and more particularly to universal collisional activation ion trap mass 
spectrometers and methods of using same. Deliberate dissociation of ions via collision-induced dissociation (CID) is a useful 
technique for verification of molecular entities in mass spectrometers including those based on 
ion trapping. Collisional activation (CA), which constitutes the first step of CID (dissociation 
being the second step), can be effected in ion trapping instruments by resonantly exciting ions at 
one or more of their characteristic frequencies of motion within the trapping field. Because the frequencies of ion motion are mass-to-charge dependent, the use of a single 
excitation frequency makes collisional activation in ion trapping instruments mass-to-charge 
specific. Consequently, a priori knowledge of the mass-to-charge ratio for a selected ion has been 
required in order that the excitation frequency can be correctly adjusted. Furthermore, the 
frequencies of ion motion are affected by the presence of other ions of like charge (i.e., space 
charge) which limits the usefulness of the single frequency excitation methods commonly used in 
conventional ion trapping instruments. Single frequency excitation methods as used in ion traps employ a discrete, precisely-tuned 
frequency to excite a limited number of ions possessing a particular mass-to-charge ratio. Also, 
in many conventional ion trapping applications, the number of ions is difficult to control which 
necessitates frequency adjustments that are generally tedious and time-consuming. Furthermore, 
the extent of fragmentation, which provides structural information, is often limited because once 
the parent ion becomes fragmented, the first generation product ions fall out of resonance and 
typically do not undergo further fragmentation. Further background information can be found  
 
in the following references: J.E. Fulford, et al., 
"Radio-frequency mass-selective excitation and resonant ejection of ions in a three-dimensional 
quadrupole ion trap", Journal of Vacuum Science and Technology, 17(4), 829 (1980); R.B. Cody, 
et al., "Collision-Induced Dissociation with Fourier Transform Mass Spectrometry",
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A universal collisional activation ion trap for use in mass spectrometry comprising an ion trapping means having 
connected thereto a random noise signal generator, said ion trapping means containing a bath gas. 
A universal collisional activation ion trap according to claim 1 wherein said ion 
trapping means comprises a quadrupole ion trap. 
A universal collisional activation ion trap according to claim 2 wherein said 
quadrupole ion trap comprises a ring electrode and two end-cap electrodes. 
A universal collisional activation ion trap according to claim 3 wherein said noise 
signal generator is connected to at least one of said two end-cap electrodes of said quadrupole 

ion trap. 
A universal collisional activation ion trap according to claim 3 wherein said noise 
signal generator is connected to said ring electrode of said quadrupole ion trap. 
A universal collisional activation ion trap according to claim 1 wherein said ion 
trapping means comprises an ion cyclotron resonance cell. 
A universal collisional activation ion trap according to claim 6 wherein said ion 
cyclotron resonance cell comprises at least two opposing electrodes, and wherein said noise signal 

generator is connected to at least one of said opposing electrodes. 
A universal collisional activation ion trap according to claim 1 wherein said ion 
trapping means uses combined magnetic and electrodynamic forces to trap ions. 
A method of operating a universal collisional activation ion trap comprising the 
steps of: 


(a) providing an ion trapping means;  
 
(b) introducing into said ion trapping means a bath gas; and, 
(c) generating a random noise signal within said ion trapping means to effect collisional 
activation of ions trapped therein. 
The method according to claim 9 further comprising the subsequent step of 
introducing into said ion trapping means a substance that, when acted upon by said noise signal, 

undergoes collisional activation to form product ions. 
A method according to claim 9 wherein said ion trapping means comprises a 
quadrupole ion trap. 
A method according to claim 11 wherein said quadrupole ion trap comprises a ring 
electrode and two end-cap electrodes. 
A method according to claim 12 wherein said noise signal generator is connected 
to at least one of said two end-cap electrodes of said quadrupole ion trap. 
A method according to claim 12 wherein said noise signal generator is connected 
to said ring electrode of a quadrupole ion trap. 
A method according to claim 9 wherein said ion trapping means comprises an ion 
cyclotron resonance cell. 
A method according to claim 15 wherein said ion cyclotron resonance cell 
comprises at least two opposing electrodes, and wherein said noise signal generator is connected 

to at least one of said opposing electrodes. 
The method according to claim 10 further comprising the subsequent step of 
acquiring a mass spectrum which contains data useful for identifying said substance. 
A mass spectrometry system comprising an ion trapping means having connected 
thereto a random noise signal generator, said ion trapping means containing a bath gas, support 

subsystems, and data acquisition subsystems. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
