<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0091491</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PROCESSING REGISTER FOR USE IN DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1710	G06F1710	G06F1714	G06F1714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital signal processing apparatus adapted for use with high speed multipliers, which multipliers are known in the prior art. Digital signal processing, in general, is based upon multiplication, summing, subtraction and storing of digital data. Besides multiplication, these functions are performed in the prior art by a large number of integrated circuits resulting in cost, power consumption and reliability problems. The processing register of the present invention performs the remaining arithmetic operations of summing, subtraction, delay and storing of digital data while providing a plurality of different operating modes to accommodate a host different applications. In order to accommodate different modes, the processing register comprises a memory storage register (11) and a computation register (13) which are under the control of a control register (14), which register accepts a control word input having bits thereof indicative of a particular mode of operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT STANDARD ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHITSAZ SIRUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRISHER DALE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHITSAZ, SIRUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRISHER, DALE L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A PROCESSING REGISTER APPARATUS FOR USE IN DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING SYSTEMSBackground of InventionThis invention relates to digital signal proces¬ sing apparatus in general, and more particularly, to a processing register for" se in digital signal processing systems.It has long been recognized that many future pro¬ ducts in the telecommunications field would operate based upon digital signal processing. By digitally processing data such as voice, video, radar, sonar and other signals, one" can achieve greater reliability and lower cost as dig¬ ital circuits are, in most cases, easier to integrate and produce than their analog counterparts.'In general, digital signal processing is based, upon multiplication, summation, subtraction and storage of digital data and by performing these functions upon digital signals many useful devices can be implemented in a tele¬ communications system. The prior art is replete with a num¬ ber of patents and technical articles relating to digital signal processing techniques and systems employing such tech- niques.OMPI 

 A powerful combination for performing digital signal 'processing is the combination of a high speed mul¬ tiplier operating in conjunction with a processing regis¬ ter. The function of the multiplier is to perform multi- plication and accumulation of data applied to its inputs.The multiplier may be a programmable device and may operate on digital data streams 'at the inputs to provide a sum of products. There are many examples of multipliers in the prior art. The processing register' is a device which can perform the remaining arithmetic operations such as sum¬ mation, subtraction and delay.The prior art attempted to implement processing "register construction by the use of a large number of in— tegrated circuit chips as well as custom components which varied and changed according"to the applicatio -This lead to great difficulty in implementing digital processing systems in regard to cost, reliability and power consumption. "" To provide this utility and to be able to acco- modate these.functions, the processing register must be versatile and may provide a number of different operating modes to accomodate a host of diverse" applications. It should also be simple to operate and use. These criterion and others dictate that the structure and architecture of such a unit be amenable to providing a wide host of functions and that the unit might be capable of operation in various modes to enable the system designer to employ the register as desired. Particularly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM
1. A processing register apparatus for use in dig¬ ital 
'
signal processing applications, said reg¬ ister capable of operating in a -plurality of different modes in conjunction with a multiplier to perform digital signal processing blocks and/ or systems, the said processing register is to comprise-but 'not limited to: a) main shift register means having a plurality of stages for receiving and storing therein a given number of bits manifesting a plurality of digital data words each having a smaller number of bits of a given value, said register adapted to receive -at an input a 
■
 . digital data signal manifesting -said plurality of digital words, and to provide said words at output; b) control register means coupled to said main register means having a plurality of
'
stages and adapted to receive a control word of said given valueA"bιts, with predetermined bits i.ndi.¬ cative of any one of given -number of modes of operation for said register and with predetermined selected ones of said bits indicative of control signals for selecting any one stage of said main shift register manifesting a given delay accord¬ ing to said selected stage; c) a storage register having a plurality of stages for receiving and storing therein a different number of given bits than said main register, manifesting a smaller plurality of digital data words each of the same number of i. bits of said given value and overflow means coupled to said main and storage registers to set said given value
_OMPI_
"
wϊ
p
δ
"

 of bits indicative of any digital word stored to one binary logic value in either said main or second storage registers; mode selector means coupled to said control register and responsive to said bits to provide a plurality of control signals indicative of a separate mode of operation for said processing register.
2. The processing register according to Claim 1 further comprising: a multiplexer register having a first input for receiving digital words of said given bit value and a second input for receiving second 
"
 digital words of said given bit value said reg¬ ister having a number of stages at least equal to said
'
 given value of bits, logic means coupled to said multiplexer register and adapted to receive a control word 
■
 of said given bit value with the most signifi¬ cant bit of said control word selecting either said first or said second input word as an out¬ put at a given delay with respect to said selec¬ ted input.
3. The processing register according to Claim 2 further comprising: a sum and difference register having one input for receiving a digital word of said given number of bits indicative of a sum input and a second input for receiving a digital word of said given number of bits indicative of a difference input to provide at one output a first signal indicative of the sum of said words and a 


 second output to provide a second signal indi¬ cative of the difference of said words.
4. The processing register according to Claim 3 wherein in a first mode (SR) as determined by said bits said main register provides _a first predetermined number of fixed delay outputs , with said storage register provid¬ ing a second predetermined number of delay out- puts and with said multiplexer register and said sum and difference registers operative to provid said multiplexed output and said sum and differen outputs with said first mode indicative of said first predetermined number of bits all being at the same logic value.
5. The processing register according to Claim 3 wher 
'
 in a second mode (AWPI) indicative of said predetermined number of bits manifesting a particular code wherein only certain of said bits are at the same logic value
'
 said multiplexer register operation is inhibited, with one of said bits of said first predetermined number of bits operative via logic means to couple the differenc output of said sum and difference register to sai multiplexer to provide said difference output at said multiplexer output with said given delay and means responsive to said second mode being selec¬ ted and responsive to said logic state of said bitsto vary the delay at least one output of said main shift register.
6. • The processing register according to Claim 3 wherein in a third mode (PDSR) indicative of said predetermined number of bits manifesting a 


 second code wherein only certain other bits are at the same logic value, said logic means asso- ciated with said multiplexer adapted to respond to said control word to decode said bits of said 5 control word to provide a plurality of selectable delays according to.said control word.
7. The processing register according to Claim 3 wherein in a fourth mode (DFT) indicative of
10 a predetermined number of bits manifesting a code wherein 
'
 only certain other bits are at the same logic value, the input to said processing register is coupled to the difference input of said sum and difference register for a
15 first input frame indicative of a given number of digital/words., and hence at given number of bits, and for disabling said coupling during a second frame of the same number of bits indicative of an output frame, with said control word varying
20 logic states to order the input data as applied to said difference input during said fourth mode, and means for inhibiting said- overflow means during s id fourth mode.
_25 8. The processing register according to Claim 3 wherein said sum and difference register performs sums and difference in two's complement binary arithmetic.
30 9 . The processing 
"
register according to Claim 1 further including: a word delay register having an input for receiving digital words each of a given number of bits and an output for delaying each received
35 word by said given number of bits . 


10. The processing register according to Claim 11 further including means responsive to said fourth mode for inhibiting said word delay register operation only during said fourth mode.
11. The processing register according to Claim 1 where¬ in said control register means is serial, in 
f
 parallel out shift register.
12. A processing register for use in digital processing systems such as digital filters, transmultiplexers and the like, said register capable of operating in any one of given-number of modes, comprising in combination: a) a main storage register having a. plurality of stages for receiving 
&
 storing therein a given number, of bits manifesting a plurality of digital data words each of a smaller number of bits of a given value, said register adapted to receive at an input a digital data signal man- 
"'
ifestiπg'a plurality of digital words,
~"
b) a computation register coupled to said storage register and adapted to select any one of said plurality of stages to provide at out¬ puts said digital words at predetermined delays according to said stage selected, c) a control register coupled to said storage register and said computation register and adapted to receive a first control word of said given value of bits,
"
 with certain of said bits indicative of anyone of said given number of modes, and others of said bits indicative of a desired delay for selecting said stage of said main register,
- _ -
~
z 


 -4 B-
d) an independent storage register having a plurality of stages less than said main regist and adapted to receive a separate digital input signal manifesting a plurality -of separate digit words each of said given value of bits, - e
)
 overflow means coupled between said mai and independent registers and responsive to an overflow signal to cause all bits of any one word stored in either register to.be altered to one logic state, f) a multiplexer register having a first and a second input each adapted to receive digital 
■
 words of said given bit value, g) logic means coupled to said multiplexer and adapted to receive a second control 
'
word of said given bit value, wherein one bit of said word is operative to select said-first or second input and to apply the same to an output of said multiplexer, h) an adder-subtractor register having a sum input and a difference input each .adapted to receive digital data words of said given bit value to provide at a first sum output the sum of said words and at a second difference output the difference of said words, -and^ ••.
I) logic means responsive to other bits 
'
in sai first control word
'
 for decoding a given number o states each indicative
'
of one of said operating modes for modifying operation of selected ones o said registers. according to said selected mode as manifested by said other bits in said first control word. 


 13. 
"
 The processing register combination according to
Claim 12 wherein a first mode (SR) said main shift register provides a plurality of fixed delays as selected by said computation register, with said in- struction register providing a lesser plurality of fixed delays from input data to output.
14. The processing register combination according to Claim 12 wherein a second mode (TSI) said main shift register provides a selectable delay accord¬ ing to said other bits of said control word.
15. The processing register combination according to Claim 14 wherein a third mode (AWPI) said main shift register provides a selectable delay as in said second mode, with said multiplexer register inputs inhibited and the difference output of said sum and difference register coupled to said multi¬ plexer to provide at the output of said multiplexer a difference signal under control of one bit of said first control word at a selectable delay.
16. The processing register combination according to Claim 12 wherein a fourth mode (PDSR) the main and independent registers operate as in said third mode with said multiplexer register responsive to bits of said second control words as decoded by said logic means to provide a selectable delay between any one of said inputs and said output according to the status of the second control word.
17. The processing register combination according to Claim 12 wherein a fifth mode (DFT) the input
OMPI 


 to said main register is coupled.to the differen output of said sum and difference register for a first input frame of a given number of bits ani festing a given number of digital words and for disabling said coupling during a second frame of the same number of bits indicative of an output frame, with said first control word varying logi states to order input data as applied to the difference input of said sum and difference regi during .said fifth mode and means for inhibiting
^
 said overflow means during said fifth mode.
-18. . The processing register combination according to Claim 12 further including a word delay register having an input adapted to receive a stream of digital data words each consisting of said given bit value and for providing a delayed .data strea at an output with the delay being a one word.- del and therefore equal to the number of said bits o said given value.
OMPI 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
