<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652381</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Male clinch fastener with cold-formed locking flange and associated installation method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23P1906	B23P1906	F16B3504	F16B3504	F16B3506	F16B3704	F16B3706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23P	B23P	F16B	F16B	F16B	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23P19	B23P19	F16B35	F16B35	F16B35	F16B37	F16B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A male clinch fastener adapted to be secured to a sheet 
(21) by cold-forming includes a generally cylindrical head 

having a threaded shaft (31) extending outwardly 
therefrom and a plurality of circumferentially distributed 

splines (35a). Longitudinally extending portions of 
the splines are adapted to be displaced by cold-forming or a 

peeling action to form a laterally extending flange (40) 
along a medial portion of the head. The clinch fastener 

also preferably includes a laterally extending flange (33) 
at one end co-operating with the cold-formed flange (40) to 

secure the fastener within a pilot (26), or collar, formed 
at an opening in the sheet to which the clinch bolt is 

secured. The splines (35a) adjacent the end flange are also 
secured within the pilot of the sheet and prevent rotation 

of the clinch fastener. The head (30) also preferably has a 
second end portion being tapered to serve as a guide surface 

to facilitate alignment with the opening in the sheet 
during installation, and also serves as a guide surface for 

beginning the cold-forming, or peeling, of the splines to 
form the flange in the medial portion of the head. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMHART INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMHART INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULTZ ROBB M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULTZ ROBB M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the field of fasteners, and, 
more particularly, to a male clinch fastener, or clinch 
bolt, mounted to a sheet and an associated method for 
installing the clinch fastener. A conventional male clinch fastener, or clinch bolt, is 
permanently installed into a portion of a metal sheet so 
that the head becomes an integral part of the metal sheet 
and the threaded shaft extends upwardly from the sheet. The 
clinch bolt is installed by cold-forming the metal of the 
sheet or the head, rather than welding. The clinch bolt 
thus provides a threaded shaft with greater holding capacity 
than could be obtained by simply threading a conventional 
bolt through an opening in the sheet metal alone. Such a 
clinch bolt is commonly used in automobiles to provide a 
means for securing other objects to a metal sheet, for 
example. One type of conventional clinch bolt is offered by 
Multifastener Corporation of Detroit, Michigan under the 
designation PIERCEFORM® SBK Stud. The bolt includes a head 
having an octagonal first portion adjacent the threaded 
shaft. A second portion of the head is a hollow tube with a 
smaller outer diameter than the first portion. As the bolt 
is inserted into an opening in the sheet, the sidewalls of 
the hollow tube are folded over and radially outwardly by a 
die to form a locking flange, while the octagonally shaped 
first portion is drawn into and flush with the sheet. Unfortunately, the PIERCEFORM® SBK Stud is secured to 
the sheet by a coining action or displacement of the parent  
 
material of the sheet. Thus, this clinch bolt may suffer 
from reduced pull-through and push-out performance. The PIERCEFORM® Stud offered by Kean Manufacturing 
Corp. of Dearborn Heights, Michigan is a male fastener, or 
clinch bolt, having a threaded shaft extending outwardly 
from a generally cylindrical head, the head, in turn, is 
secured within a pilot, or collar, formed in the sheet. The 
PIERCEFORM® Stud forms, and then wraps around, a collar or 
pilot in the sheet into which the head has been pressed. A 
portion of the head is a hollow tube having walls that are 
folded over and radially outwardly by a die to form the 
locking flange. As the head is press fit into and through 
the sheet, edge portions of the sheet are bent downward to 
form the pilot for receiving the head of the bolt. A 
laterally extending flange on an end of the head adjacent 
the shaft is seated flush with the surface of the sheet. A 
relatively small number of circumferentially distributed 
ribs
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1 A combination of a male clinch fastener and a sheet, 
the fastener being secured to the sheet (21), the sheet 

having an opening (25) with edge portions of said sheet 
adjacent the opening being deformed to define a pilot (26) 

depending from said sheet, characterised in that said clinch 
fastener comprises: 

   a generally cylindrical head (30) and a shaft (31) 
connected to said head and extending outwardly therefrom; 

   first and second laterally extending flanges (33, 40) 
connected to said head in longitudinally spaced relation and 

co-operating to secure said head within said pilot (26) of 
said sheet, said first flange (33) connected to a first end 

of said head adjacent said shaft, said second flange (40) 
connected to a medial portion of said head and abutting 

outer end portions of said pilot; and 
   a plurality of circumferentially distributed splines 

(35a) connected to a first portion of said head and 
extending longitudinally between said first and second 

flanges, said splines in engagement with said pilot to 
prevent rotation of said clinch fastener within said pilot, 

said splines having peripheral portions defining an 
imaginary circle having a predetermined diameter; 

   said head having a second portion extending 
longitudinally outward from said second flange, said second 

portion having a transverse cross-sectional diameter less 
than said predetermined diameter defined by peripheral 

portions of said splines. 
2 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said first flange (33) is positioned flush with a 

surface of said sheet (21) opposite the pilot (26). 
3 A combination according to Claim 2, characterised in 
that said first flange (33) has a inwardly tapered annular 

 
surface transverse to said head (30) for facilitating flush 

mounting of said first flange with said sheet (21). 
4 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said plurality of splines (35a) define a polygonal 

transverse cross-sectional shape. 
5 A combination according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, 
characterised in that said plurality of splines (35a) define 

a star-like transverse cross-sectional shape. 
6 A combination according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, 
characterised in that said plurality of splines (35a) define 

a serpentine generally circular transverse cross-sectional 
shape. 
7 A combination according to any one of Claims 1, 5 or 6 
characterised in that said head (30), said shaft (31), said 

first flange (33) and said splines (35a) are integrally 
formed of metal; and wherein said second flange comprises 

cold-formed metal displaced from said second portion of said 
head. 
8 A combination according to any of Claims 1, 5 or 6, 
characterised in that said second portion of said head 

includes a plurality of circumferentially distributed 
longitudinally extending grooves in alignment with 

respective grooves defined by said plurality of splines 
(35a) on said first portion of said head. 
9 A combination according to any of Claims 1, 5 or 6 
characterised in that said second flange (40) comprises a 

plurality of radially outwardly extending protrusions 
longitudinally aligned with respective splines (35a). 
10 A combination according to any of Claims 1, 5 or 6 
characterised in that a second end portion of said head (30) 

is tapered. 
11 A combination according to any of Claims 1, 5 or 6 
characterised in that said plurality of splines (35a) is a 

predetermined number in a range of about 8 to 16. 
12 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said opening (25) in said sheet (21) is generally 

circular. 
13 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said sheet(25) comprises metal. 
14 A combination according to Claim 5 or Claim 6 
characterised in that said sheet comprises metal, and 

wherein the opening in said metal sheet is generally 
circular. 
15 A method for securing a male clinch fastener (20) to a 
sheet (21), wherein the clinch fastener includes a head (30) 

with a shaft (31) extending outwardly therefrom, the head 
having a first laterally extending flange (31) at an end 

thereof adjacent said shaft and a plurality of 
longitudinally extending splines (35a and 35b) 

circumferentially distributed on the head, characterised in 
that the method comprises the steps of: 

   forming an opening (25) in the sheet (21) having a 
diameter less than a diameter defined by peripheral portions 

of the splines; 
   driving the head (30) of the clinch fastener into the 

opening to form a pilot (26) from edge portions of the sheet 
so that the pilot surrounds the splines (35a) along a first 

longitudinal portion of the head; and
 

   longitudinally displacing portions of the splines (35b) 
from along a second longitudinal portion of the head to form 

a second laterally extending flange (40) abutting the pilot 
and co-operating with the first flange (33) to secure the 

clinch fastener to the sheet. 
16 A method according to Claim 15, characterised in that 
the step of driving the head (30) comprises driving same so 

that the first flange (33) is flush with a surface of the 
sheet (21). 
17 A method according to Claim 15, wherein the clinch 
fastener includes a tapered second end, and characterised by 

aligning the clinch fastener with the opening (25) in the 
sheet (21) by positioning the tapered second end partially 

extending into the opening (25). 
18 A method according to Claim 15, characterised in that 
the steps of driving the head (30) and forming the second 

flange (40) are performed simultaneously. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
