<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649331</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLOSER MECHANISM FOR COMPACT FILTER PRESS ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF OPERATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2909	B01D2909	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D29	B01D29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A closer mechanism and method of operation is provided for filter press assemblies and similar applications having a movable plate for opening and closing the assembly. A flexible bladder (24) is arranged adjacent the movable plate (14) and initially pressurized by a low pressure, high volume supply (78) and then a high pressure, low volume supply (80). The flexible bladder is preferably enclosed by a rigid confinement assembly (28) while being allowed to expand and contract for positioning the movable plate. The low pressure supply and high pressure supply are preferably of a gas-over-liquid type while including a reservoir and venting controls for conserving operating liquid within the closer mechanism. In one embodiment, the movable plate is rectangular and the rigid confinement assembly is similarly shaped to provide a particularly compact configuration with the bladder having an inflatable cross-section generally equal in area to the movable plate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WOMACK INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WOMACK INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOMACK THOMAS H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOMACK, THOMAS, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CLOSER MECHANISM FOR COMPACT FILTER PRESS ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF OPERATION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a closer mechanism and method of operation for its use in opening and closing a movable plate for an assembly including the closer mechanism and more particularly to such a closer mechanism and method of operation employed for positioning a closer plate in a filter assembly.Background of the Invention Filter assemblies of the type generally contemplated by the present invention are commonly employed for pressure filtration in industrial applications and the like. The filter assembly is employed to separate solids from liquids in many different applications including, for example, metal-working coolants, food- processing liquids, chemicals, hazardous wastes, ere.The filter assembly typically comprises a vertical or horizontal stack of filter plates including at least two filter plates, one of which is mounted to a rigid structure or frame. This assembly is also commonly referred to as a filter press. The filter assembly may include two or more such plates, each adjacent pair of plates being adapted for forming a filter chamber.A layer of filter media, frequently in the form of long sheet-like rolls, is arranged in the filter chamber between each pair of filter plates. Accordingly, each filter chamber formed between adjacent filter plates includes dirty and clean compartments on opposite sides of the filter media. The dirty compartment receives dirty, contaminated liquid under pressure which is forced through the filter media, thereby depositing the filter cake solid particles (with or without a filter aid) on the filter media. The resultant clean, filtered liquid enters the clean compartment of the adjacent plate. Frequently, such filtration operations are supplemented with the addition of filter aids such as diatomaceous earth and/orFuller's earth, or other similar products. These filter aids create a filter cake on the filter media which facilitates separation of the super-fine particles and color bodies from the liquid in order to further purify the working fluid in the filter 

assembly.Filter assemblies including filter stacks with multiple filter chambers or compartments and employing filter media for separating solid particles from a liquid have been disclosed for example in U.S. Patent 4,274,961 issued June 23, 1981 to Hirs; U.S. Patent 4,289,615 issued September 15, 1981 to Schneider, et al. and U.S. Patent 4,362,617 issued December 7, 1982 to Klepper.The Schneider,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A compact closer mechanism for a filter press assembly including a movable plate for opening and closing the filter press assembly, comprising a flexible bladder means having an inflatable cross-section equal in area to a substantial portion of the movable plate, a low pressure supply for initially pressurizing the bladder means, a high pressure supply for subsequently pressurizing the bladder means to apply sealing pressure to the movable filter plate and sequencing means for sequentially operating the low pressure supply and the high pressure supply during closing operation of the closer mechanism.
2. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 1 wherein the flexible bladder has an inflatable cross-section equal to at least about 50% of the surface area of the movable plate means.
3. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 1 wherein the flexible bladder means has an inflatable cross-section at least approximately equal to or greater than the surface area of the movable plate means.
4. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 1 wherein the low pressure supply is hydraulically operable and comprises a hydraulic reservoir having a volume at least equal to the volume of the bladder means when inflated, the high pressure supply also being hydraulically operable and further comprising means for positively blocking the low pressure and high pressure supplies from the bladder means when the bladder means is inflated in order to form an incompressible liquid column for positively maintaining the movable plate means in a closed position. 5. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 4 further comprising venting means operable during opening of the closer mechanism for initially venting the bladder means into the high pressure supply in order to recharge it with liquid and thereafter venting the bladder means into the low pressure supply so that all liquid is conserved in the hydraulic reservoir of the low pressure supply between closing operations.
6. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 1 further comprising a rigid confinement means for limiting radial expansion of the bladder 


and structural means forming a surface opposite the movable plate means whereby the bladder means is completely enclosed by the movable plate means, the surface of the structural means and the rigid confinement means.
7. A compact closer mechanism for an assembly having a movable plate means for opening and closing the assembly, the closer mechanism comprising a flexible bladder means having an inflatable cross-section equal in area to a substantial portion of the movable plate means, a low pressure supply for initially pressurizing the bladder means and closing the filter plates, a high pressure supply for subsequently pressurizing the bladder means to apply sealing pressure to the movable plate means and sequencing means for sequentially operating the low pressure supply and the high pressure supply during closing operation of the closer mechanism.
8. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 7 wherein the low pressure supply is hydraulically operable and comprises a hydraulic reservoir having a volume at least equal to or greater than the volume of the bladder means when inflated.
9. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 8 wherein both the low pressure and high pressure supplies are of a gas-over-liquid type adapted for pressurization by gas with liquid being employed to pressurize the bladder means. 10. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 8 wherein the high pressure supply is also hydraulically operable and further comprising means for positively blocking the low pressure and high pressure supplies from the bladder means when the bladder means is inflated in order to form an incompressible liquid column for positively maintaining the movable plate means in a closed position.
1 A compact closer mechanism for an assembly having a rectangular movable plate for opening and closing the assembly, the closer mechanism comprising elastomeric bladder means. rigid confinement means laterally surrounding the bladder means generally parallel with the closing plate, the rigid confinement means having internal rectangular dimensions generally similar to the rectangular configuration 


of the movable plate and positively limiting the bladder means to a minimum inflatable cross-section about equal to an effective closure area of the movable plate while permitting expansion of the bladder means perpendicular to the sealing plate for applying closing force to the closing plate, a pressure source for providing pressure to inflate the bladder means, and sequencing means for controlling opening and closing operation of the closer mechanism.
12. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 1 1 further comprising structural means forming a surface opposite the movable plate means whereby the bladder means is completely enclosed by the movable plate means, the surface of the structural means and the rigid confinement means.
13. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 12 wherein the rigid confinement means comprises a surrounding structural element movable relative to one of (a) the movable plate means and (b) the surface of the structural means in order to compensate for inflation and deflation of the bladder means, the pressure supply being arranged within the structural means in order to provide a compact configuration for the closer mechanism.
14. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 1 1 wherein the pressure source comprises high and low pressure supplies both of a gas-over-liquid type adapted for pressurization by gas with liquid being employed to pressurize the bladder means and sequencing means for sequentially operating the low pressure supply and the high pressure supply during closing and opening operation of the closer mechanism. 15. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 14 further comprising means for positively blocking the low pressure and high pressure supplies from the bladder means when the bladder means is inflated in order to form an incompressible liquid column for positively maintaining the movable plate means in a closed position. 16. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 15 further comprising venting means operable during opening of the closer mechanism for initially venting the bladder means into the high pressure supply in order to 


recharge it with liquid, the venting means thereafter venting the bladder means into the low pressure supply and further comprising means for venting the high pressure supply into the low pressure supply so that all liquid is conserved in the hydraulic reservoir of the low pressure supply between closing operations. 17. The closer mechanism of Claim 11 wherein the pressure source is a low pressure municipal water supply.
18. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 111 wherein the pressure source is a closed liquid loop including reservoir means having a volume greater than the bladder means when inflated, pump means for supplying liquid under pressure to the bladder means, and means for returning liquid from the bladder means to the reservoir and sequencing means for operating the closer mechanism.
19. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 11 wherein the pressure source is pneumatically operable. 20. The compact closer mechanism of Claim I I for use in a liquid processing assembly, the pressure source for the closer mechanism comprising pump means for supplying liquid under pressure from the processing assembly to the bladder means, and means for venting liquid from the bladder means back to the processing assembly. 21. The compact closer mechanism of Claim 11 further comprising locking means for positively maintaining the movable plate in its closed position until the closer mechanism is again operated for opening the assembly. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
