<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0975990</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SCANNING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2610	G01S702	G02B2610	G01V800	G01S748	H01Q300	G01S702	G01S1389	G01S748	H01Q1500	H01Q1524	H01Q320	G01S1300	G01V800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G01S	G02B	G01V	G01S	H01Q	G01S	G01S	G01S	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	G01S	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G01S7	G02B26	G01V8	G01S7	H01Q3	G01S7	G01S13	G01S7	H01Q15	H01Q15	H01Q3	G01S13	G01V8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Scanning apparatus which may be used in a real-time passive millimetre wavelength imaging system or in other radiometry systems. The apparatus scans input radiation from a scene and output radiation is transmitted to a receiver system, for example a millimetre wave imaging camera or a radar receiver. The apparatus comprises a rotatable reflective plate having an axis of rotation passing through the centre of its surface, secondary reflection means and static reflection means, wherein the secondary reflection means is a second rotatable reflective plate having a common axis of rotation with the first rotatable reflective plate, wherein the common axis of rotation is inclined at a non-zero angle  theta b to the normal to the second reflective plate. The normal to the first rotatable plate is inclined at a small angle to the common axis of rotation, typically a few degrees. In a preferred embodiment, the first rotatable reflective plate also forms the secondary reflection means. The static reflection means may be a polarising roof reflector through which radiation is input to and output from the apparatus. In this configuration, the apparatus also includes a 45 DEG  Faraday rotator or a birefringent surface such as a Meander-line. An additional Faraday rotator and an inclined polariser may be included in the apparatus and arranged such that radiation output to the receiver system may be separated from the path of input radiation. Alternatively, the scanning apparatus may include a reflector lens arrangement, such that focused output radiation may be output directly to the receiver system. The invention also relates to a reflector lens comprising a first polarising surface, for selectively transmitting and selectively reflecting radiation having a particular direction of polarisation, a second surface for rotating the direction of polarisation of radiation through substantially 45 DEG  and a third polarising surface for selectively reflecting and selectively transmitting radiation, wherein the polarisation axis of the third surface makes an angle of substantially 45 DEG  with the polarisation axis of the first surface.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SECR DEFENCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEFENCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LETTINGTON ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LETTINGTON, ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to scanning apparatus which may be used in a real-time imaging system
and, in particular, in a real-time passive millimetre wave imaging system. The scanning
apparatus may also be used in other radiometry systems.British Patent No. 700868 (February 1952 - December 1953) describes a twistreflector which
relates to a similar field as the present invention. International Patent Application WO95/1898
describes a millimetre wave radar system which uses a twist reflector in a folded optics system.
Incident radiation of a particular linear polarisation passes through the twist reflector and reflects
of a transreflector which rotates the plane of polarisation such that it then reflects from the twist
reflector onto a receiver.Millimetre wave imaging is potentially useful as an all-weather surveillance and guidance aid but
any practically useful system must be capable of imaging in real-time. This is not possible using
existing systems. In a millimetre wave imager, radiation from the scene to be scanned is collected
by means of a concave mirror or a lens and is focused onto an array of millimetre wave receivers.
At present, large two-dimensional arrays of receivers which cover the whole of a required image
are not available. Instead, a far smaller number of receivers is scanned across the image in order
to build up the complete picture. A similar technique is used in some infrared imagers (for
example EP 0226273).Current millimetre wave imaging systems use mechanical scanning of one or several channels to
synthesise an image. Ultimately, electronic scanning and staring array techniques could be
developed to implement real-time millimetre wave imaging, although there are several problems
associated with such a solution. Firstly, as the wavelength is necessarily long, in order to image
under adverse weather conditions the system aperture must be large to gain adequate resolution.
In some millimetre wave imaging systems the input aperture may be of the order of 1 m in
diameter. Secondly, the cost per channel is high so that any electronically scanned or staring
array technique is expensive. Furthermore, in the case of millimetre wave staring arrays there are
fundamental problems analogous to the cold shielding problems encountered in infrared systems. Another requirement of a practical millimetre wave imaging system is that it must be able to
operate at TV-compatible rates (i.e. 50 Hz for the UK, 60 Hz for the USA). In the infrared,
scanning systems are often plane mirrors flapping about an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for scanning radiation from a scene and for generating output radiation for input to
a receiver system comprising;

a first rotatable reflective plate (1; 1a), for receiving and reflecting radiation, having an axis of
rotation (7) passing substantially through the centre of the plate, wherein the axis of rotation is

inclined at a non-zero angle 
a
 to the normal to the reflective plate,

rotary means (3) for rotating the reflective plate (1; 1a),

a second rotatable reflective plate (1; 1b) for receiving and reflecting radiation and

static reflection means (8; 9; 14; 19; 25) for receiving radiation reflected from the first rotatable
reflective plate and reflecting radiation towards the second rotatable reflective plate,
characterised in that
 the second rotatable reflective plate (1; 1b) has a common axis of rotation
(7) with the first rotatable reflective plate (1; 1a), wherein the common axis of rotation is inclined

at a non-zero angle 
b
 to the normal to the second reflective plate.
The apparatus of claim 1, and also including a millimetre wavelength imaging camera.
The apparatus of claim 1, and also including a radar receiver.
The apparatus of any of claims 1-3 wherein the normals to the first and second reflective plates
are inclined in substantially the same plane and at substantially equal angles to the common axis

of rotation (7) and in substantially opposite directions.
The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the angles of inclination 
a
, 
b
 are between 1° and 10°. 
The apparatus of claim 4 or 5 wherein the static reflection means comprise a plane mirror (8)

having a reflective surface substantially parallel to the common axis of rotation (7).
The apparatus of any of claims 1-3, wherein the second rotatable reflective plate (1) is the first
rotatable reflective plate (1).
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the axis of rotation (7) is inclined at an angle of between 1°
and 10° to the normal to the reflective plate (1).
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the static reflection means (9; 14) include two reflective
surfaces (10a, 10b; 15a, 15b) inclined at substantially 90° to each other.
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the two reflective surfaces form a roof reflector (9; 14) and
are in contact along an apex.
The apparatus of claim 9 or 10 and further comprising a polarising mirror (13; 17) arranged
to reflect output radiation to the receiver system.
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the polarising mirror (13; 17) is a sheet of plastic material
comprising a plurality of parallel conducting wires, wherein the parallel conducting wires are

oriented at substantially 45° to the apex of the roof reflector.
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the static reflection means include two polarisers (15a,
15b), each having a polarisation axis, wherein said polarisers are inclined at substantially 90° to

each other.
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein two polarisers (15a, 15b) form a polarising roof reflector
(14) and are in contact along an apex,

wherein the polarisation axes of the polarisers are oriented to transmit radiation having
substantially the same direction of polarisation wherein the direction of polarisation is

substantially parallel or substantially perpendicular to the apex. 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the static reflection means comprise a plurality of
polarising roof reflectors (25), each comprising two polarisers and each polariser having a

polarisation axis, wherein the polarisers are inclined at substantially 90° to each other and are in
contact along an apex,

wherein the polarisation axes of the polarisers forming each roof reflector are oriented to transmit
radiation having substantially the same direction of polarisation wherein said direction of

polarisation is substantially parallel or substantially perpendicular to the apexes.
The apparatus of claim 14, and further comprising a first Faraday rotator (16), situated
between the polarising roof reflector (14) and the rotatable reflective plate (1), for rotating the

direction of polarisation of radiation through substantially 45° each time the radiation passes
through the Faraday rotator,

such that the radiation having a particular direction of polarisation may be output through the
polarising roof reflector (14).
The apparatus of claim 14, and further comprising;

one or more birefringent surfaces situated between the polarising roof reflector (14) and the
rotatable reflective plate (1), for receiving radiation in a state of polarisation, 
P
S
,

whereby the one or more birefringent surfaces introduce a substantially 90° phase shift in the
state of polarisation, 
P
S
, each time radiation passes through the one or more birefringent surfaces,
such that radiation having a particular direction of polarisation may be output through the

polarising roof reflector.
The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the one or more birefringent surfaces are Meander-lines. 
The apparatus of any of claims 15-18, and further comprising means for selectively
transmitting radiation input to the apparatus having a particular direction of polarisation and for

selectively reflecting radiation output from the apparatus having a particular direction of
polarisation.
The apparatus of claim 19 comprising;

a second Faraday rotator (18) for rotating the direction of polarisation of radiation output from
the polarising roof (14) reflector through substantially 45°

and also comprising a second polariser (17), wherein the second polariser has an axis of
polarisation inclined at substantially 45° to the apex or apexes of the one or more polarising roof

reflectors.
The apparatus of claim 7 or 16, comprising a lens arrangement (19) for selectively
transmitting and focusing radiation having a particular direction of polarisation.
The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the lens arrangement is a reflector lens comprising;

a first polarising surface (20) having a polarisation axis, for selectively transmitting and
selectively reflecting radiation having a particular direction of polarisation,

a second surface (21) for rotating the direction of polarisation of radiation through substantially
45° and

a third polarising surface (22) for selectively reflecting and selectively transmitting radiation,

wherein the third polarisation axis makes an angle of substantially 45° with the first polarisation
axis.
The apparatus of claim 21 or 22 comprising two or more lens arrangements (19) arranged in
series. 
The apparatus of claim 7 and claim 21 or 22, wherein the static reflection means form part of
the lens arrangement (19), the apparatus being arranged to provide a conical scanning apparatus.
The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the first polarising surface (20) has a substantially flat
surface and the third polarising surface (22) has a substantially spherical surface having a radius

of curvature, R,

and also comprising a detector array forming part of a spherical surface having half the radius of
curvature of the spherical surface of the third polarising surface (22) and being concentric with it.
The apparatus of claim 25, and further comprising a corrector plate located between the
rotatable disc and the third polarising surface for removing spherical aberrations from an image

formed at the detector array.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
