<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0887051</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stent with reinforcing struts and bimodal deployment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F282	A61F206	A61F206	A61F284	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is directed to an expandable stent for implantation in a body
lumen, such as a coronary artery or peripheral vein. The stent consists of a plurality of radially

expandable cylindrical elements generally aligned on a common longitudinal stent axis and
interconnected by one or more interconnecting members placed so as to limit longitudinal

contraction during radial expansion. The individual radially expandable cylindrical elements
are formed in a serpentine pattern having bends alternating in peaks and valleys designed to

expand evenly under radial stress, and to maximize the overall radial expansion ratio. Each
peak and valley includes reinforcing members that extend across and are proximate to each

bend. Sizing and construction of the struts forming the peaks and valleys can create bimodal
deployment wherein the struts bend under increasing stresses to enable the stent to expand to

larger diameters.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to expandable endoprosthesis devices, generally
called stents, which are adapted to be implanted into a body lumen of a patient, such as a blood
vessel, to maintain the patency thereof. These devices are useful in the treatment and repair
of atherosclerotic stenoses in blood vessels.Stents are generally cylindrically-shaped devices which function to hold open
and sometimes to expand a segment of a blood vessel or other anatomical lumen. Stents
particularly are suitable for use to support and to hold back a dissected arterial lining which,
if not so supported and held, can occlude the fluid passageway therethrough.A variety of devices are known in the art for use as stents and have included:
coiled wires in an array of patterns that are expanded after having been placed intraluminally
via a balloon catheter; helically-wound coiled springs manufactured from an expandable heat-sensitive
metal; and self-expanding stents inserted in a compressed state and shaped in a zigzag
pattern. Additional examples of prior art stents are shown in U.S. Patent No. 4,776,337
to Palmaz; U.S. Patent No. 4,655,771 to Wallsten; U.S. Patent No. 4,800,882 to Gianturco;
U.S. Patent No. 4,913,141 to Hillstead; and U.S. Patent No. 5,292,331 to Boneau.In EP-A-0679373, a stent is disclosed for implanting in a body lumen and
expanding from a contracted condition to an expanded condition. The stent comprises a
plurality of adjacent cylindrical elements arranged in alignment along a longitudinal stent axis,
each cylindrical element being independently expandable in a radial direction and formed in an
irregular serpentine wave pattern transverse to the longitudinal axis and containing a plurality
of alternating peaks and valleys, and at least one interconnecting member extending between
adjacent cylindrical elements and connecting them to one another. The stent further comprises
an anti-thrombogenic coating covering the cylindrical elements and the interconnecting
members.Prior art devices include an expandable intraluminal vascular graft that is
expanded within a blood vessel by a balloon which typically is associated with a dilatation
catheter. The graft may be a wire mesh tube, a stainless steel tube with rectangular openings,
or a tube with honeycomb style openings. Another prior art device includes a prosthesis for 
transluminal implantation comprising a flexible tubular body made of flexible thread elements
wound together, each thread having a helix configuration.There are still more conventional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A longitudinally flexible stent (40) for implanting in a body lumen and
expandable from a contracted condition to an expanded condition, comprising

a plurality of
adjacent cylindrical elements (48) which are independently expandable in the radial direction,

arranged in alignment along a longitudinal stent axis, and formed in a serpentine wave pattern
transverse to the longitudinal axis that contains alternating peaks (52) and valleys (54) and that

is configured in size and shape so that the cylindrical elements generally expand in a uniform
manner around their circumferences during expansion ofthe stent from its contracted condition

to its expanded condition,
the stent further comprising at least one interconnecting

member connecting adjacent cylindrical elements
to one another, 
characterised in that
:

the stent further comprises
at least one reinforcing member (44) extending across a peak or a valley; and
that the at least one interconnecting member (50) extends between a reinforcing
member of and a cylindrical element and a valley of an adjacent cylindrical element.
The stent of claim 1, wherein:

the serpentine wave pattern is an irregular serpentine pattern containing varying
degrees of curvature (30, 32, 33) in regions of the peaks and valleys adapted so that radial

expansion of the adjacent cylindrical elements is generally uniform around their circumferences
during expansion of the stent from its contracted condition to its expanded condition.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the at least one interconnecting
member connects a valley of one cylindrical element with a reinforcing member of an adjacent

cylindrical element.
The stent of claim 3, wherein the at least one interconnecting member is unitary
with the valley of one cylindrical element and the reinforcing member of the adjacent cylindrical

element. 
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the at least one reinforcing member
is curved opposite to the respective peak or valley across which it extends.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the alternating peaks and valleys
further are comprised of straight-length struts intersecting at an angle, and wherein the at least

one reinforcing member engages a set of the intersecting struts at a bend point.
The stent of claim 6, wherein the straight-length struts are elongated.
The stent of claim 6, wherein the bend point is a portion of the strut having
reduced material to facilitate bending.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the at least one reinforcing member
is comprised of a first quarter turn that transitions into a half turn, which transitions into a

second quarter turn.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein an intersection of the at least one
reinforcing member with a peak or a valley is rounded.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein an intersection of the at least one
reinforcing member with a peak or a valley is angular.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the at least one reinforcing member
further is comprised of an enlarged area integrated into the peak or valley in which the at least

one reinforcing member is disposed.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the at least one reinforcing member
further is comprised of an enlarged area integrated into the peak or valley in which the at least

one reinforcing member is disposed, the enlarged area having slits therethrough. 
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the stent is formed of a
biocompatible material selected from the group consisting of stainless steel, tungsten, tantalum,

super-elastic NiTi alloys, and thermoplastic polymers.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the stent is formed from a single
piece of tubing.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the stent is coated with a
biocompatible coating.
The stent of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein, within a single cylindrical element,
the serpentine wave pattern includes a sequence containing a peak, a valley, a peak, a valley,

a valley, and a peak.
A method for constructing a flexible stent (40) for implantation in a body lumen
wherein the stent is expandable from a contracted condition to an expanded condition

comprising the steps of:

providing a plurality of adjacent cylindrical elements (48) which are
independently expandable in the radial direction and arranged in alignment along a longitudinal

stent axis;
forming the cylindrical elements in an irregular serpentine wave pattern
transverse to the longitudinal axis and containing a plurality of alternating peaks (52) and

valleys (54),
wherein the irregular serpentine pattern contains varying degrees of curvature

(30, 32, 33) in regions of the peaks and valleys adapted so that radial expansion of the adjacent
cylindrical elements is generally uniform around the circumferences of the cylindrical elements

during expansion of the stent from its contracted condition to its expanded condition;
providing at least one interconnecting member connecting adjacent
cylindrical elements to one another; 
characterised in
providing at least one reinforcing member (44) extending across a width of a
peak or a valley; and
providing the at least one interconnecting member (50) extending between a
reinforcing member of and a cylindrical element and a valley of an adjacent cylindrical element.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
