<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634021</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BEAM STEERED LASER IFF SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1700	G01S1774	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S17	G01S17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system (10) for friend-or-foe identification (IFF) comprises an interrogator unit (18) carried on a first platform (T1) for generating and transmitting a laser beam. A control unit (22) selectively directs the transmitted laser beam toward a second platform (T2). A coding/decoding unit (28) encodes an IFF interrogator message with which a portion of the transmitted laser beam is modulated. A laser reflector (30) carried on the second platform receives the coded laser beam. The reflector is a normally passive reflector which is activated by receipt of the transmitted laser beam. The reflector responds to the IFF message contained in the received laser beam by modulating the unmodulated portion of the transmitted laser beam. This newly modulated portion of the laser beam is reflected back toward the first platform. The coding/encoding unit decodes on the first platform, receives and decodes the response, and determines if it corresponds to a predetermined response which identifies the second platform as a "friend".
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRONICS 
&
 SPACE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRONICS 
&
 SPACE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLDER DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALDMAN GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOTTON JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLDER, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALDMAN, GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOTTON, JOHN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BEAM STEERED LASER IFF SYSTEMBackground of the InventionThis invention relates to friend-or-foe identification systems (IFF) , and more particularly, to a beam steered laser IFF system for use in battlefield environments.With the advent of modern warfare, a battlefield is obviously a very dangerous place. Unfortunately, this is so both for one's comrades-in-arms as well as for the enemy. Given the amount of firepower deployed in a battle zone, the constant movement of men and materiel, the rapidity with which tanks, personnel carriers (APC's) , planes, helicopters move, and the inability to always know (regardless of the amount of effort employed) who is where, the chances of fratricidal harm being inflicted are probably higher than they have ever been. It has thus become an imperative to greatly limit, if not altogether eliminate, casualties resulting from "friendly" fire.One way of discerning who is a friend and who is not is by use of an IFF (Identification Friend-or-Foe) system. Various IFF systems are well-known in the art. These are typically radio frequency (RF) transmission systems, and while principally associated with aircraft, the same technology is applicable to land based vehicles, or ships. Certain RF systems, known as a co-operative systems, involve transmitting an inquiry signal to an unknown object (airplane, ship, tank) . If the object is a "friendly", it has some type of transponder for responding to the inquiry with an appropriate reply. Upon receipt of an appropriate reply, the object is designated as friendly. If the object does not provide the required response, it is designated a foe and may be attached. On drawback with co-operative systems is that it is always necessary for the object under inspection to have some mechanism for responding to an interrogation. A second 

drawback is that while cooperative IFF systems are the most positive types of identifications systems, and have been employed for a number of years in a variety of forms, they are not infallible. This is so for a number of reasons. For example, the response mechanism on the interrogated object may be inoperative. Or, because these type systems utilize codes, the code in the response mechanism may not be up-to-date. Consequently, the failure to respond to an interrogation signal cannot always be taken as an indication that the unknown object is hostile. As FR systems, they are vulnerable to jamming. Also, because of the power requirement of RF systems, they then to be large.A third factor which must be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims :
Having thus described the invention, what is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is:
1. A system of friend-or-foe identification (IFF) comprising: interrogator means carried on a first platform for generating and transmitting a laser beam; control means for selectively directing the transmitted laser beam toward a second platform; coding means for encoding an IFF interrogation message and modulating the transmitted laser beam with the message; and, reflector means carried on said second platform for receiving said laser beam and reflecting said laser beam back toward said second platform, said reflector means responding to the IFF interrogation message contained in said received laser beam by modulating said reflected laser beam with a response message, said decoding means decoding said response message and determining if said response message corresponds to a predetermined response which identifies the second platform as a "friend".
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the reflector means includes a normally passive reflector which is activated by said laser beam.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein the interrogator means includes a grated surface emitting laser generator for producing a laser beam steerable in one axis.
4. The system of claim 3 wherein the control means includes an acousto-optical modulator for steering the laser beam in a second axis.
5. The system of claim 2 wherein the coding means modulates one portion of the transmitted laser beam with the interrogation message, and said reflector is activated enabled upon receipt of said laser beam.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein said coding means only modulates a portion of said transmitted laser beam and said reflector is activated by said modulated portion 


to modulate another portion of said laser beam with said response message.
7. The system of claim 2 wherein said reflector is a corner cube retro-reflector having total internal reflectance.
8. The system of claim 7 in which said retro-reflector is mounted on a base attached to said second platform.
9. The system of claim 8 wherein said reflector means further includes positioning means for positioning the retro-reflector with respect to said base.
10. The system of claim 9 wherein said reflector means further includes spoiler means forming one side of said retro-reflector.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein said spoiler means includes an optical energy absorber mounted on a piezo-electric positioner comprising said positioning means, said energy absorber being held against said retro-reflector by said positioner, the retro-reflector being in a inactive, passive mode when said energy absorber is so positioned.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein said transmitted laser beam has a first modulated portion and a second unmodulated portion, said absorber being responsive to the modulated portion of said transmitted laser beam to vibrate against the positioner, the vibration of the absorber, in turn, modulating the second portion of the laser beam to create the response message reflected back to the first platform.
13. The system of claim 11 wherein said positioner means comprises a plurality of piezo-electric positioners.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein the spoiler means passivates the reflector means when the spoiler means is within 1/4 wavelength of the incoming energy in the transmitted laser beam. 


 15. The system of claim 4 wherein the control means steers the transmitted laser beam successively toward a plurality of second platforms.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein the control means automatically steers the transmitted laser beam toward the second platforms.
17. The system of claim 1 wherein the frequency of the transmitted laser beam and the frequency of the reflected laser beam are sufficiently far apart in the frequency spectrum so as to not interfere with one another.
18. The system of claim 3 wherein the control means includes a Bragg cell for steering the laser beam in a second axis.
19. A communications system for selectively communicating between an inquisitor and respondent comprising: signal generator means located at a transmission site for generating and transmitting an inquiry signal; control means for selectively directing the inquiry signal to one of a plurality of receiving cites; coder means for encoding an inquiry message and modulating the inquiry signal with the message; and, receiver means at a receiving site for receiving said inquiry signal and reflecting a portion of said inquiry signal back to said transmission site, said receiver means being a passive receiver which is only activated when an inquiry signal is received, said receiver further responding to receipt of an inquiry signal to modulate the reflected signal with a reply message, said coder means receiving said reflected signal and decoding said reply message to determine if the reply message is a proper response to the inquiry message.
20. The communication system of claim 19 wherein the signal generator means comprises means for generating a steerable laser beam. 


 21. The communications system of claim 20 wherein the signal generator means includes a grated surface emitting laser generator for generating and transmitting a laser beam steerable in one axis, and either of a Bragg cell or an acousto-optical modulator for steering the laser beam in a second axis.
22. The communications system of claim 21 wherein said receiver means includes a corner cube retro-reflector having total internal reflectance.
23. The communications system of claim22 in which said retro-reflector further includes an optical energy absorber comprising one side of the retro-reflector, and a plurality of piezo-electric positioners holding said energy absorber against said retro-reflector, the retro-reflector being in a inactive, passive mode when said energy absorber is so positioned.
24. The communications system of claim 23 wherein said transmitted laser beam has a first modulated portion and a second unmodulated portion, said absorber being responsive to the modulated portion of said transmitted laser beam to be activated by vibrating against the positioners, vibration of the absorber, in tun, modulating the second portion of the laser beam to create the reply message reflected back to said transmission site.
25. The communications system of claim 23 wherein said absorber passivates the retro-reflector when the absorber is within 1/4 wavelength of the incoming energy in the transmitted laser beam.
26. The communications system of claim 19 wherein the frequency of the transmitted signal and the frequency of the reflected signal are sufficiently far apart in the frequency spectrum so as to not interfere with one another.
27. A method of friend-or-foe identification (IFF) comprising: generating and transmitting a laser beam by an interrogator means carried on a first platform; 


 selectively directing the transmitted laser beam toward a second platform; encoding an IFF interrogation message and modulating the transmitted laser beam with the message; receiving said laser beam by a reflector means carried on said second platform; and, reflecting said laser beam back toward said first platform including said reflector means responding to the IFF message contained in said received laser beam by modulating said reflected laser beam with a response message.
28. The method of claim 27 further including decoding of said response message, and determining if said response message corresponds to a predetermined response which identifies the second platform as a "friend".
29. The method of claim 27 further including steering said transmitted laser beam to one of a plurality of second platforms.
30. The method of claim 29 wherein the reflector means is a passive retro-reflector, and the method further includes activating the reflector means upon receipt by the retro-reflector of a transmitted laser beam.
31. A method of selectively communicating between an inquisitor and a respondent comprising: generating and transmitting an inquiry signal by a signal generator means located at a transmission site; selectively directing the inquiry signal to one of a plurality of receiving sites; encoding an inquiry message and modulating the inquiry signal with the message; and, receiving said transmitted inquiry signal at a selected receiving site and responding thereto by reflecting a portion of said inquiry signal back to said transmission site, responding to receipt of said inquiry signal including modulating the reflected signal with a reply message. 


 32. The method of claim 31 further including receiving said reflected signal at said transmission site, decoding said reply message, and determining if the reply message is a proper response to the inquiry message.
33. The method of claim 32 wherein receiving of said transmitted signal includes receiving said signal by a passive retro-reflector, and the method further includes activating said retro-reflector only upon receipt of the inquiry signal. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
