<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651270</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical fiber routing method and apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B636	G02B646	G02B646	G02B644	G02B636	G02B644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A winding tool (14) is provided on a manipulator (18) of a type used to 
route the optical fiber. A hook (22) extends from the winding tool to capture optical 

fiber (10) extending from a device (11), and the hook is retracted to secure the fiber. 
A routing wheel (17) is positioned between the device (11) to which the optical fiber 

is connected and the reel such that the wheel can press the optical fiber (10) against 
an adhesive-coated substrate. The winding tool then winds the optical fiber around a 

reel (16). The optical fiber next feeds from the reel (16) to the routing wheel (17) as 
the manipulator (18) is moved to route the optical fiber on the coated substrate. 

Preferably, prior to the winding and wheel positioning step, the optical fiber between 
the reel and the routing wheel is engaged with an alignment tool (27). The fiber is 

secured in the alignment tool during the winding step, and the alignment tool insures 
engagement of the periphery of the routing wheel with the optical fiber after the 

winding step. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLAND WILLIAM ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLAND, WILLIAM ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods and apparatus for routing optical fiber
and, more particularly, for routing optical fiber that is connected to a device.The U.S. patent of Burack et al., No. 5,259,051, granted
November 2, 1993, describes a unique
method for routing optical fibers on an optical backplane as is desirable, for example,
for interconnecting printed wiring boards of an electronic system. The Burack et al.
apparatus uses a robotic manipulator having a vertical axis that can be controlled to
move in X and Y directions and in the  direction around its vertical axis. A
rotatable routing wheel is mounted on a free end of the manipulator, and a reel
containing optical fiber to be routed is mounted on one side of the manipulator. The
fiber is threaded over a peripheral portion of the routing wheel such that the wheel
can press the fiber against an adhesive-coated surface of a substrate to cause it to
adhere to the coated surface. The manipulator is then moved at an appropriate speed
and direction to cause the wheel to rotate and to exert sufficient tension on the
optical fiber to cause it to unwind from the reel and to be fed to the routing wheel for
adherence to the coated surface, thereby to form a continuous optical fiber portion
extending along, and adhered to, the coated surface.In the production of photonic or optical devices of a type to be used in
conjunction with an optical backplane, it is customary to package the devices such
that optical fibers (known in the art as "pigtails") extend from the devices. One
could form the optical backplane with different optical fiber and then splice the
optical backplane fiber to the fiber extending from the device; but it would be
preferable if one could route the fiber extending from the device directly onto the
optical backplane. There is therefore a need for a technique to improve the
placement and routing of optical fibers extending from, and connected to, devices. According to the present invention there is provided apparatus as defined
in claim 1, or a method as defined in claim 6.In an illustrative embodiment of the invention, a winding tool is provided
on a manipulator of a type described in the Burack et al. Patent. A hook extends from
the winding tool to capture optical fiber extending from the device, and the hook is
retracted to secure the fiber. The routing wheel is positioned between the 
device to which the optical fiber is connected and the winding tool such that the
routing wheel can press the optical fiber against an adhesive-coated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for routing an optical fiber extending from a device
comprising:


a manipulator which can move in the lateral and vertical direction and which
comprises a winding tool (14), a movable hook (22), a rotatable reel (16) and a rotatable routing wheel (17);
means for extending and for retracting said hook (22) from said winding tool to capture part

of the optical fiber extending from the device;
means comprising said winding tool for driving said hook on a circular
path around said reel, thereby to wind the optical fiber on the reel;
said routing wheel comprising means for pressing part of the optical fiber
(10) against a flat surface of a substrate coated with adhesive; and
means for moving the manipulator in a direction parallel to said flat
surface at an appropriate speed and direction to cause the routing wheel to rotate and to

exert sufficient tension on the optical fiber to cause it to unreel from the reel for
adherence to the coated substrate.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:

said manipulator further comprises means for extending an alignment
tool (27) to capture the optical fiber (10) between the winding tool and the device and to

hold it in a predetermined location such that it can be engaged by the routing wheel.
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein:

said routing wheel has a first groove around its periphery to hold the
optical fiber in place;
and the alignment tool has a second groove (28) for holding the optical
fiber in alignment with said first groove.
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein: 

said second groove has a latch (33) for capturing the optical fiber; and
the manipulator comprises means for raising the alignment tool with the optical fiber

captured in the second groove, and for pressing the routing wheel against the optical
fiber.
The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a computer program for
controlling the movements of the manipulator including the winding tool and the hook.
A method of routing an optical fiber extending from a device using an
apparatus as defined in claim 1, comprising the steps of using the hook (22) to capture

the optical fiber extending from the device; using the winding tool (14) to wind the
optical fiber around the reel (16) of optical fiber on a manipulator; threading part of the

optical fiber from said reel over a peripheral portion of a rotatable wheel (17) on an end
of said manipulator; moving the manipulator such that the peripheral portion of the

wheel presses said optical fiber against the surface of a substrate and causes adherence
of the optical fiber to the substrate; moving the manipulator in a direction parallel to

said flat surface; causing the wheel to rotate; causing optical fiber to feed from the reel
to the wheel for adherence to the substrate.
The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of

prior to the winding step, engaging said optical fiber between said reel
and said wheel with an alignment tool (27);
securing said optical fiber in said alignment tool during the winding step;
and using the alignment tool to insure engagement of the periphery of the
wheel with said optical fiber.
The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of:

prior to the step of using the hook, overlapping said optical fiber on a
standoff device (13) for providing a space between the optical fiber and a surface on

which it rests to permit engagement by the hook.
The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of:

prior to using the hook, the manipulator is moved to position the hook
over the portion of the optical fiber separated from the surface;
and the step of using the hook comprises the step of lowering the hook
such that a lateral extension (37) thereof is positioned generally parallel to the fiber,

then rotating the hook such that the lateral part thereof underlies said optical fiber, and
thereafter raising the hook for engagement of the fiber with said winding tool.
The method of claim 7 wherein:

the wheel has a first groove around its periphery to hold the optical fiber
in place;
and the alignment tool has a second groove (28) for holding the optical
fiber in alignment with said first groove.
The method of claim 10 wherein:

the second groove has a latch (33) for capturing the optical fiber;
and prior to the winding step, the alignment tool is raised with the optical
fiber captured in the second groove, and the wheel is pressed against the optical fiber.
The method of claim 9 wherein:

the alignment tool is lowered from the manipulator to engage the optical
fiber and is thereafter raised with the fiber secured therein:
thereafter the manipulator is moved laterally, and the wheel is lowered to
contact the optical fiber.
The method of claim 11 wherein: 

after the wheel contacts the optical fiber, the manipulator is moved
laterally to cause the wheel to rotate, the rotating wheel causing the reel to unwind and

to feed optical fiber to the wheel.
The method of claim 13 wherein:

the movements of the manipulator, including the winding tool and the
hook, are controlled by a stored computer program.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
