<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633610</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTO-ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED CIRCUIT AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURING THE SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27144	H01L27144	H01L310224	H01L310224	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In an opto-electronic integrated circuit of the 
present invention, in a first surface region of a 

semiconductor substrate (1), a pin-type photodiode (2) is 
constituted on the basis of a photodiode layer formed on a 

first transistor layer. In a second surface region of the 
semiconductor substrate, a heterojunction bipolar 

transistor (3) is constituted on the basis of only a second 
transistor layer separated form the first transistor 

layer. Since a plurality of heterojunction bipolar 
transistors are norm
ally integrated for one pin-type 
photodiode, the thickness of the heterojunction bipolar 

transistors larger in number than the pin-type photodiode 
is set regardless of the thickness of the pin-type 

photodiode. The thickness of a high-resistance layer in 
the pin-type photodiode is set with an increased degree 

of freedom. When the first surface region of the 
semiconductor substrate is the inner region of a recessed 

step portion (4), and the second surface region of the 
semiconductor substrate is the outer region of the 

recessed step portion, a difference in thickness between 
the heterojunction bipolar transistor and the pin-type 

photodiode is absorbed by the depth of the recessed step 
portion. For this reason, the pin-type photodiode and 

the heterojunction bipolar transistor are formed to have 
almost the same surface level. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOGUCHI, KENTARO, C/O YOKOHAMA WORKS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI, GORO, C/O YOKOHAMA WORKS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAWADA, SOSAKU,C/O YOKOHAMA WORKS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANO, HIROSHI, C/O YOKOHAMA WORKS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an opto-electronic 
integrated circuit having an optical device and an 
electronic device, both of which are monolithically 
integrated, and used in optical fiber communication or 
the like, and a method of manufacturing the same. Opto-electronic integrated circuits (OEIC) have 
been conventionally developed as reception front ends 
used in optical fiber communications or the like. An OEIC 
is constituted such that a pin-type photodiode (pin-PD) 
as a light receiving device and a heterojunction bipolar 
transistor (HBT) as an electronic device are 
monolithically integrated on an InP semiconductor 
substrate. Such conventional techniques are described in detail 
in, e.g., "IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, vol. 2, 
no. 7, pp. 505-506, July 1990". In the conventional opto-electronic integrated 
circuit, a photodiode layer and a transistor layer are 
sequentially epitaxially grown on a semiconductor 
substrate. The transistor layer is then removed from a  
 
pin-PD region to form a photodiode layer, and a 
transistor layer is formed in an HBT region, thereby 
completing a pin-PD and an HBT, respectively. In this 
case, the pin-PD is constituted by only the photodiode 
layer while the HBT is constituted by the photodiode 
layer and the transistor layer formed thereon. In general, however, a photodiode layer has a 
thickness of about 2 to 3 µm, and a transistor layer has a 
thickness of about 1 µm. Hence, a large step is formed 
between the pin-PD and the HBT in the direction of 
thickness. This poses problems on manufacturing such 
that a resist film is nonuniformly coated upon formation 
of an etching mask to cause a mask failure, or a metal 
wiring disposed after formation of devices is 
disconnected. In addition, a thicker pin-PD cannot be formed to 
prevent an increase in step between the pin-PD and the 
HBT, resulting in low conversion efficiency of received 
light. Furthermore, since the resistor in the electronic 
circuit is formed using an epitaxially grown 
semiconductor layer, the resistance largely varies with 
respect to a temperature. The present invention has been made in consideration 
of the above problems, and has as its object to provide an  
 
opto-electronic integrated circuit for decreasing 
process failures and improving the light conversion 
efficiency and resistance stability, and a method of 
manufacturing the same. In order to achieve the above object, according to 
the present invention, there is provided an 
opto-electronic integrated circuit of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An opto-electronic integrated circuit 
comprising: 

   a semiconductor substrate; 
   a pin-type photodiode formed in a first surface 

region of said semiconductor substrate; and 
   a heterojunction bipolar transistor formed in a 

second surface region of said semiconductor substrate and 
electrically connected to said pin-type photodiode, 

   wherein said pin-type photodiode is constituted by a 
first transistor layer comprising a first collector 

layer, a first base layer, a first tunnel barrier layer, 
and a first emitter capping layer, all of which are 

sequentially formed in said first surface region, a 
photodiode layer comprising a layer of a first 

conductivity type, a high-resistance layer, and a layer 
of a second conductivity type, all of which are 

sequentially formed on said first transistor layer, and 
first electrode layers formed on said layers of the first 

and second conductivity types, and 
   said heterojunction bipolar transistor is 

constituted by a second transistor layer comprising a 
second collector layer, a second base layer, a second 

tunnel barrier layer, and a second emitter capping layer, 
all of which are sequentially formed in said second 

surface region, and separated from said first transistor 
 

layer, and second electrode layers respectively formed on 
said second collector layer, said second base layer, and 

said second emitter capping layer. 
A circuit according to claim 1, wherein said 
first and second surface regions are constituted a
s an 
inner region and a outer region of a recessed step portion 

having a predetermined depth, respectively. 
A circuit according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said 
first emitter capping layer and said layer of the first 

conductivity type are formed of different materials. 
A circuit according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said 
first emitter capping layer and said layer of the first 

conductivity type are formed of the same material as a 
common layer. 
A circuit according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said 
resistance layer electrically connected to said pin-type 

photodiode or said heterojunction bipolar transistor is 
formed in a third surface region of said semiconductor 

substrate. 
A circuit according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said 
first and second electrode layers are formed of the same 

material. 
A circuit according to claim 3, wherein said 
semiconductor substrate, said first and second collector 

layers, said first and second base layers, said first and 
second tunnel barrier layers, said first and second 

emitter capping layers, said layer of the first 
conductivity type, said high-resistance layer, and said 

layer of the second conductivity type essentially consist 
of InP, n-type GaInAs, p-type GaInAs, n-type InP, n-type 

GaInAs, n-type InP, i-type GaInAs, and p-type GaInAs, 
respectively. 
A circuit according to claim 4, wherein said 
semiconductor substrate, said first and second collector 

layers, said first and second base layers, said first and 
second tunnel barrier layers, said first and second 

emitter capping layers, said layer of the first 
conductivity type, said high-resistance layer, and said 

layer of the second conductivity type essentially consist 
of InP, n-type GaInAs, p-type GaInAs, n-type InP, n-type 

GaInAs, n-type GaInAs, i-type GaInAs, and p-type GaInAs, 
respectively. 
A circuit according to claim 4, wherein an etching 
stop layer consisting of a material having a band gap 

energy different from that of a constituent material of 
said common layer is formed inside said common layer or at 

a junction portion between said common layer and said 
high-resistance layer. 
A circuit according to claim 6, wherein said first 
and second electrode layers are formed to have a 

multilayered structure including a Pt layer formed on 
said photodiode layer or said second transistor layer. 
A circuit according to claim 6, wherein a metal 
wiring layer electrically connected to said pin-type 

photodiode or said heterojunction bipolar transistor and 
consisting of the same material as that of the first and 

second electrode layers is formed in a fourth surface 
region of said semiconductor substrate. 
A method of manufacturing an opto-electronic 
integrated circuit, comprising: 

   the first step of sequentially epitaxially growing a 
collector layer, a base layer, a tunnel barrier layer, an 

emitter capping layer, a layer of a first conductivity 
type, a high-resistance layer, and a layer of a second 

conductivity type on a semiconductor substrate; 
   the second step of sequentially partially etching 

and removing said layer of the second conductivity type, 
said high-resistance layer, and said layer of the first 

conductivity type to form a pin-type photodiode in a 
first surface region of said semiconductor substrate; 

   the third step of sequentially partially etching and 
removing said emitter capping layer, said tunnel barrier 

layer, said base layer, and said collector layer to form a 
heterojunction bipolar transistor in a second surface 

 
region of said semiconductor substrate; and 

   the fourth step of forming predetermined electrode 
layers on said layer of the first conductivity type, said 

layer of the second conductivity type, said collector 
layer, said base layer, and said emitter capping layer. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein the first 
step includes the step of partially etching and removing 

said semiconductor substrate to form said first and 
second surface regions as an inner region and a outer 

region of a recessed step portion having a predetermined 
depth, respectively. 
A method according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the first 
step includes the step of forming said emitter capping 

layer and said layer of the first conductivity type by 
different materials. 
A method according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the first 
step includes the step of forming said emitter capping 

layer and said layer of the first conductivity type by the 
same material as a common layer. 
A method according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the fourth 
step includes the step of forming a metal resistance 

layer electrically connected to said pin-type photodiode 
or said heterojunction bipolar transistor in a third 

surface region of said semiconductor substrate. 
A method according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the fourth 
step includes the step of simultaneously forming said 

electrode layers. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein the first 
step includes the steps of etching and removing a 

predetermined surface region of said semiconductor 
substrate to form a first alignment mark, performing 

positioning on the basis of said first alignment mark to 
form a first etching mask on said semiconductor 

substrate, and thereafter forming said recessed step 
portion in correspondence with said first etching mask, 

   the second step includes the steps of performing 
positioning on the basis of said first alignment mark and 

etching and removing a predetermined surface region of 
said layer of the second conductivity type to form a 

second alignment mark, performing positioning on the 
basis of said second alignment mark to form a second 

etching mask on said layer of the second conductivity 
type, and thereafter forming said pin-type photodiode in 

correspondence with said second etching mask, and 
   the third step includes the steps of performing 

positioning on the basis of said second alignment mark to 
form a third etching mask on said emitter capping layer, 

and thereafter forming said heterojunction bipolar 
transistor in correspondence with said third etching 

mask. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein the first 
step includes the step of forming said semiconductor 

substrate, said collector layer, said base layer, said 
tunnel barrier layer, said emitter capping layer, said 

layer of the first conductivity type, said 
high-resistance layer, and said layer of the second 

conductivity type by InP, n-type GaInAs, p-type GaInAs, 
n-type InP, n-type GaInAs, n-type InP, i-type GaInAs, and 

p-type GaInAs, respectively. 
A method according to claim 15, wherein the first 
step includes the step of forming said semiconductor 

substrate, said collector layer, said base layer, said 
tunnel barrier layer, said emitter capping layer, said 

layer of the first conductivity type, said 
high-resistance layer, and said layer of the second 

conductivity type by InP, n-type GaInAs, p-type GaInAs, 
n-type InP, n-type GaInAs, n-type GaInAs, i-type GaInAs, 

and p-type GaInAs, respectively. 
A method according to claim 15, wherein the first 
step includes the step of forming an etching stop layer 

consisting of a material having a band gap energy 
different from that of a constituent material of said 

common layer inside said common layer or at a junction 

portion between said common layer and said 
high-resistance layer. 
A method according to claim 16 or 17, wherein the fourth 
step includes the step of forming said electrode layers 

to have a multilayered structure including a Pt layer as a 
lowermost layer. 
A method according to claim 17, wherein the fourth 
step includes the step of simultaneously forming, 

together with said electrode layers, a metal wiring layer 
electrically connected to said pin-type photodiode or said 

heterojunction bipolar transistor in a fourth surface 
region of said semiconductor substrate. 
A method according to claim 18, wherein the first 
step includes the step of forming said first alignment 

mark as a predetermined pattern having two-dimensionally 
aligned recessed portions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
