<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613791</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Seamless multilayer printing blanket and method for making the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41N1004	B41N1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41N	B41N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41N10	B41N10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A novel mutlilayered sleeve-like printing blanket is mountable on 
gapless cylinders or tubular blanket carriers, thereby minimizing vibration 

when operated at high rotational speeds. An exemplary printing blanket 
comprises a seamless outer printing surface layer; at least one reinforced 

elastomer layer, the elastomer layer being reinforced by fibers substantially 
parallel with the inward and outward sides of the cylindrical tube defined by 

the reinforced elastomer layer; and a resiliently compressible layer. The 
oriented fibers reinforce the elastomer layer such that the modulus of 

elasticity in the circumferential direction of rotation is increased. Exemplary 
methods for forming one or more of the layers are also disclosed herein. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of printing blankets, and
to a seamless and resiliently compressible multi-layer printing blanket
and method for making the same.It is known in offset printing to use cylinders lined with a printing blanket
to pennit the printing of a paper web which is pinched and driven between
cylinders. Previously, the blankets were fastened onto the cylinders with their ends
entered and locked into a longitudinally extending gap in the cylinder. This caused
a number of inconveniences. In effect, the confronting ends of the blanket
necessarily left a certain space therebetween, so that the paper web exhibited
unprinted areas. Moreover, this way of fastening blankets into "gapped" cylinders
imparted to the cylinder-blanket assembly a dissymmetry which generated
vibrations during the rotation of the cylinder. Therefore, the speed and the
efficiency of the printing machines was necessarily limited.Gapped cylinders created a problem known as "fall off at the gap" for
printing blankets having a fabric layer located between a printing surface and
compressible foam layer. The fabric compressed the foarn near the gap because it
could not elongate sufficiently, and consequently decreased printing sharpness.
U.S. Patents 4,303,721 and 4,812,357 disclosed the use of an elastomer between the
printing and foam layers to avoid fall off at the gap.It is known that "seamless" and resiliently compressible blankets can be
mounted around gapless cylinders in the manner of a continuous tube or sleeve. For example, U.S. Patents 3,983,287 and 4,378,622 disclosed tubular outer
layers disposed around an inner compressible layer. The Canadian Patent
Application No. 2,026,954 or corresponding EP-A-0 421 145 of Gaffney et al. suggested
that a compressible foam
layer disposed directly beneath a printing surface layer was needed to avoid bulges
on either side of nip during operation, although it was also suggested that fabric
could be inserted between layers.U.S. Patent 5,205,213 or corresponding EP-A-0 452 184,
on the other hand disclosed a seamless blanket in which at least one hard
elastomer layer, e.g. a substantially non-compressible material such as cured rubber,
was employed between a surface printing layer and a compressible layer to
minimize vibration in the blanket at high rotational velocities. The elastomer could
optionally be reinforced with fibers. The multi-layered blanket was seamless in that
it could be mounted around a cylinder without any surface interruptions, in the
manner of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multilayered, sleeve-like printing blanket (2), comprising
a seamless outer printing surface layer (6), at least one

reinforced elastomer layer (5) beneath said seamless outer
layer, and a resiliently compressible layer (4) beneath

said reinforced elastomer layer, characterized in that said
reinforced elastomer layer (5) is reinforced by fibres

which are substantially parallel to the inward and outward
sides of the cylindrical tube d
efined by the reinforced
elastomer layer when it is situated around the compressible

layer (4).
The printing blanket of claim 1, wherein said reinforced
elastomer layer (5) comprises a nonwoven mat of fibres

impregnated with an elastomer.
The printing blanket of claim 1 wherein said reinforced
elastomer layer (5) comprises at least two layers (5,7),

each comprising either a continuous filament wound around
the rotational axis, a circularly knit continuous sleeve,

or a woven fabric wound around the rotational axis of the
printing blanket (2).
The printing blanket of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said
elastomer layer (5) comprises a natural rubber, fluoro-elastomer,

styrene butadiene rubber, ethylene-propylene
diene terpolymer, butyl rubber, neoprene, nitrile rubber,

polyurethane, epichlorohydrin, chloroprene, or a mixture
thereof ; and said reinforcing fibres are comprised of a

polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl chloride copolymer,
polyamide, aromatic polyamide, aramid, polyester,

polyolefin, vinylidene chloride, thermoplastic resin,
cellulose, cellulosic derivative, cotton, rayon, metal,

glass, carbon fibres, or a combination thereof. 
The printing blanket of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, further
comprising a tubular carrier (10) comprised of nickel,

steel, steel-nickel alloy, brass, aluminium, unplasticized
polyvinyl chloride, polycarbonate, polyphenylene oxide,

polysulfone, nylon, polyester, epoxies, phenolic resins,
cross-linked polyesters, melamine formaldehyde, hard

rubber, ebonite, or a mixture thereof.
The printing blanket of claim 5, wherein said carrier
(10) is reinforced with fibrous materials selected from the

group consisting of chopped strand, nonwoven mats, woven
mats, and filament windings.
The printing blanket according to claim 1, 2, 3 or 4,
further comprising a tubular carrier (10) formed of a heat-shrinkable

material.
The printing blanket of any one of claims 1 to 7,
further comprising a layer (3) of adhesive operative to

mount said blanket (2) onto a cylinder (1) or blanket carrier (10)
wherein said adhesive comprises a solvent-or water-based

pressure sensitive adhesive, an anaerobic adhesive, an
acrylate-based adhesive, an epoxy-based adhesive, or a hot-melt

adhesive.
The printing blanket of claim 1, wherein said blanket is
mounted around a cylinder (1), said compressible layer (4)

has an inner radial diameter which is smaller than the
diameter of said cylinder, and said reinforced elastomer

layer (5) has a modulus of at least 200 megapascals.
The printing blanket of any one of claims 1 to 9,
wherein said reinforced elastomer layer (5) has mixed

therein fibres having a length of 0.1-100 mm whereby a
substantial portion of fibres are oriented parallel to the

inward and outward sides of the cylindrical tube defined by 
the elastomer layer when situated around said compressible

layer (4).
A multilayered, sleeve-like printing blanket, according
to claim 1, characterized in that it comprises a second

reinforced elastomer layer located beneath said
compressible layer, a second compressible layer

located beneath said second reinforced elastomer layer; and a
tubular carrier (10) and/or cylinder (1).
A method for making a sleeve-like printing blanket (2),
comprising the steps of providing a tube that comprises a

cylinder, mandrel, or blanket carrier (1, 10), forming a
resiliently compressible layer (4) around said carrier

tube, forming at least one reinforced elastomer layer (5)
around said compressible layer and forming an outer

printing surface layer (6) around said elastomer layer,
characterized in that said reinforced elastomer layer (5)

is formed by extrusion through a die around the
compressible layer (4) of an elastomeric material having

mixed therein a substantial portion of fibres which are
oriented parallel to the inward and outward sides of the

cylindrical tube defined by the said layer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
