<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630121</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method employing fast polarization modulation to reduce effects of polarization hole burning and/or polarization dependent loss.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F101	G02F1035	H04B10135	H04B10135	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The effects of polarization dependent hole burning and/or polarization 
dependent loss are reduced by modulating the state of polarization (SOP) of an 

optical signal being launched into the transmission path periodically between first 
and second states of polarization of at least one pair of orthogonal states of 

polarization. Ideally, the launched modulated signal should spend equal time 
intervals in both states of the orthogonal pair. In one exemplary embodiment, the 

SOP is modulated such that it moves along a great circle on the Poincare' sphere. In 
another exemplary embodiment, the SOP is modulated such that it traces a complete 

great circle on the Poincare' sphere. In a preferred embodiment, a complete great 
circle is traced at a uniform speed on the Poincare' sphere. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEISMANN FRED LUDWIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENBERG ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEISMANN, FRED LUDWIG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENBERG, ROBERT L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the optical transmission of information and, 
more particularly, to improving transmission capabilities over long-distance optical 
transmission paths employing repeaters. Very long optical fiber transmission paths, such as those employed in 
undersea or trans-continental terrestrial lightwave transmission systems including 
optical-amplifier repeaters, are subject to decreased performance caused by a host of 
possible impairments. The impairments typically increase as a function of the length 
of the optical transmission. In long optical transmission paths that include optical 
amplifiers, the impairments tend to vary with time and cause a random fluctuation in 
the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the optical transmission path. The random 
fluctuation in SNR contributes to a phenomenon known as signal fading. The SNR 
fluctuations also result in an increased average bit error ratio (BER) in digital signals 
being transmitted over the optical transmission path. When the SNR of a digital 
signal being transported on such an optical transmission path becomes unacceptably 
small relative to the average SNR (resulting in an undesirably high BER), a signal-to-noise 
fade is said to have occurred. Experimental evidence has shown that the 
signal fading and SNR fluctuations are caused by a number of polarization dependent 
effects induced by the optical fiber itself and/or other optical components within the 
transmission path. In particular, one of these effects has now been identified as 
polarization dependent hole burning (PDHB), which is related to the population 
inversion dynamics of the optical amplifiers. A discussion of hole-burning can be 
found in an article by D. W. Douglas, R. A. Haas, W.F. Krupke and M.J. Weber, 
entitled "Spectral and Polarization Hole Burning in Neodymium Glass Lasers"; 
IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, Vol. QE-19, No. 11, November 1983. PDHB reduces gain of the optical amplifiers within the long optical 
transmission path for any signal having a state of polarization ("SOP") parallel to 
that of a polarized primary optical signal carried by the transmission path. However, 
the gain provided by these amplifiers for optical signals which have an SOP 
orthogonal to that of the primary signal remains relatively unaffected. In simplified  
 
terms, the primary optical signal produces an anisotropic saturation of the amplifier 
that is dependent upon the SOP of the primary optical signal. The polarized primary 
signal reduces the level of population
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus intended for use in reducing the effects of polarization 
dependent hole-burning in an optical transmission system employing optical fiber 

amplifiers including 
   means for generating a polarized optical signal at a desired wavelength 

and means for supplying said polarized optical signal to said means for modulating, 
the apparatus being CHARACTERIZED BY 

   waveguide means having an electrooptically induced variable 
birefringence for modulating the state of polarization of said polarized optical signal 

periodically over a range of polarization states such that the average degree of 
polarization is substantially equal to zero over a modulation cycle so that the effects 

of polarization dependent hole-burning are reduced. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1 further including means for 
launching said modulated optical signal as an output and wherein said waveguide 

means includes means for varying the orientation of linear birefringence of the 
waveguide means and for introducing a predetermined phase retardation between 

first and second orthogonal states of polarization of the optical signal wherein the 
predetermined phase retardation is substantially equal to π radians when at least one 

of the states of polarization is substantially parallel to at least one of the principle 
axes of the linear birefringence. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 2 wherein said means for varying 
orientation includes means for continuously rotating the orientation of the linear 

birefringence of the waveguide at a constant speed. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said waveguide means 
includes means for controllably varying a phase retardation between first and second 

orthogonal states of polarization of the optical signal wherein the induced 
birefringence of the waveguide is at a predetermined orientation. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 4 wherein said optical signal 
transports an information signal having a predetermined clock frequency and 

wherein said means for varying the phase retardation includes means for varying the 
phase retardation at a frequency that is a predetermined multiple of the clock 

frequency of said information signal. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 4 wherein said means for varying 
the phase retardation includes means for varying said phase retardation sinusoidally 

between predetermined positive and negative values of 0.7655 π and -0.7655 π, 
 

respectively. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 4 wherein said means for varying 
the phase retardation includes means for varying said phase retardation linearly 

between predetermined positive and negative values of π and - π, respectively. 
A method intended for use in reducing the effects of polarization 
dependent hole-burning in an optical transmission system employing optical fiber 

amplifiers including 
   generating a polarized optical signal at a desired wavelength, and 

   launching said polarized optical signal, the method being 
CHARACTERIZED BY 

   electrooptically inducing variable birefringence in a wave guide to 
modulate the state of polarization of said launched polarized optical signal 

periodically over a range of polarization states such that the average degree of 
polarization is substantially equal to zero over a modulation cycle so that the effects 

of polarization dependent hole burning are reduced. 
The method as defined in claim 8 further including the step of 
launching said modulated optical signal as an output and wherein said step of 

electrooptically inducing birefringence includes varying the orientation of linear 
birefringence of the waveguide and introducing a predetermined phase retardation 

between first and second orthogonal states of polarization of the optical signal 
wherein the predetermined phase retardation is substantially equal to π radians when 

at least one of the states of polarization is substantially parallel to at least one of the 
principle axes of the linear birefringence. 
The method as defined in claim 9 wherein said step of varying 
orientation includes the step of continuously rotating the orientation of the linear 

birefringence of the waveguide at a constant speed. 
The method as defined in claim 8 wherein said step of 
electrooptically inducing birefringence includes controllably varying a phase 

retardation between first and second orthogonal states of polarization of the optical 
signal wherein the induced birefringence of the waveguide is at a predetermined 

orientation. 
The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said optical signal 
transports an information signal having a predetermined clock frequency and 

 
wherein said step of varying the phase retardation includes a step of varying the 

phase retardation at a frequency that is a predetermined multiple of the clock 
frequency of said information signal. 
The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said step of varying the 
phase retardation includes a step of varying said phase retardation sinusoidally and 

between predetermined positive and negative values of 0.7655 π and -0.7655 π, 
respectively. 
The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said step of varying the 
phase retardation includes a step of varying said phase retardation linearly between 

predetermined positive and negative values of π and -π, respectively. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
