<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610491</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PERCUTANEOUS CARDIAC PUMP FOR CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1702	A61B1702	A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1734	A61B1734	A61M110	A61M110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for cardiac resuscitation, as shown in fig. 9, comprising an expandable member (105) placeable inside the chest cavity adjacent to heart (69) to effect pumping of the heart. Said expandable member is carried in a contracted state within the blunt tip (104) of a stem (102) which is essentially mechanically advanced through the chest wall in a controlled and largely automated fashion by a device (1) placed on the anterior chest wall (107) of the patient. Said blunt tip (104) advances by blunt dissection through the thickness of the chest wall (107), after a slight incision is made in the superficial layers of the chest wall just to win the resistance of the skin to a blunt tip, in a region of the chest wall correspondent to an area, in the inner aspect of the chest wall, anatomically designated ''sine pleura'', i.e. where the pleura is absent, and is placed into the chest cavity into a region adjacent to the heart. Said blunt tip (104) can be of such a small diameter to cause only a virtual, self-sealing hole in the chest wall upon removal of the stem. The device (1) or means for placing said expandable member (104) into the chest cavity comprises a number of other safety features to prevent that structures of the chest wall as well as intrathoracic organs are injured in any way at the time of the placement of the expandable member (105) into the chest cavity as well as at the time of the actual cardiac pumping or at any time the device is being used. Said means (1) for placement of said expandable member (105) into the chest cavity comprises means for gradual and controlled penetration through the chest wall (107), with features automatically disabling the means for advancing said stem, and automatically locking the advancing stem upon entry into the chest cavity, so to avoid injuries to the heart and to the other intrathoracic organs. Upon placement of the expandable member within the chest cavity, cardiac pumping is either accomplished, after initial expansion of the expandable member (105), by periodically displacing said expandable member (105) by appling and releasing pressure to it via a rigid stem (102) from outside the chest cavity, so to alternatally compress and decompress the heart or by alternatively inflating-deflating said expandable member in front of the heart to alternatively compress-decompress the heart against the thoracic spine. Such an apparatus provides an effective method for cardiopulmonary resuscitation comparable to open cardiac massage without the trauma, invasiveness, complication and most of all without the delay in institution associated with a thoracotomy and can be implemented by paramedics or the like in the field, i.e. in the site where the cardiac arrest has occured, within the critical time frame when effective cardiac massage can still regain life and integrity of functions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZADINI FILIBERTO P
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZADINI GIORGIO C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZADINI, FILIBERTO P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZADINI, GIORGIO C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZADINI FILIBERTO P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZADINI GIORGIO C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZADINI, FILIBERTO P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZADINI, GIORGIO C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PERCUTANEOUS CARDIAC PUMP FOR CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATIONBACKGROUNDTECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to methods and apparatus for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and is particularly directed to improved methods and apparatus for performing direct heart massage. 

 BACKGROUND ART In order to resuscitate a patient victim of a cardiac arrest, it is necessary to provide an adequate artificial circulation of oxygenated blood to the vital organs by reestablishing the pumping function of the heart at values as close as possible to the physiological prear- rest condition. Such a cardiac pumping function must be instituted at the earliest possible stage. It is documented that a cardiac arrest results in irreversible brain death if a sufficient blood flow is not reestablished within a critical period of time from the moment of the cardiac arrest. Such a period of time is measured ranging between four and six minutes.In order to reestablish the pumping function of the heart, two methods of cardiopulmonary resuscitation have been used heretofore: external or closed cardiac massage, and internal or open cardiac massage. Closed cardiac mas¬ sage consists of applying pressure on the anterior chest wall and alternately releasing such pressure. In the vast majority of cases, closed chest compressions produce a severe low flow state, Raymond E. Jackson: Basic Cardiopul¬ monary Resuscitation, Emergency Medicine, American College of Emergency Physicians. Open chest cardiopulmonary resus¬ citation improves he odynamics, resuscitation and the chance of surviving cardiac arrest. Cerebral blood flow achieved with open chest techniques has been shown to be near normal physiological values. There are several case 

reports of patients who have been resuscitated with direct cardiac massage when attempts with closed chest cardiopul¬ monary resuscitation have been unsuccessful, Advanced Cardiac Life Support Textbook, American Heart Association, page 42. However, few physicians today are skilled in the technique of direct cardiac massage. Since most cardiac arrests occur outside of a hospital and since most patients cannot be brought to a facility where a thoracotomy and direct cardiac massage can be performed in less that 15 minutes of total arrest time, the applicability of direct cardiac massage has been limited ACLS textbook, page 42. In addition to that, this technique is often characterized by many physicians as a rather grossly traumatic procedure, often seen as a desperate terminal attempt to resuscitate an arrested
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims :
Claim 1. A cardiac pump comprising: an expandable member placeable inside the chest cavity adjacent to the heart and means for periodically displacing said expandable member forward and backward by applying and releasing pres¬ sure to said expandable member so to compress and decompress the heart.
Claim 2. The cardiac pump of claim 1 wherein: said means for periodically displacing said expandable member comprises: a stem member carrying said expandable member, said stem member being sufficiently rigid to transmit said applied pressure to said expandable member.
Claim 3. The cardiac pump of claim 2 wherein: said stem member is hollow and connected at one end to said expandable member.
Claim 4. The cardiac pump of claim 3 further comprising: means for expanding said expandable member through said hollow stem. 


 Claim 5. The cardiac pump of claim 4 wherein: said means is pneumatic.
Claim 6. The cardiac pump of claim 4 wherein: said means is hydraulic.
Claim 7. The cardiac pump of claim 1 wherein: said expandable member comprises a balloon.
Claim 8. The cardiac pump of claim 7 wherein: said balloon is dome-shaped.
Claim 9. The cardiac pump of Claim 2 further comprising: means for passing said expandable member in a contracted state through a wall delimiting the chest cavity
Claim 10. The cardiac pump of Claim 2 further comprising: means for placing said expandable member within the chest cavity adjacent to the heart 


 Claim 11. The Cardiac pump of Claim 2 further comprising: means for penetration through a wall delimiting the chest cavity of a portion of said stem member.
Claim 12. The cardiac pump of claim 11 wherein: said means for penetration comprises: means for preventing punctures and lacerations of the intrathoracic organs.
Claim 13. The cardiac pump of claim 11 wherein: said means for penetration includes: a blunt end of said stem member.
Claim 14. The cardiac pump of claim 9 wherein: said means for passing said expandable member through said wall delimiting the chest cavity includes: means for expanding said expandable member upon entry of said expandable member within the chest cavity.
Claim 15. The cardiac pump of claim 14 wherein: said means for expanding said expandable member are automat¬ ically actuated in response to entry of said expandable member within the chest cavity. 


 Claim 16. The cardiac pump of claim 9 wherein: said means for passing said expandable member through said wall delimiting the chest cavity includes: means for advancement.
Claim 17. The cardiac pump of claim 16 wherein: said means for advancement comprises: means for gradual advancement.
Claim 18. The cardiac pump of claim 16 wherein: said means for gradual advancement comprises: a toothed rack anchored to said stem member and a lever acting longitudinally upon said toothed rack.
Claim 19. The cardiac pump of claim 16 wherein: said means for gradual advancement comprises: an annular rack with a screw thread mating a corresponding screw thread formed in said stem member and a lever rotating said annular rack.
Claim 20. The cardiac pump of claim 16 further comprises: means for disabling said means for advancement upon entry into the chest cavity of said expandable member. 


 Claim 21. The cardiac pump of claim 16 further comprises: means for arresting said means for advancement upon entry into the chest cavity of said expandable member.
Claim 22. The cardiac pump of claim 2 further comprises: means for sensing penetration into the chest cavity.
Claim 23. The cardiac pump of claim 22 wherein: said means for sensing penetration include: means for placing under expanding pressure said expandable member, not allowed to expand under said expand¬ ing pressure during its passage through the wall of the chest by the resistance of the chest wall structures, and permitted to expand upon entry into the chest cavity.
Claim 24. The cardiac pump of claim 22 wherein: said means for sensing penetration include: a convex apex urged forward by resilient means, which is constrained during passage through the chest wall by underlying layers, and advances upon entry of the chest cavity. 


 Claim 25. The cardiac pump of claim 22 wherein: said means for sensing penetration includes: a stem end broader than its narrower stem carrying it, which upon penetration into the chest cavity allows the operator to tactually sense its occurred passage into the chest cavity by the sudden fall of resistance to front and side movement of said stem end.
Claim 26. The cardiac pump of claim 22 wherein: said means for sensing penetration includes: a perforated stem end communicating with a chamber a vacuum within said chamber which is retained during passage of said perforated stem end within the wall of the chest cavity due to the sealing of said perforated stem end by said wall, and said vacuum is relieved upon entry of said stem end into the chest cavity by entry of air into the vacuum chamber through said perforated stem end.
Claim 27. The cardiac pump of claim 1 further comprising: a support case having a flat base a stem member slideable within said support case having a stem end projecting below said base, and an in¬ termediate member interposed between said stem member and 


said support case, means for advancing said stem member with respect to said support case to cause said stem end to penetrate through the chest wall structure of the patient and an expandable member carried by said stem member and expandable to transfer pumping pressure applied to said stem member to pump the patient heart.
Claim 28. The cardiac pump of claim 27 further comprising: locking means releasably locking said stem member to said intermediate member to prevent inadvertent advancing of said stem member, and means responsive to entry of said stem end into the patient chest cavity for releasing said locking means to permit pumping movement of said stem member.
Claim 29. The cardiac pump of claim 27 further comprising: an expandable member carried by said stem end, and means for expanding said expandable member upon entry of said stem end into said chest cavity. 


 Claim 30. The cardiac pump of claim 2, further comprises: means for arresting forward displacement of said stem member upon accidental contraction of said expandable member within the chest cavity.
Claim 31. The method of Cardiac Resuscitation comprises the steps of: inserting an expandable member in a contracted state into a patient chest cavity adjacent to the heart, expanding said expandable member and periodically displacing said member forward and backward by applying and releasing pressure to said member so to compress and decompress the heart.
Claim 32. The method of claim 31 wherein: said step of inserting of said expandable member is carried out on the 4th intercostal space.
Claim 33. The method of claim 31 wherein: said step of inserting of said expandable member is carried out on the 5th intercostal space. 


 Claim 34. The method of claim 31 wherein: said step of inserting of said expandable member is carried out on the subxyphoid region.
Claim 35. A cardiac pump comprising: an expandable member carried in the end of a stem member, the end placeable inside the chest cavity adjacent to the heart without puncture or laceration of the heart, coronary vessels or surrounding organs and tissues, and means for adapting said expandable member to pump the heart.
Claim 36. The cardiac pump of Claim 35 further comprising: means for passing said expandable member in a contracted state through a wall delimiting the chest cavity.
Claim 37. The cardiac pump of Claim 36 wherein: said means for passing said expandable member within the chest cavity adjacent to the heart comprises: an inserting mechanism for controlled insertion and direction of the stem member end carrying said expand¬ able member into the chest cavity and in front of the heart. 


 Claim 38. The Cardiac pump of Claim 37 further comprising: means for penetration through a wall delimiting the chest cavity of a portion of said stem member with automatic arrest of stem member advancement once the stem end has entered the chest cavity.
Claim 39. The cardiac pump of claim 38 wherein: said means for penetration comprises: means for preventing punctures and lacerations of the intrathoracic organs.
Claim 40. The cardiac pump of claim 38 wherein: said means for penetration includes: end of said stem member being blunt.
Claim 41. A cardiac pump comprising: a stem member having a blunt stem end, means for advancing said stem member toward the chest cavity through the chest wall to penetrate through the chest wall struc¬ tures of the patient, an expandable member carried by said stem member end, and means for adapting said expandable member to pump the patient heart. 


 Claim 42. The cardiac pump of claim 41 further comprising: a support case having a flat base, said stem member being slideable within said support case with said blunt stem end projecting below said base, an intermediate member interposed between said stem member and said support case, said means for advancing said stem member advances said stem member with respect to said support case to cause said stem end to penetrate through the chest wall structure of the patient, an expandable member carried by said stem member, and means for adapting said expandable member to pump the patient heart.
Claim 43. The cardiac pump of claim 42 further comprising: locking means releasably locking said stem member to said intermediate member to prevent inadvertent advancing of said stem member.
Claim 44. The cardiac pump of claim 42 further comprising: means for expanding said expandable member upon entry of said blunt stem end into said chest cavity. 


 Claim 45. A method of Cardiac Resuscitation com¬ prising the steps of: applying a stem member sizably mounted within a case to the chest cavity, advancing said stem member with its blunt stem end carrying an expandable member in a contracted state into a patient chest cavity adjacent to the heart and pumping the heart by said expandable member.
Claim 46. A cardiac pump comprising: an expandable member placeable inside the chest cavity adjacent to the heart, means for inserting said expandable member into the chest cavity through the chest wall delimiting said chest cavity without puncturing or lacerating the heart, coronary vessels or surrounding organs and tissues and means for adapting said expandable member to pump the heart.
Claim 47. The cardiac pump of claim 46 wherein: said means for inserting said expandable member into the chest cavity through said wall delimiting the chest cavity includes: means for expanding said expandable member upon entry of said expandable member within the chest cavity. 


 Claim 48. The cardiac pump of claim 47 wherein: said means for expanding said expandable member are automat¬ ically actuated in response to entry of said expandable member within the chest cavity.
Claim 49. The cardiac pump of claim 46 wherein: said means for inserting said expandable member into the chest cavity through said chest wall delimiting the chest cavity includes: means for advancement.
Claim 50. The cardiac pump of claim 49 wherein: said means for advancement comprises: means for gradual advancement.
Claim 51. The cardiac pump of claim 50 wherein: said means for gradual advancement comprises: a stem member a toothed rack anchored to said stem member and a lever acting longitudinally upon said toothed rack.
Claim 52. The cardiac pump of claim 50 wherein: said means for gradual advancement comprises: a stem member 


 an annular rack with a screw thread mating a corresponding screw thread formed in said stem member and a lever rotating said annular rack.
Claim 53. The cardiac pump of claim 49 further comprises: means for disabling said means for advancement upon entry into the chest cavity of said expandable member.
Claim 54. The cardiac pump of claim 49 further comprises: means for arresting said means for advancement upon entry into the chest cavity of said expandable member.
Claim 55. The cardiac pump of claim 46 wherein: said means for inserting said expandable member into the chest cavity through the chest wall comprises: means for sensing penetration into the chest cavity.
Claim 56. The cardiac pump of claim 55 wherein: said means for sensing penetration includes: means for placing under expanding pressure said expandable member, not allowed to expand under said expand¬ ing pressure during its passage through the wall of the 


chest by the resistance of the chest wall structures, and permitted to expand upon entry into the chest cavity.
Claim 57. The cardiac pump of claim 55 wherein: said means for sensing penetration includes: a convex apex urged forward by resilient means, which is constrained during passage through the chest wall by underlying layers, and advances upon entry of the chest cavity.
Claim 58. The cardiac pump of claim 55 wherein: said means for sensing penetration includes: a stem member carrying said expandable member a stem end broader than its narrower stem carrying it, which upon penetration into the chest cavity allows the operator to tactually sense its occurred passage into the chest cavity by the sudden fall of resistance to front and side movement of said stem end.
Claim 59. The cardiac pump of claim 55 wherein: said means for sensing penetration includes: a perforated stem end communicating with a chamber a vacuum within said chamber which is retained during passage of said perforated stem end within the wall of the chest cavity due to the sealing of said perforated 


ste end by said wall, and said vacuum is relieved upon entry of said stem end into the chest cavity by entry of air into the vacuum chamber through said perforated stem end.
Claim 60. A cannular surgical device for passing through a slightly incised body wall of a body to a limited extent into a body cavity for gaining access to organs, glands, tissue or vessels without puncture or laceration of the organs, glands, tissues or vessels, comprising: a) a support case having a base adaptable for placement on the body adjacent the body wall to be passed; b) a stem slideably mounted within the case having a blunt end extensibly projectable from the base, the blunt end being adapted to pass into the body incision carrying a means to operate on a particular organ, gland, tissue or vessel; c) means for advancing the stem in the case and advancing the blunt end though the body wall and to a limit¬ ed extent into the body cavity adjacent the particular organ, gland, tissue or vessel; and d) a handle connected to the stem opposite the base and extending from the case for manipulating the stem end within the body cavity. 


 Claim 61. The device of claim 60 further compris¬ ing: a) an intermediate member interposed between the stem and the support case; b) locking means for releasably locking the stem to the intermediate member to prevent inadvertent advancing of the stem and stem end.
Claim 62. A cardiac pump placeable on a body with portions passable through a slightly incised chest wall to gain access to a heart within a chest cavity in need of massage without radical open chest surgery and without puncture or laceration of the heart or adjacent organs, glands, tissues or vessels, comprising: a) a support case having a base adaptable for placement on the body adjacent the chest wall to be passed; b) a stem slideably mounted within the case having a blunt end extensibly projectable from the base, the blunt end being adapted to pass in the body incision carrying a compressed expandable member to operate on the heart; and c) means for advancing the stem in the case and advancing the blunt end through the chest wall and to a limited extent into the chest cavity adjacent the heart, after which the expandable member is adapted to expand for massaging the heart within the chest cavity. 


 Claim 63. A method for percutaneus cardiopulmonary resuscitation of an arrested heart below a chest wall within a chest cavity of a person, comprising: a) placing a base of a support case on the chest wall above the heart of a reclined person; b) making a measured partial incision into the chest wall above the heart of a reclined person in need of heart massage; c) placing the blunt end of a stem carrying an expandable member into the incision, the stem being support¬ ed on the chest wall by a support case resting on the chest wall; d) advancing the stem within the case and the blunt stem end further into the incision and through the chest wall; e) expanding the expandable member within the chest cavity adjacent the heart; and f) massaging the heart with the expandable member from outside the chest cavity. 

Claim 64. A cardiac pump comprising: an inflatable-deflatable expandable member place¬ able inside the chest cavity adjacent to the heart, means for placing said expandable member inside the chest cavity adjacent to the heart through the chest wall, said means for placing said expandable member inside the chest cavity including means for prevention of injuries to intrathoracic organs.
Claim 65. The cardiac pump of claim 64 further comprising: means for periodically inflating and deflating said expandable member so to compress and to decompress the heart.
Claim 66. The cardiac pump of claim 64 wherein said means for periodically inflating and deflating are manually operated.
Claim 67. The cardiac pump of claim 64 wherein said means for periodically inflating and deflating are power operated. 


 Claim 68. The cardiac pump of claim 64, wherein: said means for prevention of injuries to intrathoracic organs comprises: means for blunt penetration of the chest wall.
Claim 69. The cardiac pump of claim 64, wherein: said means for prevention of injuries to intrathoracic organs comprises: means for controlled penetration of the chest wall.
Claim 70. The cardiac pump of claim 69, wherein: said means for controlled penetration comprises: means for gradual advancement of said means for placing said expandable member inside the chest cavity.
Claim 71. The cardiac pump of claim 70 wherein said means for placing said expandable member inside the chest cavity includes: a stem member slideably mounted within a support case and said means for gradual advancement comprises a toothed rack anchored to said stem member and a lever acting longitudinally upon said toothed rack. 


 Claim 72. The cardiac pump of claim 70 wherein said means for placing said expandable member inside the chest cavity includes: a stem member slideably mounted within a support case and said means for gradual advancement comprises an annular rack with a screw thread mating a corresponding screw thread formed in said stem member and a lever rotat¬ ing said annular rack.
Claim 73. The cardiac pump of claim 70 wherein said means for controlled penetration comprises: means for disabling said means for gradual ad¬ vancement upon entry into the chest cavity of said expand¬ able member.
Claim 74. The cardiac pump of claim 70 wherein said means for controlled penetration comprises: means for arresting said means for gradual ad¬ vancement upon entry into the chest cavity of said expand¬ able member.
Claim 75. The cardiac pump of claim 64 further comprising: means for sensing penetration into the chest cavity. 


 Claim 76. The cardiac pump of claim 75 wherein said means for sensing penetration include: means for placing under expanding pressure said expandable member, not allowed to expand under said expand¬ ing pressure during its passage through the wall of the chest by the resistance of the chest wall structures, and permitted to expand upon entry into the chest cavity.
Claim 77. The cardiac pump of claim 75 wherein said means for sensing penetration include: a convex apex urged forward by resilient means, said convex apex being constrained during passage through the chest wall by underlying layers, and advancing upon entry of the chest cavity.
Claim 78. The cardiac pump of claim 75 wherein said means for sensing penetration include: a stem end broader than its narrower stem carrying it, which upon penetration into the chest cavity allows the operator to tactually sense its occurred passage into the chest cavity by the sudden fall of resistance to front and side movement of said stem end. 


 Claim 79. The cardiac pump of claim 75 wherein said means for sensing penetration includes: a perforated stem end communicating with a chamber a vacuum within said chamber which is retained during passage of said stem end within the wall of the chest cavity due to the sealing of said perforated stem end by said wall, and said vacuum is relieved upon entry of said stem end into the chest cavity by entry of air into the vacuum chamber through said perforated stem end.
Claim 80. The cardiac pump of claim 64 further comprising: a support case having a base a stem member slideable within said support case having a stem end projecting below said base, an intermediate member interposed between said stem member and said support case, means for advancing said stem member with respect to said support case to cause said stem end to penetrate through the chest wall structures of the patient, an expandable member carried by said stem member, means for periodically inflating and deflating said expandable member so to compress and to decompress the heart. 


 Claim 81. The cardiac pump of claim 68 wherein said means for blunt penetration comprises: a blunt means to gain access to the chest cavity by blunt dissection, to prevent cutting and puncture in¬ juries to structures of the chest wall and to intrathoracic organs.
Claim 82. The cardiac pump of claim 68 wherein said means for blunt penetration comprises: a blunt means to gain access to the chest cavity including a tip of such a diameter to open a self-sealing passage upon removal of said blunt means.
Claim 83. A cardiac pump comprising: means for forming a hole in the patient's chest wall adjacent th the patient's heart, and means for applying pressure through said hole to effect pumping of said heart.
Claim 84. The cardiac pump of Claim 83 wherein: said means for applying pressure is a balloon.
Claim 85. The cardiac pump of Claim 84 wherein: said balloon is insertable through said hole. 


 Claim 86. The method of cardiac resuscitation com¬ prising the steps of: forming a hole in the patient's chest wall adja¬ cent the patient's heart, inserting a balloon through said hole, and alternately applying and relaxing pressure on said balloon to pump said heart. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
