<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659061</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SINGLE ACTING ENDOSCOPIC INSTRUMENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1728	A61B1728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Surgical instruments of the invention are provided with distal ends having a clevis (20) and two discrete investment cast end effectors (90, 92). One end effector (92) is stationary relative to the clevis, and the other moves or rotates about a transverse pin (45) of the clevis. The rotating end effector (90) includes a first hole through which the transverse pin extends, and the surgical instrument includes an actuation mechanism for causing the rotating end effector to rotate about the transverse pin. The actuation mechanism preferably includes a push rod (60) which is either directly coupled to the proximal end of the rotating end effector or coupled by a link element (97). On the other hand, the stationary second end effector, while including a first hole through which the transverse pin extends, has a boss (46) which preferably engages a hole (46') in the clevis and is not coupled to the actuation mechanism. With the clevis and second end effector being coupled at two locations, the second end effector is not free to rotate about the clevis pin, but is held stationary. Other manners of holding the second end effector stationary are to provide the clevis with a boss, and the stationary end effector with a second hole into which the boss extends, or to provide another pin which extends through one arm of the clevis and the stationary end effector only.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYMBIOSIS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYMBIOSIS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLATER CHARLES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLATER, CHARLES, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SINGLE ACTING ENDOSCOPIC INSTRUMENTSThis a continuation in part of copending U.S. Serial Nos, 07/680,392 and 07/780,013, and of U.S. Serial No. 07/837,046 which is a continuation of SN 07/521,766 now issued as U.S. Patent #5,133,727, all of which are assigned to the assignee hereof all of which hereby are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to surgical instruments, More particularly, this invention relates to endoscopic surgical instruments having end effectors with a stationary element and a articulating element.The endoscopy and laparoscopy procedures have recently become widely practiced surgical procedures. A laparoscopy procedure typically involves incising through the navel and through the abdominal wall for viewing and/or operating on the ovaries, uterus, gall bladder, bowels, appendix, although more recently, incisions and insertion of trocar tubes have been made in different areas of the abdomen and even in the chest cavity. Typically, trocars are utilized for creating the incisions. Trocar tubes are left in place in the abdominal wall so that laparoscopic surgical tools may be inserted through the same. A camera or magnifying lens is often inserted through the largest diameter trocar tube (e.g. 10mm diameter) which is generally located at the navel incision, while a cutter, dissector, or other surgical instrument is inserted through a similarly sized or smaller diameter trocar tube (e.g. 5 mm diameter) for purposes of manipulating and/or cutting the internal organ. Sometimes it is desirable to have 

several trocar tubes in place at once in order to receive several surgical instruments. In this manner, organ or tissue may be grasped with one surgical instrument, and simultaneously may be cut or stitched with another surgical instrument; all under view of the surgeon via the camera in place in the navel trocar tube.Different classes of endoscopic and laparoscopic tools are known in the art, including cutters (scissors) , dissectors, graspers, clamps, etc. Among the classes of tools, it is known that tools can be double acting or single acting; i.e., either both of the end effectors at the end of the tool move (double acting) , or only one of the end effectors move (single acting) . Previous to the present invention, the single acting instruments of the art incorporated the stationary end effector as an integral element of the clevis of the instrument. Examples of such single acting instruments where the stationary end
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. In a surgical instrument having an actuation means including a wire or a push rod element having proximal and distal ends, a clevis means having arms and a clevis pin transverse said arms, first and second end effector means with said first end effector means coupled to said distal end of said wire or push rod element, and said first and second end effector means having first through-holes through which said clevis pin extends, whereby axial movement of said wire or push rod element is translated to rotational movement of said first end effector means, an improvement comprising: said first and second end effector means are separate discrete components, and said surgical instrument further comprises a coupling means for coupling said clevis and said second end effector means at a first location, wherein said second end effector means is coupled to said clevis means at a second location by said clevis pin, such that said second separate end effector means is held stationary relative to said clevis means.
2. In a surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein: said coupling means comprises a boss integral with said second end effector means and extending substantially parallel said clevis pin, and a hole in said clevis means into which said boss extends.
3. In a surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein: said coupling means comprises a boss integral with said clevis means and extending substantially parallel said clevis pin, and a second hole in said second end effector means into which said boss extends. 


4. In a surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein: said coupling means comprises a second pin, a first hole in said clevis means, and a second hole in said second end effector means, with said second pin extending into said first hole in said clevis means and into said second hole in said second end effector means.
5. In a surgical instrument according to claim 4, wherein: said second pin comprises a screw, and said second hole in said second end effector means is a threaded hole which receives said screw.
6. In a surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein: said separate discrete first and second end effector means are castings.
7. In a surgical instrument according to claim 2, wherein: said separate discrete first and second end effector means are castings.
8. In a surgical instrument according to claim 3, wherein: said separate discrete first and second end effector means are castings.
9. In a surgical instrument according to claim 4, wherein: said separate discrete first and second end effector means are castings.
10. In a surgical instrument according to claim 6, wherein: said surgical instrument further comprises a hollow tube having distal and proximal ends and a longitudinal axis, 


 said wire or push rod element comprises a push rod extending at least partially through said hollow tube and coupled to said first end effector means, and said clevis is coupled to said hollow tube.
11. In a surgical instrument according to claim 10, wherein: said surgical instrument further comprises linkage means for coupling said push rod to said first end effector means, said linkage means having first and second end portions and a middle portion, said push rod having a hole at its distal end through which said first end portion of said linkage means is coupled, and said first end effector means having a second hole in its proximal end through which said second end portion of said linkage means is coupled.
12. In a surgical instrument according to claim 6, wherein: said surgical instrument further comprises a flexible main coil, and said wire or push rod element comprises a wire which extends through said flexible main coil and is coupled to said first end effector means.
13. In a surgical instrument according to claim 12, wherein: said flexible main coil has distal and proximal ends, and said surgical instrument further comprises a handle means disposed on said proximal end of said main coil.
14. A surgical instrument suitable for insertion through a trocar tube, comprising: a) a hollow tube having proximal and distal ends and a longitudinal axis; b) a clevis means mechanically coupled to said distal end of said hollow tube, said clevis means including a pin means extending transverse said longitudinal axis; 


 c) first and second discrete end effector means, each said end effector means having a first through-hole in its proximal portion for engaging said pin means at first locations, and said clevis means and second end effector means having coupling means for engaging said clevis means with said second end effector means at a second location, thereby rendering said second end effector means stationary relative to said clevis means; d) rod means extending at least partially through said hollow tube and having a distal end and a proximal end, said rod means being coupled to said first end effector means; and e) actuating means engaging said proximal end of said rod means for imparting reciprocal motion to said rod means relative to said hollow tube which is translated to pivotal motion of said first end effector means around said pin means.
15. A surgical instrument according to claim 14, wherein: said coupling means for engaging said clevis means with said second end effector means at a second location comprises a boss integral with said second end effector means and extending substantially parallel said clevis pin, and a hole in said clevis means into which said boss extends.
16. A surgical instrument according to claim 14, wherein: said coupling means for engaging said clevis means with said second end effector means at a second location comprises a boss integral with said clevis means and extending substantially parallel said clevis pin, and a second hole in said second end effector means into which said boss extends.
17. A surgical instrument according to claim 14, wherein: said coupling means for engaging said clevis means with said second end effector means at a second location comprises a second pin, 


 a first hole in said clevis means, and a second hole in said second end effector means, with said second pin extending into said first hole in said clevis means and into said second hole in said second end effector means.
18. A surgical instrument according to claim 17, wherein: said second pin is a screw, and said second hole in said second end effector means is a threaded hole which receives said screw.
19. A surgical instrument according to claim 14, wherein: said first and second discrete end effector means are castings.
20. A surgical instrument according to claim 14, further comprising: a linkage means for coupling said distal end of said rod with said first end effector means, said linkage means having first and second end portions and a middle portion, said rod having a through-hole in said distal end of said rod with said first end portion of said linkage means coupled thereto, and said first end effector means having a second through-hole with said second end portion of said linkage means coupled thereto. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
