<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618891</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MAKING VALPROIC ACID DERIVATIVES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C5109	C07C5109	C07C51347	C07C51347	C07C5138	C07C5500	C07C5502	C07C6900	C07C6934	C07C22700	C07C22718	C07C22900	C07C22906	C07C25300	C07C25330	C07C25500	C07C25519	C07K1600	C07K1600	C07K1644	C07K1644	G01N3394	G01N3394	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C51	C07C51	C07C51	C07C51	C07C51	C07C55	C07C55	C07C69	C07C69	C07C227	C07C227	C07C229	C07C229	C07C253	C07C253	C07C255	C07C255	C07K16	C07K16	C07K16	C07K16	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for making a valproic acid derivative comprising a functionalized spacer arm attached to a (delta) carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule is disclosed. The method proceeds by attaching a spacer arm joined to an inorganic moiety to a valproic acid precursor to make an alkylated compound, derivatizing the alkylated compound in a liquid medium to make the valproic acid derivative, and then separating the valproic acid derivative from the liquid medium. The valproic acid derivative can be used to make an immunoreactive valproic acid conjugate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHENG ANTHONY K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOBASHI THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHENG, ANTHONY, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOBASHI, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR MAKING VALPROIC ACID DERIVATIVESBACKGROUNDWe have invented a new method for making valproic acid derivatives. The valproic acid derivatives can be used to make i munoreactive valproic acid conjugates.Valproic acid is a low molecular weight, saturated fatty acid with significant utility as an antiepileptic drug. Valproic acid is used to treat a variety of convulsant disorders, and is especially effective in the treatment of petit mal absence, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and myoclonic disorders. Valproic acid administration has also resulted in substantial improvement of patients with Lennox syndrome, which is extremely resistant to almost all drug treatment.Significantly, unlike many other anticonvulsant drugs, a development of tolerance by a patient to the anticonvulsant effects of valproic acid does not typically occur. A lack of tolerance development means that drug efficacy can be maintained for a given level of administration. The optimal therapeutic range of valproic acid depends on a number of factors, including the method of administration, and the particular convulsant condition being treated, but generally lies between about 50 μg and about 100 μg per L of serum.The wide acceptance and medical use of valproic acid, combined with a low and narrow optimal therapeutic 'serum concentration, necessitates a fast and accurate procedure for monitoring the level of valproic acid in a 

patient's physiological fluids. Monitoring of a patient's serum valproic acid level can be critical to medical decision-making. Furthermore, a hospital or clinical environment can generate a substantial number of physiological fluid samples obtained from patients receiving valproic acid. Hence, a method to detect and quantify valproic acid levels in multiple test samples quickly and accurately is highly desirable.Methods for detecting valproic acid in physiological fluids are limited in part because of the small size of the valproic acid molecule and because valproic acid shows essentially no absorption characteristics in the ultraviolet spectrum. Known methods for detecting valproic acid include gas-liquid chromatography, high pressure liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. These methods require expensive instrumentation, extensive test sample preparation, and lengthly technician training. All these factors can impede and delay analysis of a test sample for valproic acid. Additionally, these methods are not suitable for the rapid and accurate analysis of the large number of patient test samples
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A method for making a valproic acid derivative comprising the steps of: (a) reacting a valproic acid precursor with an aliphatic reagent in an attaching reaction to make an alkylated compound;
(b) transforming the alkylated compound into a valproic acid derivative by derivatizing the alkylated compound in a liquid medium, and;
(c) separating the valproic acid derivative from the liquid medium.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the valproic acid derivative comprises a functionalized spacer arm attached to a 6 carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the aliphatic reagent comprises a spacer arm joined to an inorganic moiety, and wherein the attaching reaction attaches the spacer arm joined to the inorganic moiety to the valproic acid precursor.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the attaching reaction is carried out for between about 2 hours to about 4 hours at a temperature between about 15° to about 25° C. , followed by continuing the attaching reaction for between about 14 hours and about 18 hours at a temperature between about 50° and about 70° C.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the transforming step comprises the step of hydrolysing the 


alkylated compound in a basic medium to obtain a carboxylated substance.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of decarboxylating the carboxylated substance in an acidic medium to make a valproic acid derivative having a carboxylated spacer arm.
7. The method of claim 2 , wherein the transforming step comprises the step of hydrolysing the alkylated compound in an acidic medium to obtain a carboxylated substance.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein the transforming step comprises the step of hydrogenating the alkylated compound.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the hydrogenating step is carried out for between about 10 hours and about 14 hours at a pressure between about 30 PSI and about 60 PSI.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein the aliphatic reagent comprises a haloester.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein the aliphatic reagent comprises a halocyanide.
12. The method of claim 2, wherein the valproic 


94/06745
37 acid precursor comprises an ester.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the ester comprises a malonate.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the ester comprises a tertiary substituted carbon atom.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the functionalized spacer arm comprises a carboxyl group.
16. The method of claim 2, wherein the functionalized spacer arm comprises an amine group.
17. A method for making a valproic acid derivative, comprising a carboxylated spacer arm attached to a δ carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule, the method comprising the steps of:
•
(a) reacting a valproic acid precursor with an aliphatic reagent in an attaching reaction, the aliphatic reagent comprising a haloester spacer arm, the attaching reaction being carried out for between about 2 hours and about 4 hours at a temperature between about 15° and about 25° C. , followed by continuing the attaching reaction for between about 14 hours and about 18 hours at a temperature between about 50° and about 70° C. , thereby making an alkylated compound;
(b) hydrolysing the alkylated compound in a basic medium to obtain a carboxylated substance comprising a plurality of carboxyl groups;
(c) decarboxylating the carboxylated substance 


in an acidic medium to make the valproic acid derivative comprising the carboxylated spacer arm attached to a i carbon atom of the valproic acid molecule, and;
(d) separating the valproic acid derivative from the acidic medium.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the decarboxylating step is carried out for between about 5 hours and about 15 hours
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the valproic acid precursor comprises a tertiary substituted carbon atom.
20. A method for making a valproic acid derivative, comprising an aminated spacer arm attached to a δ carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) reacting a valproic acid precursor with an aliphatic reagent in an attaching reaction, the aliphatic reagent comprising a halocyanide spacer arm, the attaching reaction being carried out for between about 2 hours to about 4 hours at a temperature between about 15° to about 25° C. , followed by continuing the attaching reaction for between about 14 hours and about 18 hours at a temperature between about 50° and about 70° C. , thereby making an alkylated compound;
(b) hydrogenating the alkylated compound to obtain a hydrogenated alkylated compound, the hydrogenating step being carried out for between about 10 hours and about 14 hours at a pressure between about 30 PSI and about 60 PSI;
(c) hydrolysing the hydrogenated alkylated 


compound in an acidic medium to make the valproic acid derivative comprising the aminated spacer arm attached to a δ carbon atom of the valproic acid molecule, and;
(d) separating the valproic acid derivative from the acidic medium.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the valproic acid precursor comprises a tertiary substituted carbon atom.
22. A method for making a valproic acid derivative, comprising the steps of: (a) selecting a valproic acid precursor comprising a tertiary substituted carbon atom;
(b) selecting a spacer arm comprising a first functional moiety and a second functional moiety; (c) attaching the spacer arm to the tertiary carbon, thereby displacing the first functional moiety, and making a valproic acid intermediate comprising a quaternary carbon atom bearing the spacer arm with the second functional moiety, and; (d) derivatizing the valproic acid intermediate to return the quaternary carbon to its former tertiary state, and transform the second functional moiety into a reactive group, thereby making a valproic acid derivative comprising a reactive group spacer arm attached to a δ carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the valproic acid precursor is a pentanoic acid. 


 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of activating the a carbon of the pentanoic acid prior to the attaching step.
25. A method for making an immunoreactive valproic acid conjugate, comprising the steps of:
(a) reacting a valproic acid precursor with an aliphatic reagent comprising a spacer arm joined to an inorganic moiety, in an attaching reaction, to attach the spacer arm joined to the inorganic moiety to the valproic acid precursor, to make an alkylated compound;
(b) transforming the alkylated compound into a valproic acid derivative comprising a functionalized spacer arm attached to a δ carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule by derivatizing the alkylated compound in a liquid medium;
(c) separating the valproic acid derivative from the liquid medium; (d) joining the spacer arm of the valproic acid derivative to a ligand, thereby making a valproic acid preconjugate; and
(f) combining the valproic acid preconjugate with a specific binding partner for the ligand, thereby making an immunoreactive valproic acid conjugate. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 26 January 1994 (26.01.94); original claims 2 cancelled; original claims 1-25 replaced by amended 1-24 (6 pages)]
1. A method for making a valproic acid derivative comprising the steps of:
(a) reacting a valproic acid precursor with an aliphatic reagent in an attaching reaction to make an alkylated compound;
(b) transforming the alkylated compound into a valproic acid derivative by derivatizing the alkylated compound in a liquid medium, the valproic acid derivative comprising a functionalized spacer arm attached to a δ carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule; and
(c) separating the valproic acid derivative from the liquid medium.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the aliphatic reagent comprises a spacer arm joined to an inorganic moiety, and wherein the attaching reaction attaches the spacer arm joined to the inorganic moiety to the valproic acid precursor.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the attaching reaction is carried out for between about 2 hours to about 4 hours at a temperature between about 15° to about 25° C, followed by continuing the attaching reaction for between about 14 hours and about 18 hours at a temperature between about 50° and about 70° c.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the transforming step comprises the step of hydrolysing the alkylated compound in a basic medium to obtain a carboxylated substance. 


 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of decarboxylating the carboxylated substance in an acidic medium to make a valproic acid derivative having a carboxylated spacer arm.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming step comprises the step of hydrolysing the alkylated compound in an acidic medium to obtain a carboxylated substance.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming step comprises the step of hydrogenating the alkylated compound.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the hydrogenating step is carried out for between about 10 hours and about 14 hours at a pressure between about 30 PSI and about 60 PSI.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the aliphatic reagent comprises a haloester.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the aliphatic reagent comprises a halocyanide.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the valproic acid precursor comprises an ester.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the ester comprises a malonate. 


 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the ester comprises a tertiary substituted carbon atom.
14. The method of claim 1 , wherein the functionalized spacer arm comprises a carboxyl group.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the functionalized spacer arm comprises an amine group.
16. A method for making a valproic acid derivative, comprising a carboxylated spacer arm attached to a i carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) reacting a valproic acid precursor with an aliphatic reagent in an attaching reaction, the aliphatic reagent comprising a haloester spacer arm, the attaching reaction being carried out for between about 2 hours and about 4 hours at a temperature between about 15° and about 25° C, followed by continuing the attaching reaction for between about 14 hours and about 18 hours at a temperature between about 50° and about 70° C, thereby making an alkylated compound;
(b) hydrolysing the alkylated compound in a basic medium to obtain a carboxylated substance comprising a plurality of carboxyl groups; (c) decarboxylating the carboxylated substance in an acidic medium to make the valproic acid derivative comprising the carboxylated spacer arm attached to a δ carbon atom of the valproic acid molecule, and; (d) separating the valproic acid derivative from the acidic medium. 


 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the decarboxylating step is carried out for between about 5 hours and about 15 hours
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the valproic acid precursor comprises a tertiary substituted carbon atom.
19. A method for making a valproic acid derivative, comprising an aminated spacer arm attached to a £ carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule, the method comprising the steps of: (a) reacting a valproic acid precursor with an aliphatic reagent in an attaching reaction, the aliphatic reagent comprising a halocyanide spacer arm, the attaching reaction being carried out for between about 2 hours to about 4 hours at a temperature between about 15° to about 25° C. , followed by continuing the attaching reaction for between about 14 hours and about 18 hours at a temperature between about 50° and about 70° C. , thereby making an alkylated compound;
(b) hydrogenating the alkylated compound to obtain a hydrogenated alkylated compound, the hydrogenating step being carried out for between about 10 hours and about 14 hours at a pressure between about 30 PSI and about 60 PSI;
(c) hydrolysing the hydrogenated alkylated compound in an acidic medium to make the valproic acid derivative comprising the aminated spacer arm attached to a J carbon atom of the valproic acid molecule, and;
(d) separating the valproic acid derivative from the acidic medium.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the 


valproic acid precursor comprises a tertiary substituted carbon atom.
21. A method for making a valproic acid derivative, comprising the steps of:
(a) selecting a valproic acid precursor comprising a tertiary substituted carbon atom;
(b) selecting a spacer arm comprising a first functional moiety and a second functional moiety;
(c) attaching the spacer arm to the tertiary carbon, thereby displacing the first functional moiety, and making a valproic acid intermediate comprising a quaternary carbon atom bearing the spacer arm with the second functional moiety, and;
(d) derivatizing the valproic acid intermediate to return the quaternary carbon to its former tertiary state, and transform the second functional moiety into a reactive group, thereby making a valproic acid derivative comprising a reactive group spacer arm attached to a i carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the valproic acid precursor is a pentanoic acid.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of activating the α carbon of the pentanoic acid prior to the attaching step.
24. A method for making an immunoreactive valproic acid conjugate, comprising the steps of:
(a) reacting a valproic acid precursor with 


an aliphatic reagent comprising a spacer arm joined to an inorganic moiety, in an attaching reaction, to attach the spacer arm joined to the inorganic moiety to the valproic acid precursor, to make an alkylated compound; (b) transforming the alkylated compound into a valproic acid derivative comprising a functionalized spacer arm attached to a δ carbon atom of a valproic acid molecule by derivatizing the alkylated compound in a liquid medium; (c) separating the valproic acid derivative from the liquid medium;
(d) joining the spacer arm of the valproic acid derivative to a ligand, thereby making a valproic acid preconjugate; and (f) combining the valproic acid preconjugate with a specific binding partner for the ligand, thereby making an immunoreactive valproic acid conjugate. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19_
Applicant submits with this Statement Under PCT Article 19(1), a PCT Article 19 amendment to the claims of this application with five replacement sheets of claims.
The effect of the amendments to the claims is only to add the limitations of claim 2 to claim 1; cancel claim 2; renumber consecutively original claims 3 to 25 as claims 2 to 24; and to make original claims 3 to 8, 10 to 12 and 15 to 16 dependant upon claim 1, instead of upon the cancelled claim 2. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
