<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649570</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AIR MANAGER SYSTEM FOR METAL-AIR BATTERY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M210	H01M1200	H01M600	H01M210	H01M650	H01M1206	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M2	H01M12	H01M6	H01M2	H01M6	H01M12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air manager system for a metal-air battery cell having an air cathode, the air manager system producing a flow of air through the air manager system and battery cell and directing a first air flow adjacent to the air cathode to provide reactant air and directing a second air flow adjacent to a portion of the battery cell isolated from the air cathode to provide cooling of the battery cell, preferably near the anode. The air manager system may be used with multiple cell metal-air battery packs. Heat exchange between the isolated air flows may be facilitated, and the reactant air may be recirculated for uniform cooling.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEIKY MICHAEL C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEIKY, MICHAEL C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEIKY MICHAEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEIKY, MICHAEL C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to batteries, and more
particularly relates to a system for controlling air flow to a metal-air batteryMetal-air batteries include an air permeable cathode and a metallic
anode separated by an aqueous electrolyte. For example, in a zinc-air
battery, the anode contains zinc, and during operation, oxygen from the
ambient air is converted at the cathode to hydroxide, zinc is oxidized at the
anode by the hydroxide, and water and electrons are released to provide
electrical energy. Metal-air batteries have a relatively high energy density
because the cathode of a metal-air battery utilizes oxygen from ambient air
as a reactant in the electrochemical reaction rather than a heavier material
such as a metal or metallic composition. This results in a relatively lightweight
battery.Both primary and secondary metal-air batteries have been
developed. A rechargeable metal-air battery is recharged by applying
voltage between the anode and cathode of the metal-air battery cell and
reversing the electrochemical reaction. Oxygen is discharged to the
atmosphere through the air permeable cathode.Metal-air battery cells are often arranged in multiple cell battery
packs to provide a sufficient amount of power output. In addition, it is
often necessary to expose the air cathodes of the cells to a continuous flow
of air at a flow rate sufficient to achieve the desired power output. Such an
arrangement is shown in Cheiky US Patent 4,913,983 wherein a fan is used to supply
a flow of air to a pack of metal-air battery cells. One problem with metal-air batteries is that the ambient humidity can
cause the metal-air battery to fail. Equilibrium vapor pressure of the metal-air
battery results in an equilibrium relative humidity that is typically about
40 percent. If ambient humidity is greater than the equilibrium relative
humidity value for the metal-air battery, the metal-air battery will absorb
water from the air through the cathode and fail due to a condition called
flooding. Flooding may cause the battery to burst. If the ambient humidity
is less than the equilibrium relative humidity value for the metal-air battery,
the metal-air battery will release water vapor from the electrolyte through the
air cathode and fail due to drying out. In most environments where a metal-air
battery is used, failure occurs from drying out.In electrochemical cells and in oxygen depolarized cells in particular,
heat is generated at the cathode, anode, and electrolyte as ohmic losses and
electrode polarization
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus comprising a metal-air battery cell having an air cathode
and a metal anode, and an air manager system for the cell, the apparatus comprising:


means for directing a first flow of air through a reactive air plenum adjacent to
the air cathode to provide reactant air to the air cathode;
means for directing a second flow of air through a cooling air passageway
adjacent to a portion of the cell isolated from the air cathode to provide cooling of the

cell; and
a heat-exchanging material between the reactive air plenum and the cooling air
passageway.
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for selectively
enclosing the air cathode to terminate discharge of the cell without interrupting the

second air flow for cooling.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the portion of the battery cell isolated
from the air cathode is a portion of the cell adjacent to the anode of the cell.
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first flow of air crosses the cell in a
first direction, and wherein the second flow crosses the cell in a direction generally

transverse to the first direction.
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the anode is separated from the cooling
second air flow by a highly heat conductive material.
The apparatus of claim 1, comprising
a pair of battery cells, wherein the cells are positioned with

the cathode side of one cell facing the anode side of the other cell.
The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a housing positioned between

the cells with the cathode side of one cell adjacent to a first side of the housing and
the anode side of the other cell adjacent to a second side of the housing; the heat

exchanging material dividing the housing into two chambers, a reactant air chamber in
communication with the cathode side of the one cell, and a cooling air chamber in

communication with the anode side of the other cell; the chambers each defining entry
and exit openings for air flow therethrough. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the housing includes a first pair of
frame members supporting opposite edges of the partition and defining a plurality of

entry and exit openings on one side of the partition, and a second pair of frame
members supporting opposite edges of the partition not supported by the first pair of

frame members, and defining a plurality of entry and exit openings on the other side
of the partition.
The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a plurality of load bearing
spacers positioned on both sides of the partition.
The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising means for recirculating a
reactant air flow through the reactive air plenums independent of the cooling air

flows.
The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the battery pack includes two groups
of the cells, and wherein the means for recirculating the reactant air flow comprises

means for repeatedly in sequence directing the reactant air flow through the reactive
air plenums of the first group of cells, and then through the reactive air plenums of

the second group of cells.
The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising heat-exchange means for
cooling the recirculating reactant air flow.
The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising means for admitting fresh
air into the recirculating reactant an air flow.
The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising means for humidifying the
recirculating reactant air flow.
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:

a housing in which the cell is positioned;
means for exhausting the reactant air flow from the cell;
means for exhausting the cooling air flow from the housing;
a reactant an air inlet and a cooling an air inlet, the reactant air inlet being separate
from the cooling air inlet and being isolated from the exhausted cooling air flow.
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the means for directing the reactant
and cooling air flows comprise a barrier defining the reactant an air inlet and the cooling

air inlet. 
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the barrier further comprises means
for selectively closing and opening the reactant air inlet.
The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the means for exhausting the reactant
air flow includes at least one reactant air exhaust opening in the barrier through which

the reactant air flow passes in leaving the cell, and wherein the means for exhausting
the cooling air flow includes at least one cooling air exhaust opening through which

the cooling air flow passes in leaving the cell, the exhaust openings being separate
from each other and from the inlet openings.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the barrier further comprises means
for selectively closing and opening the reactant air inlet and exhaust openings.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the means for selectively closing and
opening comprises a baffle slidably positioned adjacent to the barrier, the baffle being

movable between a first position in which baffle openings defined in the baffle
communicate with the reactant air inlet and the reactant air exhaust opening, and a

second position in which the baffle blocks the reactant air inlet and the reactant air
exhaust opening.
The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the baffle further defines baffle
cooling openings which communicate with the cooling air inlet and cooling air exhaust

opening in both positions of the baffle.
The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the means for directing the reactant
air and cooling air flows includes a fan and a duct connecting the fan with the reactant

air and cooling air inlets of the barrier.
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:

a housing divided into a battery section and a fan section by a barrier, the cell
being located in the battery section of the housing adjacent to the barrier;
at least one reactant air inlet defined in the barrier and positioned to
communicate with the reactant air plenum adjacent to the air cathode;
at least one reactant air exhaust opening defined in the barrier and positioned to
communicate with the reactant air plenum;
at least one cooling air inlet defined in the barrier and positioned to
communicate with the cooling air passageway adjacent to a portion of the cell isolated

from the air cathode; 
at least one cooling air exhaust opening defined in the barrier and positioned to
communicate with the cooling air passageway;
the reactant air inlet and exhaust opening and the cooling air inlet and exhaust
opening each being a separate channel through the barrier;
a duct positioned in the fan section of the housing and joining the barrier at
one end of the duct so as to surround the reactant air and cooling air inlets and to

isolate such inlets from the reactant air and cooling air exhaust openings; and
a fan positioned to direct air from outside the housing along the duct toward
the barrier, through the inlets and out of the respective exhaust openings.
The apparatus of claim 23, further comprising means for
selectively opening and closing the reactant air inlet and reactant air exhaust opening.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
