<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0990141</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DISTANCE MEASUREMENTS WITH SOLID-STATE NMR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2400	G01N2408	G01N33483	G01N33483	G01R3332	G01R3332	G01R3344	G01R3346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N24	G01N24	G01N33	G01N33	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention includes methods for analyzing data generated by various solid-state NMR experiments, including rotational echo double resonance (REDOR), transferred echo double resonance (TEDOR), dipolar recoupling at the magic angle (DRAMA), dipolar recoupling with a windowless sequence (DRAWS), and melding of spin-locking and DRAMA (MELODRAMA). The methods are based alternately on a new analytical transform or the maximum entropy method and their multidimensional extensions. They permit simultaneous, multiple distance measurements of high accuracy and precision, even from nuclei with identical chemical shifts. By providing high quality easily obtained distance measurement from disordered solid state materials, this invention also improves drug discovery and design through fast determination of structures of pharmaceutical lead compounds, drug molecules, or their targets.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CURAGEN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CURAGEN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADER JOEL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARVIE THOMAS P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WENT GREGORY T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADER, JOEL, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARVIE, THOMAS, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WENT, GREGORY, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DISTANCE MEASUREMENTS WITH SOLID-STATE NMRA portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent disclosure, as it appears m the Patent and Trademark Office patent files and records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.This invention was made with United States Government support under award number 70NANB5H1066 awarded by the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.1. FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe field of the invention is the analysis of data generated by nuclear magnetic resonance ("NMR") spectroscopic measurements of molecules to produce data relating to mternuclear separations within the molecule. The invention has particular application to guick and accurate determinations of molecular structure in the field of drug design by use of the new NMR and signal processing techniques.2. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe search for new and better drugs motivates the need for faster and more accurate methods of molecular structure determination. Pharmaceutical companies need to discover and commercialize new pharmaceuticals quickly and efficiently.While the need for new drugs has increased in recent years, the productivity of drug discovery and development has not markedly improved. Despite a more that ten-fold increase in research and development spending by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries between 1976 and 1994, the number of new molecules approved by the FDA for pharmaceutical use remained relatively constant in the range of 12-30 per year 

throughout this period. The time spent on discovery, development, and commercialization of new pharmaceutical molecules has remained constant at 10-12 years per drug. There is a need to shorten the time and reduce the cost of drug discovery.To understand better the problems in the drug discovery, consider the current state of the art. Evidence from molecular biology points to the interaction of proteins with their targets as a fundamental biological mechanism underlying the normal state and numerous diseased states. For example, artheriosclerosis (the principal cause of heart attack and stroke) and cancer, responsible for greater than 50% of the mortality in the U.S., are triggered by the disordering of specific protein-protein recognition events. Early approaches to drug design depended on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for determining one or more distances in a sample comprising one or more molecules, said one or more molecules comprising one or more pairs of sites, each said pair of sites comprising a first site and a second site, each said distance being between said first and said second site, said method comprising:
(a) generating NMR time-domain data from NMR active nuclei, wherein each pair of said one or more pairs of sites has said first site occupied by a first NMR active nucleus and has said second site occupied by a second NMR active nucleus, wherein said first NMR active nucleus is observed in said generating step, and said first and second NMR active nuclei have a dipolar coupling characterized by a dipolar coupling frequency responsive to the distance between said first and second sites, and said time-domain data is responsive along at least one first time dimension to said dipolar coupling of each said one or more pairs; and (b) analyzing said NMR time-domain data to obtain spectral-domain data identifying said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies characterizing said dipolar couplings between said first and said second nucleus in said one or more pairs of sites, said analyzing comprising applying a maximum entropy transform to said time-domain data along said first time dimension.
2. The method according to claim l wherein one or more of said one or more molecules is a peptide.
3. The method according to claim 1 wherein one or more of said one or more molecules is bound to one or more target compounds.
4. The method according to claim 1 wherein said one or more pairs of siteε are a plurality of pairs of sites and 



 said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies are a plurality of dipolar coupling frequencies.
5. The method according to claim 1 further comprising prior to said generating step a step of labeling each of said one or more pairs of sites with said NMR active nuclei, whereby each said pair of sites becomes occupied by said first and said second NMR active nuclei.
6. The method according to claim 1 wherein said second NMR active nucleus has a chemical shift and said generating step generates NMR time-domain data further responsive along at least one second time dimension to said chemical shift of said second NMR active nuclei at said second site of said one or more pairs of sites, and wherein said analyzing step further identifies, for each of said dipolar coupling freguency, said one or more chemical shifts of each said second NMR active nucleus with that dipolar coupling frequency.
7. The method according to claim 1 wherein one or more pairs of said pairs of sites has said first and said second NMR active nuclei of the same isotopic type.
8. A method for determining one or more distances in a sample comprising one or more molecules, said one or more molecules comprising one or more pairs of sites, each said pair of sites comprising a first site and a second site, each said distance being between said first and said second site, said method comprising:
(a) binding one or more of said one or more molecules to one or more target compounds;
(b) generating NMR time-domain data from NMR active nuclei, wherein each pair of said one or more pairs of sites has said first site occupied by a first NMR active nucleus and has said second site occupied by a second NMR active nucleus, wherein said first NMR active nucleus is observed in 


said generating step, and said first and second NMR active nuclei have a dipolar coupling characterized by a dipolar coupling frequency responsive to the distance between said first and second sites, and said time-domain data being is responsive along at least one first time dimension to said dipolar coupling of each said one or more pairs; and
(c) analyzing said NMR time-domain data to obtain spectral-domain data identifying said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies characterizing said dipolar couplings between said first and said second nucleus in said one or more pairs of sites, said analyzing comprising applying a REDOR transform to said time-domain data along said first time dimension.
9. A method for determining one or more distances in a sample comprising one or more peptides, said one or more peptides comprising one or more pairs of sites, each said pair of sites comprising a first site and a second site, each said distance being between said first and said second site, said method comprising:
(a) generating NMR time-domain data from NMR active nuclei, wherein each pair of said one or more pairs of sites has said first site occupied by a first NMR active nucleus and has said second site occupied by a second NMR active nucleus, wherein said first NMR active nucleus is observed in said generating step, and aid first and second NMR active nuclei have a dipolar coupling characterized by a dipolar coupling frequency responsive to the distance between said first and second sites, and said time-domain data being is responsive along at least one first time dimension to said dipolar coupling of each said one or more pairs; and
(b) analyzing said NMR time-domain data to obtain spectral-domain data identifying said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies characterizing said dipolar couplings between said first and said second nucleus in said one or more pairs of sites, said analyzing comprising applying a 


 O 97/43627
REDOR transform to said time-domain data along said first time dimension.
10. The method according to claim 9 wherein said one or more pairs of sites are a plurality of pairs of sites and said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies are a plurality of dipolar coupling frequencies.
11. A method for determining a plurality of distances in a sample comprising one or more molecules, said one or more molecules comprising a plurality of pairs of sites, each said pair of sites comprising a first site and a second site, each said distance being between said first and said second site, said method comprising: (a) generating NMR time-domain data from NMR active nuclei, wherein each pair of said one or more pairs of sites has said first site occupied by a first NMR active nucleus and has said second site occupied by a second NMR active nucleus, wherein said first NMR active nucleus is observed in said generating step, and said first and second NMR active nuclei have a dipolar coupling characterized by a dipolar coupling frequency responsive to the distance between said first and second sites, and said time-domain data is responsive along at least one first time dimension to said dipolar coupling of each said one or more pairs; and
(b) analyzing said NMR time-domain data to obtain spectral-domain data identifying said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies characterizing said dipolar couplings between said first and said second nucleus in said one or more pairs of sites, said analyzing comprising applying a REDOR transform to said time-domain data along said first time dimension.
12. The method according to claim 11 wherein one or more of said one or more molecules is a peptide. 


 13. The method according to claim 11 further comprising prior to said generating step a step of labeling each of said plurality of pairs of sites with said NMR active nuclei, whereby each said pair of sites becomes occupied by said first and said second NMR active nuclei.
14. A method for determining one or more distances in a sample comprising one or more molecules, said one or more molecules comprising one or more pairs of sites, each said pair of sites comprising a first site and a second site, each said distance being between said first and said second site, said method comprising:
(a) generating NMR time-domain data from NMR active nuclei, wherein each pair of said one or more pairs of sites has said first site occupied by a first NMR active nucleus and has said second site occupied by a second NMR active nucleus, wherein said first NMR active nucleus is observed in said generating step and has a chemical shift, and said first and second NMR active nuclei form a pair of NMR active nuclei and have a dipolar coupling characterized by a dipolar coupling frequency responsive to the distance between said first and second sites, and said time-domain data is responsive along at least one first time dimension to said dipolar coupling of each said one or more pairs and is responsive along at least one second time dimension to said chemical shift of said first nucleus at said first sites of each said one or more pairs; and
(b) analyzing said NMR time-domain data to obtain spectral-domain data identifying said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies characterizing said dipolar couplings between said first and said second nucleus in said one or more pairs of sites, and identifying for each said dipolar coupling frequency the chemical shift of each said first nucleus with that dipolar coupling frequency, said analyzing comprising applying a dipolar-dephasing spectral transform to said time-domain data along said first time dimension and 


 along other time dimensions as are responsive to said one or more dipolar couplings.
15. The method according to claim 14 wherein said analyzing further comprises applying a Fourier transform to said time-domain data along said second time dimension and along other time dimensions as are responsive to said one or more chemical shifts.
16. The method according to claim 14 wherein said NMR time-domain data has one time dimension responsive to said one or more dipolar couplings and one time dimension responsive to said one or more chemical shifts.
17. The method according to claim 14 wherein said NMR time-domain data has a plurality of time dimensions responsive to said one or more dipolar couplings.
18. The method according to claim 14 wherein said dipolar-dephasing spectral transform is a maximum entropy transform or a REDOR transform.
19. The method according to claim 14 wherein one or more of said one or more molecules is a peptide.
20. The method according to claim 19 wherein one or more of said one or more peptides is bound to one or more target compounds.
21. The method according to claim 14 wherein one or more of said one or more molecules is bound to one or more target compounds.
22. The method according to claim 14 where said one or more molecules comprises a first molecule and a second molecule, and wherein one or more of said one or pairs of 


sites have said first site in said first molecule and said second site in said second molecule.
23. The method according to claim 14 wherein said one or more pairs of sites is a plurality of pairs of sites and said one or more dipolar couplings is a plurality of dipolar couplings.
24. The method according to claim 14 wherein said NMR active nuclei are selected from the group consisting of 
13
C,
15
N, 
31
P and 
19
F.
25. The method according to claim 14 wherein one or more pairs of said pairs of sites has said first and said second NMR active nuclei of the same isotopic type.
26. The method according to claim 14 further comprising prior to said generating step a step of labeling each of said one or more pairs of siteε with said NMR active nuclei, whereby each said pair of sites becomes occupied by said first and said second NMR active nuclei.
27. The method according to claim 26 further comprising after said labeling step a step of mixing a plurality of labeled molecules in order to form said sample.
28. The method according to claim 14 further comprising a final step of displaying said spectral domain data as an arrangement of at least two dimensions with numerical values of said dipolar couplings along a first dimension and numerical values of said chemical shifts along a second dimension.
29. The method according to claim 14 further comprising a step of generating a second set of NMR time-domain data wherein said second NMR active nuclei is observed in said generating step and has a chemical shift, and a step of 


 analyzing said second set of NMR time-domain data to obtain a second set of spectral-domain data from said second NMR active nuclei, said second set of spectral-domain data identifying said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies characterizing said dipolar couplings between said first and said second nuclei in said one or more pairs of sites, and identifying for each said dipolar coupling frequency the one or more chemical shifts of said second NMR active nuclei with that dipolar coupling frequency.
30. The method according to claim 29 further comprising a step after said step of analyzing said second set of NMR time-domain data, of correlating said spectral-domain data from said first NMR active nuclei and said second set of spectral-domain data from said second NMR active nuclei, wherein said correlating comprises correlating spectral- domain data with the same dipolar coupling frequencies, such that said chemical shifts of said first nuclei are correlated with said chemical shifts of said second nuclei dipolar coupled to said first nuclei.
31. The method according to claim 14 wherein said second NMR active nuclei at said second site of each said one or more pairs of sites has a chemical shift, wherein said generating step generates NMR time-domain data further responsive along at least one third time dimension to said chemical shift of said second NMR active nuclei at second sites of each of said one or more pairs of sites, and wherein said analyzing step further identifies for each said dipolar coupling frequency the one or more chemical shifts of said second nuclei with that dipolar coupling frequency.
32. The method according to claim 31 wherein said NMR time-domain data has three or more time dimensions responsive to said one or more chemical shifts of said NMR active nuclei. 


 33. The method according to claim 31 further comprising the step after said analyzing step of displaying said spectral domain data as a three-dimensional perspective arrangement with the numerical values of said dipolar couplings along a first dimension, the numerical values of said chemical shifts of each said observed nucleus along a second dimension, and the numerical values of said chemical shifts of each said other nucleus along a third dimension.
34. The method according to claim 14 wherein said generating step further comprises the step of spinning said sample at the magic angle and the step of applying a sequence of zero or more radio-frequency ("RF") pulses in frequency channels of said NMR active nuclei, said sequence of RF pulses generating a magnetization on said first NMR active nucleus at said first sites, said magnetization being observed as a free induction decay ("FID") signal in order to generate said NMR time-domain data.
35. The method according to claim 34 where the step of applying said sequence of RF pulses further comprises applying a first RF pulse sub-sequence for a first time interval and applying a second RF pulse sub-seguence, said first RF pulse sub-sequence for each said pair of NMR active nuclei introducing an amount of dipole coupling to said magnetization responsive to said first time interval, and said second RF pulse sub-εequence generating εaid FID signal measurable in a second time interval, wherein said FID signal is responsive to both said amount of dipole coupling interaction introduced by said first RF pulse sub-sequence and said chemical shift of each said first NMR active nucleus, and wherein said first and said second time intervals can vary independently.
36. The method according to claim 35 wherein said at least one time dimension along which said NMR time-domain data is responsive to said plurality of dipolar couplings 


results from variations of said first time-interval and said at least one time dimension along which said NMR time-domain data is responsive to said one or more chemical shifts of said observed nucleus results from variations in said second time-interval.
37. The method according to claim 35 wherein said first RF pulse sub-sequence is a REDOR pulse sequence, said REDOR pulse sub-sequence being applied in a first and a second form, said first form having no pulses in said frequency channel of said second NMR active nucleus at said second sites and said second form applying pulses in said frequency channel of said second NMR active nucleus at said second sites.
38. The method according to claim 35 wherein said first RF pulse sub-sequence introduces an amount of dipole coupling to said magnetization which is responsive to said first time interval with the same form of responsiveness as for a REDOR pulse sequence.
39. The method according to claim 35 wherein said first RF pulse sub-sequence is a TEDOR pulse sequence, said TEDOR pulse sub-sequence having a first sub-first-time-interval and a second sub-first time interval and applying in said first sub-first-time-interval pulses to said frequency channel of said first nuclei at said first sites and applying in said second sub-first-time-interval pulses to said frequency channel of said second nuclei at said second sites.
40. The method according to claim 39 wherein said TEDOR pulse sequence is a symmetric TEDOR pulse sequence in which said first time interval varies by simultaneous increments made in both said first sub-first-time-interval and in said second sub-first-time-interval.
- Ill 


 41. The method according to claim 35 wherein said first and said second nuclei at one or more of said pairs of sites are of the same isotopic type, and wherein said first RF pulse sub-sequence is a homonuclear DRAMA pulse sequence.
42. The method according to claims 31 and 35 wherein the step of applying said sequence of RF pulses further comprises applying a third RF pulse sub-sequence for a third time interval, said third RF pulse sequence introducing to said magnetization an amount of said chemical shift interaction of said second nuclei at said second sites responsive to said third time interval, wherein said FID signal is further responsive to said amount of chemical shift interaction of said second nuclei at εaid second sites, and wherein said third time interval can vary independently of said first and said second time-intervals.
43. The method according to claim 42 wherein εaid at least one third time dimension along which said NMR time- domain data is responsive to said one or more chemical shifts of said second nuclei at said second sites results from variations in said third time-interval.
44. The method according to claim 42 wherein said third RF pulse sub-sequence further comprises pulses transferring said magnetization to each said second NMR active nuclei for said third time interval and allowing said magnetization to interact with said chemical shift of said second NMR active nuclei at said second site of said one or more pairs of sites..
45. A method for determining predicted spectral-domain data values from experimental NMR time-domain data values from a sample according to a maximum entropy transform, said time-domain data valueε having at least one dimension of time variation responεive to one or more dipolar couplings between 


one or more pairs of NMR active nuclei in said sample, said method comprising:
(a) selecting default spectral-domain data values as M coefficients of basis functions for a quadrature technique; (b) determining a value for a regularization parameter ; and
(c) determining said predicted spectral-domain data values as M coefficients of basis functions for said quadrature technique as those values maximizing the expression aE-χ / 2 , wherein E is the entropy of said predicted spectral-domain data values with respect to said default spectral-domain data values, and wherein χ
2
 measures the difference normalized by experimental error estimates between said time-domain data values and time-domain data values determined from said predicted spectral-domain data.
46. The method according to claim 45 wherein time- domain values are determined from spectral-domain values according to a prespecified method.
47. The method according to claim 45 wherein said spectral-domain is a dipolar coupling frequency domain or an internuclear distance domain.
48. The method according to claim 45 wherein said time- domain data values are as determined directly from an NMR experiment.
49. The method according to claim 45 wherein said M is greater than 150.
50. The method according to claim 45 wherein said basis functions for said quadrature technique are delta-functions with peaks at spaced points in said spectral-domain, whereby said quadrature technique represents functions at a grid of said spaced points. 


 51. The method according to claim 45 wherein said entropy E is given by the equation
) ln[Λf(v) //n(v) ]) (37) 


as evaluated by said quadrature technique at said grid of points, and wherein M() is said predicted spectral-domain data values and m() is said default spectral-domain data values.
52. The method according to claim 45 wherein said measure χ
2
 is given by the equation
wherein N+l is the number of said time-domain data values, S
λ
 are said time-domain data values, s
'
. are said predicted time- domain data values, and σ
l
 are said experimental error estimates of said time-domain data values.
53. The method according to claim 45 wherein εaid regularization parameter α is given by the solution to the equation 
M
 α = l -l / 2E) ∑ λ
J
/ ( a + λ
j
 ) ,
3 °0
wherein the values λ
3
 are eigenvalues of the (M+1)X(M+1) matrix, C , given by the equation
54. The method according to claim 45 wherein the step of determining said spectral domain values by maximizing further comprises maximizing according to the Davidon- 


 Fletcher-Powell method or the Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb- Shanno method.
55. The method according to claim 45 wherein the step of determining a value for said regularization parameter determines the value 1.
56. The method according to claim 45 wherein the step of determining a value for said regularization parameter determines the most probable value for said regularization parameter.
57. The method according to claim 56 wherein the step of determining a most probable value for said regularization parameter further comprises the steps:
(a) setting a current value for said regularization parameter, α, to an initial value;
(b) determining intermediate spectral-doma n data values at said grid of points as those values maximizing the expression aE-χ
2
/2 , wherein α is said current value of said regularization parameter;
(c) determining the values λ
j
 to be eigenvalues of the (M+l)X(M+l) matrix, C, given by the equation
°^ 
=
 ^^ ^
χ2/2
as evaluated using said intermediate spectral-domain data values;
(d) determining a new value, α', of said regularization parameter by solving the equation
' - 1 /2E) ∑ k
j
/ l a + λ
j
) ; j-σ
and
(e) setting said current value of said regularization parameter to be said new value of said regularization 


parameter and repeating said determining steps until said new value of said regularization parameter satisfies a convergence criterion responsive to said current value.
58. The method according to claim 45 further comprising before the step of determining said predicted spectral-domain data the step of determining an optimized value for a scaling parameter, γ„, for said experimental error estimates.
59. The method according to claim 58 wherein the step of determining said optimized value for said scaling parameter, y
a
 , and the step of determining said most probable value for said regularization parameter, , further comprise determining said γ
0
 and said α as the solution of the two equations
α = l -l /2E) ∑ 
„
λj
and
wherein N+l is the number of said time-domain data values and the values λ, are eigenvalues of the (M+1)X(M+1) matrix, C, given by the equation
60. The method according to claim 58 wherein if said scaling parameter y
c
 is determined to be such that 0.3 
<
 y„ 
<
 3, then said experimental error estimates are reliable. 


 61. The method according to claim 58 wherein if said scaling parameter γ„ is determined to be such that 9 
<
 y
0
 or y
a
 
<
 0.1, then said experimental error estimateε are unreliable.
62. A method of analyzing NMR time-domain data values according to a REDOR transform, εaid time-domain data values being generated from a sample and having two or more dimensions of time variation, at least one of said dimensions being responsive to one or more dipolar couplings between one or more pairs of NMR active nuclei in εaid sample, said time- domain data values being determinable from spectral-domain data characterizing said dipole couplings by the technique of evaluating the equation
Sit) =-[~dDKlt,D)M(D) , Jo
wherein M(D) are said spectral-domain data valueε, S(t) are said time-domain data values, and K(t,D) is given by the equation
K t.D) =— —J
1/4
 W2Dt)J_
ιn
 l 2Dt) , 2 2
said method comprising evaluating the equation
according to a quadrature technique at said time-domain data values and wherein k(t,D) is given by the equation k(t,D) --- (Dt)
2
J_s (Dt)J__ι (Dt) -(Dt) (J__ι (Dt) )
2
4 4 4
+ (Dt) (J_ι (Dt) )
2
+ (Dt)
2
J
,
 (Dt)J_ι (Dt)
4 4 4
+ (Dt)
2
J__ι (Dt)J_3 (Dt) - (Dt)
2
J (Dt)J_5 (Dt) .
4 4 4 4 


in order to determine predicted spectral-domain data values, M(D) , from said time-domain data values.
63. The method according to claim 62 wherein said one or more pairs of NMR active nuclei are introduced into said sample by labeling and further comprising before the step of evaluating the step of correcting said time-domain data values to eliminate the effect said NMR active nuclei present in said sample without said labeling and at their natural abundance.
64. The method according to claim 62 further comprising before the step of evaluating the step of smoothing said time-domain data values to eliminate artifacts in said predicted spectral-domain data values due to noise in said time-domain data values.
65. The method according to claim 64 wherein said smoothing is performed according to a smoothing function selected from the group of a 3 point Blackman-Harris function, an exponential line broadening function, a Hamming window function, and a Kaiser window function.
66. The method according to claim 62 wherein said NMR time-domain data points are generated by applying a radio- frequency ("RF") pulse sequence to the frequency channels of said NMR active nuclei, wherein said RF pulse sequence includes a REDOR pulse sequence as a sub-sequence, and wherein said time-domain data values are REDOR time-domain data values of the form S(t)/S
a
(t) .
67. The method according to claim 62 wherein said NMR time-domain data points are generated by applying a radio- frequency ("RF") pulse sequence to the frequency channels of said NMR active nuclei, and wherein said RF pulεe sequence includes a symmetric TEDOR pulse sequence as a sub-sequence. 


 68. An apparatus for finding predicted spectral-domain data values, M() , from experimental NMR time-domain data values from a sample according to a maximum entropy transform, said time-domain data values having at least one dimension of time variation responsive to one or more dipolar couplings between one or more pairs of NMR active nuclei in said sample, said apparatus comprising:
(a) means for selecting default spectral-domain data values, m() , as M coefficients of basis functions for a quadrature technique in said spectral domain;
(b) means for determining a value for a regularization parameter a ; and
(c) means for determining said predicted spectral- domain data values as M coefficients of basis functions for said quadrature technique as those values maximizing the expression αE-χ
2
/2 according to the Davidon-Fletcher-Powell method, (i) wherein E is the entropy of said predicted spectral-domain data values with respect to said default spectral-domain data values and is given by the equation
E = f 
°°
 dv (Λf(v) -/π(v) -M( v ) ln[M(v) /m x ) ) } (50)
J o
as evaluated by a quadrature technique at said grid of points, and (ii) wherein χ
2
 measures the difference normalized t
>
y experimental error estimates, σ
l t
 between said time-domain data values, S , and time-domain data values, S
'
Λ
, determined from said predicted spectral-domain data values, M() , according to a specified technique and is given by the equation
χ
2
 =∑ l S
1
 -s
1
'
 ) 
2
/σ
2
 ,
1 *0
wherein N+l is the number of said time-domain data values . 


 69. The apparatus according to claim 68 wherein the means for determining a most probable value for said regularization parameter further comprises:
(a) means for setting a current value for said regularization parameter, a , to an initial value;
(b) means for determining intermediate spectral-domain data values at said grid of points as those values maximizing the expression αE-χ
2
/2, wherein α is said current value of said regularization parameter; (c) means for determining according to the Jacobi method the values λ^ to be eigenvalues of the (M+1)X(M+1) matrix, C, given by the equation
-k dM
<
 dM
as evaluated using said intermediate spectral-domain data values;
(d) means for determining a new value, a ' , of said regularization parameter by solving the equation
M a' = l - l / 2E) ∑ λ
j
/ l a + k
j
 ) ;
and (e) means for setting said current value of said regularization parameter to be said new value of said regularization parameter and repeating said determining steps until said new value of said regularization parameter satisfies a convergence criterion responsive to said current value.
70. The apparatus according to claim 68 wherein the means for determining a most probable value for said regularization parameter, α, further comprises means for determining an optimized value for a scaling parameter, y
g
 , and wherein said regularization parameter, α, and said 


scaling parameter, y
a
 , and are determined by the solution of the two equations
a = l -l/2E) ∑ 
J
7
.o Y
o
α + 
j
-
and
wherein N+l is the number of said time-domain data values and the values λ are eigenvalues of the (M+1)X(M+1) matrix, C, given by the equation
71. An apparatus for analyzing NMR time-domain data values according to a REDOR transform to determine predicted spectral-domain values, said apparatus comprising:
(a) means for generating said time-domain data values from a sample, wherein said time-domain data values have two or more di ensionε of time variation, at leaεt one of εaid dimensions being responsive to one or more dipolar couplings between one or more pairs of NMR active nuclei in said sample, and wherein said time-domain data values are determinable from spectral-domain data characterizing said dipole couplings by the technigue of evaluating the equation
wherein M(D) are said spectral-domain data values, S(t) are said time-domain data values, and K(t,D) is given by the equation 


 K( t , D) =-2- J 
t
 ly/ZDt) J_
l/t
 ( /∑Dt) ;
2 y 2
and
(b) means for evaluating the equation
M D) = [
' 
"
dtk ( t , D) S( t) J o
according to a quadrature technique at said time-domain data values, and k(t,D) is given by the equation k l t . D) = - {Dt) 
2
J_ 
1
 (Dt) J__ι (Dt) -(Dt) (J__ι (Dt) )
2
4 4 4
<
■
 (Dt) (J_ι (Dt) )
2
+ (Dt)
2
J.
2
 (Dt) 3 ι (Dt)
4 4 4
-r (Dt) 
2
J._ι (Dt) J^ (Dt) - (Dt)
2
J_ι (Dt) J^ (Dt) . 4 4 
"
4 4
72. The apparatus according to claim 71 wherein said means for generating further comprises means for applying a radio-frequency ("RF") pulse sequence to the frequency channels of said NMR active nuclei, wherein said RF pulse sequence includes a REDOR pulse sequence as a sub-sequence, and wherein said time-domain data values are REDOR time- domain data values of the form S(t)/S
0
(t).
73. The apparatus according to claim 71 wherein said means for generating further comprises means for applying a radio-frequency ("RF") pulse sequence to the frequency channels of said NMR active nuclei wherein said RF pulse sequence includes a symmetric TEDOR pulse sequence as a sub¬ sequence.
74. A method for determining one or more distances in a sample comprising one or more peptides said one or more peptides comprising one or more pairs of sites, each said pair of sites comprising a first site and a second site, each 


said distance being between said first and said second site, said method comprising:
(a) labeling each of said one or more pairs of sites with said NMR active nuclei, whereby each said pair of sites becomes occupied by said first and said second NMR active nuclei;
(b) generating NMR time-domain data from NMR active nuclei, wherein each pair of said one or more pairs of sites has said first site occupied by a first NMR active nucleus and has said second site occupied by a second NMR active nucleus, wherein said first NMR active nucleus is observed in said generating step and has a chemical shift, said first and second NMR active nuclei have a dipolar coupling characterized by a dipolar coupling frequency responsive to the distance between said first and second sites, and said time-domain data is responsive along at least one first time dimension to said dipolar coupling of each said one or more site and is responsive along at least one second time dimension to said chemical shift of said first nucleus at said first sites of each said one or more sites; and
(c) analyzing said NMR time-domain data to obtain spectral-domain data identifying said one or more dipolar coupling frequencies characterizing said dipolar couplings between said first and said second nucleus in said one or more pairs of sites, and identifying for each said dipolar coupling frequency the one or more chemical shifts of each said first nucleus with that dipolar coupling frequency, said analyzing comprising applying a dipolar-dephasing spectral transform to said time-domain data along said first time dimension and along other time dimensions as are responsive to said one or more dipolar couplings.
75. The method according to claim 74 wherein said step of labeling further compriseε synthesizing said one or more peptides from amino acids labeled with said NMR active nuclei. 


 76. The method according to claim 75 wherein said synthesizing is performed on a synthesis resin, said peptides being synthesized attached to sites on said synthesis resin.
77. The method according to claim 75 wherein said synthesizing is performed according to tBOC or FMOC chemistry protocols.
78. The method according to claim 74 wherein one or more of said one or more peptides bind to one or more target proteins.
79. The method according to claim 78 further comprising after said labeling step a step of binding said one or more of said one or more peptides that bind to one or more target proteins to said one or more target proteins.
80. The method according to claim 78 further comprising prior to said binding step a step of synthesizing said one or more target proteins from one or more cDNAs codeing for said target proteins.
81. The method according to claim 80 wherein said synthesizing of said one or more target proteins comprises expressing said one or more target proteins in the Pichia Pastoris expression system or in E. coli as glutathione-S- transferase fusion proteins.
82. The method according to claim 74 wherein said step of labeling further comprises selecting said one or more pairs of sites to minimize dipolar couplings between NMR active nuclei occupying said first and said second sites in different pairs of sites.
83. The method according to claim 74 wherein said one or more of said one or more peptides have regions of particular structural interest and said one or more pairs of 


sites are selected in the vicinity of said region of particular interest.
84. The method according to claim 74 wherein said step of labeling further comprises labeling according to backbone labeling or according to side chain labeling.
85. The method according to claim 74 wherein said sample contains said one or more labeled peptides in a concentration minimizing the strength of intermolecular dipole coupling between said NMR active nuclei to less than 5% of the strength of said intramolecular dipole couplings between said one or more pairs of NMR active nuclei at said one or more pairs of sites.
86. A computer readable medium containing instructions for performing the method of claim 45.
87. A computer readable medium containing instructions for performing the method of claim 62. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
