<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656120</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MONITORING METHODS AND TEST KITS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3352	G01N3350	G01N33487	G01N3374	A61B1000	G01N3374	G01N3350	G01N33493	A61B1000	G01N3352	G01N3376	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01N	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	A61B10	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	A61B10	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of monitoring the status of a current ovulation cycle of an individual human female subject, involving testing of the body fluid concentration of an analyte of significance in relation to the status of the ovulation cycle, such as urinary E3G, during at least part of the pre-ovulation phase of the current ovulation cycle of the individual subject, and identification from the results of such testing of an analyte concentration change indicative of imminent ovulation, relative to an analyte concentration reference value that has been adapted to the individual human subject on the basis of analyte concentration test data obtained from the individual human subject during one or more previous ovulation cycles. Preferably testing for said analyte concentration during the current ovulation cycle is commenced a plurality of days (preferably at least 5) following the onset of menses but at least 2 numerical days in advance of the earliest numerical day on which actual ovulation has occurred in one or more previous ovulation cycles in the same individual subject.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIPATH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIPATH LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLEY JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS PAUL JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATT, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLEY, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS, PAUL, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods and test kits for 
use in monitoring the ovulation cycle in female mammals, 
especially humans. The invention is particularly, although not solely, 
concerned with the provision of reliable information 
concerning fertility status as an aid to contraception, by 
the use of simple practical procedures that can readily be 
applied by unskilled persons, e.g. in the home. Throughout this specification, the expression "fertile 
phase" is used to mean that interval in a female menstrual 
cycle, spanning the event of ovulation, during which it is 
most likely that intercourse will result in fertilization, 
because of the normal viability of spermatozoa and ova. To provide reliable information conerning fertility 
status, the user must be given adequate warning of the 
onset of the fertile phase in the cycle. In general the 
proposed techniques rely on the monitoring of one or more 
parameters which alter as the event of ovulation 
approaches. Typical parameters which have been invoked are 
the concentration of a body fluid analyte, such as 
estradiol and metabolites thereof, for example estrone-3-glucuronide 
(E3G). Other parameters that have been used 
are basal body temperature and various physiological 
changes such as the characteristics of vaginal mucous. Many excellent academic studies have been carried out 
using such parameters. Such studies have established how 
these parameters can be correlated with the fertility 
status of an average member of a large population sample. However, when attempting to develop a practical 
monitoring system suitable for use by individuals, it is  
 
found that many individual subjects do not conform to the 
average in terms of cycle length and/or the duration and 
timing of the fertile phase. The extent of variation from 
one individual to another, and indeed, from one cycle to 
another in the same individual, renders average population 
data too unreliable for practical use. A further factor that can vary widely from individual 
to individual is the threshold or baseline level of a 
parameter that is chosen as a testable characteristic which 
can signal the onset of the fertile phase. Again, although 
it may be possible to set an average threshold or baseline 
level from population data, this may be quite inappropriate 
for individual needs. It is an objective of the present invention to 
establish a method of monitoring the ovulation cycle, 
useful for contraceptive purposes, which is tailored to the 
relevant characteristics of an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of monitoring the status of a current 
ovulation cycle of an individual mammalian female subject, 

involving repeated testing of the body fluid concentration 
of at least one analyte of significance in relation to the 

status of the ovulation cycle during at least the pre-ovulation 
phase of the current ovulation cycle of the 

individual subject, wherein 

a) testing for said analyte concentration during the 
current ovulation cycle is commenced a plurality of days 

following the onset of menses but at least 2 numerical days 
in advance of the earliest numerical day on which actual 

ovulation has occurred in one or more previous ovulation 
cycles in the same individual subject; and 
b) an analyte concentration change indicative of imminent 
ovulation is identified from the results of such testing by 

reference to an analyte concentration reference value that 
has been adapted to the individual subject on the basis of 

analyte concentration test data obtained from the 
individual subject during one or more previous ovulation 

cycles. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein testing is 
commenced at least 3 numerical days in advance of the 

earliest numerical day on which actual ovulation has 
occurred in one or more previous ovulation cycles in the 

same individual subject. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein testing is 
commenced at least 4 numerical days in advance of the 

earliest numerical day on which actual ovulation has 
occurred in one or more previous ovulation cycles in the 

same individual subject.  
 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein testing is commenced at least 5 numerical 

days following the onset of menses. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the 
testing is commenced on a numerical day in advance of the 

earliest numerical day on which actual ovulation has 
occurred in one or more previous ovulation cycles in the 

same individual subject, said testing commencement day 
being calculated according to the following relationship: 


Earliest previous ovulation day 
Testing commencement day 
8 - 10
-4 
11 - 14
-5 
15 - 18
-6 
19 - 23
-7 
24 - 28
-8 
29+
-9 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the body fluid is urine. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the analyte is estradiol or a metabolite 

thereof, such as E3G. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein 2 or more analytes are tested to provide 

comparative data, such as the concentration ratio of two 
analytes tested simultaneously. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the earliest actual ovulation day is 

derived from data collected during at least 3 consecutive 
previous cycles.  

 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the earliest actual ovulation day is 

derived from data collected during at least 5 consecutive 
previous cycles. 
A method according to any one of the previous 
claims, wherein the earliest ovulation day is derived from 

data obtained during at least the immediately preceding 
cycle. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein the 
earliest ovulation day is derived from data obtained from 

a rolling reference base consisting of a fixed number of 
consecutive cycles immediately preceding the current cycle. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein the 
rolling reference base consists of the immediately 

preceding 4 to 10 cycles. 
A method according to claim 12, wherein the 
rolling reference base consists of the immediately 

preceding 5 or 6 cycles. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein actual ovulation day is determined by 

detecting the peak concentration of urinary LH. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, 
wherein actual ovulation is determined by detecting the 

urinary LH surge. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the subject is human. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, which relies solely on the results of urine tests.  

 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, which does not involve the measurement of basal 

body temperature. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein a body fluid concentration change of an 

analyte of significance in relation to the status of the 
ovulation cycle, is detected by reference to a threshold 

concentration determined for the individual subject from 
measurement of the analyte concentration in the body fluid 

during the pre-ovulation phase of at least one previous 
ovulation cycle in the same subject. 
A method according to claim 17 for predicting the 
fertile period during a current human ovulation cycle by 

detecting an elevated urinary E3G concentration in the pre-ovulation 
phase, wherein the elevated urinary E3G 

concentration is determined by reference to a threshold 
concentration determined for an individual human female 

from measurements of the E3G concentration in her urine 
during the pre-ovulation phase of at least one previous 

ovulation cycle. 
A method according to claim 21, wherein the 
urinary E3G threshold concentration adopted for the current 

cycle is the concentration that is, in a previous ovulation 
cycle, exceeded more frequently during the total number of 

days constituting the transition phase of that previous 
cycle than during the same number of days in the infertile 

phase immediately preceding said transition phase. 
A method according to claim 22, wherein the 
urinary E3G threshold concentration is the concentration 

that is exceeded on not more than 30% of the days in the 
infertile phase but is exceeded on not fewer than 60% of 

the days in the transition phase.  
 
A method according to claim 22, wherein the 
threshold concentration is the concentration that is 

exceeded on not more than 20% of the days in the infertile 
phase but is exceeded on not fewer than 80% of the days in 

the transition phase. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 24, 
wherein the analyte concentration reference value is 

derived from data obtained from a "rolling" reference base 
consisting of a fixed number of consecutive cycles 

immediately preceding the current cycle. 
A method according to claim 25, wherein the 
rolling analyte concentration reference base consists of 

the immediately preceding 4 to 10 cycles. 
A method according to claims 26, wherein the 
rolling analyte concentration reference base consists of 

the immediately preceding 5 or 6 cycles. 
A method according to any one of claims 21 to 24, 
wherein urinary LH and/or P3G concentration is measured to 

provide an indication of the end of the fertile phase. 
A test kit for conducting a method according to 
any one of the preceding claims, comprising 


a) one or more testing devices for determining the 
concentration of said at least one analyte in said body 

fluid, 
b) means enabling a user to derive from said 
concentration an indication of fertility status in the 

current ovulation cycle by reference to a concentration 
reference value determined from one or more previous 

ovulation cycles in the same subject; and  
 
c) means enabling a user to derive a precise testing 
commencement day from knowledge of the numerical day on 

which actual ovulation occurred during at least one 
previous ovulation cycle in the same subject. 
A test kit according to claim 29, wherein means 
b) and c) are combined. 
A test kit according to claim 29 or 30, wherein 

means b) and c) comprise electronic means. 
A test kit according to any one of claims 29 to 
31, incorporating a plurality of disposable body fluid 

testing devices. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
