<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617821</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROTECTIVE TUNABLE CIRCUIT FOR ELECTRO-MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23D5900	B23D5900	F16P300	F16P314	G08B1322	G08B1326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23D	B23D	F16P	F16P	G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23D59	B23D59	F16P3	F16P3	G08B13	G08B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit for controlling and stopping the motion of dangerous moving parts is disclosed. The circuit includes an antenna (16) connected to a moving part (18) and coupled to a tunable circuit (10) for controlling a safety equipment (32). The antenna (16) provides a variable lumped capacitance parameter within the tunable circuit (10). This lumped capacitance parameter is variable in response to an operator's body capacitance produced when the operator comes within a predetermined critical proximity to the moving part (18). This variation in lumped capacitance serves to tune the circuit (10) at or near a point of resonance to thereby enable an RF signal to pass through the tunable circuit (10) at a detectable level which is subsequently processed to activate the safety equipment (32) for controlling and stopping the motion of the moving part (18) substantially instantaneously.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAF T MARGIN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAF-T-MARGIN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES RICKEY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REESE JAMES T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES, RICKEY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REESE, JAMES, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 " PRC__ECriVE TUNABLE CIRCUIT FOR ___EX__?RO-M____-_NICAL EQUIPMENTTechnical Field This invention relates generally to capacitance sensitive and proximity responsive electro-mechanical systems and apparatus and more particularly to a body capacitance responsive system and method for protecting the operators of potentially dangerous equipment, such as electrical power saws.Background Art In the past, certain types of electrical and electro- mechanical equipment have been provided with proximity detectors for controlling the movement of potentially injurious moving parts in response to the approach of a portion of a human body such as a hand or arm. An example of such a proximity detector is disclosed in U. S. Patent No. 4,453,112 issued to Saver et al, and this proximity detector is operative to stop the motion of automatic automobile windows in response to human body capacitance reaching a predetermined critical distance from a moving window glass. U. S. Patent No. 4,453,112 is incorporated herein by reference.However, as presently known, hazardous electrical equipment requiring the presence of an operator in relatively close proximity to potentially dangerous moving parts, such as saw blades, has not been equipped with protective devices for rapidly shutting down the* equipment when the operator's hands or arms reach a critically dangerous distance from the moving parts. Where body capacitance-operated proximity sensitive devices have been utilized to control certain types of electrical and electro-mechanical equipment, problems have developed with the inability of these devices to discriminate between human body motion on the one hand and the motion of 

 inanimate objects on the other hand. Thus, the desirability of providing a highly sensitive and discriminating proximity safety device and system for the protection of operators of dangerous equipment is manifest.Disclosure of Invention The general purpose and principal object of the present invention is to provide a highly sensitive and discriminating proximity system and method for use with certain types of electro-mechanical equipment, such as electrical power saws. This new and improved body or human capacitance responsive system and method utilizes certain novel circuitry described below which is readily adaptable for use with both fixed blade and movable blade power saw equipment. This object and purpose are accomplished by, among other things: a. providing an antenna connected to a moving or movable part to be controlled, . coupling a tuned
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims 1. A method for controlling the motion of a potentially dangerous or other moving or movable part which comprises tuning a filter circuit at or near a point of resonance in response to body capacitance generated when an operator comes within a predetermined critical distance from said moving part, whereby signals processed from the output of said filter circuit may be utilized to stop, start or otherwise control the motion of said moving part. 2. A system for controlling the motion of a potentially dangerous or other moving part which comprises means for tuning a filter circuit at or near a point of resonance in response to body capacitance generated when an operator comes within a predetermined critical distance from said moving part, whereby signals processed from the output of said filter circuit may be utilized to stop, start or otherwise control the motion of said moving part.
3. A method for stopping the motion of a potentially dangerous or other moving or movable part -substantially instantaneously which comprises: a. providing a tunable circuit in proximity of said moving part, and b. tuning said circuit at or near a point of resonance when a human operator comes within a predetermined critical distance of said moving part, whereby an output signal from said circuit operating at or near said point of resonance may be processed to control the motion and stopping of said moving part.
4. A system for stopping the motion of a potentially dangerous or other moving or movable part substantially instantaneously which comprises: a. means providing a tunable circuit which is connected to an antenna in proximity to said moving part, and 


 b. means connected to said tunable circuit for tuning said circuit at or near a point of resonance when a human operator comes within a predetermined critical distance of said moving part, whereby an output signal from said circuit operating at or near said point of resonance may be processed to control the motion and stopping of said moving part.
5. A proximity sensing method for controlling the . motion of a moving or movable part which comprises the steps of: a. providing an antenna for said moving or movable part, b. coupling a tunable electrical circuit to said antenna so that said antenna provides a lumped capacitance parameter for said tunable circuit which is variable in response to body or human capacitance in close proximity to said antenna, c. applying an RF signal to said tunable circuit, and d. tuning said circuit in response to a variation in said lumped capacitance produced by a human coming within a predetermined critical distance from said moving or movable part, whereby the tuning of said circuit to or near a point of resonance allows a detectable level of RF signal to pass therethrough and then be processed in such a manner as to activate safety equipment for controlling the motion of said moving or movable parts substantially instantaneously.
6. A proximity sensing system for controlling the motion of a moving or movable part which comprises in combination : a. means providing an antenna for said moving or movable part, 


 b. means for coupling a tunable circuit to said antenna so that said antenna provides a lumped capacitance parameter for said tunable circuit which is variable in response to body or human capacitance produced when an operator comes within close proximity to said antenna, c. means connected to said tunable circuit for applying an RF signal thereto, d. means for tuning said circuit to a point at or near a resonant condition in response to a variation in said lumped capacitance produced by a human being coming within a predetermined critical distance from said moving or movable part, whereby the tuning of said circuit to a point near resonance condition allows a detectable level of RF signal to pass therethrough and then be processed to activate safety equipment or the like for controlling or stopping the motion of said moving or movable part substantially instantaneously.
7. The system defined in claim 6 which further includes output means connected to said tunable circuit for stopping the motion of said moving part substantially instantaneously.
8. The system defined in claim 7 wherein said output means connected to said tunable circuit includes: a. envelope detection means connected to said tunable circuit for receiving a carrier modulated signal therefrom and providing an output signal comprising modulation components of said carrier modulated signal, b. signal processing means connected to said envelope detection means for amplifying said modulation components received from said envelope detection means, and c. level detection means connected to said signal processing means for providing an output brake and control signal when the level of output signals from said signal processing means reaches a predetermined value. 


 9. The system defined in claim 8 wherein said tunable circuit is connected to said antenna by way of a coaxial cable.
10. The system defined in claim 6 wherein said tunable circuit is a resistance-inductance-capacitance (RLC) filter circuit including an input resistor connected to receive an input RF signal, and a series inductor connected between two parallel connected capacitors in a band pass filter arrangement, whereby one of said capacitors may be made variable for tuning purposes and connected to said antenna by way of a coaxial cable which in turn serves to couple human body capacitance to said band pass filter arrangement and thereby tune said band pass filter arrangement at or near its point of resonance. 11. The system defined in claim 10 which further includes output circuit means connected to said band pass filter arrangement and comprises: a. envelope detection means connected to saidtunable circuit for receiving a carrier modulated signal therefrom and providing an output signal comprising modulation components of said carrier modulated-signal, b. signal processingmeans connected to said envelope detection means for amplifying said modulation components received from said envelope detection means, and c. level detection means connected to said signal processing means for providing an output brake and control signal when the level of output signals from said signal processing means reaches a predetermined value. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[
received by the International Bureau on 7 August 1992 (07.08.92); original claims 1,3 and 5 deleted; remaining claims amended and renumbered as claims 1-8 (4 pages)]
1. A system for controlling the motion of a potentially dangerous or other moving part which comprises means for tuning a filter circuit at or near a point of resonance in response to body capacitance generated when a person comes within a predetermined critical distance from said moving part, said filter circuit comprising a bandpass filter (BPF) network being operatively tunable below its point of resonance and connected to an antenna having a lumped capacitance which is operative to resonate with said bandpass filter network and control the transfer gain thereof, said antenna being further operative to add human body capacitance to said lumped capacitance and cause said BPF network to move towards its point of resonance, increase said transfer gain, and generate a detectable output signal which varies in amplitude in response to body capacitance dynamic changes in the capacitance dynamically coupled to said antenna whereby signals processed from the output of said filter circuit are utilized to stop, start or otherwise control the motion of said moving part.
2. A system for stopping the motion of a potentially dangerous or other moving or movable part substantially instantaneously which comprises: a. a tunable circuit which is connected to an antenna in proximity to said moving part, said tunable circuit comprising a bandpass filter (BPF) network being operatively tunable below its point of resonance and connected to said antenna having a lumped capacitance which is operative to resonate with said bandpass filter network and control the transfer gain thereof, said antenna being further operative to add human body capacitance to said lumped capacitance and cause said BPF network to move towards its point of resonance, increase said transfer gain, and generate a detectable output signal which varies in amplitude in response to body 


 capacitance dynamic changes in the human body capacitance dynamically coupled to said antenna, and b. means connected to said tunable circuit for detecting said tunable circuit at or near said point of resonance when a person comes within a predetermined critical distance of said moving part, whereby an output signal from said tunable circuit operating at or near said point of resonance is processed to control the motion and stopping of said moving part.
3. A proximity sensing system for controlling the motion of a moving or movable part which comprises in combination: a. an antenna for said moving or movable part, b. means for coupling a bandpass tunable filter circuit to said antenna so that said antenna provides a lumped capacitance for said tunable filter circuit which is variable in response to body or human capacitance produced when a person comes within close proximity to said antenna, c. means connected to said tunable filter circuit for applying an RF signal thereto, d. means for detecting tunable filter circuit at a point at or near a resonant condition in response to a variation in said lumped capacitance produced by said person co ing within a predetermined critical distance from said antenna, said tunable filter circuit comprising a bandpass filter (BPF) network being operatively tunable below its point of resonance and connected to said antenna having said lumped capacitance which is operative to resonate with said bandpass filter network and control the transfer gain thereof, said antenna being further operative to add the human body capacitance to said lumped capacitance and cause said BPF network to move towards its point of resonance, increase said transfer gain, and generate a detectable output signal which varies in amplitude in response to body capacitance dynamic changes in the human body capacitance dynamically 


 coupled to said antenna, whereby the tuning of said tunable filter circuit to a point near resonance condition allows a detectable level of said RF signal to pass therethrough and then be detected and processed to activate safety equipment for controlling or stopping the motion of said moving or movable part substantially instantaneously.
4. The system defined in claim 3 which further includes output means connected to said tunable filter circuit for stopping the motion of said moving or movable part substantially instantaneously.
5. The system defined in claim 4 wherein said output means connected to said tunable filter circuit includes: a. envelope detection means connected to said tunable filter circuit for receiving a carrier modulated signal therefrom and providing an output signal comprising modulation components of said carrier modulated signal, b. signal processing means connected to said envelope detection means for amplifying said modulation components received from said envelope detection means, and c. level detection means connected to said signal processing means for providing an output brake and control signal when the level of output signals from said signal processing means reaches a predetermined value.
6. The system defined in claim 5 wherein said tunable filter circuit is connected to said antenna by way of a coaxial cable.
7. The system defined in claim 3 wherein said tunable filter circuit is a resistance-inductance-capacitance (RLC) filter circuit including an input resistor connected to receive said RF signal, and a series inductor connected 


between two parallel connected capacitors in a bandpass filter arrangement, whereby one of said capacitors is made variable for tuning purposes and connected to said antenna by way of a coaxial cable which in turn serves to couple said human body capacitance to said bandpass filter arrangement and thereby tune said bandpass filter arrangement at or near its point of resonance.
8. The system defined in claim 7 which further includes output circuit means connected to said bandpass filter arrangement and comprises: a. envelope detection means connected to said tunable filter circuit for receiving a carrier modulated signal therefrom and providing an output signal comprising modulation components of said carrier modulated signal, b. signal processing means connected to said envelope detection means for amplifying said modulation components received from said envelope detection means, and c. level detection means connected to said signal processing means for providing an output brake and control signal when the level of output signals from said signal processing means reaches a predetermined value. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
