<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654730</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for reprogramming the operation parameters of an optical data storage or retrieval system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F306	G06F306	G06F906	G06F906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F9	G06F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical data storage or retrieval system, 
comprising: (a) an optical reading unit; (b) an 

electronically erasable programmable read only memory 
having stored therein a first set of parameters for 

controlling the operation of the reading unit; (c) a 
reprogramming optical disk having stored thereon a 

second set of parameters for controlling the operation 
of the reading unit, the second set of parameters being 

readable by the reading unit; (d) a temporary storage 
unit for temporarily storing the second set of 

parameters as it is read by the reading unit; (e) an 
erasing/writing unit for electronically erasing the 

first set of parameters in the memory; and(f) an 
arrangement for reading the second set of parameters 

from the temporary storing means and for electronically 
reprogramming the memory with the second set of 

parameters to replace the first set of parameters. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUSE MARK W C O EASTMAN KODAK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUSE, MARK W., C/O EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to optical data storage 
or retrieval systems and more particularly to a method 
and an apparatus for reprogramming the operation 
parameters of such systems. When an optical disk reader or writer such as 
a High Speed CD writer is powered up, the hardware is 
controlled by a CPU running firmware stored in 
Electronically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memories 
(EEPROM). The firmware comprises a series of 
parameters for controlling the operation of the 
reader/writer. Some of these parameters are related to 
the mechanics of the writer (spindle motor, drawer 
motor, access system, etc.), some others are related to 
the electronics (laser powers, encoder/decoder chips, 
buffers, etc.). The firmware may also handle 
communications with host computers via communication 
protocols, such as SCCI, RS-232C, and parallel ports. Whenever the firmware needs to be upgraded 
with new algorithms (which will be referred to in the 
following description as parameters), the existing 
EEPROMs must be physically extracted from sockets on 
the electronics board in the writer and replaced with 
the new EEPROMs which have previously been programmed 
on a separate EEPROM recording device. Every time that 
the EEPROMs must be replaced (which could be frequent 
depending on how often new versions of code are  
 
released), a technician must remove the covers of the 
writer, extract the old EEPROMs, plug in the new ones, 
and then replace the covers. This is a time consuming 
task, and every time that it is done there is a risk of 
electrostatic discharge damage to the EEPROM sockets or 
to the EEPROMs themselves, incorrect installation of 
the EEPROMs (placed in the wrong socket or in the wrong 
orientation), etc. This also requires that a qualified 
technician must go to the physical location of the 
writer/reader to perform this operation. Flash EEPROMs, i.e. EEPROMs which can be 
reprogrammed without removing them from their sockets, 
have been used in electronic devices to simplify this 
operation, a host computer being used to download the 
new parameters to the Flash EEPROMs via some 
communication protocols such as RS-232C or SCSI. Such 
a system is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,794,558 
issued December 27, 1988 to R. R. Thompson and U.S 
Patent No. 4,791,661 issued December 13, 1988 to 
Donaldson et al. However, this still requires that a 
host computer be present (or that one be brought to the 
location). The host computer should contain the proper 
software to control the reprogram
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical data storage or retrieval 
system, comprising: 


(a) an optical reading unit; 
(b) an electronically erasable programmable 
read only memory having stored therein a first set of 

parameters for controlling the operation of said 
reading unit; 
(c) a reprogramming optical disk having 
stored thereon a second set of parameters for 

controlling the operation of said reading unit, said 
second set of parameters being readable by said reading 

unit; 
(d) temporary storage means for temporarily 
storing said second set of parameters as it is read by 

said reading unit; 
(e) means for electronically erasing said 
first set of parameters in said memory; and 
(f) means for reading said second set of 
parameters from said temporary storage means and for 

electronically reprogramming said memory with said 
second set of parameters to replace said first set of 

parameters. 
An optical data storage or retrieval 
system according to claim 1 further comprising an 

optical writing unit, said first and second set of 
parameters also controlling the operation of said 

optical writing unit. 
An optical data storage or retrieval 
unit according to claim 1 further comprising: 


(g) means for, after recording said second 

set of parameters in said memory, checking the validity 
of said second set of parameters as recorded in said 

 
memory in order to detect a possible reprogramming 

defect of said memory; 
(h) host computer means having stored therein 
said second set of parameters; 
(i) coupling means for coupling said host 
computer to said system; and 
(j) means for, in the event of a 
reprogramming defect of said memory, downloading from 

said host computer means said second set of parameters 
in said temporary storage means, through said coupling 

means. 
An optical data storage or retrieval 
system according to claim 1 further comprising means 

for generating an authorization signal for initiating 
the reprogramming process of said memory. 
An optical data storage or retrieval 
system according to claim 4 wherein said authorization 

signal is stored as an ID code on said reprogramming 
optical disk and is read by said reading unit to 

initiate the reprogramming process of said memory. 
In an optical data storage or retrieval 
unit including an optical reading unit, electronically 

erasable programmable read only memory having stored 
therein a first set of parameters for controlling the 

operation of said optical reading unit, 
erasing/recording means for erasing/recording said 

memory, and temporary storage means, a method for 
replacing said first set of parameters in said memory 

by a second set of parameters for controlling the 
operation of said optical reading unit, said method 

comprising the steps of: 
(a) providing an optical disk readable by 
said optical recording unit with said second set of 

parameters; 
(b) reading said second set of parameters on 
said optical disk and storing said second set of 

parameters in said temporary storage means; 
(c) erasing said first set of parameters in 
said memory; and 
(d) transferring said second set of 
parameters from said temporary storage means to said 

memory in order to reprogram said memory. 
A method according to claim 8 further 
comprising the steps of: 


(e) checking the validity of the second set 
of parameters as stored in said memory in order to 

detect a possible reprogramming defect of said memory; 
(f) coupling said system to host computer 
means having stored therein said second set of 

parameters; and 
(g) in case of a reprogramming defect of said 
memory, downloading said second set of parameters from 

said host computer means into said temporary storage 
means; and 
(h) transferring said second set of 
parameters from said temporary storage means to said 

memory. 
A method according to claim 6 further 
comprising the step of checking the validity of the 

second set of parameters as stored in said temporary 
storage means. 
A method according to claim 6 further 
including the step of generating an authorization 

 
signal prior to read and store said second set of 

parameters in said temporary storage means. 
A method according to claim 9 wherein 
said authorization signal is stored on said optical 

recording disk as an ID and generated by the reading of 
said optical disk. 
A method according to claim 9 wherein 
said authorization signal is generated by an operator. 
In an optical data storage or retrieval 
system including an optical reading unit, 

electronically erasable programmable read only memory 
having stored therein a first set of parameters for 

controlling the operation of said optical reading unit, 
and means for erasing/recording said memory, an optical 

storage medium having stored thereon digital 
information, comprising a second set of parameters 

stored on said optical storage medium for controlling 
the operation of said optical reading unit, said second 

set of parameters being readable by said optical 
reading unit to be recorded in said memory to replace 

said first set of parameters. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
