<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639361</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Composite material, compression support braces therefrom and a method for making braces.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F501	A61F501	A61F1306	A61F1306	A61F1310	A61F1310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multisection composite material (10) useful in forming compression 
braces for 

orthopedic support of a body part includes a user contacting 
fabric section (12), an outermost 

fabric section (18) formed from bonding two dissimilar fabrics and 
an intermediate section (20) 

formed from a closed cell foam. The user contacting fabric section (12) 
is a fabric having 

multidimensional stretch properties formed from hydrophobic fibers and bonded to a 
surface (22) of the intermediate foam section (26). The outermost 

section includes a first fabric 
layer (18) having multidimensional stretch properties formed from 

hydrophilic fibers and a 
second fabric layer (16) having multidimensional stretch properties 

formed from hydrophobic 
fibers. The intermediate foam section (26) has a first surface 

and a second surface (22,24) and has a 
multiplicity of perforations (28) therethrough from the first surface 

to the second surface. The 
foam has multidimensional elastic properties sufficient for 

providing compressive strain 
useful for supporting the body part. The first layer (16) of the 

outermost section is bonded to 
the second surface (24) of the intermediate section (20). Moisture 

emitted 
from a user's skin passes 

through the hydrophobic user contacting section (12) to the intermediate 
section (20) whereupon it 

passes through the perforations (28) and is spread by the hydrophilic 
first fabric layer (16). The 

spreading of the emitted moisture by the hydrophilic layer 
(16) increases the surface area of the 

moisture thereby substantially increasing the rate of evaporation 
of the moisture through 

the hydrophobic second layer (18). The spreading of the moisture by 
the hydrophilic layer also 

improves user comfort by preventing wet spots on the outside 
surface fabric (18) around the 

openings of the perforation. The invention includes compressive 
orthopedic support 

braces for the wrist, elbow, thigh, knee and ankle formed from the 
material of the 

invention in sizes suitable for users having different 
physical stature. 

Orthopedic support 
braces formed from the composite material of the present invention 

provide the support 
advantages of foam braces with the comfort of elasticized knit braces. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS ALVIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS, ALVIN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a composite material useful for forming compression 
braces for orthopedic support of a body part. More particularly, the invention relates to 
braces formed of the composite having improved capability to pass moisture emitted from 
the users skin covered by the brace. There are many forms of compressive supports available for body parts. 
Historically, people with a need to provide additional support to wrists, elbows, thighs, 
knees and ankles used strips of cloth to wrap and support the body part. These early 
wraps evolved into formed braces, often including both cloth and leather and having laces 
to vary the compression. With the development of elastics, wraps were elasticized and 
evolved into specialized knit braces which incorporated the elastic into the kit structure. 
Many current commercial products are available using elasticized knit structures. More recently laminated foam materials, originally developed for wet suits used in 
diving, were formed into compression braces for body parts. A United States Patent 
4,084,586 to Hettick teaches a variety of support devices formed from closed cell 
neoprene foam laminated on both sides with a thin nylon fabric. While braces prepared 
according to the teachings of the Hettick patent provided good support and retained 
warmth, they also retained moisture emitted from the skin of the user causing the user's 
skin covered by the brace to become saturated with moisture.  United States Patent 4,832,010 to Lerman provided a partial solution to the 
retained moisture problem. The Lerman Patent teaches braces formed from a closed cell 
neoprene foam having a stretchable porous fabric laminated to both sides of the foam. 
However, to address the retained moisture problem, the Lerman patent further teaches 
providing a multiplicity of relatively large air holes extending through and dispersed across 
the surface of material. The Lerman patent teachings suggest that, in order to maintain the 
compressive properties of the foam, the holes be limited to between about three and ten 
percent of the surface of the brace. While a brace according to the Lerman patent provides some relief to the 
accumulated moisture problem seen when orthopedic braces are formed from closed cell 
foam, there is still a need for increasing the transport of emitted skin moisture out of an 
orthopedic brace formed using a closed cell foam as a support component. Fig. 1 is a perspective view of the multisegment composite material exposing the 
segments; Fig. 2
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multisection composite material useful in forming compression braces for 
orthopedic support of a body part comprising: 

   a user contacting fabric section formed from substantially hydrophobic fibers and 
having multidimensional stretch properties; 

   an outermost fabric section formed from bonding two dissimilar fabrics comprising 
a first fabric layer having multidimensional stretch properties formed from hydrophobic 

fibers having multidimensional stretch properties and a second fabric having 
multidimensional stretch properties formed from hydrophilic fibers; and 

   an intermediate section having two surfaces, a first surface and a second surface, 
said intermediate section formed from a closed cell foam having a multiplicity of 

perforations therethrough from said first surface to said second surface, said intermediate 
section having multidimensional elastic properties sufficient for providing compressive 

strain useful for support of the body part, said intermediate section first surface being 
bonded to a surface of said user contacting section and said second surface being bonded 

to said first fabric of said outermost section. 
The material of claim 1 wherein said user contacting section is a circular knit fabric 
formed from a hydrophobic fiber selected from the group consisting of nylon, polyester, 

polypropylene and blends thereof. 
The material of claim 1 wherein said intermediate section is a closed cell 
polychloroprene foam having a density of about 0.15 to about 0.20 grams per cubic 

centimeter, a thickness between about 2.5 millimeters to about 40 millimeters, an 
elongation in the machine direction between about one hundred fifty and about three 

hundred fifty percent and an elongation in the cross machine direction between about two 
hundred and about four hundred fifty percent. 
The material of claim 1 wherein said outermost fabric section first fabric is a 
circular knit material formed from a hydrophilic fiber selected from the group consisting of 

cotton, wool, silk, cotton, viscose rayon and blends thereof. 
The material of claim 1 wherein said outermost section second fabric is a circular 
knit fabric formed from a hydrophobic fiber selected from the group consisting of nylon, 

polyester, polypropylene and blends thereof. 
The material of claim 1 wherein said perforations comprise between about three 
percent to about ten percent by volume of said intermediate foam section. 
The material of claim 1 wherein said outermost fabric section comprises a two 
layer textile circular knit fabric having a first layer formed from hydrophilic fiber selected 

from the group consisting of cotton, wool, silk, viscose rayon and blends thereof, and a 
second layer formed from hydrophobic fiber selected from the group consisting of 

polyester, nylon, acrylic, polypropylene and blends thereof; and 
   said first layer and said second layer being bonded together by linkage of 

overlapping fibers of said first layer and said second layer, said first layer further being 
bonded to said second surface of said intermediate foam se
ction so that said second layer 
serves as an outer surface of said multisection composite. 
The material of claim 1 wherein said user contacting section and said outermost 
section are bonded to said intermediate foam section by a solvent based adhesive. 
A compression brace for a body part comprising: 
   a substantially tubular structure having a passageway therethrough and open from 

a first end to a second end, said tubular structure formed from a single sheet of said 
composite material of claim 1, said sheet being cut to a shape and joined at edges to form 

said tubular structure. 
A multisection composite material useful in forming compression braces for 
orthopedic support of a body part comprising: 

   a user contacting circular knit fabric section formed from sixty to about eighty 
denier, twenty to about thirty filament nylon yarn; 

   an outermost fabric section formed from a two layer circular knit fabric having a 
first fabric layer formed from a 30 to about 50 denier, ten to about twenty filament cotton 

yarn and a second fabric layer from a sixty to about eighty denier, twenty to about thirty 
filament nylon yarn, said first layer and said second layer being bonded together by 

overlapping yarns of said first layer and said second layer; 
   an intermediate section having two surfaces, a first surface and a second surface, 

said intermediate section formed from a closed cell polychloroprene foam having a density 
of about 0.15 to about 0.20 grams per cubic centimeter and a thickness between about 2.5 

millimeters to about 40 millimeters having a multiplicity of perforations therethrough from 
said first surface to said second surface, said perforations comprising between about three 

percent to about ten percent by volume of said intermediate section, said intermediate 
section having multidimensional elastic properties sufficient for providing compressive 

strain useful for support of the body part, said intermediate section first surface being 
bonded to a surface of said user contacting section and said second surface being bonded 

to said first fabric of said outermost section so that said second layer serves as an outside 
surface for said composite. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
