<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656571</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A developing device and an image forming apparatus using the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1508	G03G1508	G03G1509	G03G1509	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A developing device (2) according to the present invention is provided along 
a photosensitive body (1). The developing device comprises: a hopper for 

accommodating and supplying a developer; a recovering roller (23) which 
serves as a developer carrier member for transporting the developer carried 

on a surface therof to a developing place; and a developer circulating path 
(22) for circulating the developer between the hopper and the recovering 

roller. The developer circulating path includes a part of the hopper and a 
forward path (22a) and a backward path (22b) both of which extend from the 

hopper along the photosensitive body, the forward path and the backward path 
repectively have spaces independent of each other, and in each of the spaces 

a screw is provided for holding the developer therein and transporting the 
developer. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAKABE NOBORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAKABE, NOBORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an electrophotographic 
image forming apparatus for use in a 
copying machine, a laser printer, or the like. A developing device or an image forming 
apparatus of this type is disclosed in Japanese 
Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 3-101784 and Japanese 
Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 3-282488. Figure 12 shows an image forming apparatus 
disclosed in Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication 
No. 3-101784. As shown in Figure 12, this image forming 
apparatus has a hopper 309 for accommodating a 
toner. The hopper 309 is positioned behind a developing 
sleeve 308 in the vicinity of a photosensitive 
body 301. The toner in the hopper 309 is stirred by a 
toner stirrer 311 provided in the hopper 309, scraped 
up to a toner supply hole 309a disposed on the side of 
the developing sleeve 308, and supplied to the developing 
sleeve 308 via the toner supply hole 309a. The developing 
sleeve 308 carries a supplied toner on its 
surface. After the thickness of the toner is regulated 
by pressure of an elastic blade, the toner is opposed 
to the surface of the photosensitive body 301 which has 
been exposed to light, and an electrostatic latent 
image formed on the surface of the photosensitive 
body 301 is developed with the toner.  The hopper 309 for accommodating the developer 
occupies a large portion of the developing device 
303. Therefore, the diameter of the developing 
device 303 can be shortened only to a limited extent. 
As a result, an image forming section becomes a large 
one, together with the above developing device 303 and 
other numerous image developing elements disposed 
around the hopper 309. This is disadvantageous in 
arranging a compact apparatus required especially for 
personal uses. Further, an image developing unit pulled out 
of the main body is handled in various positions, such 
as the axial line of the developing sleeve 308 is 
turned vertically, or the upper portion of the developing 
device 303 is inclined transversally or downwards. On the other hand, as an image forming apparatus 
with a more compact body is popularly produced, 
the apparatus is not necessarily used in one specified 
position. In such a case, the developing device 303 is 
turned in various directions as above. If the direction of developing device 303 is 
different in individual uses or handling, the density 
of developer particles becomes uneven. That is, the particles of the developer 
concentrate in the lower side by the gravity effect, if 
the axial line of the developing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A developing device provided along a photosensitive 
body, comprising: 

   hopper means for accommodating and supplying 
a developer; 

   developer carrier means for transporting the 
developer carried on a surface thereof to a developing 

place; and 
   developer circulating means for circulating 

the developer between the hopper means and the developer 
carrier means; 

   wherein the developer circulating means 
includes a part of the hopper means and forward means 

and backward means both of which extend from the hopper 
means along the photosensitive body, the forward means 

and backward means respectively have spaces independent 
of each other, and in each of the spaces developer 

transporting means is provided for holding the developer 
therein and transporting the developer. 
A developing device according to claim 1, wherein a 
developer transporting ability for feeding the developer 

from the hopper means to the forward means is larger 
than a developer transporting ability of the developer 

carrier means. 
A developing device according to claim 1, wherein 
each of the developer transporting means includes a 

screw, and the screw located in the forward means 
extends in the hopper means. 
A developing device according to claim 1, wherein 
the developer transporting means of the forward means 

does not reach a connecting portion for connecting one 
end of the forward means to one end of the backward 

means, and the developer transporting means of the 
backward means reaches the connecting portion. 
A developing device according to claim 1, wherein 
the developer includes a magnetic toner, the developing 

device further comprises magnetic field forming means 
for forming a magnetic field between the developer 

circulating means and the developing place, and the 
magnetic field is strong enough to cause a magnetic 

force at least capable of holding the developer against 
the gravity. 
A developing device according to claim 5, wherein 
the magnetic field formed by the magnetic field forming 

means reaches at least a space including the developer 
transporting means on the side of the developer carrier 

means. 
A developing device according to claim 5, wherein 
the magnetic field forming means is a magnet for development 

located in the developer carrier means. 
A developing device according to claim 1, wherein: 
   the hopper means comprises a refill port to 

which a developer refill container for refilling the 
developer into the hopper means is attached, and stirring 

means, located in the hopper means, for stirring 
the developer in conjunction with the developer transporting 

means; and
 

   the developing device comprises control means 
for controlling the stirring means to stir the developer 

in the hopper means when the developer is refilled 
from the developer refill container, and for controlling 

the developer transporting means to transport the 
developer in the developer circulating means to a 

developer supply opening through which the developer is 
supplied from the developer circulating means to the 

developer carrier means. 
A developing device according to claim 8, wherein 
the developer refill container comprises: 

   a stirring member therein; and 
   a coupling portion for connecting a rotation 

axis of the stirring member and a rotation axis of the 
stirring means of the hopper means to each other by 

attaching the developer refill container to the refill 
port and for disconnecting the rotation axis of the 

stirring member and the rotation axis of the stirring 
means of the hopper means from each other by detaching 

the developer refill container from the refill port. 
An image forming apparatus comprising: 
   a photosensitive body on a surface of which 

an electrostatic latent image is formed; 
   developing means for developing the electrostatic 

latent image, comprising: 
   hopper means for accommodating a developer 

and supplying the developer, located at one end of the 
photosensitive body in the longitudinal direction; 

   developer carrier means for transporting the 
developer carried on a surface thereof to a developing 

place; and
 

   developer circulating means, including a part 
of the hopper means, for circulating the developer 

between the hopper means and the developing place; 
   cleaning means for removing a residual developer 

from the surface of the photosensitive body, 
the cleaning means being in contact with the surface of 

the photosensitive body; and 
   residual developer restoring means for restoring 

the residual developer removed by the cleaning 
means to the hopper means. 
An image forming apparatus comprising: 
   a photosensitive body on a surface of which 

an electrostatic latent image is formed; 
   developing means for developing the electrostatic 

latent image, comprising: 
   hopper means for accommodating a developer 

and supplying the developer, located at one end of the 
photosensitive body in the longitudinal direction; and 

   developer circulating means, including a part 
of the hopper means, for circulating the developer 

between the hopper means and a part of the surface of 
the photosensitive body, the part of the surface functioning 

as developer carrier means for transporting the 
developer carried on a surface thereof to a developing 

place; 
   cleaning means for removing a residual developer 

from the surface of the photosensitive body, 
the cleaning means being in contact with the surface of 

the photosensitive body; and 
   residual developer restoring means for restoring 

the residual developer removed by the cleaning 
means to the hopper means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
