<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612221</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TOBACCO FLAVOR UNIT FOR ELECTRICAL SMOKING ARTICLES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A24F4700	H05B314	A61M1506	A24D100	A24D100	A24F4700	A61M1506	H05B314	A24D118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A24F	H05B	A61M	A24D	A24D	A24F	A61M	H05B	A24D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A24F47	H05B3	A61M15	A24D1	A24D1	A24F47	A61M15	H05B3	A24D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flavor generating unit (10) is provided for use in an article for delivering to a consumer a flavor-containing substance, the article having electrical heating means (12) disposed in a cavity. The flavor generating unit (10) includes a carbon fibrous mat (16) and flavor generating medium (14) disposed on the mat (16) for providing efficient generation of flavor-containing substance. The carbon mat (16) includes carbon fibers that are made from a precursor selected from the group consisting of rayon, pitch, and polyacrylonitrile. A flavor generating article incorporating the flavor generating unit is also provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COUNTS MARY ELLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRENN SUSAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COUNTS, MARY, ELLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRENN, SUSAN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to smoking articles in
which tobacco flavor media are heated to release
tobacco flavors. More particularly, this invention
relates to electrically heated smoking articles.An electrically heated smoking article is
described in commonly-assigned United States Patent No.
5,060,671.
That patent describes an electrically
heated smoking article which is provided with a
disposable set of electrical heating elements on each
of which is deposited an individual charge of tobacco
flavor medium containing, for example, tobacco or
tobacco-derived material. The disposable heater/flavor
unit is mated to a more or less permanent unit
containing a source of electrical energy such as a
battery or capacitor, as well as control circuitry to
actuate the heating elements in response to a puff by a
smoker on the article or the depression of a manual
switch. The circuitry is designed 50 that at least one
but less than all of the heating elements are actuated
for any one puff, 50 that a predetermined number of
puffs, each containing a pre-measured amount of tobacco
flavor substance, is delivered to the smoker. The
circuitry also preferably prevents the actuation of any 
particular heater more than once, to prevent
overheating of the tobacco flavor medium thereon and
consequent production of undesired compounds yielding
off tastes.In such a smoking article, the heating
elements are disposed of along with the spent tobacco
flavor medium. This results in increased costs to the
smoker, who must buy new heating elements with each
refill of tobacco flavor medium. The volume of
material disposed of is also greater when the heating
elements must be disposed of.In addition, when the heating elements are
disposable, they must by their nature be removable. As
a result, there is sometimes excessive contact
resistance at the connection where the removable
heaters are electrically connected to the source of
electrical energy, resulting in increased power
consumption. Furthermore, that connection must be
designed to withstand repeated insertion of new heating
elements after each use.Also, when the heating elements are
disposable, the heater electrical resistance may vary
from heater to heater, resulting in variations in power
consumption which, in turn, can lead to variations in
temperature. As it is the temperature to which the
tobacco flavor medium is heated that determines the
characteristics of the tobacco flavor substance, those
characteristics will also vary. Reusable heating elements have been proposed. A
disadvan
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tobacco flavor unit (10;20) for use in a smoking
article for delivering to a smoker a tobacco flavour substance the

article having an electrical heating means (12) disposed in a cavity, the tobacco
flavor unit comprising a carbon fibrous mat (16;26) having a first

surface and a second surface, and tobacco flavor medium (14;24),
wherein when the electric heater is activated, a respective

fraction of the tobacco flavor medium in thermal transfer
relationship with the heater is heated, generating a predetermined

quantity of tobacco flavor substance for delivery to the smoker,
characterised in that the carbon fibrous mat (16 26) is adapted

to be disposed adjacent the electrical heating means, and in that
the tobacco flavor medium is disposed on the first surface of the

mat.
The tobacco flavor unit of claim 1, wherein the carbon
fibrous mat comprises a mat of carbon fibers made from a precursor

selected from the group consisting of rayon, pitch and
polyacrylonitrile.
The tobacco flavor unit of claim 2, wherein the carbon
fibers comprise over 90% by weight carbon.
The tobacco flavor unit of claim 2 or 3, wherein the
carbon fibrous mat is non woven, and the carbon fibrous mat

further includes a binder for bonding together the fibers.
The tobacco flavor unit of claim 4, wherein the binder
is selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl alcohol,

sugars, starches, modified starches, alginates, cellulose-based
adhesives, artificial gums and natural gum, and the binder is

suitable for use in a smoking article. 
The tobacco flavor unit of any of claims 1 to 5,
wherein the tobacco flavor medium comprises a sheet of tobacco

flavor material having a first surface and second surface, the
first sheet surface being in intimate thermal contact with the

first surface of the mat, and the second surface of the mat is
adapted to be in intimate physical contact with the electrical

heating means.
The tobacco flavor unit of any preceding claim, wherein
the carbon fibrous mat comprises carbon fibres at a basis weight

of 6 to 12 g/m
2
, the fibres being bonded together to form their own
fibrous mat.
The smoking article of any preceding claim, wherein the
mat has a thickness in the range from 0.05 mm to 0.11 mm.
The tobacco flavor unit of any preceding claim, wherein
the fibers have diameters substantially in the range from 7µm to

30 µm.
A tobacco flavor unit (10;20) for use in a smoking
article for delivering to a smoker a tobacco flavor substance, the

article having electrical heating means (12) disposed in a cavity,
the tobacco flavor unit comprising a fibrous mat (16;26) including

carbon fibres, the mat having a first surface and a second
surface, and tobacco flavor medium (14;24), wherein, when the

electrical heating means is activated, a respective fraction of
the tobacco flavor medium in thermal transfer relationsh
ip with
the heating means is heated, generating a predetermined quantity

of tobacco flavor substance for delivery to the smoker,
characterised in that the carbon fibers are incorporated into a

host matrix and in that the mat is arranged for disposal adjacent
the electrical heating means, and in that the tobacco flavor

medium is disposed on the first surface of the mat. 
The tobacco flavor unit of claim 10, wherein the carbon
fibers comprise 20% to 90% by weight of the total basis weight of

the carbon fibrous mat.
The tobacco flavor unit of claim 11, wherein the host
matrix is a cellulose-based matrix.
The tobacco flavor unit of claim 12 wherein the
cellulose-based matrix is a tobacco-based matrix.
The tobacco flavor unit of any preceding claim, wherein
the binder is pectin.
The tobacco flavor unit of any of claims 1 to 13,
wherein the binder is konjac flour.
A smoking article for delivering to a smoker
a tobacco flavour substance, said article comprising a balance flavour unit according

to claim 11, wherein the host matrix is a cellulose-based matrix.
The smoking article of claim 16, wherein each of the
plurality of electrical heaters has a first surface and second

surface and wherein the first surface of each heater is adapted to
be in intimate physical contact with the tobacco flavor unit.
The smoking article of claim 17, wherein the second
surface of each heater is adapted to be substantially surrounded

by a thermal insulation layer so as to reduce heat transfer in a
direction away from the tobacco flavor medium.
The smoking article of claim 16, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium comprises a sheet of tobacco flavor material having 

a first surface and second surface, the first sheet surface being
in intimate thermal contact with the first surface of the mat, and

the second surface of the mat is adapted to be intimate physical
contact with the electrical heating means.
The smoking article of claim 19, wherein the second
sheet surface is patterned so as to increase its effective surface

area.
The smoking article of claim 19, wherein the second
sheet surface is embossed.
The smoking article of claim 19, wherein the second
sheet surface is screen printed.
The smoking article of any of claims 19 to 22, wherein
the tobacco flavor material is perforated to increase its

porosity.
The smoking article of claim 23, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium comprises a slurry deposited on the mat.
The smoking article of claim 24, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium further comprises a second slurry deposited on top

of the first slurry.
The smoking article of claim 24, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium further comprises tobacco grinds on the surface of

the slurry, the tobacco grinds increasing the effective surface
area of the tobacco flavor material.
The smoking article of claim 26, wherein at least some
of the grinds are embedded into the deposited slurry. 
The smoking article of claim 26 or 27, wherein the
tobacco flavor medium further comprises an adder binder adhering

the tobacco grinds to the slurry.
A tobacco flavour unit arranged to cooperate with a
discrete source of heat, the heat source including an electrical

heating means (12) disposed in a cavity, the tobacco flavour unit comprising a fibrous
carbon mat (16;26) and a tobacco flavor material (14;24),

characterised in that the tobacco flavor material is disposed
along a first surface of the fibrous carbon mat, an opposite

surface of the fibrous carbon mat being substantially free of
tobacco flavor material, and in that the fibrous carbon mat is

arranged to receive heat at at least one location along the
opposite surface and to transfer a substantial portion of the heat

to portions of the tobacco flavor material proximate to the
location.
A smoking article for delivering to a smoker a tobacco
flavor substance, the article comprising a source of electrical

energy for powering an electrical heating means comprising a
plurality of heaters;


control means for applying the electrical energy to the
heaters to selectively heat at least one of the plurality of

heaters; and a tobacco flavor unit according to claim 3.
A tobacco flavor unit according to claim 3, wherein the
carbon fibres are woven together to form a woven mat.
A tobacco product including a tobacco flavour unit
according to claim 29.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
