<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631760</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical drape with improved construction for 'critical zone' panel
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1908	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B19	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical drape comprises a main panel (16) and a 
"critical zone" panel (14) secured thereto. A fenestration is 

formed by cutting through the "critical zone" panel (14). The 
main panel (16) is a light weight fabric having a relatively 

high coefficient of friction. The "critical zone" panel (14) 
comprises a barrier panel (18) lying against the main panel (16) and 

an outwardly facing absorbent panel, having an irregular 
surface. The critical "critical zone" panel (14) is folded to 

form troughs for capturing liquid incident to a surgical 
procedure. Corner constructions close the ends of the 

troughs (32). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANDARD TEXTILE CO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANDARD TEXTILE COMPANY, INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLS VERONICA ANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR JEFFREY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLS, VERONICA ANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, JEFFREY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to improvements in
surgical drapes.In the performance of surgical procedures, it is a
customary and usual practice to limit the extent to which
body liquids, or fluids used in the procedure, will come
into contact with the skin surfaces of the patient. One of
the reasons for this practice is based on the theory that
micro-organisms migrate through a liquid medium
instantaneously. Therefore, if there are any micro-organisms
on the skin surface of the patent, a surgical
drape inhibits their transfer to the surgical site.To limit the spread of micro-organisms, clothes are
draped over the patient so that only the area immediately
adjacent to the area of the surgical site is exposed. The
clothes, or surgical drapes, as they are generally
designated, limit contact between the skin surface and
blood, or other body liquid, which might exude from an
incision. Surgical drapes also limit the extent to which
liquids, employed in a procedure, contact the skin surface
of a patient.The use of surgical drapes is more than a matter of
general cleanliness and comfort, since micro-organisms on
the skin of the patient can be the source of infection.The present invention is, more specifically, directed
to improvements in fenestrated, surgical drapes. This type
of is provided with a fenestration, usually within the
outline of the drape, though sometimes opening from a side
of the drape. The fenestration is registered with the site
of the surgical procedure. The area and shape of the
fenestration is such as to minimize the area of the 
patient's skin that is exposed by the fenestra, consistent
with the nature of the procedure to be performed. There
are a wide variety of fenestrated, surgical drapes, which
are specifically designed for use in the performance of
various surgical procedures.As indicated, the general purpose of a surgical drape
is to minimize the area of a patient's person that is
directly exposed to contact with liquids, including body
fluids, that are incident to the performance of a surgical
procedure. In some cases there can be substantial
quantities of body fluids that emanate from the surgical
site. The area marginally off a fenestration (i.e.,
immediately adjacent and within a foot or so of the
fenestration) is referenced as a "critical zone", due to
the large amount of body fluids and other liquids that can
be found in this region. To guard against such liquids
penetrating (striking through) the drape and possibly
contaminating the underlying portion of the patient's
person,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reusable, surgical drape (10) adapted to overlie a patient during the
performance of a surgical procedure and having a fenestration (12) for

registration with the site of a surgical procedure, said drape (10) comprising
a main panel (16) of a given lateral extent and a critical zone panel (14) of

substantially smaller lateral extent and extending outwardly from said
fenestration (12), the critical zone panel (14) having a liquid proof barrier

panel (18) with a main portion and a marginal edge portion having lateral ends, the marginal
edge portion being foldable over towards the main portion to form an upwardly

open, non-filled trough (32) extending along the length of the marginal edge
portion between lateral ends thereof for the reception therein of liquids

incident to the performance of a surgical procedure, as well as to trap
surgical instruments or the like which might slip from a position on the

critical zone panel adjacent the fenestration, the critical zone panel (14)
further having means (28, 30) for releasably securing said marginal edge

portion of the barrier panel to the main portion of the barrier panel with the
marginal edge portion spaced from the main portion of the barrier panel to

define a spaced opening for said non-filled trough such that the non-filled
trough has open ends adjacent the lateral ends of the marginal edge portion,

characterised by further means (34, 36, 38, 40) for closing a
trough end to define a corner at said trough end such that liquids received in the

trough will not spill out from said trough end.
A reusable surgical drape as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the barrier
panel has a second marginal edge having lateral ends and being foldable over towards the

main portion to form an upwardly open, non-filled second trough (32) extending along the
length of the second marginal edge portion between lateral ends thereof for

the reception therein of liquids incident to the performance of a surgical
procedure, as well as to trap surgical instruments or the like which might slip

from a position on the critical zone panel adjacent the fenestration, the 
critical zone panel further having means (28, 30) for releasably securing said

second marginal edge portion of the barrier panel to the main portion of the
barrier panel with the second marginal edge portion spaced from the main

portion of the barrier panel to define a spaced opening for said non-filled
second trough such that the non-filled second trough has open ends adjacent

the lateral ends of the second marginal edge portion, characterised by further
means (34, 36, 38, 40) for closing a trough end of the

second trough to define a corner at said trough end such that liquids received in the
second trough will not spill out from said trough end.
A reusable surgical drape as claimed in any preceding Claim further
characterised in that said further means (34, 36, 38, 40) are for closing both of the

trough ends of the trough to define respective corners thereat such that
liquids received in the trough will not spill out from either trough end.
A reusable surgical drape as claimed in any preceding Claim further
characterised in that the further means (34, 36, 38, 40) for closing a

trough end are releasable such that the corner may be opened and closed.
The reusable surgical drape as claimed in any preceding Claim wherein
the further means (34, 36, 38, 40) comprise cooperating male and female

snap fasteners.
The reusable surgical drape as claimed in any preceding Claim further
characterised in that the further means (34, 36, 38, 40) for closing a

trough end comprise means for releasably holding portions of the trough at
the end thereof in further folded relation.
The reusable surgical drape as claimed in any preceding Claim further
characterised in that the critical zone panel has radiussed corners. 
The reusable surgical drape as claimed in any preceding claim wherein
the main panel (16) is generally rectangular and has side portions adapted to

drape beneath the level of an operating table on which a patient is
positioned, the critical zone panel (14) is also gen
erally rectangular with said
marginal edge portion being generally parallel with the side portions of the

main panel, with the critical zone panel extending outwardly on opposite
sides of the fenestration to a point where both are angled from a horizontal

plane when the surgical drape is draped over a patient.
The reusable surgical drape as claimed in any preceding Claim wherein
the critical zone panel (14) is secured to the main panel (16) by stitchings

(24) that extend marginally of the critical zone panel main portion and
terminate adjacent the trough.
The reusable surgical drape as claimed in any preceding Claim wherein
the critical zone panel (14) overlies the main panel (16), the fenestration

opening (12) being defined by both the main panel (16) and the critical zone
panel (14).
The reusable surgical drape as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the
fenestration is further defined by a tape edge binding (26) that secures the

critical zone panel (14) to the main panel (16).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
