<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623141</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELECTION OF BINDING-MOLECULES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K100	C07K122	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K1	C07K1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods of designing and producing sequence-specific DNA binding proteins, methods of determining the affinity of a specific binding molecule for a target and products produced by these methods are disclosed. The methods include: forming a reversible bond between a specific binding molecule and the target and determining the susceptibility of the reversible bond to reversal as a measure of the affinity of the binding molecule for the target.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARVARD COLLEGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERDINE GREGORY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERDINE, GREGORY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SELECTION OF BINDING-MOLECULESDescriptionBackground of the InventionSmall molecules which bind to other molecules with specific affinity are important in many biological pro¬ cesses. The importance of sequence specific DNA-binding proteins in biology became apparent in the 1960,s with the establishment of models for gene regulation. Because of their important roles, it would be useful to be able to design small molecules which can mimic or replace naturally-occurring molecules. However, despite consid¬ erable interest in the design and production of small binding molecules, a rational process for the design, synthesis and selection of such molecules has not yet been developed.Summary of the InventionThe present invention relates to methods of design¬ ing and producing a member of a binding pair which spe¬ cifically binds to its partner. It further relates to the products resulting from the methods. Such members are referred to herein as specific binding molecules. It particularly relates to designing and synthesizing mole¬ cules which specifically bind a desired target, such as a DNA sequence; these molecules are referred to as se- quence-specific DNA binding molecules and are also the subject matter of the present invention. Molecules, such as the sequence-specific binding molecules (also referred to herein as specific binding molecules) designed by the present method can be a peptide (D-, L- or a mixture of D- and L-) , a peptidomimetic, a complex carbohydrate or other oligomer of individual units or monomers which 

 binds specifically to its binding partner (e.g., to DNA). The present invention further relates to molecules, particularly sequence-specific DNA molecules, designed and produced by the present method and to uses therefor. Specific binding molecules produced by the present method can be used in any application in which predictable or specific joining of two members of a binding pair is desired.In one embodiment, sequence-specific DNA binding molecules produced by the methods described herein, are useful as gene regulatory molecules, such as molecules which mimic the tight and specific DNA binding character¬ istics of transcription factors, which play important roles in regulation of gene transcription by increasing or decreasing the rate of mRNA synthesis. Most commonly, genes are regulated at the level of transcription by proteins, referred to as transcription factors, which bind promoter DNA. A critical step in gene regulation by transcription factors is binding a factor to its specif-
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The invention claimed is:
CLAIMS 1. A method of designing and producing a specific binding molecule, comprising the steps of: a) combining: 1) a desired target con¬ taining a first moiety capable of forming a reversible bond with a sec¬ ond moiety and; 2) a test-molecule comprising a unit to be assessed for its ability to bind a region of the desired target and containing the second moiety, thereby producing a combination; b) maintaining the combination produced in (a) under conditions appropriate for formation of a reversible bond between the first moiety and the sec¬ ond moiety, and binding of the unit to be assessed with a region of the desired target and the test-molecule, thereby producing desired target - test-molecule complexes; c) subjecting complexes produced in (b) to conditions which result in rever- - sal of the reversible bond, thereby producing a mixture which contains complexes, uncomplexed desired target molecules, and test-molecules; d) determining the identify and order of test- molecules present in the complexes; and e) repeating steps a) through d) in a series of cycles, wherein in each subsequent cycle, test-molecules in step (a) comprise one unit more than in the preceding cycle and the test- 


 molecules in complexes formed in step (b) comprise one unit more than test- molecules present in complexes formed in step (b) of the preceding cycle.
2. A specific binding molecule produced by the method of Claim 1.
3. A method of designing and producing a sequence- specific DNA binding molecule, comprising the steps of: a) combining: 1) a desired DNA sequence containing a first moiety capable of forming a reversible bond with a sec¬ ond moiety and; 2) a test-molecule comprising a unit to be assessed for its ability to bind a region of the desired DNA sequence and containing the second moiety, thereby producing a combination; b) maintaining the combination produced in (a) under conditions appropriate for formation of a reversible bond between the first moiety and the sec¬ ond moiety, and binding of the unit to be assessed with a region of the desired DNA sequence and the test- molecule, thereby producing desired DNA sequence - test-molecule com¬ plexes; c) subjecting complexes produced in (b) to conditions which result in rever¬ sal of the reversible bond, thereby producing a mixture which contains complexes, uncomplexed target DNA 



 sequences, and uncomplexed test-mole¬ cules; d) determining the identify and order of test- molecules present in the complexes; and e) repeating steps a) through d) in a series of cycles, wherein in each subsequent cycle, test-molecules in step (a) comprise one unit more than in the preceding cycle and the text molecule in complexes formed in step
(b) comprise one unit more than test- molecules present in complexes formed in step (b) of the preceding cycle.
4. A sequence-specific DNA binding molecule produced by the method of Claim 3.
5. A method of Claim 2 wherein the test-molecule of step a) is a peptide and the unit to be assessed is an amino acid residue.
6. A sequence-specific DNA binding molecule produced by the method of Claim 5.
7. A method of Claim 5 wherein the reversible bond of step b) is a disulfide bond formed between an -SH group on the test-molecule and an -SH group on the desired DNA sequence.
8. A sequence-specific DNA binding molecule produced by the method of Claim 7.
9. A method of Claim 3 wherein step c) further compris¬ es subjecting complexes to a reversing agent. 


 10. A method of Claim 5 wherein the reversing agent is a reducing agent.
11. A sequence-specific DNA binding molecule produced by the method of Claim 10.
12. The method of Claim 3, wherein the desired DNA se¬ quence comprises a DNA molecule comprising an -SH group, the test-molecule comprises an -SH group, the reversible bond formed between the -SH groups is a disulfide bond and the reversing conditions comprise subjecting complexes to a reducing agent to break the disulfide bond.
13. A sequence-specific DNA binding molecule produced by the method of Claim 12.
14. The method of Claim 12, further comprising attaching the DNA molecule to an immobilizing matrix, and wherein subjecting complexes to the reducing agent comprises contacting the complex with a concentra¬ tion gradient of the reducing agent, and determining the ability of the reducing agent to disrupt the disulfide bond comprises determining the ability of the reducing agent to elute the test-molecule from the immobilized DNA.
15. The method of Claim 14, wherein the test-molecule comprises a peptide comprising a first and second subunit, the first subunit comprises a first amino acid residue comprising an -SH group and the second subunit comprises a second amino acid residue which does not contain an -SH group. 


 16. The method of Claim 15, wherein the first subunit comprises cysteine.
17. The method of Claim 12, wherein step a) further comprises providing a plurality of test-molecules comprising a plurality of sequenc¬ es, each of the test molecules comprising a first subunit comprising an -SH group and a second subunit which does not contain an -SH group, step b) further comprises maintaining a plural- ity of the test-molecules with a plurality of the
DNA molecules to form a plurality of complexes, each of the complexes comprising a test-molecule linked by a disulfide bond to a DNA molecule, step c) further comprises subjecting a plurali- ty of the complexes to a reducing agent to break the disulfide bonds; and step d) further comprises determining the sus¬ ceptibility of the bonds to the reducing agent as an inverse measure of the ability of a test-molecule to bind to the DNA molecule, the sequence of the test- molecule comprising the sequence of the test-mole¬ cule of the complex with the disulfide bond most resistant to breakage by the reducing agent.
18. The method of Claim 3, wherein the test-molecule is of a predetermined length and the method further comprises comparing the length of the sequence gen¬ erated in step (d) with the predetermined length and if the desired length has not been reached, then adding another subunit to the subsequent test- molecule and repeating steps (a) through (d) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
