<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626850</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DRY COMPOSITIONS FOR PREPARING SUBMICRON EMULSIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K9107	A61K806	A61K9107	A61K919	A61Q1900	A61K4718	A61K4716	A61K919	A61K804	A61Q1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K8	A61K9	A61K9	A61Q19	A61K47	A61K47	A61K9	A61K8	A61Q19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to dry, stable compositions which can be reconstituted to form pharmaceutical or cosmetic emulsions, and to methods for making such compositions. An emulsion is formed from about 0.2 to 25 weight percent of a first component of an oil, about 0.1 to 5 weight percent of a second component of an emulsifier, about 0.25 to 25 weight percent of a cryoprotectant of an amino compound, such as one or more amino acids, peptides or protein hydrolysates, and an aqueous component, wherein the amino compound is present in an amount that is equal to or greater than that of the first component. Optionally, a co-emulsifier, a suspension agent, a preservative, an antioxidant and a drug can be added to these emulsions. Thereafter, the emulsion is lyophilized to form dry compositions that have from about 40 to about 90 weight percent of the amino compound; from about 0.1 to about 20 weight percent of the emulsifier; and from about 0.2 to about 40 weight percent of the oily component. By combining the dry composition with an appropriate quantity of an aqueous liquid, the composition is reformed as an oil-in-water emulsion.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHARMOS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHARMOS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALDOUBY YANIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDMAN DORON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALDOUBY, YANIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDMAN, DORON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to dry compositions which
are easily reconstituted with water to form submicron
oil-in-water emulsions for use in the administration
of pharmaceuticals and cosmetics, and to methods for
making such dry compositions.Oil-in-water emulsions have particular utility
for the administration of drugs, cosmetics or other
active agents to subjects, but are disadvantageous in
that such emulsions have certain drawbacks with regard
to their manufacture, transportation and storage.
These include the bulk and weight of the water which
is used to keep the oil in suspension, limited long
term storage stability of the emulsion, the limited
range of concentrations in which such emulsions are
available and the risk of microbial growth in the
aqueous phase, which can be an especially fertile
breeding ground for microorganisms when amino acids or
carbohydrates are included.Lyophilization is a well known technique for
processing and storage of moisture sensitive
compounds. This methodology is employed in various
applications in the food and pharmaceutical
industries. For example, U.S. Patent 4,616,047
relates to oral emulsions that are prepared by a
method which includes the steps of preparing a lipid
phase by stirring at a temperature of 80°C or less,
preparing an aqueous phase by stirring an organic
filler or thickening agent with water at a temperature
of 80°C or less, introducing the lipid phase into the
aqueous phase to form a homogeneous emulsion, 
distributing the emulsion into alveolar packs,
freezing the contents of the packs at a temperature of
between -20 and -50°C, and lyophilizing the frozen
contents at between 80 and 0.13 Pa with a heat supply
that is always lower than the melting temperature of
the components. A pharmaceutically active substance
can be incorporated into the emulsion prior to
distribution into the alveolar packs.Prior attempts to lyophilize oil-in-water
emulsions, however, failed to preserve the original
mean droplet size after reconstitution. Furthermore,
enhanced bioavailability of the drug is achieved when
the mean droplet size is in the submicron range.In addition, successful lyophilization usually
requires the use of large amounts of carbohydrates
which may cause hypertonic solutions and high
susceptibility for microbial contamination. For
example, European Patent 211,257 relates to emulsion
compositions that comprise carbohydrates which in some
instances may be dangerous for diabetic patients and
on some occasions are hyperosmotic after
reconstitution. These emulsions
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lyophilized composition comprising:

from about 40 to 90 weight percent of an amino
compound;
from about 0.1 to 20 weight percent of a
emulsifier; and
from about 0.2 to 40 weight percent of a oily
component, wherein the amino compound is present in an

amount which is equal to or greater than the amount of
the oily component, and the components are present in

combination such that, when combined with an appropriate
quantity of an aqueous liquid, the composition forms an

oil-in-water emulsion.
A composition of claim 1 wherein the amino
compound comprises a straight or branched amino acid or a

nontoxic salt or ester thereof, a peptide, a protein
hydrolysate or a compound which includes one or more

amino groups.
The composition of claim 2 wherein the amino
acid is glycine, leucine, isoleucine, lysine, methionine,

phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, alanine,
arginine, histidine, proline, serine, tyrosine, taurine

or carnitine, and the amino compound is niacinamide or
creatinine.
The composition of claim 1 wherein the oily
component is a vegetable oil, a synthetic oil, a mineral

oil or a medium chain triglyceride oil or a mixture
thereof.
The composition of claim 1 wherein the
emulsifier is a phospholipid compound or a mixture of

phospholipids.
The composition of claim 5 wherein the
phospholipid is lecithin, phosphatidylcholine,

phosphatidylethanolamine or mixtures thereof. 
The composition of claim 1 further
comprising a co-emulsifier in an amount of from about

0.1 to 20 weight percent.
The composition of claim 7 wherein the coemulsifier
is a surfactant.
The composition of claim 8 wherein the
surfactant is a non-ionic alkylene oxide condensate of

an organic compound which contains one or more
hydroxyl groups.
The composition of claim 7, wherein the coemulsifier
is polyoxyethylated polymer conjugated with

polyoxypropylene or a fatty acid.
The composition of claim 1 wherein the
emulsifier is mono or diglyceride derivative.
The composition of claim 1 further
comprising a suspension agent in an amount of from

about 0.1 to 3 weight percent.
The composition of claim 12 wherein the
suspension agent is polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl

pyrrolidone, gelatin, pectin, methyl cellulose,
glycols such as polyethylene or polypropylene glycols

or mixtures thereof.
The composition of claim 1 further
comprising a drug in the amount of about 0.01 to 2

weight percent.
The composition of claim 14 wherein the drug
is selected from the group consisting of a homeostasis

modulator, a general anesthetic, a local anesthetic, a
hypnotic, a sedative, an anxiolytic, an

antidepressant, an anticonvulsant, a narcotic
analgesic, a narcotic antagonist, a nonsteroidal

antiinflammatory drug, an anticholinesterasis agent, a
symphathomimetic agent, a parasympathomimetic agent, a

ganglionic stimulating agent, a ganglionic blocking
agent, a neuromodulator, a neuroprotectant, a 

neuromuscular blocking agent, an antimuscarinic agent, an
adrenergic blocking agent, an autacoid agent, an autacoid

antagonist, digitalis, a congener, a diuretic, a
saluretic, an antibody, anantimicrobial agent, an

antiviral agent, an antifungal agent, an antineoplastic
agent, an immunosuppressant, an immunomodulator, a

vaccine, hemoglobin, a hemoglobin derivative or polymer
thereof, an oxygen carrier, a hormone, a hormone

antagonist, a fat-soluble vitamin or a combination
thereof.
The composition of claim 7 wherein the amino

compound is present in an amount of from about 50 to
about 75 weight percent; the emulsifier is present in an

amount of from about 0.1 to 10 weight percent; the
co-emulsifier is present in an amount of from about 0.1

to 10 weight percent; and the oily component is
present in an amount from about 0.2 to 30 weight

percent.
An oil-in-water emulsion comprising about 0.2
to 25 weight percent of a first component of an oil,

about 0.1 to 5 weight percent of a second component of an
emulsifier, about 0.25 to 50 weight percent of a

cryoprotectant of an amino compound and an aqueous
component, wherein the amino compound is present in an

amount which is equal to or greater than the amount of
the oil.
The emulsion of claim 17 wherein the amino
compound comprises a straight or branched amino acid or a

nontoxic salt or ester thereof, a peptide, a protein
hydrolysate or a compound which includes one or more

amino groups.
The emulsion of claim 17 wherein the first
component is a medium chain triglyceride oil, a vegetable

oil, a mineral oil or mixtures thereof and the weight
ratio of the amino compound to the first component is

between 1/1 and 20/1. 
The emulsion of claim 17 wherein the emulsifier
is a phospholipid compound or a mixture of phospholipids.
The emulsion of claim 20 wherein the
phospholipid is lecithin, phosphatidylcholine,

phosphatidylethanolamine or mixtures thereof.
The emulsion of claim 17 further comprising a
co-emulsifier in an amount of about 0.1 to 5%.
The emulsion of claim 22 wherein the coemulsifier
is a non-ionic surfactant.
The emulsion of claim 17 further comprising a
suspending agent in an amount of between about 0.1 and

5%.
The emulsion of claim 17 further comprising an
effective amount of a preservative or antioxidant.
The emulsion of claim 17 further comprising a
drug in the amount of about 0.01 to 2%.
The emulsion of claim 26 further comprising an
effective amount of an additional drug.
The emulsion of claim 17 in the form of a
submicron emulsion having a mean droplet size of about

0.05 to 0.5 µm.
The emulsion of claim 17 wherein the amino
compound is present in an amount of between about 0.5 to

12%, the first component is present in an amount of about
0.4 to 10%, the second component is present in an amount

of about 0.2 to 4%, the weight ratio of the amino
compound to the first component is between 1/1 and 15/1

and the emulsion is a submicron emulsion having a mean
droplet size of between about 0.1 and 0.3 µm.
The emulsion of claim 22 wherein the amino
compound is present in an amount of between about 1 to

10%, the first component is present in an amount of about
0.6 to 8%, the second component is present in an amount

of about 0.25 to 2.5%, the co-emulsifier is present in an
amount of about 0.25 to 2.5%, the weight ratio of the

amino compound to the first component is between 1/1 and 
12.5/1 and the emulsion is a submicron emulsion having a

mean droplet size of between about 0.1 and 0.3 µm.
A method of making a lyophilized composition
which comprises formulating the emulsion of claim 17

reducing the oil content thereof and lyophilizing the
reduced oil content emulsion to a dry composition.
A method of making a lyophilized composition
which comprises formulating the emulsion of claim 29

reducing the oil content thereof and lyophilizing the
reduced oil content emulsion to a dry composition.
A method of making a lyophilized composition
which comprises formulating the emulsion of claim 30

reducing the oil content thereof and lyophilizing the
reduced oil content emulsion to a dry composition.
A dry lyophilized composition made by the
method of claim 31.
A dry lyophilized composition made by the
method of claim 32.
A dry lyophilized composition made by the
method of claim 33.
A method of making an emulsion which comprises
adding a suitable aqueous liquid to the lyophilized

composition of claim 36.
The method of claim 37 wherein the aqueous
liquid is Water for Injection, U.S.P.; 0.9% Sodium

Chloride Injection, U.S.P.; or 5% Dextrose Injection,
U.S.P..
The method of claim 37 which further comprises
adding less aqueous liquid to make the emulsion than that

which was removed when making the lyophilized
composition.
The method of claim 37 which further comprises
adding the aqueous liquid to the lyophilized composition

with mixing to form the emulsion.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
