<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647130</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF HEMODIALYSIS AND HEMODIALYSIS LIQUIDS INCLUDING HYDROCHLORIC ACID.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K908	A61K908	A61K3300	A61K3300	A61M114	A61M114	A61M116	A61M116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K33	A61K33	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Blood comes from the patient (13) through a blood pump (12) through an artificial kidney or membrane cartridge (11) and returns to the patient (14). The dialysate fluid is blended in a proportioning pump (18) by combining treated diluent water (15), acid concentrate (16), and bicarbonate (alkalizer/buffer) concentrate (17). These materials are blended at a machine set dilution rate (36.83X or 45X) to produce a final dialysate stream (19). Final dialysate fluid has at least 1 millimole of added acid. The dialysate fluid stream (19) passes into the cartridge (11) wherein the fluid contacts the exterior of the hollow dialysis membrane containing the blood. The contaminated dialysate (25) leaves the cartridge via pump (26) and directed to a drain.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNTECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNTECH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSENTINO LOUIS C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSEN WALTER B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSENTINO, LOUIS C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSEN, WALTER B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
i. jd of hemodialysis and hemodialγsis liquids including hydrochloric acidField of the invention The invention relates to the composition of an aqueous dialysate fluid used in the machine hemodialysis of human blood, most commonly, in the treatment of patients having end-stage renal failure. More particularly, the invention resides in a dialysate fluid system that can be used in available hemodialysis units at typical blending ratios or reagent proportions. The dialysate system can be used without the drawbacks of anions in the dialysate that can cause fatigue (weakness), nausea, vomiting and other debilitating symptoms.Background of the Invention Individuals requiring renal system support, or who have end- stage renal disease or renal failure, have kidneys temporarily or permanently incapable of removing products of metabolism and other substances from the blood for excretion in urine. Products of metabolism or metabolites typically include such components as urea, natural biochemical metabolites, drug metabolites, excess electrolytes, etc. Individuals with end- stage renal disease have the option of either undergoing the replacement of a diseased kidney through the transplant of a healthy kidney, or undergoing periodic hemodialysis (daily or weekly treatments) to reduce the concentration of harmful materials in the blood stream. Other individuals need hemodialysis for brief periods of renal support.Hemodialysis is a process in which solute molecules, which constitute undesirable waste products in human blood, can be transported (i.e., removed from the blood stream) across a membrane into a dialysis fluid. The driving force of such transport is (1) the difference in pressure across the membrane and (2) the difference in chemical potential of each individual solute molecule across the membrane. Dialysis requires that membranes separating blood from d lysis fluid permit diffusional transfer of at least ε„.me of the molecular species present in blood into the fluid while effectively preventing any return contamination of blood or commingling of the blood and the dialysis fluid. Dialysis is a passive separation process with low operating costs using no external thermal or chemical energy sources. The basic hemodialysis separation obtained is 

between large cells and molecules, such as RBC, BC and proteins, and small molecules such as urea, electrolytes, and other small molecule metabolites. To obtain reasonable separation rates, machines are designed with large areas of membranes and are used at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A dialysis fluid for use in a 36.83X hemodialysis machine, which fluid comprises an aqueous dilution product formed by combining (i) an alkalizer/buffer containing a source of alkalinit:' comprising aqueous bicarbonate; and (ii) an acid concentrate comprising hydrochloric acid in sufficient amount to result in the addition of at least 1 millimole of the acid to a use solution.
2. The fluid of claim 1 wherein the dilution product is formed by combining an aqueous diluent with the acid concentrate and the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
3. The fluid of claim 2 wherein the aqueous diluent is combined with the acid concentrate prior to combination with the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
4. The fluid of claim 2 wherein about 1 part of the acid concentrate and about 35 parts of aqueous diluent are combined with about 1.8 parts of alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
5. A dialysis fluid for use in a 36.83X hemodialysis machine, which fluid comprises:
(i) about 90-155 mEq/L sodium ion;
(ii) 25-45 mEq/L bicarbonate ion; and
(iii) about 105-120 mEq/L of Cl- anion, which is formed by combining:
(a) an alkalizer/buffer containing a source of alkalinity comprising aqueous sodium bicarbonate; and
(b) an acid concentrate comprising hydrochloric acid in sufficient amount to result in the addition of at least 1 millimole of the acid to a use solution.
6. The fluid of claim 5 wherein the dilution product is formed by combining an aqueous diluent with the acid concentrate and the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
7. The fluid of claim 6 wherein the aqueous diluent is combined with the acid concentrate prior to combination with the alkalizer/buffer concentrate. 


 8. The fluid of claim 6 wherein about 1 part of the acid concentrate and about 35 parts of aqueous diluent are combined with about 1.8 parts of alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
9. A dialysis fluid for use in a 36.83X machine, which fluid comprises an aqueous dilution product comprising about 90-155 mEq/L sodium ion, 25-45 mEq/L bicarbonate ion, 105-120 mEq/L chloride ion, and a physiologically acceptable concentration of potassium ion, calcium ion, magnesium ion, dextrose or mixtures thereof, which dilution product is formed by combining:
(i) an alkalizer/buffer concentrate containing a source of alkalinity comprising about 50-90 grams of sodium bicarbonate per liter of alkalizer/buffer concentrate; and
(ii) an acid concentrate comprising hydrochloric acid in sufficient amount to result in the addition of at least 1 millimole of the acid to a use solution.
10. The fluid of claim 9 wherein the dilution product is formed by combining an aqueous diluent with the acid concentrate and the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
11. The fluid of claim 10 wherein the aqueous diluent is combined with the acid concentrate prior to combination with the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
12. The fluid of claim 10 wherein about 1 part of the acid concentrate and about 35 parts of the aqueous diluent are combined with about 1.8 parts of the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
13. A method of hemodialysis of human blood which comprises introducing human blood into the interior of a hollow fiber hemodialysis membrane in a 36.83X hemodialysis machine and contacting the exterior of the membrane with a fluid which comprises an aqueous dilution product formed by combining:
(i) an alkalizer/buffer containing a source of alkalinity comprising aqueous bicarbonate; and
(ii) an acid concentrate comprising hydrochloric acid in sufficient amount to result in the addition of at least 1 millimole of the acid to a use solution; and withdrawing the dialysate from the membrane and returning the blood to a patient. 


 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the dilution product is formed by combining an aqueous diluent with an acid concentrate and the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
15. The method of claim 13 wherein the dialysate fluid is maintained at a temperature of about 35-40°C.
16. A dialysis fluid for use in a 45X hemodialysis machine, which fluid comprised an aqueous dilution product formed by combining
(i) an alkalizer/buffer containing a source of alkalinity comprising aqueous bicarbonate; and
(ii) an acid concentrate comprising hydrochloric acid in sufficient amount to result in the addition of at least 1 millimole of the acid to a use solution.
17. The fluid of claim 16 wherein the dilution product is formed by combining an aqueous diluent with the acid concentrate and the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
18. The fluid of claim 17 wherein the aqueous diluent is combined with the acid concentrate prior to combination with the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
19. The fluid of claim 17 wherein about 1 part of the acid concentrate and about 42.3 parts of aqueous diluent are combined with about 1.7 parts of alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
20. A dialysis fluid for use in a 45X hemodialysis machine, which fluid comprises:
(i) about 90-155 mEq/L sodium ion;
(ii) 25-45 mEq/L bicarbonate ion;
(iii) about 105-210 mEq/L of Cl- anion; which is formed by combining:
(a) an alkalizer/buffer concentrate containing a source of alkalinity comprised essentially of aqueous sodium bicarbonate; and
(b) an acid concentrate comprising hydrochloric acid in sufficient amount to result in the addition of at least 1 millimole of the acid to a use solution.
21. The fluid of claim 20 wherein the dilution product is formed by combining an aqueous diluent with the acid concentrate and the alkalizer/buffer concentrate. 


 22. The fluid of claim 21 wherein the aqueous diluent is combined with the acid concentrate prior to combination with the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
23. The fluid of claim 20 wherein about 1 part of the acid concentrate and about 42.3 parts of the aqueous diluent are combined with about 1.7 parts of the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
24. A dialysis fluid for use in a 45X machine, which fluid comprises an aqueous dilution product comprising about 90-155 mEq/L sodium ion, 25-45 mEq/L bicarbonate ion, 105-120 mEq/L chloride ion, and a physiologically acceptable concentration of potassium ion, calcium ion, magnesium ion, dextrose or mixtures thereof, which dilution product is formed by combining:
(i) an alkalizer/buffer concentrate containing a source of alkalinity comprising about 50-90 grams of sodium bicarbonate per liter of alkalizer/buffer concentrate; and
(ii) an acid concentrate comprising hydrochloric acid in sufficient amount to result in the addition of at least 1 millimole of the acid to a use solution.
25. The fluid of claim 24 wherein the dilution product is formed by combining an aqueous diluent with the acid concentrate and the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
26. The fluid of claim 25 wherein the aqueous diluent is combined with the acid concentrate prior to combination with the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
27. The fluid of claim 25 wherein about 1 part of the acid concentrate and about 42.3 parts of aqueous diluent are combined with about 1.7 parts of alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
28. A method of hemodialysis of human blood which comprises introducing human blood into the interior of a hollow fiber hemodialysis membrane in a 45X hemodialysis machine and contacting the exterior of the membrane with a dialysis fluid which comprises an aqueous dilution product formed by combining:
(i) an alkalizer/buffer containing a source of alkalinity comprising aqueous bicarbonate; and (ii) an acid concentrate comprising hydrochloric acid in sufficient amount to result in the addition of at least 1 millimole of the acid to a use solution; and 


 withdrawing the dialysate from the membrane and returning the blood to a patient.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein the dilution product is formed by combining an aqueous diluent with an acid concentrate and the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
30. The fluid of claim 29 wherein the aqueous diluent is combined with the acid concentrate prior to combination with the alkalizer/buffer concentrate.
31. The method of claim 28 wherein the dialysate fluid is maintained at a temperature of about 35-40°C.
32. The method of claim 28 wherein the dialysate fluid is contacted with a membrane at a rate of about 200 to 1000 milliliters of fluid per minute.
33. The method of claim 28 wherein the acid concentrate further comprises magnesium ion and calcium ion in an amount sufficient to result in the addition of about 0.1 to 6 mEq/L, independently, of each ion in the dialysate fluid.
34. A two package concentrate for a 45X dialysis machine that can be diluted with purified water to form a physiologically compatible dialysate fluid, which comprises:
(a) a first package comprising an aqueous alkalizer buffer comprising a bicarbonate salt; and
(b) an acid concentrate comprising a source of acid in sufficient concentration to provide at least 1 millimole of acid in the final diluted dialysate fluid.
35. The concentrate of claim 34 wherein the source of acid comprises hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, citric acid, lactic acid, pyruvic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid or mixtures thereof.
36. The concentrate of claim 34 wherein the bicarbonate salt is present at a concentration of about 40 to 95 grams per liter.
37. A two package concentrate for a 36.83X dialysis machine that can be diluted with purified water to form a physiologically compatible dialysate fluid, which comprises:
(a) a first package comprising an aqueous alkalizer buffer comprising a bicarbonate salt; and 


 (b) an acid concentrate comprising a source of acid in sufficient concentration to provide at least 1 millimole of acid in the final diluted dialysate fluid. 38. * The concentrate of claim 37 wherein the source of acid comprises hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, citric acid, lactic acid, pyruvic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid or mixtures thereof.
39. The concentrate of claim 37 wherein the bicarbonate salt is present at a concentration of about 40 to 95 grams per liter. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
