<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620701</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Circuit devices and fabrication method of the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K340	H05K340	H05K346	H05K109	H05K109	H05K346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A supporting member or first synthetic resin sheet with 
conductive bumps (2) disposed at predetermined positions are 

superposed on a second synthetic resin sheet (4) under the 
condition that the resin component of the second synthetic 

resin sheet is plastic deformed or the temperature thereof 
exceeds a glass transition temperature so that the conductive 

bumps (2) are pierced into the second synthetic resin sheet (4). In 
other words, the conductive bumps (2) are pierced vertically into 

the second synthetic resin sheet (4) so as to form through-type 
conducive lead portions exposed to the first (supporting 

substrate) and second synthetic resin sheets (4). The 
through-type conductive lead portions are used to electrically 

connect electric devices and circuit and to connect wiring 
pattern layers (3,3'). The conductive bumps (2) can be precisely and 

densely formed and disposed by printing method or plating 
method. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to circuit devices such as
inter-connectors that effectively connect electronic devices
and form electronic circuits, and printed wiring boards that
densely connect lines and components and a fabrication method
thereof that can reduce the number of fabrication steps and
contribute to improving the yield of fabrication, see e.g. US-A-4 991 285 and EP-A-0 608 726 (published on 03.08.94, priority 26.01.93, Article 54(3)EPC).When electronic devices and a printed wiring board are
connected or printed wiring boards are connected, they may be
occasionally connected in the direction of thickness (namely,
vertical direction or laminating direction) thereof. As
connecting means in the vertical direction or laminating
direction (namely, inter-connector technology), an anisotropic
conductive adhesive agent is known. The anisotropic
conductive adhesive agent is made by dispersing fine
conductive particles in an adhesive sheet. When the
anisotropic conductive adhesive agent sheet is pressed in the
direction of thickness thereof with a predetermined force, the
pressed region shows for only vertical direction conductivity.
With the characteristics of the anisotropic conductive
adhesive agent, for example glass cells of a liquid crystal 
device and a flexible wiring board are electrically connected.
In reality, anisotropic conductive adhesive agent is placed
between the glass cells of the liquid crystal device and the
flexible wiring board. Then the glass cells and the flexible
wiring substrate are and pressed while heating, and they are
adhered together. This is because, conductive particles in
the anisotropic conductive adhesive agent are electrically
connected to the wiring pattern of the flexible wiring board
and the glass cell through one particle or plural particles.As means for electrically connecting electronic devices,
lines are electrically connected to electronic devices
disposed on the surface of a printed wiring board by using an
anisotropic conductive adhesive agent. In this case, the
electronic devices can be two-dimensionally connected over the
printed wiring board.In a printed wiring board, namely a double-sided printed
wiring board or multi-layer printed wiring board, wiring
layers such as double-sided conductive patterns are
electrically connected in the following method. In the case
of a double-sided printed wiring board, a double-sided copper
clad substrate is drilled at predetermined positions. All the
surfaces of the substrate including the inner hole walls are
chemica
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical inter-connector, comprising:

an insulating synthetic resin sheet; and
substantially cone shaped conductive lead portions pierced vertically
into said synthetic resin sheet and spaced apart from each other,
wherein a bottom surface of each of said cone shaped conductive
lead portions is flatly exposed on one main surface of said synthetic resin

sheet and a top portion of each of said cone shaped conductive lead
portions protrudes from the other surface of said synthetic resin sheet.
An electrical inter-connector according to claim 1, wherein said
synthetic resin sheet is reinforced with an insulating cloth or mat, and said

conductive lead portions are pierced into fiber meshes of said insulating
cloth or mat.
A printed wiring board, comprising:

an electrical inter-connector according to claim 1 or 2; and
a wiring pattern electrically connected to at least one end of said
conductive lead portions, formed on at least one of said surfaces of said

synthetic resin sheet, and made of a metal.
A printed wiring board according to claim 3, wherein a chromate
layer and/or a silane layer are interposed between said wiring pattern and

said insulating synthetic resin sheet. 
A printed wiring board according to claim 3, wherein said conductive
lead portions are formed of a conductive compound containing silver or

copper powder.
A printed wiring board according to claim 3, wherein said printed
wiring board is a multilayer wiring board.
A method of fabricating a printed wiring board, comprising the steps
of:


forming substantially cone shaped conductive lead portions at
predetermined positions on at least one main surface of a supporting

member;
superposing a synthetic resin sheet on said at least one main surface
with conductive lead portions to form a laminate; and
pressurizing said laminate and piercing said conductive lead portions
vertically through said synthetic resin sheet so as to form through-type

conductive lead portions having exposed top portions.
A method according to claim 7, wherein said supporting member is a
conductive metal foil.
A method according to claim 8, wherein said step of superposing
further comprises:


a step of superposing an elastic or flexible pressure receiving
member on said synthetic resin sheet to form a further superposed laminate.
A method according to claim 9, wherein said elastic or
flexible pressure receiving member is superposed on said synthetic resin

sheet interposing a thin film with low expanding and high breaking
characteristics.
A method according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein said
method further comprises a step of heating said superposed laminate until a

resin component of said synthetic resin sheet is plastic deformed or the
temperature of said synthetic resin sheet exceeds a glass transition

temperature and simultaneously pressurizing said superposed laminate.
A method according to any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein said
method further comprises the step of forming a conductive metal foil layer

on a surface with exposed top portions of said synthetic resin sheet, said
conductive metal foil layer being electrically connected to said through-type

conductive lead portions.
A method according to claim 12, wherein said method further
comprises the step of etching at least one of said conductive metal foil

layers to form a wiring pattern electrically connected to the through-type
conductive lead portions.
A method according to claim 7, wherein said supporting member is a
peelable insulating film. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein said step of superposing
further comprises a step of superposing an elastic or flexible pressure

receiving member on said synthetic resin sheet.
A method according to claim 15, wherein said elastic or
flexible pressure receiving member is superposed on said synthetic resin

sheet interposing a thin film with low expanding and high breaking
characteristics.
A method according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein said
method further comprises a step of heating said superposed laminate until a

resin component of said synthetic resin sheet is plastic deformed or the
temperature of said synthetic resin sheet exceeds a glass transition

temperature and simultaneously, pressurizing said superposed laminate.
A method according to any one of claims 14 to 17, wherein said
method further comprises the step of forming a conductive metal foil layer

on a surface with exposed top portions of said synthetic resin sheet, said
conductive metal foil layer being electrically connected to said through-type

conductive lead portions.
A method according to claim 7, wherein said method further
comprises the steps of superposing a conductive metal foil on said laminate

to form a superposed member; and

pressurizing said superposed member so that said conductive lead
portions vertically, pierce into synthetic resin sheet to form through-type 

conductive lead portions and are electrically connected to said conductive
metal foil.
A method according to any one of claims 14 to 19, wherein said
method further comprises the step of heating said superposed laminate until

a resin component of said synthetic resin sheet is plastic deformed or the
temperature of said resin sheet exceeds a glass transition temperature and

simultaneously pressurizing said superposed laminate.
A method according to any one of claims 19 to 20, wherein said
method further comprises the step of etching said conductive metal foil

layer to form a wiring pattern electrically connected to said through-type
conductive lead portions.
A method according to any one of claims 8, 12, 13 and 18 to 21,
wherein said conductive metal foil is treated with chromate and/or silane.
A method according to any one of claims 7 to 22, wherein said
synthetic resin sheet is a synthetic resin sheet reinforced with an insulating

cloth or mat.
A method according to claim 23, wherein said conductive lead
portions pierce fiber meshes of said insulating cloth or mat.
A method according to any one of claims 7 to 24, wherein said
synthetic resin sheet is a prepreg sheet. 
A method according to claim 7, wherein the method further
comprises a step of forming the cone shaped conductive lead portions by a

printing method using a conductive compound containing silver or copper
powder.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
