<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650930</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrolytic cell for the generation of hypo halogenites for water treatment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F1467	C02F100	C02F1461	C02F1461	C02F100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Electrolytic hypohalogenite generator for water treatment 
comprising a closed chamber made of a base (1) above which 

an electrode chamber (2) is placed. The base (1) has the 
means required to install it in the hydraulic system where 

the electrolyte inlet (13) and outlet (14) are located, as 
well as an electrode chamber (2) located above the inlet 

and the outlet, in internal communication with them, 
giving the electrolyte an inverted "U"-shape course 

between the inlet (13) and the outlet (14). The 
electrolyte chamber (2) an internal set of electrodes (4) 

over which the electrolysis occurs and whose terminals (5, 
6) communicate outside through a hole (68) in the 

electrode chamber, with external electrically conducting 
contacts for the electrical connection of the electrode 

(4) terminals (5, 6) and for grounding (57) at the power 
supply. The base (1) has an internal transversely placed 

vertical barrier (15) made of two transversal walls 
separated by a top gutter (16) with a centralized vertical 

passing slit (17) running from the top to its mid-height, 
so that the base (1) is divided into two symmetrically 

equal sub-chambers, an inlet chamber adjacent to the inlet 
hole (13) and an outlet chamber adjacent to the outlet 

hole (14). The chamber is (2) bell-shaped, and is occupied 
by a beam (4) formed by two sets of electrodes (36, 37). 

The first set (36) is electrically connected to a terminal 
(5) and the second set is also electrically connected to a 

terminal (6). Each of these sets of electrodes (36, 37) 
extend vertically from a first wall (31) of the electrode 

chamber to the opposite wall (31). The sets of electrodes 
(36, 37) are kept in place by at least one toothed rod 

(40) which supports the electrodes above the vertical 
barrier (15) of the base (1). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOS SANTOS LISBOA ALCIDES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOS SANTOS LISBOA, ALCIDES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOS SANTOS LISBOA ALCIDES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOS SANTOS LISBOA, ALCIDES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention refers to an electrolytic cell for the
generation of hypo-halogenites in a continuous process.The electrolysis of halogenites in a liquid medium
producing acid hypo-halogenites or their corresponding
salts has been employed for disinfection treatments of
water in general, especially for water in swimming pools,
cooling towers and reservoirs, including drinking water
and waste water.There are several types of electrolytic cells for this
end, installed as part of a hydraulic system which the
liquid to be treated flows through (on-line electrolytic
chlorinators). The water being treated may contain a
natural residue of a halogen salt, usually sodium
chloride; if necessary, an appropriate amount may be
added. Within the cell are appropriate electrodes that
communicate externally to a continuous current electrical
supply. The electrolysis of the halogen salt occurs on the
surface of the electrodes, and the corresponding halogen
(chlorine, if the halogen salt is sodium chloride;
bromine, if it is sodium bromide, and so on), hydrogen
and, to a lower degree, oxygen, are formed.As there is no separation between the anode and the
cathode, the halogen combines with the medium to form the
corresponding hypo-halogenites. The products of the
electrolysis are taken outside the cell by the flow of
water, and the hypo-halogenites is dissolved. The hydrogen
and the oxygen, not very soluble in the medium, are
expelled to the atmosphere by the exposed surface of the 
liquid. This type of equipment is generally known as
hypochlorite generator, electrolytic chlorinator, salt
water chlorinator or electrolyser.Due to the low salt content dissolved we will occasionally
refer to this solution quite simply as water or
electrolyte, it being understood that it is an
electrolytic solution, that is, water with a certain
amount of salt or salts of one or more halogens. The first
electrolytic cells of the type were built in segments of
commercial plastic pipes with concentric tubular
electrodes or electrodes in fiat parallel grid or solid
plates, attached to their inside, and electrical lead
linking them to an external supply through sealed
openings on the wall of the cell. The cells were installed
in commercially available plastic pipes that are part of
the system of the water to be treated.A problem common to this type of equipment was the
possibility of energizing the cells with the pump switched
off, that is, without any water flowing through the cell.
In this case, the operation of electrolysis can cause an
accumulat
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
"Electrolytic cell for the generation of hypo-halogenites
for water treatment", comprising a closed

chamber made up of a base (1) above which an electrode
chamber (2) is placed. The base (1) has the necessary

means to be installed in the hydraulic system where the
electrolyte inlet (13) and outlet (14) are located, an

electrode chamber (2) located above the inlet and outlet,
in internal communication with them, giving to electrolyte

the course of an inverted "U" between the inlet (13) and
the outlet (14). The chamber (2) has an internal set of

electrodes (4) above whose surfaces the electrolysis
occurs and whose terminals (5, 6) communicate with the

outside by a hole (68) in the electrode chamber, and also
has external electricity conducting contacts for electric

connection of the electrode (4) terminals (5, 6) and for
grounding (57) to the power supply, characterized by the

fact of having an individual and standalone base (1)
shaped like an open circular box at the top and a closed

square box at the bottom, where two cylindrical tubes (12)
are horizontally and axially aligned and diametrically

opposed begin. These tubes, at their source, have an
electrolytic cell inlet hole (13) and an outlet hole (14);

the base (1) has a transversely placed vertical barrier
(15) consisting of two transversal walls separated by a

top gutter (16) at the center of which a vertical passing
slit (17) descends from the top to its mid-height,

dividing the base (1) into two symmetrically equal sub-chambers:
an entry chamber adjacent to the inlet hole (13)

and an outlet chamber, adjacent to the outlet hole (14).
The chamber (2) is bell-shaped, and its whole volume is

occupied by a beam (4) made up of two sets of electrodes
(36, 37). The first set (36) is electrically connected to

a terminal (5) and the second set (37) is also
electrically connected to a terminal (6); each of these 

sets of electrodes (36, 37) is made from one or more
smooth or grid-type plates, parallel and equidistant from

each other, which extend vertically and longitudinally or
vertically and transversely from the first wall (31) of

the electrode chamber to the opposite wall (31), or
alternatively by a beam (4) made of two sets (36, 37) of

one or more equidistant flat or grid-type tubular
electrodes, vertically and concentrically disposed. Each

electrode (36, 37) is electrically insulated from its
neighbor electrode and is alternately connected to form

two sets, one positive and one negative. These sets
(36,37) , in turn, are kept in place by at least one

toothed rod (40) which supports the electrodes above the
vertical barrier (15) of the base (1).
A cell, according to claim 1, is characterized by the
fact that the upper circular part of the base (1) presents

four small round bumps (22, 23, 25, 26) two of which with
a central cavity. The first "bump" (22) is located above

the inlet hole (13) and the second (23) at 90째
counterclockwise from the first (22). Any one of them can

be occupied by a removable pin (24) or by the bell (31)
bump (65); the other two solid bumps (25, 26) are also

counterclockwise located at 180째 and 270째 respectively
from the first (22).
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact
that the upper circular part of the base (1) also defines

along its perimeter a seating (20) for the sealing joint
or ring (21). Around the upper perimeter of the base (1)

an internally smooth and externally threaded cylindrical
elevation (27) is projected upwards, so that the
 lower rim
(28) of the electrode chamber (2) can be centered and

placed above the base (1) and attached tightly by a
coupling flange (3) with a correspondent internal thread.
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact 
that it comprehends a vertical and transversal toothed rod

(40) with a vertical and central passing slit (46) from
its mid-height downwards. The rod's teeth (39) support and

maintain the bottom edges of the electrode (36, 37). The
lower portion of the toothed rod (40) is fitted in the

dividing barrier (15) of the base (1), longitudinally
fitted in its gutter (17) or transversely fitted in the

slit (16).
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact
that when the electrode chamber (31) has flat and parallel

plate electrodes the toothed rod (40) is joined to a
vertical flat rod (45) of equal height. The flat rod (45)

has a central vertical slit (46) from the top to its mid-height
and a central gutter (47) along the top where the

central electrode (48) of the electrode beam (4) is
seated. The lower blade (52) of the flat rod (45) has the

same shape of the lower blade (51) of the toothed rod (40)
to allow both blades (51, 52) to be alternatively attached

to the respective bars (40, 45) in the gutter (16) and in
the slit (17) of the dividing barrier (15) of the base

(1).
A cell, according to claim 4, characterized by the fact
that the teeth (39) of the toothed rod (40) rise to the

height of the electrodes.
A cell, according to claims 4 to 6, characterized by
the fact that the central electrode (48) seated on the

flat rod gutter (47) is a one-piece plate.
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact
that the toothed rod (40) or flat rod (45) have a

horizontal segment (71) which projects laterally and is
placed above the inlet sub-chamber or the outlet sub-chamber

of the base (1). 
A cell, according to claim 8, characterized by the fact
that above the horizontal segment (71) lateral to the flat

rod (45) a seat has been designed to support the central
electrode (48') displaced from the center of the electrode

beam (4).
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the
fact that the dedicated grounding of the electrode chamber

is consists of a metallic grid (53) of electrolyte-resistant
material, horizontally located at a point below

the electrode beam (4) and electrically insulated from it
at a point of the electrolytic chamber adjacent to the

outlet chamber of the base (1) to contact the effluent
even when the electrode chamber suffers a 90째 turn around

its vertical axis.
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the
fact that the electrode chamber (2) is a standalone set

which may be separated from the remainder of the electrode
cell, containing a built-in, fixed and locked set of

electrodes (4), a toothed rod (40), a flat rod (45) and a
grounding grid (53). Externally in the upper wall (34) of

the electrode chamber, are all terminals (8) to connect
the electrolytic cell to the external source, which make

it a container for the protection, safeguard,
transportation and storage of the electrodes.
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the
fact that the upper wall (34) of the bell (31) will

contain a bulb-shaped housing (61) turned towards the
inside of the electrode chamber, within which there is at

least one electronic component (62) whose electrical
parameter can vary depending on the temperature to which

it is being subjected. The component (62) is surrounded by
a heat-conducting solid or liquid substance, and the

housing is hermetically sealed by a lid (63) through which
two metallic terminals (64) connect the poles of the 

component (62) to an external electronic circuit.
A cell, according to claim 12, characterized by the
fact that the electronic component (62) is chosen from the

group consisting of NTCs (Negative Thermal Coefficient)
resistors, PTCs (Positive Thermal Coefficient) resistors,

diodes and transistors.
A cell, according to claim 12, characterized by the
fact that the electronic component (62) is preferably

chosen from the group consisting of NTCs (Negative Thermal
Coefficient) resistors and PTCs (Positive Thermal

Coefficient) resistors.
A cell, according to claims 12 to 14, characterized by
the fact that the component (62) is connected in series to

at least one linear resistor, all resistors being
hermetically enclosed inside the bulb (61).
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the
fact that the sensor system to detect gases inside the

chamber (2) comprises a pair of electrodes (74) located on
the upper wall (34) of the chamber (2), externally fed by

an AC power supply and projected towards the inside of the
chamber (2) so as to remain submerged in the electrolytic

solution when there is no build-up of gases inside the
chamber (2).
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the
fact that the electric connection of all terminals (5, 6,

58, 64) located in the external upper wall of the
electrode chamber (31) is performed by a single lid (7)

with all connectors internally built-in and which, when
juxtaposed to the electrode chamber (31) connects all the

terminals to the external power supply through a wiring
whip (9). 
A cell, according to claim 1, characterized by the
fact that the base of the electrolytic cell (1) has a

maintenance lid (10) replacing the electrode chamber (31).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
