<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653060</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CAPILLARY AND CAPILLARY RETAINING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5702	B01D5702	G01N2103	G01N2105	G01N2117	G01N2117	G01N27447	G01N27447	G01N3000	G01N3060	G01N3074	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D57	B01D57	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N27	G01N27	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A capillary and capillary retaining system including a capillary assembly (20) having first and second end holders (32, 36). The first and second end holders (32, 36) are adapted to be received by first and second retainers (22, 24). The first end holder (32) may include protruding portions (48, 50) and the first end retainer includes clips to receive the protruding portions. The second end holder may include opposite recesses and the second retainer is adapted to receive optical cables that are received within the recesses to retain the second end holder. Locks retained by the second end retainer cooperate with grooves in the optical cables to retain the optical cables.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODALE DAVID L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REEVES GEORGE I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODALE, DAVID, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REEVES, GEORGE, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CAPILLARY AND CAPILLARY RETAINING SYSTEMRelated ApplicationsThis application is a continuation of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 08/048,709, filed April 16, 1993.The present application is related to the following applications that are commonly assigned and filed concurrently herewith, and which are incorporated herein by reference: attorney docket 39D-1167A, entitled "Sample Handling System", filed in the names of David L. Goodale and Steven D. Mack, which is a continuation of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 08/048,708, filed April 16, 1993; and attorney docket 39D-1168A, entitled "Sample Segment", filed in the names of Ronald C. Glenday, David L. Goodale and Steven D. Mack, which is a continuation of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 08/048,716, filed April 16, 1993.FieldThe present application is related to the field of capillary electrophoresis.BackgroundThe value of capillary electrophoresis as a separation and analytical technique has been recognized for some time. In capillary electrophoresis, a small tube or capillary is filled with an electrically conductive fluid, or buffer. A smallSUBSTITUTE Srffl tfW ^) 

quantity of a sample to be analyzed is introduced into one end of the capillary bore, the ends of the capillary are placed into separate reservoirs of buffer, and a direct current high voltage is applied to the ends of the capillary by means of electrodes positioned in the buffer reservoirs, causing a small current to flow through the capillary.With the correct polarity applied across the capillary, the sample begins to migrate toward the other end of the capillary. As this migration occurs, different molecules in the sample travel at different rates, causing the sample to become separated into bands of these different molecules. These bands or groups of different molecules are detected near the other end of the capillary by, for example, passing a perpendicular light beam through the bore of the capillary. Changes to the light beam, such as absorbance caused by the different molecules, are detected as the separated molecules pass through the beam, thus identifying the different molecules or the classes or categories of molecules in the sample and the relative concentration of such molecules.Capillary electrophoresis analyzers typically use a single capillary to perform an analysis. For example, European Patent Application number 89302489.3, publication number 0,339,779 A2, corresponding to U.S. patent application serial number 188,773, filed April 29, 1988 (Burolla) describes an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A capillary assembly including a capillary tube, a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube, the first holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the first end, the first holder further including protruding portions on opposite sides of the body, and a second holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube, the second holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the second end, the second holder further including windows formed in opposite sides of the body, the windows exposing a portion of the capillary tube.
2. A capillary assembly as in claim 1 wherein the protruding portions are cylindrical and coaxially aligned.
3. A capillary assembly as in claim 2 wherein the first holder further includes a cylindrical portion proximate first end of the capillary tube, and a flat portion removed from the first end of the capillary tube, the flat portion including an end and stops projecting from the end.
4. A capillary assembly as in claim 3 wherein the protruding portions protrude from the flat portion, the protruding portions and the stop defining a area therebetween of sufficient size to be gripped between fingertips of a user.
5. A capillary assembly including a capillary tube having an inside diameter of between about 25 microns to about 75 microns and first and second open ends, a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube, the first holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the first end, the first holder further including a flat portion having opposite sides and cylindrical protruding portions on the flat portion opposite sides, and a second 


holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube, the second holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the second end, the second holder further including windows formed in opposite sides of the body, the windows exposing a portion of the capillary tube, the exposed portion of the capillary tube having walls substantially transparent to light energy.
6. A capillary assembly as in claim 5 wherein the first holder further includes a cylindrical portion proximate first end of the capillary tube, the flat portion including an edge adjacent the cylindrical portion and orientation means formed into the flat portion edge.
7. A capillary assembly as in claim 6 wherein the orientation means includes a notch formed into the flat portion edge.
8. A capillary assembly as in claim 6 wherein the orientation means includes a protrusion formed into the flat portion edge.
9. A capillary assembly as in claim 6 wherein the second holder includes an outlet cylindrical portion proximate the second end of the capillary tube and a second holder flat portion, the second holder flat portion including an edge proximate outlet cylindrical portion and orientation means formed proximate the second holder flat portion edge.
10. A capillary assembly as in claim 9 wherein the second holder orientation means includes a notch formed into the second holder body.
11. A capillary assembly as in claim 10 wherein the second holder orientation means includes a protrusion formed into the second holder body. 


12. A capillary assembly as in claim 5 the first holder further includes a cylindrical portion proximate first end of the capillary tube, the flat portion including an edge adjacent the cylindrical portion and orientation means formed into the flat portion edge, and the second holder includes an outlet cylindrical portion proximate the second end of the capillary tube and a second holder flat portion, the second holder flat portion including an edge proximate outlet cylindrical portion and orientation means formed proximate the second holder flat portion edge.
13. A capillary assembly as in claim 12 wherein the first and second holder orientation means includes notches formed into the respective bodies.
14. A capillary assembly including: a capillary tube first and second open ends, the capillary tube having an outer coated surface and windows formed in opposite sides of the coated surface to define an optical path through the capillary tube; a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube, the first holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the first end, the first holder further including a flat portion having opposite sides and cylindrical protruding portions on the flat portion opposite sides; and a second holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube, the second holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the second end, the second holder body defining an aperture exposing the capillary tube windows.
15. A capillary retaining system useful with optical cables having end barrels retaining optical fibers and defining reduced portions, including: a capillary assembly including a capillary tube, a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube, the first holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the first end, the first holder 


further including protruding portions on opposite sides of the body, and a second holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube, the second holder including a flattened body portion having opposite sides and holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the second end, and opposite aligned recesses formed in the opposite sides of the flattened body portion, the recesses being sized to receive the end barrels and having bottom walls and an aperture between the bottom walls exposing the capillary tube; a first retainer including a base, an opening in the base, and clips fixed with respect to the base, the clips including engaging means for releasably engaging the protruding portions on the first holder; and a second retainer having a retainer body defining a central opening sized to receive the second holder flattened body portion, opposite bores intersecting the central opening and sized to receive the end barrels, and retainer locks slidably carried by the second retainer, the retainer locks including means for removably engaging the end barrel reduced portions.
16. A capillary retaining system as in claim 15 wherein the clips include opposing flexible arms and the engaging means includes opposing enlarged ends of the flexible arms.
17. A capillary retaining system as in claim 16 wherein the first holder includes a shoulder and the protruding portions are cylindrical members, and the opposing flexible arms are sized to resiliently urge the opposing enlarged ends against the cylindrical members when the first holder is received by the first retainer such that the shoulder is urged against the base.
18. A capillary retaining system as in claim 15 wherein the first retainer and the first holder include cooperative orientation means for orienting the first holder with respect to the first retainer when the first holder is removably retained by the first retainer.
- 17 -
SUBSΠTIΠΈ SHEET (RULE 26) 


19. A capillary retaining system as in claim 18 wherein the cooperative orientation means includes a boss projecting from the base of the first retainer and the first holder includes a notch formed in the body adapted to receive the boss.
20. A capillary retaining system as in claim 19 wherein the clips include two sets of clips on opposite sides of the opening in the base, the boss in formed to one side of the opening in the base, and the first holder further includes a flat portion having opposite sides and an edge, and the notch is formed in the flat portion edge.
21. A capillary retaining system as in claim 20 wherein the protruding portions are on the flat portion.
22. A capillary retaining system as in claim 15 wherein the first holder further includes a cylindrical portion proximate the capillary tube end, and the opening in the base of the first retainer is sized to receive the cylindrical portion.
23. A capillary retaining system useful with optical fiber cable connectors having end barrels holding the ends of optical fibers and defining reduced portions, including: a capillary assembly including a capillary tube, a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube, the first holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the first end, the first holder further including protruding portions on opposite sides of the body, and a second holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube, the second holder including a flattened body portion having opposite sides and holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the second end, and opposite aligned recesses formed in the opposite sides of the flattened body portion, the recesses being sized to receive the end barrels and having bottom walls and an aperture between the bottom walls exposing the capillary tube; 



 a first retainer including a base, an opening in the base, and clips projecting from the base, the clips including means for releasably engaging the protruding portions on the first holder; and second holder retainer means for removably retaining the second holder.
24. A capillary retaining system useful with optical fiber cable connectors having end barrels holding the ends of optical fibers and defining reduced portions, including: a capillary assembly including a capillary tube, a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube, the first holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the first end, the first holder further including protruding portions on opposite sides of the body, and a second holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube, the second holder including a flattened body portion having opposite sides and holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the second end, and opposite aligned recesses formed in the opposite sides of the flattened body portion, the recesses being sized to receive the end barrels and having bottom walls and an aperture between the bottom walls exposing the capillary tube; first holder retainer means for removably retaining the first holder; and a retainer having a retainer body defining a central opening sized to receive the second holder flattened body portion, opposite bores intersecting the central opening and sized to receive the end barrels, and retainer locks slidably carried by the retainer, the retainer locks including engaging means for removably engaging the end barrel reduced portions.
25. A capillary retaining system as in claim 24 wherein the engaging means includes a collar. 


26. A capillary retaining system as in claim 25 wherein the collar is included in a keyhole-shaped opening in the retainer lock having a larger portion and a smaller portion defining the collar, the larger portion being sized to receive the end barrel.
27. A capillary retaining system useful with optical cables having end barrels retaining optical fibers and defining reduced portions, including:
(a) a capillary assembly including
(1) a capillary tube;
(2) a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube, the first holder having a cylindrical portion proximate the capillary tube first end and a flattened portion proximate the cylindrical portion, the flattened portion having opposite surfaces, the first holder further including a fastener member on each of the opposite surfaces; and
(3) a second holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube, the second holder including a flattened body portion having opposite sides and holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the second end, and opposite aligned recesses formed in the opposite sides of the flattened body portion, the recesses being sized to receive the end barrels and having bottom walls and an aperture between the bottom walls exposing the capillary tube;
(b) a first retainer including a base, an opening in the base sized to receive the first holder cylindrical portion, and clips projecting from the base, the clips including means for releasably engaging the protruding portions on the first holder; and (c) a second retainer having a retainer body defining a central opening sized to receive the second holder flattened body portion, opposite bores intersecting the central opening and sized to receive the end barrels, and retainer locks slidably carried by the second retainer, the retainer locks including means for removably engaging the end barrel reduced portions. 


28. A capillary retaining system as in claim 27 wherein the first retainer further includes a boss projecting from the base and the first holder includes a notch formed in the body adapted to receive the boss.
29. A capillary retaining system as in claim 28 wherein the clips include two sets of clips on opposite sides of the opening in the base, the boss in formed to one side of the opening in the base, the first holder further flattened portion has an edge, and the notch is formed in the flattened portion edge.
30. A capillary retaining system as in claim 27 wherein the system includes a plurality of capillary assemblies, a plurality of first retainers, and a plurality of second retainers.
31. A capillary retaining system useful with optical cables having end barrels retaining optical fibers and defining reduced portions and a capillary assembly including a capillary tube, a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube and including protruding portions on opposite sides of the holder, and a second holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube including a flattened body and opposite aligned recesses formed in opposite sides of the flattened body portion, the recesses being sized to receive the end barrels and defining an aperture between the recesses that exposes the capillary tube, the capillary retaining system including: a mounting surface; a first retainer fixed to the mounting surface and including a base, an opening in the base, and clips fixed with respect to the base, the clips including engaging means for releasably engaging the protruding portions on the first holder; and a second retainer fixed to the mounting surface and having a retainer body defining a central opening sized to receive the second holder flattened body portion, opposite bores intersecting the central opening and sized to receive the 


end barrels, and retainer locks slidably carried by the second retainer, the retainer locks including means for removably engaging the end barrel reduced portions.
32. A system as in claim 31 wherein the mounting surface includes means for retaining a first liquid aligned with the opening in the base, means for retaining a second liquid aligned with the second retainer central opening, and means for applying an electrophoresing voltage between the first and second retairiing means.
33. A method of using the capillary assembly of claim 1, including the steps of: mstalling the first holder of such capillary assembly in a first retainer including a base, an opening in the base to receive the first holder, and clips fixed with respect to the base, the clips including engaging means for releasably engaging the protruding portions on the first holder; mstalling the second holder of such capillary assembly in a second retainer having a retainer body defining a central opening sized to receive the second holder body, opposite bores intersecting the central opening, and retainer locks slidably carried by the second retainer, each retainer lock including a retaining collar; mstaj-ling a first optical cable in the second holder, the first optical cable including optical fibers, a connector having an end barrel holding an end of the optical fibers, the connector defining a reduced portion, the barrel being received within one of the second holder windows of such capillary assembly; mstalling a second optical cable in the second holder, the second optical cable including optical fibers, a connector having an end barrel holding an end of the optical fibers, the connector defining a reduced portion, the barrel being received within the other of the second holder windows of such capillary assembly; and operating the retainer locks to capture the reduced portion of each optical cable barrel by the retaining collar. 



34. A capillary retaining system useful with optical fiber cable connectors having end barrels holding the ends of optical fibers and defining reduced portions, and further useful for use with first and second holder retainers, including: a capillary assembly including a capillary tube, a first holder fixed proximate the first end of the capillary tube, the first holder including a body holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the first end, the first holder further including protruding portions on opposite sides of the body and being adapted to be received by the first holder retainer, and a second holder fixed proximate the second end of the capillary tube, the second holder including a flattened body portion having opposite sides and holding a portion of the capillary tube proximate the second end, and opposite aligned recesses formed in the opposite sides of the flattened body portion, the recesses being sized to receive the end barrels and having bottom walls and an aperture between the bottom walls exposing the capillary tube, the second holder being adapted to be received by the second holder retainer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
