<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0973961</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING A STENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F284	A61F290	B23H300	B23H308	C23F100	C23F100	C25F300	C25F302	G03B2702	G03B2704	G03F700	G03F700	G03F718	G03F718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	B23H	B23H	C23F	C23F	C25F	C25F	G03B	G03B	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	B23H3	B23H3	C23F1	C23F1	C25F3	C25F3	G03B27	G03B27	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed herewithin is a method of fabricating a stent which involves processing a tubular member whereby no connection points to join the edges of a flat pattern are necessary. The method includes the steps of removing contaminates from a tubular member (20), coating the outside surface of the tubular member with a photosensitive resist material (24), placing the tubular member in an apparatus designed to simultaneously rotate the tubular member while passing a specially configured photographic frame negative between a UV light source and the tubular member (26), exposing the outside surface of the tubular member to a photoresist developer for a specified period of time (28), rinsing the excess developer and uncured resist from the outside surface of the tubular member (30), treating the tubular member with an electrochemical process to remove uncovered metal (32).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERVENTIONAL TECHNOLOGIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERVENTIONAL TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOMRINGER GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TROZERA THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOMRINGER, GARY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TROZERA, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Method for Manufacturing a StentFIELD OF THE INVENTIONIn general, the present invention relates to percutaneous transluminal devices and methods which are used to treat obstructed (sclerotic) vessel lumina in humans. In particular, the present invention is an improved method for fabricating stents or prostheses. In addition, the improved method employs a novel apparatus.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONCardiovascular disease is commonly accepted as being one of the most serious health risks facing our society today. Diseased and obstructed coronary arteries can restrict the flow of blood and cause tissue ischemia and necrosis. While the exact etiology of sclerotic cardiovascular disease is still in question, the treatment of narrowed coronary arteries is more defined. Surgical construction of coronary artery bypass grafts (CABG) is often the method of choice when there are several diseased segments in one or multiple arteries. Conventional open heart surgery is, of course, very invasive and traumatic for patients undergoing such treatment. In many cases, less traumatic, alternative methods are available for treating cardiovascular disease percutaneously. These alternate treatment methods generally employ various types of balloons (angioplasty) or excising devices (atherectomy) to remodel or debulk diseased vessel segments. A further alternative treatment method involves percutaneous, intraluminal installation of one or more expandable, tubular stents or prostheses in sclerotic lesions. Intraluminal endovascular prosthetic grafting is an alternative to conventional vascular surgery. Intraluminal endovascular grafting involves the percutaneous insertion into a blood vessel of a tubular prosthetic graft and its delivery via a catheter to the desired location within the vascular system. The alternative approach to percutaneous revascularization is the surgical placement of vein, artery, or other by-pass segments from the aorta onto the coronary artery, requiring open heart surgery, and significant morbidity and mortality. Advantages of the percutaneous revascularization method over 

conventional vascular surgery include obviating the need for surgically exposing, removing, replacing, or by-passing the defective blood vessel, including heart-lung by-pass, opening the chest, and general anesthesia.Stents or prostheses are known in the art as implants which function to maintain patency of a body lumen in humans and especially to such implants for use in blood vessels. They are typically formed of a cylindrical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
We claim:
1. A stent fabrication method comprising the steps of:
(a) Coating an outer surface of a metallic tubular member with a photo- sensitive resist resulting in a coated tubular member;
(b) Placing said coated tubular member in an apparatus which simultaneously exposes a selected portion and shields other selected portions of said outer surface of said coated tubular member to a light source, yielding a partially exposed tubular member;
(c) Immersing said partially exposed tubular member in a negative resist developer resulting in a treated tubular member; and
(d) Processing said treated tubular member by electro-chemical etching process to remove metal located in said selected portions of said tubular member shielded from said light source.
2. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 1 , further comprising the step of cleaning said tubular member prior to the step of coating said outer surface of said metallic tubular member with said photo-sensitive resist.
3. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 1 , further comprising the step of coating said outer surface of said tubular member with a coupling agent prior to the step of coating said outer surface of said metallic tubular member with said photo-sensitive resist material.
4. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 1, further comprising the step of incubating said treated tubular member in a temperature range, said temperature range being between 100 and 400 degrees Celsius, after the step of immersing said partially exposed tubular member to said negative resist developer. 

5. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 1 , wherein said exposure of said light source to portions of said coated tubular member is regulated by a pattern imprinted on photographic film.
6. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 2, further comprising the step of heating said tubular member in a temperature range, said temperature range being between 100 and 200 degrees Celsius, after the step of cleaning the tubular member.
7. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 1 , wherein said light source has a wavelength within the range of 360 to 440 nanometers with a preferred wavelength of
390 nanometers.
8. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 1, wherein said light source has a preferred wavelength optimized for the specific photoresist employed.
9. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 3, wherein said coupling agent comprises a class of organo-silane compounds.
10. A stent fabrication method as recited claim 1, wherein a plurality of stents are made from a single piece of tubing.
11. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 1, wherein said tubular member is made from a material selected from the group consisting of polymers, stainless steel, titanium, platinum, gold alloys, gold/platinum alloys and tantalum.
12. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 1, wherein said electro-chemical etching process employs a solution of phosphoric acid and sulfuric acid.
13. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 1, wherein said electro-chemical etching process employs a solution of ferric chloride. 

14. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 1, wherein said electro-chemical etching process employs a solution of potassium cyanide.
15. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 1, wherein said electro-chemical etching process employs a solution of sodium hypochloride.
16. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 1, wherein said electro-chemical etching process employs a solution of hydrochloric acid and nitric acid.
17. A stent fabrication method comprising the steps of:
(a) Coating an outer surface of a metallic tubular member with a photo- sensitive resist resulting in a coated tubular member;
(b) Placing said coated tubular member in an apparatus which simultaneously rotates said coated tubular member in conjunction with an advancing photographic film which regulates the exposure of a selected portions and shields other selected portions of said outer surface of said coated tubular member to a light source, yielding a partially exposed tubular member;
(c) Immersing said partially exposed tubular member in a negative resist developer resulting in a treated tubular member; and (d) Processing the treated tubular member by chemical etching to remove a portion of uncovered metal.
18. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of cleaning said tubular member prior to the step of coating said outer surface of said metallic tubular member with said photo-sensitive resist.
19. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of coating said outer surface of said tubular member with a coupling agent prior to the step of coating said outer surface of said metallic tubular member with said photo-sensitive resist material. 

20. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of incubating said treated tubular member in a temperature range, said temperature range being between 100 and 400 degrees Celsius, after the step of immersing said partially exposed tubular member to the negative resist developer.
21. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said exposure of light source to portions of the stent is regulated by a stent configuration on transparent photographic film.
22. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 18, further comprising the step of heating said tubular member in a temperature range, said temperature range being between 100 and 200 degrees Celsius, after the step of cleaning the tubular member.
23. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said light source has a wavelength within the range of 360 to 440 nanometers with a preferred wavelength of
390 nanometers.
24. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said light source has a preferred wavelength optimized for the specific photoresist employed.
25. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 19, wherein said coupling agent comprises a class of organo-silane compounds.
26. A stent fabrication method as recited claim 17, wherein a plurality of stents are made from a single piece of tubing .
27. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said tubular member is made from a material selected from the group consisting of polymers, stainless steel, titanium, platinum, gold alloys, gold/platinum alloys and tantalum. 

28. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said electrochemical etching process employs a solution of phosphoric acid and sulfuric acid.
29. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said electro- chemical etching process employs a solution of ferric chloride.
30. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said electrochemical etching process employs a solution of potassium cyanide.
31. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said electrochemical etching process employs a solution of sodium hypochloride.
32. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 17, wherein said electrochemical etching process employs a solution of hydrochloric acid and nitric acid.
33. An apparatus used to imprint an image on a tubular member, comprising: means for rotating a tubular member; a photographic film imprinted with a configuration; means for moving said photographic film in conjunction with said rotating tubular member; and a light source for exposing a photosensitive coating on said tubular member.
34. An apparatus used to imprint an image on a tubular member as recited in claim 33, wherein said means for moving said photographic film in conjunction with said rotating tubular member is facilitated by engaging the film to the outer surface of said tubular member.
35. An apparatus used to imprint an image on a tubular member as recited in claim 33, wherein said means for moving said photographic film in conjunction with said rotating tubular member is by a syncro-geared mechanism. 

36. An apparatus used to imprint an image on a tubular member as recited in claim 33, further comprising a means for guiding said photographic film to advance into a take-up reel.
37. An apparatus used to imprint an image on a tubular member as recited in claim
33, further comprising a force applied to said photographic film to maintain engagement of film with said outer surface of said tubular member.
38. An apparatus used to imprint an image on a tubular member as recited in claim 33, further comprising a means for removing a exposed tubular member and replacing with a coated tubular member.
39. An apparatus used to imprint an image on a tubular member as recited in claim 33, wherein said imprint comprises a stent configuration.
40. A stent fabrication method comprising the steps of:
(a) Coating an outer surface of a metallic tubular member with a protective polymeric coating resulting in a coated tubular member;
(b) Placing said coated tubular member in an apparatus which simultaneously exposes a selected portion and shields other selected portions of said outer surface of said coated tubular member to a light source, resulting in some polymeric coating exposed and some polymeric coating unexposed, yielding a partially exposed tubular member;
(c) Immersing said partially exposed tubular member in a solvent for selectively removing unexposed polymeric coating resulting in a treated tubular member; and
(d) Processing said treated tubular member by electro-chemical etching process to remove metal located in said selected portions of said tubular member shielded from said light source. 

41. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 40, wherein said protective polymeric coating comprises a class of photo-sensitive resists.
42. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 40, wherein said solvent for selctively removing unexposed polymeric coating comprises a class of negative resist developers.
43. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 40, further comprising the step of cleaning said tubular member prior to the step of coating said outer surface of said metallic tubular member with said protective polymeric coating.
44. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 40, further comprising the step of coating said outer surface of said tubular member with a coupling agent prior to the step of coating said outer surface of said metallic tubular member with said protective polymeric coating.
45. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 40, further comprising the step of incubating said treated tubular member in a temperature range, said temperature range being between 100 and 400 degrees Celsius, after the step of immersing said partially exposed tubular member to said solvent for selectively removing unexposed polymeric coating.
46. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 40, wherein said exposure of said light source to portions of said coated tubular member is regulated by a pattern imprinted on photographic film.
47. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 43, further comprising the step of heating said tubular member in a temperature range, said temperature range being between 100 and 200 degrees Celsius, after the step of cleaning the tubular member. 

48. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 40, wherein said light source has a wavelength within the range of 360 to 440 nanometers with a preferred wavelength of 390 nanometers.
49. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 40, wherein said light source has a preferred wavelength optimized for the specific photoresist employed.
50. A stent fabrication method as recited in Claim 40, wherein said coupling agent comprises a class of organo-silane compounds.
51. A stent fabrication method as recited claim 40, wherein a plurality of stents are made from a single piece of tubing.
52. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 40, wherein said tubular member is made from a material selected from the group consisting of polymers, stainless steel, titanium, platinum, gold alloys, gold/platinum alloys and tantalum.
53. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 40, wherein said electrochemical etching process employs a solution of phosphoric acid and sulfuric acid.
54. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 40, wherein said electrochemical etching process employs a solution of ferric chloride.
55. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 40, wherein said electro- chemical etching process employs a solution of potassium cyanide.
56. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 40, wherein said electrochemical etching process employs a solution of sodium hypochloride. 

57. A stent fabrication method as recited in claim 40, wherein said electrochemical etching process employs a solution of hydrochloric acid and nitric acid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
