<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631680</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF CARRYING OUT PICTURE PROCESSING OPERATIONS UPON A TWO DIMENSIONAL PICTURE AND A DEVICE FOR CARRYING OUT SAID METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T120	G06K920	H04N718	G06T520	G06K920	G06T120	G06K960	G06T100	H04N718	G06T100	G06T520	G06K960	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06K	H04N	G06T	G06K	G06T	G06K	G06T	H04N	G06T	G06T	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T1	G06K9	H04N7	G06T5	G06K9	G06T1	G06K9	G06T1	H04N7	G06T1	G06T5	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method of executing image processing operations such as object recognition or linear/non-linear filtration on a two-dimensional image. This is performed with light-sensitive sensor elements (4) executed in two-dimensional matrix form. The sensor elements (4) are so arranged as to produce an output signal corresponding to the light intensity. The output signal of each sensor element is compared with a monotone increasing or reducing reference value. The extent to which the output signal from the sensor element is greater than or less than the reference value is continuously monitored for each sensor element. An arrangement for the execution of this method comprises a number of sensor elements (4) arranged on a substrate. Each of these has allocated to it on the substrate a comparator (5) so arranged as to compare the output signal of the sensor element with a pre-adjustable reference value and a sub-processor. Each sub-processor (8) is so arranged as to identify the occurrence of combinations of sensor elements (4) for which the output signal has exceeded or has not exceeded the aforementioned reference value.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEGRATED VISION PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IVP INTEGRATED VISION PRODUCTS AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASTROEM ANDERS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORCHHEIMER ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASTROEM, ANDERS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORCHHEIMER, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of executing image
processing operations such as object recognition or linear/
non-linear filtration on a two-dimensional image, which is
performed with light-sensitive sensor elements executed in
two-dimensional matrix form and so arranged as to produce an
output signal corresponding to the light intensity. In
accordance with an alternative method, the sensor elements
are of the light-integrating type, i.e. the output signal of
each sensor element corresponds to its state of charge.The invention also relates to an arrangement for the
execution of an image processing operation such as object
recognition or linear/non-linear filtration on a two-dimensional
image comprising a number of sensor elements
arranged on a substrate, in association with each of which
there is allocated on the substrate a comparator so arranged
as to compare the output signal of the sensor element with a
pre-adjustable reference value and a sub-processor.The area of "computerized image analysis" began to be
developed in the 1960s, at a time when it became technically
possible to use a computer to process the image signal from
a TV camera. Two fundamental problems had to be overcome. One
of these was to make the computer rapid enough to be able to
cope with the broad-band image signal, and the other was to
have access to a sufficient amount of memory to be able to
store the large quantities of data produced by the images.The first limitation was very difficult to overcome. The
development work was accordingly to be concentrated on still
images, linked with which was a residual requirement to be
able to store the image in the working memory of the
computer, satisfactory solutions to which were found in the
early 1970s through the development of memory techniques. The system solution arrived at in this way using a TV camera,
the signal from which is converted in an analogue/digital
(A/D) manner and is stored in an image memory for processing
in the computer, has had such a marked effect on the area of
image processing that it is still practically the sole system
concept, even today. The concept is also underpinned by the
fact that even today's computers are too slow to be able to
process moving images at the rate at which they are delivered
from the camera.Previously disclosed via US-A-4,684,991 is an arrangement for
an array of photo-diodes arranged in matrix form. These are
connected to an image processing processor of the kind which
permits parallel signal processing and which is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of executing image processing operations such
as object recognition or linear/ non-linear filtration

on a two-dimensional image, which is performed with
light-sensitive sensor elements (1;4) executed in two-dimensional

matrix form, 
characterized in that
 the
sensor elements (1;4) are so arranged as to produce an

output signal (u) corresponding to the light intensity,
in that for each sensor element (1;4) the output signal (u)

is compared with a monotone increasing or
reducing reference value, and in that the fact whether

the output signal from the sensor element is
greater than or less than the reference value is

continuously monitored for each sensor element.
Method of executing image processing operations such
as object recognition or linear/ non-linear filtration

on a two-dimensional image, which is performed with
light-sensitive sensor elements executed in two-dimensional

matrix form, 
characterized in that
 the light-sensitive sensor
elements are of the light-integrating type, i.e. the output

signal of each sensor element corresponds to its state of charge,
in that for each sensor element (1;4)

the state of charge of the sensor element,
corresponding to the intensity of the light incident

upon the sensor element, is compared with a pre-adjustable
reference value (12), and in that the fact

whether the output signal from the sensor element
(1;4) meets or does not meet the reference value (12)

is continuously monitored for each sensor element.
Method in accordance with Patent Claims 1 or 2,

characterized in that
 the aforementioned reference
value (12) is allowed to vary so that a predetermined

relationship, for example a linearization, is achieved
between the light intensity and the time at which the

output signal of the sensor element reached the
reference value. 
Method in accordance with Patent Claims 1, 2 or 3,

characterized in that
 in group of sensor elements in the
matrix for each sensor element the output signals of the sensor

elements in the group are sorted in a series corresponding to the
sequence in which the output signals from the sensor

element pass the aforementioned reference value, and in that the
output signal in the middle of the series is chosen as the

median value for the elements in the group.
Method in accordance with Patent Claims 1, 2 or 3,

characterized in that
 the sensor element whose output
signal first passes the reference value is identified,

which involves detecting the lightest point in the
image (Fig. 5)
Method in accordance with Patent Claims 1, 2 or 3,

characterized in that
, for a group of sensor elements
in the matrix, the fact whether the output signal

has reached the reference value in a predetermined
combination of sensor elements is established, whilst

other sensor elements in the group have not done so,
which is synonymous with a morphological operation

(Figs. 6a, 6b).
Method in accordance with Patent Claims 1, 2 or 3,

characterized in that
 there are accumulated for each
sensor element pulses, the number of which, when the

output signal reaches the reference value, is a digital
value for the light intensity.
Method in accordance with Patent Claim 7, 
characterized
in that
 the aforementioned pulses are generated with
a variable frequency, so that a pre-determined

relationship, for example a linearization,
is achieved between the light intensity and its

corresponding digital value. 
Method in accordance with claims 1, 2 or 3, 
characterized

in that, in a group of sensor
elements in the matrix a filter coefficient is

allocated to each element in the group, and in that
associated filter coefficients are successively

accumulated for each sensor element in which the
output signal has reached the reference value, which

is synonymous with a linear filtration (Fig. 7).
Method in accordance with claim 9, 
characterized

in that the successive accumulation takes
place at a valiable frequency, so that a predetermined

relationship, for example a linearization, is achieved
between the light intensity and the time at which the

state of charge of the sensor element reached the
reference value.
Arrangement for the execution of the method in accordance
with claims 1 or 2, comprising a number of

sensor elements (1;4) arranged on a substrate, in
association with each of which there is allocated on

the substrate a comparator (5) so arranged as to
compare the output signal of the sensor element with

a pre-adjustable reference value (12) and a sub-processor
(2;8), 
characterized
 in that
each sub-processor (2;8) is so arranged as to identify

the occurrence of combinations of sensor elements
(1;4) for which the output signal has exceeded or has

not exceeded the aforementioned reference value (12).
Arrangement in accordance with claim 11, 
characterized

in that the sub-processor includes an
accumulator directory (8a) so arranged either as to

count pulses, the number of which, at the time when
the output signal reaches the reference value (12), is

an indicator of the light intensity, or as to successively
accumulate coefficients associated with an

image processing operation during its execution. 
Arrangement in accordance with claim 11, 
characterized

in that a propagation
network (8b) is preferably arranged on the substrate,

wherein the propagation direction of the network (86)
is controllable.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
