<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641510</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRODELESS DISCHARGE LAMP INCLUDING IMPEDANCE MATCHING AND FILTER NETWORK
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B4124	H05B4124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B41	H05B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An impedance matching and filter network (13) is disclosed. The network (13) performs two preselected impedance transformations and provides a filtering function to attenuate harmonics of an electrical signal delivered at an input of the network. The network (13) may advantageously be structured in the form of balanced dual filters which are referenced to a virtual ground between them, the virtual ground being connected to a shield which surrounds the electric components. The network (13) is particularly suitable for use with electrodeless discharge lamps (15) to provide an impedance matching function for the induction coil (14) and to limit RFI.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIABLO RESEARCH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIABLO RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIAO ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIAO, ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an electrodeless discharge
lamp comprising a radio frequency amplifier having two output
terminals, an induction coil network having two input
terminals and a filter network connected between said
amplifier and said induction coil network.An electrodeless discharge lamp of this type is disclosed in
US-A-4,383,203 to Stanley, wherein a filter and matching
network provides for one predetermined impedance
transformation at the output of the RF-filter in order to
provide a relatively predetermined amount of light power
emitting from the induction coil.Similar electrodeless discharge lamps are also described in other
sources such as U.S. Patent No. 4,010,400 to Hollister,
which describes an
electrodeless discharge lamp including an induction coil
positioned in a central cavity surrounded by a sealed
vessel. The vessel contains a mixture of a metal vapor 
and an ionizable gas. Mercury vapor and argon are
frequently used. The induction coil is connected to a
capacitor network, and the L-C combination is supplied by
a radio frequency signal generated by an oscillator and
passed through an amplifier. When the L-C network is
energized by this signal, it resonates, and the induction 
coil generates electromagnetic energy which is transferred
to the gaseous mixture in the sealed vessel.Electrodeless discharge lamps operate in two stages.
In the "start-up", electromagnetic discharge mode, as the
lamp is being turned on, the electric field from the
induction coil causes some of the atoms in the gaseous
mixture to be ionized. The electrons which are freed in
this process circulate around the induction coil within
the sealed vessel. Collisions between these electrons and
the atoms release additional electrons until a plasma of
circulating charged particles is formed. The induction
coil and plasma behave in a manner similar to a
transformer, with the coil acting as the primary winding
and the discharge current acting as the secondary winding.
Because of air gaps between the coil and the sealed vessel
itself, which is typically made of glass, the magnetic
coupling between the coil and the gaseous mixture is
normally quite poor.Many of these collisions excite the mercury atoms to
a higher energy state rather than ionizing them. As the
mercury atoms fall back from the higher energy state, they
emit radiation, primarily nonvisible light in the UV
portion of the spectrum. This radiation impinges on
phosphors which coat the inside surface of the vessel.
The phosphors in turn are excited by the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrodeless discharge lamp (10) comprising:

a radio frequency amplifier (12) having two output terminals;
an induction coil network (14, 16) having two input terminals; and a filter network
(13) connected between said amplifier (12) and said induction coil network (14, 16),
characterized in that
said filter network (13) comprises
a first filter (13A) and a second filter (13B), said first filter (13A) having a first
input terminal connected to a first output terminal (e) of said amplifier (12) and

having an output terminal connected to a first input terminal (g) of said induction
coil network (14, 16), said second filter (13B) having a first input terminal connected

to a second output terminal (f) of said amplifier (12) and having an output terminal
conne
cted to a second input terminal (h) of said induction coil network (14, 16),
each of said first and second filters (13A, 13B) having a second input terminal, said

second input terminals of the filters being joined together at a common node (66),
wherein said first and second filters (13A, 13B) are approximately symmetrical such
that the output signals of the filters (13A, 13B) are substantially equal in magnitude

and opposite in phase.
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 1,

comprising a conductive shield for said amplifier (12), said common node (66) being
coupled to said conductive shield.
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 2,

wherein said first and second filters (13A, 13B) and said amplifier (12) are enclosed
by said shield and said induction coil network (14, 16) comprises an induction coil

(14), said induction coil (14) being positioned outside said shield.
The electrodeless discharge lamp of any one of claims 1 to 3,

wherein said induction coil network (14, 16) comprises a first capacitor (16A)
connected between said first filter (13A) and an/said induction coil (14) and a second

capacitor (16B) connected between said second filter (13B) and said induction coil
(14).
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 4,

wherein said first and second capacitors (16A, 16B) are substantially similar.
The electrodeless discharge lamp of any one of claims 1 to 5,

wherein said first filter (13A) comprises a first inductance (L1A) and a second
inductance (L2A) and said second filter (13B) comprises a third inductance (L1B)

and a fourth inductance (L2B), said first and third inductances being wrapped on a
first common torroidal core and said second and fourth inductances being wrapped

on a second common torroidal core.
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 6,

wherein the magnetic coupling between the first and third inductances (L1A, L1B) is
less than 0.4 and the magnitude coupling between the second and fourth inductances

(L2A, L2B) is less than 0.4.
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 7,

wherein said first filter (13A) comprises first and second capacitors (C1A, C2A) and
said second filter (13B) comprises third and fourth capacitors (C1B, C2B) each of

said capacitors being joined to said common node (66).
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 2 and any one of claims 3 to 8 if
dependent on claim 2,


wherein during operation of said lamp said shield and a centerpoint (Z) of said coil
(14) are maintained at a chassis (100) ground.
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 9,

containing a pair of matched capacitors (16A, 16B), one (16A) of said capacitors
being connected to one input (s) of said coil (14) and the other (16B) of said

capacitors being connected to the other input (t) of said coil (14).
The electrodeless discharge lamp according to any one of claims 1 to 10,
comprising:


a power supply (63);
a radio frequency oscillator (11);
an amplifier (12);
said induction coil (14) being adapted for transmitting a radio frequency signal
delivered by said amplifier (12) so as to create a plasma of charged particles in a gas;
said first and second filter (13A, 13B) being connected between said amplifier (12) 
and said induction coil (14) so as to inhibit the passage of radio frequency

interference (RFI) to said induction coil (14); and
a further filter (62) being connected between said power supply (63) and a power
main contact (61) of said lamp so as to inhibit the passage of a noise signal to said

power main contact (61).
The electrodeless discharge lamp according to anyone of claims 1 to 10 comprising:
a metal casing (100), said metal casing (100) enclosing said radio frequency

amplifier (12) said induction coil (14) being positioned outside of said metal casing
(100), said metal casing (100) and the center (Z) of said coil (14) being maintained

at a virtual ground.
The electrodeless discharge lamp according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein
said filter network (13) being adapted for providing an impedance matching, said

impedance matching providing two preselected impedance transformations for said
induction coil network (14, 16) at different operating conditions of said lamp (10).
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 13, wherein one of said operating
conditions occurs approximately when said lamp (10) turns on and the other of said

operating conditions is the steady-state operation of said lamp (10).
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 13 or 14, wherein said impedance
matching and filter network (13) comprises a means of filtering harmonics of the

radio frequency signals generated by said amplifier (12) to inhibit the passage of said
harmonics to said induction coil network (14, 16).
The electrodeless discharge lamp according to claims 14 or 15 wherein said
induction coil network comprises an/the induction coil (14) and further a vessel (15)

containing a selected gas, said induction coil (14) being operative to create a plasma
of charged particles in said gas after said lamp (10) has been turned on;


wherein said induction coil network (14, 16) has a first inherent impedance measured
at a pair of input terminals of said network (14, 16) when said lamp (10) is initially

turned on and a second inherent impedance at said input terminals when said lamp
(10) is in a steady-state on condition; and
wherein said impedance matching and filter network (13) being connected to said
induction coil network (14, 16), having a pair of input terminals and being operative

to transform said first inherent impedance to a first desired impedance measured at
its input terminals when said lamp (10) is initially turned on, and to transform said 

second inherent impedance to a second desired impedance measured at its input
terminals when said lamp (10) is in a steady-state on condition.
The electrodeless discharge lamp of claim 16, wherein said second inherent
impedance is at least ten times said first inherent impedance.
The electrodeless discharge lamp according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein
said filter network (13) comprises a plurality of electrical components and a ground,

said ground having a low impedance and said components being electrically isolated
from each other.
The electrodeless discharge lamp according to any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein
said vessel being a sealed vessel (15) containing an ionizable gas, a plasma of

charged particles being formed in said vessel (15) when said lamp (10) is operative;
said induction coil (14) being positioned near said sealed vessel (15); without a

shielding structure being positioned around said plasma.
The electrodeless discharge lamp according to any one of claims 13 to 19, wherein
said two preselected impedance transformations differ by a factor of at least ten.
The electrodeless discharge lamp according to any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein
said amplifier (12) being adapted to generate an electrical signal having a frequency

of at least 20 KHz, a/said further filter being a line filter (62) connected to an power
supply (63) of said lamp and a power main contact (61) of said lamp, so as to inhibit

the passage of a noise signal to said power main contact (61).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
