<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613530</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FASTENER BEARING ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16B100	F16B100	F16B4300	F16B4300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16B	F16B	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16B1	F16B1	F16B43	F16B43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fastener bearing assembly (10) for reducing the turning friction between a head of a fastener (12) and an object to be fastened, for example, a vehicle wheel. The assembly (10) comprises a first part (14) having a first pressure transmitting surface (16), and a second part (18) having a second pressure transmitting surface (20), and adapted to rotatably receive the first pressure transmitting surface (16) in facing relation thereto. A solid dry lubricant material in the form of an annulus (22) is provided to reduce friction between the first and second pressure transmitting surfaces (16, 20). In use, the first part (14) rotates with the head of the fastener (12) and the second part (18) remains stationary relative to the surface (23) of the fastened object so that the dry lubricant annulus (22) acts as a bearing between the head of the fastener and the fastened object. A locking member (40) adapted to engage a surface of both the first and second parts (14, 18) may be provided to prevent rotation of the first and second parts relative to one another.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATTHEWS NORMAN LESLIE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATTHEWS, NORMAN LESLIE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS NORMAN LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS, NORMAN LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FASTENER BEARING ASSEMBLYFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a fastener bearing assembly for reducing the friction between a head of a fastener and an object to be fastened, and relates particularly, though not exclusively, to a bearing assembly for an automotive fastener such as, for example, a wheel nut or stud or an engine head bolt.BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION A conventional wheel nut, stud or bolt comprises a head portion designed to receive a wheel spanner, a threaded portion to screw onto the wheel axle flange and a tapered cone portion shaped to engage in a matching shaped recess provided in the wheel. Sometimes the cone portion is provided separate from the head portion and sometimes the fastener is further provided with a conventional loose washer behind the cone.In whatever form the wheel fastener is conventionally made, when tightened a high degree of friction is involved, namely, friction on the threaded portion, friction on the wheel recess and friction on the cone portion contacting the wheel recess. This latter friction is particularly high, and tends to be greater during loosening than during tightening, ie. , it requires more torque to loosen the fastener than to tighten the same fastener. This is the primary reason why conventional wheel nuts are often so hard to remove. It is also necessary to apply a large torque to a conventional wheel nut during fastening in order to overcome the friction and still obtain the necessary hold-down pressure. Conventionally, friction is assumed and even taught to be necessary and is relied upon to hold the fastener securely, however a recent discovery suggests that this need not be the case.These problems with conventional wheel fasteners become critical in relation to racing cars where rapid and effective wheel changes must be performed in race time. A stubborn wheel fastener will cause loss of valuable time that could be the difference between winning and losing. Furthermore, it is essential that the correct torque be applied 

 to the wheel fasteners when tightened, and this can be difficult to achieve in the very short time available, with conventional s eners.The present invention was developed with a view to providing a fastener bearing assembly that can be used with wheel fasteners to virtually eliminate a high proportion of the friction between a conventional wheel fastener cone, and the wheel fastener recess. In one embodiment, the invention also provides a wheel fastener which incorporates the bearing assembly therein.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. A fastener bearing assembly for reducing the turning friction between a head of a fastener and an object to be fastened by the fastener, the assembly comprising: a first part having a first pressure transmitting surface; a second part having a second pressure transmitting surface, and adapted to rotatably receive said first pressure transmitting surface of the first part in facing relation thereto; and, a solid dry lubricant material having a low coefficient of friction provided to reduce friction between said first and second pressure transmitting surfaces whereby, in use, said second part can rotate with the head of the fastener and said first part can be held stationary relative to the fastened object so that said dry lubricant material can act as a bearing between the head of the fastener and the fastened object.
2. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 1, further comprising containment means provided in connection with said first and/or second parts for containing said solid dry lubricant material therein whereby, in use, said solid dry lubricant material is capable of withstanding substantial compressive loads without being extruded from between the first and second parts.
3. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein said solid dry lubricant material is provided in the form of a separate annulus located between said first and second pressure transmitting surfaces.
4. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 3, wherein one of said first or second parts is provided with an annular lip forming a female containment portion, said annular lip having an inside diameter sized to receive said annulus therein. 


 5. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the other one of said first or second parts comprises a male portion having an outside diameter smaller than said inside diameter of the annular lip, and adapted to be rotatably received within said female portion, whilst at the same time in pressure transmitting contact with the solid dry lubricant material.
6. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 5, wherein said one of said first or second parts forming said female containment portion is further provided with a second annular lip having an outside diameter sized to receive said annulus therein, and wherein said male portion has an inside diameter smaller than said outside diameter of the annular lip.
7. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising a washer of hard, rigid material having at least one smooth pressure transmitting surface, said washer also typically being provided between the first and second pressure transmitting surfaces with said smooth pressure transmitting surface bearing against said solid dry lubricant material.
8. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first part of the assembly is provided integral to the head or body of the fastener itself and comprises the male portion.
9. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first part is in the form of a washer and comprises the male portion.
10. .A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a lockingmember adapted to engage a surface of both the first and second parts to prevent rotation of the first and second parts relative to one another whereby, in use, said fastener can be inhibited from loosening due to vibration. 


11. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 10, wherein the locking member engages the head of the fastener so that the assembly is prevented from rotating relative to the fastener.
12. A fastener bearing assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first part is provided with a positive gripping surface adapted to engage the head of the fastener and the second part is likewise provided with a positive gripping surface adapted to engage the object to be fastened. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
