<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621851</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONVEYOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G1706	B65G1708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G17	B65G17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A row of modules (1a, 1b, 1c) are connected in a substantially straight line by a single linkage rod (12). On the inside of a bend modules of the first line (1a) slide with respect to each other over a limited range such that the overhanging portion (6) of a following module is able to move over a lower surface (5) of a preceding module. The modules in the line (1c) on the outside of the bend also slide relative to each other in the same manner although, because the modules in the line (1c) must travel over a greater distance to get around the bend than the modules of the line (1a), the modules in the line (1c) move further apart from each other within the limits allowed by the linkage rods (12) which slide in slots (20) of the modules such that the greater area of the lower surface (5) of each module in the line (1c) is exposed as compared to that area in the line (1a). All of the modules present a substantially flat upwardly facing support surface across the complete extent of the conveyor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBERTSON KELVIN TAYLOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBERTSON, KELVIN TAYLOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON KELVIN TAYLOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON, KELVIN TAYLOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to conveyors, and
particularly although not exclusively, to conveyors which
have belts comprising a plurality of individual modules.A known conveyor belt comprises a plurality of
modules connected in series and each having a flat upper
surface for carrying a load. The modules are connected to
each other via a chain linkage mechanism to which each
module is connected and which is driven along a conveyor
track to provide movement of the modules along the track.
Each module is connected to the chain about a central
upright part of the module. Where the belt turns around
a bend, each module pivots with respect to its directly
forward and directly aft neighbouring modules, the pivotal
action being generally about the central upright part of
the module. Each module, as seen in front view, has a
shape similar to a flattened "T", wherein the flat upper
surface overhangs at each side of the central upright part
of the module.The upper surface of such prior modules has a
trailing edge having a flattened "V" shape and which in
use overlaps a lower surface of a directly aft module so
that during movement of the module around the bend,
articles can not slip between the adjacent modules.However, because of the construction of such modules,
and their method of linkage together, a conveyor belt made
of these modules is limited to the modules being connected
in series to each other. Therefore to provide a wide
conveyor necessitates having a wide module. Thus, for
each width of conveyor to be produced, a separate size of
module is required. If two or more belts were run in parallel to each
other to provide a wider conveyor, where a bend is
encountered, the distance travelled by the belt on the
outside bend would be greater than that travelled by the
belt on the inside of the bend, and so the inner belt
would accelerate around the bend at a different rate to
the outer belt, causing pivotal movement on the conveyor
of any goods which straddled both belts. One consequence
of such pivotal movement is that, in order to get the
articles back to their correct orientation, it is
necessary to manoeuvre the articles thus involving a
further operation. Another consequence is that the
spacing between articles must be increased to avoid
articles knocking against each other. Also, small
articles may slip between the gap between the two belts.
Furthermore the pivotal movement is unpredictable and
articles may fall off the conveyor.EP-A-0 398 679 (Robertson) shows a conveyor with a
plurality of modules
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A conveyor comprising a plurality of identical
modules (1) connected together in the direction of

intended travel, the modules (1a,1b,1c) also being
connected together in the direction transverse to the

intended direction of travel, the conveyor being arranged,
in use, to travel around a curve wherein each module (1)

includes a substantially flat or continuous supporting
surface (2) and a forwardly facing overlapping portion (6)

arranged to extend partly over a trailing portion of an
adjacent module in the intended direction of travel at an

inner region of the curve, the module also including
forwardly facing projections (10,11) at both lateral ends

(3,4) thereof that extend beyond the overlapping portion
(6) in the intended direction of travel which projections (6)

are connected to adjacent identical modules in a direction
transverse to the intended direction of travel and also

adjacent identical modules in the intended direction of
travel, the forwardly facing projections (10,11) being connected to the

underside of the overlapping portion (6).
A conveyor as claimed in Claim 1 in which the flat
supporting surface of the trailing portion of each module

includes a recessed portion (5) arranged, in use, to be at
least partially overlapped by the overlapping portion (6)

of an adjacent module as the conveyor travels around a
curve.
A conveyor as claimed in Claim 2 in which the
recessed portion (5) of the module extends across more

than half the width of the module. 
A conveyor as claimed in Claim 3 in which the
recessed portion (5) extends across substantially the

complete extent of the module.
A conveyor as claimed in any preceding Claim, in
which the level of the overlapping portion (6) of one

module which overlaps an adjacent module in the intended
direction of travel is substantially the same as the level

of the overlapping portion (6) of the adjacent module
which is arranged to overlap another module.
A conveyor as claimed in any preceding claim, in
which adjacent modules (1a,1b,1c) in the direction

transverse to the intended direction of travel are caused
to move in a line, around a bend.
A conveyor as claimed in Claim 6, in which adjacent
connected modules (1a,1b,1c) in the direction transverse

to the intended direction of travel are arranged to move
around the bend at the same angular rate.
A conveyor as claimed in any preceding Claim, in
which at least a part of the supporting surface of

adjacent portions of modules in the intended direction of
travel are arranged to be spaced from each other when the

conveyor undergoes a substantial change in inclination.
A conveyor as claimed in any preceding Claim,
including a single guide (22,80) arranged to inhibit both

inwards and upwards movement of the conveyor with respect
to a turn.
A conveyor as claimed in Claim 9, in which the guide
(80) provides an upwardly facing portion which is arranged

to provide a support for the module. 
A conveyor as claimed in any preceding Claim, in
which adjacent modules in the direction transverse to the

intended direction of travel are linked to each other by
a common linkage member (12).
A conveyor as claimed in Claim 11, in which the
linkage member (12) is resiliently flexible.
A module for use in a conveyor, the module
(1a) including first (10, 10A, 11, 11A) and second (10B,

11B) connecting means which are arranged to be used to
connect the module to adjacent identical modules in front

of, and behind the module and third connecting means
(10,11) which are arranged to be used to connect the

module to an adjacent identical module (1b) at least
partially to the side of the module, wherein the module

comprises a substantially flat or continuous supporting
surface (2) and a forwardly

facing overlapping portion (6) adapted to overlap by
extending partly over an adjacent trailing portion of an

identical module (1a) located in front of the module when,
in use, the connected modules travel around a curve and

are located at an inner region of the curve, the first and third
connecting means being forwardly facing projections (10,11) at

both lateral ends (3,4) of the module that extend beyond the
overlapping portion (6) in the intended direction of

travel, the fowardly facing projections (10,11) being connected to the
underside of the overlapping portion (6).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
