<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637031</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Parallel processor and method of fabrication.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1516	G06F15173	G06F1576	G06F1580	H01L2352	H01L2352	H05K100	H05K100	H05K103	H05K103	H05K300	H05K300	H05K346	H05K346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F15	G06F15	G06F15	G06F15	H01L23	H01L23	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a parallel processor packaging structure and a 
method for manufacturing the structure. The individual logic and 

memory elements are on printed circuit cards. These printed circuit 
boards and cards are, in turn, mounted on or connected to 

circuitized flexible substrates extending outwardly from a laminate 
of the circuitized, flexible substrates. Intercommunication is 

provided through a switch structure that is implemented in the 
laminate. The printed circuit cards are mounted on or connected to 

a plurality of circuitized flexible substrates, with one printed 
circuit card at each end of the circuitized flexible circuit. The 

circuitized flexible substrates connect the separate printed 
circuit boards and cards through the central laminate portion. 

This laminate portion provides XY plane and Z-axis interconnection 
for inter-processor, inter-memory, inter-processor/memory element, 

and processor to memory bussing interconnection, and communication. 

The planar circuitization, as data lines, address lines, and 
control lines of a logic chip or a memory chip are on the 

individual printed circuit boards and cards, which are connected 
through the circuitized flex, and communicate with other layers of 

flex through Z-axis circuitization (vias and through holes) in the 
laminate. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALL THOMAS PATRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HECK HOWARD LINCOLN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRESGE JOHN STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALL, THOMAS PATRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HECK, HOWARD LINCOLN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRESGE, JOHN STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is related to the following co-pending, 
commonly assigned United States Patent Applications:
 
U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 544 filed 27 July 1993 
by Charles Davis, Thomas, Duffy, Steven Hankovic, Howard Heck, 
John Kolias, and John Kresge, David Light, and Ajit Trevidi 
for Method of Fabricating A Flex Laminate Package (Attorney 
Docket Number EN993034). U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 744 filed 27 July 1993 
by Raymond T. Galasco and Jayanal T. Molla for Solder Bonded 
Parallel Processor Package Structure and Method of Solder 
Bonding (Attorney Docket Number EN993035). U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 810 filed 27 July 1993 
by Thomas Gall and James Wilcox for Method and Apparatus for 
Electrodeposition (Attorney Docket Number EN993036). U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 098 085 filed 27 July 1993 
by Robert D. Edwards, Frank D. Egitto, Thomas P. Gall, Paul S. 
Gursky, David E. Houser, James S. Kamperman, and Warren R. 
Wrenner for Method of Drilling Vias and Through Holes 
(Attorney Docket Number EN993037). U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 606 filed 27 July 1993 
by John H.C. Lee, Ganesh Subbaryan, and Paul G. Wilkin for 
Electromagnetic Bounce Back Braking for Punch Press and Punch 
Press Process (Attorney Docket Number EN993038).  U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 520 filed 27 July 1993 
by Thomas Gall and James Loomis or Parallel Processor 
Structure and Package (Attorney Docket Number EN993040). U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 605 filed 27 July 1993 
by Chi-Shi Chang and John P. Koons for Parallel Processor Bus 
Structure and Package Incorporating The Bus Structure 
(Attorney Docket Number EN993042). U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 603 filed 27 July 1993 
by Thomas Gall, James Loomis, David B. Stone, Cheryl L. 
Tytran, and James R. Wilcox for Fabrication Tool and Method 
for Parallel Processor Structure and Package (Attorney Docket 
Number EN993043). U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 601 filed 27 July 1993 
by John Andrejack, Natalie Feilchenfeld, David B. Stone, Paul 
Wilkin, and Michael Wozniak for Flexible Strip Structure for a 
Parallel Processor and Method of Fabricating The Flexible 
Strip (Attorney Docket Number EN993044). U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 097 604 filed 27 July 1993 
by Donald Lazzarini and Harold Kohn for Method of Fabricating 
A Parallel Processor Package (Attorney Docket Number 
EN993045). The invention relates to the design and fabrication of 
packages for parallel processors. The parallel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of fabricating a parallel processor structure 
having a plurality of processor integrated circuit chips, 

a plurality of memory integrated circuit chips, with 
signal interconnection circuitization means therebetween, 

wherein 

a. the processor integrated circuit chips and the 
memory integrated circuited chips are mounted on a 

plurality of printed circuit cards and boards with a 
first processor integrated circuit printed circuit 

board having a first processor integrated circuit 
chip mounted thereon, a second processor integrated 

circuit printed circuit board having a second 
processor integrated circuit chip mounted thereon, a 

first memory integrated circuit printed circuit 
board having a first memory integrated circuit chip 

mounted thereon, and a second memory integrated 
circuit printed circuit board having a second memory 

integrated circuit chip mounted thereon; 
b. said printed circuit cards and boards are mounted on 
a plurality of circuitized flexible strips, said 

circuitized flexible strips having a signal 
interconnection circuitization portion with X-Y 

planar circuitization and vias and through holes for 
Z-axis circuitization, a terminal portion having 

means for joining a printed circuit board thereto, 
and a flexible, circuitized portion between said 

signal interconnection circuitization portion and 
said terminal portion, and 
c. said circuitized flexible strips being joined at a 
signal interconnection circuitization body portion 

having X-axis, Y-axis, and Z-axis signal 
interconnection between processor integrated circuit 

chips and memory integrated circuit chips and 
 

comprising a laminate of said circuitized flexible 
strips at their signal interconnection 

circuitization portions, whereby said circuitized 
flexible strips are laminated in physical and 

electrical connection at their signal 
interconnection circuitization portions and spaced 

apart at their terminal portions; 
 
said process comprising 


a. forming first and second laminates of copper, a 
dielectric, and a low coefficient of thermal 

expansion metal; 
b. photolithographically forming patterns in said 
copper and said low coefficient of thermal expansion 

metal layers; 
c. bonding the first and second laminates together; 
d. thereafter forming vias and through holes in said 
bonded first and second laminates, and circuitizing 

said vias and through holes. 
e. depositing joining metallurgy on said bonded 
laminates; and 
f. aligning at least a pair of bonded laminates with a 
layer of a chemically compatible polymeric 

dielectric with a relatively low first thermal 
transition therebetween in areas between a pair of 

laminates intended to be bonded and a layer of a 
chemically incompatible polymeric dielectric with a 

relatively high first thermal transition 
therebetween in areas between the laminates not 

intended to be bonded, and thermally bonding the 
laminates above the eutectic temperature of the 

joining metallurgy and the first thermal transition 
 

temperature of the chemically compatible dielectric 
and below the homogenized alloy melting temperature 

of the joining metallurgy and the first thermal 
transition temperature of the joining metallurgy. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the low coefficient of 
thermal expansion metal is chosen from the group 

consisting of copper, molybdenum, and Copper-Invar-Copper 
laminates. 
The method of claim 1 comprising bonding said laminates 
together by a process comprising the steps of: 


i. positioning the two said laminates with their copper 
surfaces facing outward, 
ii. providing a layer of a chemically compatible 
polymeric dielectric with a relatively low first 

thermal transition therebetween in areas intended to 
be bonded and a layer of a chemically incompatible 

polymeric dielectric with a relatively high first 
thermal transition therebetween in areas not 

intended to be bonded, and 
iii. thermally bonding the laminates. 
The method of claim 3 comprising applying a layer of 
dielectric atop the copper. 
The method of claim 4 comprising applying a sacrificial 
copper foil atop the dielectric. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said bonding metallurgy has 
a eutectic temperature below the first thermal transition 

temperature of the dielectric and a homogenized alloy 
melting temperature above the first thermal transition 

temperature of the dielectric. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the dielectric is a 
perfluorocarbon polymer, comprising providing a low 

melting adhesive chemically compatible with the 
 

perfluorocarbon polymer between the laminates in the 
regions intended to be laminated, and thereafter stacking 

a first laminate above a second laminate and heating the 
laminate stack to effect adhesion and lamination. 
The method of claim 7 wherein the low melting adhesive 
compatible with the perfluorocarbon polymer is a 

thermoplastic polyimide. 
The method of claim 8 wherein the thermoplaxtic 
polyimide is chosen from the group consisting of 

BTDA-ODA-MPD, BPDA-6FDAM, and Pyralin 2566 6FDA-ODA. 
The method of claim 7 comprising providing a high 
melting mask compatible with the perflourocarbon 

polymer between the laminates in the regions not 
intended to be laminated, and thereafter stacking a 

first laminate above a second laminate and heating 
the laminate stack to selective effect adhesion and 

lamination in areas thereof intended to be laminated 
while avoiding lamination in areas not intended to 

be laminated. 
The method of claim 7 wherein the high melting mask 
is BPDA-PDA polyamic acid. 
The method of claim 11 comprising drawing down the 
BPDA-PDA polyamic acid onto surfaces of the 

dielectric not intended to be laminated, and 
thereafter curing the BPDA-PDA to the corresponding 

polyimide. 
The method of claim 11 comprising applying the BPDA-PDA 
as a free standing film, and laminating the 

dielectric above the melting temperature of the 
dielectric but below its imidization temperature. 
The method of claim 7 comprising 
a) providing a low melting adhesive 

compatible with the perfluorocarbon 
polymer between the laminates in the 

regions intended to be laminated, and 
thereafter stacking a first laminate above 

a second laminate and heating the laminate 
stack to effect adhesion and lamination; 

and 
b) providing a high melting mask compatible 
with the perfluorocarbon polymer between 

the laminates in the regions not intended 
to be laminated, and thereafter stacking a 

first laminate above a second laminate and 
heating the laminate stack to selective 

effect adhesion and lamination in areas 
thereof intended to be laminated while 

avoiding lamination in areas not intended 
to be laminated. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
