<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656870</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND APPARATI FOR PRODUCING FULLERENES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J1908	B01J1908	C01B3100	C01B3102	C30B2300	C30B2300	C30B2500	C30B2500	H05H126	H05H142	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	C01B	C01B	C30B	C30B	C30B	C30B	H05H	H05H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J19	B01J19	C01B31	C01B31	C30B23	C30B23	C30B25	C30B25	H05H1	H05H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Fullerenes are synthesized by subjecting a carbon source (84) such as carbon particulate or liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons to an intense, heat generating means (82) such as an electron beam, arc, induced plasma, sputtering beam, laser, resistance heater, or combustion means. The carbon particulate or hydrocarbons are vaporized into an environment (85) that condenses the carbon to form fullerenes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAT 
&
 ELECTROCHEM RES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS AND ELECTROCHEMICAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOUTFY RAOUF O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITHERS JAMES C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOUTFY, RAOUF, O.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WITHERS, JAMES, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS AND APPARATI FOR PRODUCING FULLERENESThis invention relates to improved methods to synthe¬ size the hew form of carbon referred to as fullerene, Buck- minsterfullerene and Buckyballs and to novel apparatus suitable for carrying out such methods.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONHuffman, Kratschmer et al. Nature, vol. 347, No. 6291, pg. 354-358, 27 September 1990, disclosed a process for synthesizing C60 and C70 which consists of vaporizing small graphite rods via resistance heating or arcing in a non- oxidizing atmosphere of helium at a preferred pressure of 100 torr. The process is excellent for producing fuller¬ enes. The soot yield from a graphite rod is generally up to about 60% and the soot contains up to about 10% fuller¬ enes. Attempts to scale up this process via using larger graphite rods, for example greater than to % inch diam¬ eter, result in lower yields of soot and fullerenes. High power vaporization of the graphite rods reduces yields. The most convenient way to vaporize the graphite rods is a controlled arc between the rods. Automation of graphite rod feeding with a controlled arc to produce large quanti¬ ties of fullerenes is difficult due to alignment of the small rods for arcing, and automation of supplying a new 

 2 graphite rods after the rods have been burned in the 100 - 200 torr helium environment is also difficult. Graphite rods are also an expensive source of carbon.OBJECTS AND ADVANTAGES OF PRESENT INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to overcome the scale-up difficulties of the Huffman/Kratschmer graph¬ ite rod vaporization process, as well as provide an im¬ proved method for synthesizing fullerenes and to provide apparatus suitable for practicing such methods. These and other objectives are achieved in accordance with one aspect of the instant invention by use of a form of carbon that can be poured or fed to the place of vaporization as a flu¬ id in a stream or flow of particles or powder or as a liq- uid or gas comprising in whole or in part carbon which is vaporized and condensed to produce fullerenes. A preferred embodiment of the invention involves the use of carbon par- ticulates which may be in a stationary bed when vaporized or which may be continuously fed as a fluid stream of par- tides to the reaction zone where it is heated and vapor¬ ized. As contrasted to graphite rods, carbon particulate can readily be continuously fed into a non-oxidizing atmos¬ phere at 100 - 200 torr or other pressures that were dis¬ covered in accordance with the instant
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of producing fullerenes which comprises: evaporating a fluid form of carbon by subjecting it to heat in a reaction zone in an environment that contains a quenching medium for condensing the evaporated carbon, col¬ lecting the quenched carbon product and obtaining at least one fullerene contained in the carbon product.
2. A method as defined in Claim 1, wherein the fluid form of carbon is a particulate form thereof. 3. A method as defined in Claim 2, wherein the par¬ ticulate form of carbon is in a fixed stationary bed.
4. A method as defined in Claim 2, wherein the par¬ ticulate form of carbon is in a fluidized bed.
5. A method as defined in Claim 1, wherein the fluid form of carbon comprises a fluid hydrocarbon.
6. A method as defined in Claim 5, wherein the flu¬ id form of carbon comprises a gaseous hydrocarbon.
7. A method as defined in Claim 6 wherein the gas¬ eous hydrocarbon also serves as the quenching medium. 8. A method as defined in Claim 5 wherein the fluid form of hydrocarbon comprises a liquid hydrocarbon.
9. A method as defined in Claim 8 wherein the liquid hydrocarbon also serves as the quenching medium.
10. The method of Claim 1 wherein at least one ful- lerene is separated form the quenched carbon product by sublimation.
11. A method as defined in Claim 5 wherein the fluid form of hydrocarbon comprises a particulate form thereof. 


 12. The method of Claim 2 wherein the quenching me¬ dium comprises an atmosphere of an inert quenching gas con¬ tained at effective pressure in an evacuated reactor.
13. The method of Claim 12 wherein the quenched car- bon product is collected as a condensate on a collecting surface within said reactor.
14. The method of Claim 12 wherein at least one ful¬ lerene is separated from the condensed carbon product by contacting said product with an extracting non-polar organ- ic solvent under effective conditions to separate the ful¬ lerene therefrom.
15. The method of Claim 1 wherein the quenching me¬ dium comprises a liquid hydrocarbon effective to solubilize fullerenes. 16. The method of Claim 1 wherein the fluid form of carbon is continuously fed to the reaction zone as heat is applied thereto to vaporize the carbon.
17. The method of Claim 2 wherein the particulate carbon is continuously fed to the reaction zone as heat is applied thereto to vaporize the carbon.
18. The method of Claim 4 wherein the particulate carbon is continuously fed to the reaction zone as heat is applied thereto to vaporize the carbon.
19. The method of Claim 2 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by the application of elec¬ tric power effective to produce an arc between said carbon particles in the reaction zone and an adjacent electrode. 


 20. The method of Claim 15 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by the application of elec¬ tric power effective to produce an arc between said carbon particles in the reaction zone and an adjacent electrode. 21. The method of Claim 16 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by the application of elec¬ tric power effective to produce an arc between said carbon particles in the reaction zone and an adjacent electrode.
22. The method of Claim 17 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by the application of elec¬ tric power effective to produce an arc between said carbon particles in the reaction zone and an adjacent electrode.
23. The method of Claim 19 wherein the particulate carbon is fed to the reaction zone downstream of the adja- cent electrode.
24. The method of Claim 20 wherein the particulate carbon is fed to the reaction zone downstream of the adja¬ cent electrode.
25. The method of Claim 19 wherein the particulate carbon is fed through an opening in the adjacent electrode to the reaction zone.
26. The method of Claim 1 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated in a plasma therein that is induced by an alternating electric current. 27. The method of Claim 1 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated in a plasma therein that is induced by a direct current. 


 28. The method of Claim 2 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated in a plasma therein that is induced by the application of an alternating electric cur¬ rent produced in an induction coil surrounding at least a portion of the reactor.
29. The method of Claim 17 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated in a plasma therein that is induced by the application of an alternating electric cur¬ rent produced in an induction coil surrounding at least a portion of the reactor.
30. The method of Claim 26 wherein the alternating electric current applied to induce the plasma is in the mi¬ crowave frequency range.
31. The method of Claim 26 wherien the alternating electric current applied to induce the plasma is in the megahertz frequency range.
32. The method of Claim 1 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by a sputtering system wherein inert gas is ionized, accelerated and directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone, thereby dislodging or vaporizing the carbon atoms.
33. The method of Claim 2 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by a sputtering system wherein inert gas is ionized, accelerated and directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone.
34. The method of Claim 17 wherein atoms in the reac¬ tion zone are subjected to heat generated by a sputtering 


system wherein inert gas is ionized, accelerated and di¬ rected to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone.
35. The method of Claim 1 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by a laser beam directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone.
36. The method of Claim 2 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by a laser beam directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone.
37. The method of Claim 17 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by a laser beam directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone.
38. The method of Claim 1 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by an electron beam directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone. 39. The method of Claim 2 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by an electron beam directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone.
40. The method of Claim 17 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated by an electron beam directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone.
41. The method of Claim 35 wherein the quenching me¬ dium comprises an atmosphere of an inert quenching gas at a pressure in the range of 10
"3
 - 10~
6
 torr.
42. The method of Claim 38 wherein the quenching me- dium comprises an atmosphere of an inert quenching gas at a pressure in the range of 10
"3
 - 10"
6
 torr.
43. The method of producing fullerenes which com¬ prises evaporating carbon by subjecting it to heat gener- 


ated by a sputtering system wherein -inert gas is ionized, accelerated and directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in a reaction zone in an environment that contains a quenching medium for condensing the evaporated carbon, collecting the quenched carbon product and separating at least one fuller¬ ene contained in the carbon product from any other compo¬ nents thereof.
44. The method of producing fullerenes which com¬ prises evaporating carbon by subjecting it to heat gener- ated by a laser beam directed to impinge upon carbon atoms in a reaction zone in an environment that contains a quenching medium under pressure in the range of 10
"3
 to 10
"6
 torr for condensing the evaporated carbon product and sepa¬ rating at least one fullerene contained in the carbon prod- uct from any other components thereof.
45. The method of producing fullerenes which com¬ prises evaporating carbon by subjecting it to heat gener¬ ated by an electron beam directed to a reaction zone in an environment that contains a quenching medium for condensing the evaporated carbon product and separating at least one fullerene contained in the carbon product from any other components thereof.
46. Apparatus for producing fullerenes comprising: means defining an enclosed reactor suitable for containing a quantity of particulate carbon in a reaction zone therein and for containing a quenching medium about said reaction zone, means for subjecting particulate carbon within said reaction zone to heat effective to cause it to vaporize. 


means for evacuating said reactor, means for introducing a quenching medium at effective pressure, to quench vaporized carbon in said reactor, means for collecting condensed car¬ bon in said reactor, and means for substantially continu- ously feeding carbon particulate to said reactor zone which subjecting it to vaporizing heat.
47. Apparatus as defined in Claim 46 wherein said means for subjecting the reaction zone to heat comprises a source of electric power applied to first and second spaced electrodes for producing an arc there between.
48. Apparatus as defined in Claim 47 wherein one of said electrodes comprises a bed of said particulate carbon to be vaporized.
49. Apparatus as defined in Claim 48 wherein the oth- er of said electrodes contains an aperture through which the means for feeding carbon particulate supplies said par¬ ticulate to the reaction zone.
50. Apparatus as defined in Claim 46 wherein said means for subjecting the reaction zone to heat comprises a source of electric power coupled to an induction coil ef¬ fectively surrounding the reaction zone for inducing a plasma in an inert gas in said reaction zone.
51. Apparatus as defined in Claim 50 wherein the in¬ duction coil is located external of the walls of said re- actor and wherein the walls of said reactor within the in¬ duction coil are formed of non-conductive material.
52. Apparatus as defined in Claim 46 wherein the means for subjecting carbon in the reaction zone to heat 


comprises a source of microwave energy directed to said reaction zone.
53. Apparatus as defined in Claim 46 wherein the means for subjecting carbon in the reaction zone to heat comprises a sputtering system comprising means for ionizing inert gas in said reactor to produce ions and means for ac¬ celerating and directing said ions to impinge upon carbon atoms in the reaction zone.
54. Apparatus as defined in Claim 46 wherein said means for subjecting carbon in the reaction zone to heat comprises a laser system comprising means for generating and directing a laser beam into said reaction zone effec¬ tive to vaporize carbon atoms therein.
55. Apparatus as defined in Claim 46 wherein said means for subjecting carbon in the reaction zone to heat comprises an electron beam system comprising means for gen¬ erating and directing an electron beam into said reaction zone effective to vaporize carbon atoms therein.
56. Apparatus as defined in Claim 54 wherein the quenching medium comprises an inert gas at a pressure in the range of 10~
3
 to 10
"6
 torr.
57. Apparatus as defined in Claim 55 wherein the quenching medium comprises an inert gas at a pressure in the range of 10
~3
 to 10
"6
 torr. 58. The method of Claim 15 wherein a fullerene is produced as a quenched carbon product dissolved in said liquid hydrocarbon quenching medium and wherein said ful¬ lerene is recovered therefrom. 


 59. The method of Claim 15 wherein the liquid quench¬ ing medium in the reaction zone is maintained essentially at atmospheric pressure.
60. The method of Claim 20 wherein the electric power is applied in a pulsed manner.
61. Apparatus for producing fullerenes comprising: means defining a reactor vessel suitable for containing a liquid hydrocarbon quenching medium in a reaction zone therein, means for maintaining a quantity of carbon in said reaction zone, means for subjecting carbon within said re¬ action zone to heat effective to cause it to vaporize, and a liquid hydrocarbon quenching medium in said reactor ves¬ sel immersing the reaction zone and effective to solubilize fullerenes therein. 62. Apparatus as defined in Claim 61 wherein the means for subjecting carbon within the reaction zone to heat comprises a pair of spaced electrodes coupled to a source of electric power for producing an electric arc in said reaction zone. 63. Apparatus as defined in Claim 62 wherein at least one of said electrodes comprises a quantity of particulate carbon immersed in said liquid medium.
64. Apparatus as defined in Claim 61 further compris¬ ing a heat exchange system for conducting heat away from a liquid quenching medium in said reactor vessel.
65. The method of Claim 5 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat generated in a plasma started with an inert gas. 


 66. The method of Claim 65 wherein the inert gas is argon.
67. The method of Claim 65 wherein the inert gas is helium. 68. The method of Claim 65 wherein the hydrocarbon has a hydrogen to carbon ratio of one or less.
69. The method of Claim 68 wherein the inert gas is helium, whereby the carbon product comprises substantially pure carbon in the form of C
60
. 70. The method of Claim 65 wherien the hydrocarbon is acetylene.
71. The method of producing fullerenes which compris¬ es evaporating carbon by subjecting it to heat generated in a reaction zone in a reactor containing an environment com- prising a quenching medium for condensing the evaporated carbon, collecting the quenched carbon product and obtain¬ ing at least one fullerene contained in the carbon product, wherein the carbon is supplied to the reaction zone as a component of a hydrocarbon, and wherein the reaction zone is heated to a temperature effective to crack the hydrocar¬ bon.
72. The method of Claim 71 wherein the hydrocarbon is acetylene.
73. The method of Claim 71 wherein the hydrocarbon has a hydrogen to carbon ratio of one or less.
74. The method of Claim 71 wherein the quenching me¬ dium comprises helium in an atmosphere of 10
"6
 to 760 torr. 


 75. The method of Claim 71 wherein the hydrocarbon is natural gas.
76. The method of Claim 75 wherein the quenching me¬ dium comprises helium in an atmosphere of 10-6-760 torr. 77. The method of Claim 71 wherein the heat is pro¬ duced by applying a source of electric power to a resis¬ tance element positioned in the reaction zone.
78. The method of Claim 77 wherein the resistance element is a tungsten filament. 79. The method of Claim 77 wherein the resistance element is a carbon filament.
80. The method of producing fullerenes which com¬ prises evaporating carbon by subjecting it to heat gen¬ erated by combustion in a reaction zone in a reactor con- taining an environment comprising a quenching medium for condensing the evaporated carbon, collecting the quenched carbon product and obtaining at least one fullerene con¬ tained in the carbon product.
81. The method of Claim 80 wherein the carbon is supplied to the reaction zone as a component of a hydro¬ carbon and wherein the reaction zone is heated to a tem¬ perature effective to crack the hydrocarbon.
82. The method of Claim 71 wherein the carbon is supplied to the reaction zone as a combination of a hy- drocarbon and particulate carbon.
83. The method of Claim 80 wherein the carbon is sup¬ plied to the reaction zone as a combination of a hydrocar¬ bon and particulate carbon. 


 84. The method of Claim 81 wherein the hydrocarbon has a hydrogen to carbon ratio of one or less.
85. The method of Claim 81 wherein the hydrocarbon is acetylene. 86. The method of Claim 81 wherein the hydrocarbon is toluene.
87. The method of Claim 81 wherein the hydrocarbon is naphthalene.
88. The method of Claim 80 wherein the environment of the quenching medium in the reactor is at a pressure in the range of 10"
6
 to 760 torr.
89. The method of Claim 81 wherein the environment of the quenching medium in the reactor is at a pressure in the range of 10~
6
 to 760 torr. 90. Apparatus as defined in Claim 53 wherein said means for subjecting carbon in the reaction zone to heat further comprises means for generating and directing an electron beam into said reaction zone affecting to vaporize carbon atoms therein. 91. Apparatus as defined in Claim 50 wherein the in¬ duction coil is located within the walls of said reactor.
92. The method of Claim 80 wherein the reaction zone is subjected to heat from an electrodeless source.
93. The method of Claim 92 wherein the electrodeless source is used to generate a plasma in the reaction zone where the combustion occurs.
94. The method of Claim 1 wherein heat is supplied to the reaction zone by an electric arc produced by the appli- 


cation of direct current between the. fluid form of carbon and an adjacent electrode, that is the cathode of the arc system and wherein quenched carbon product deposited on the cathode is selectively collected. 95. The method of Claim 94 wherein the fluid form of carbon is a particulate form thereof.
96. The method of Claim 94 wherein the quenching me¬ dium is a noble gas.
97. The method of Claim 96 wherein the noble gas is helium at 200 torr.
98. The method of Claim 97 wherein the reaction zone is in a reaction zone that is prepared by pumping it to 10
~3
 torr, backfilling with argon, re-pumping to 10
~3
 torr and backfilling with helium to 200 torr. 99. The method of Claim 95 wherein the quenching me¬ dium is a noble gas.
100. Apparatus as defined in Claim 47 wherein one of said electrodes is a flat plate disposed to receive carbon particulate form the feed means for carrying a bed of the particulate carbon to be vaporized and the other of said electrodes is mounted above the plate electrode whereby particulate on said flat plate is disposed between said electrodes wherein a source of electric power is coupled to said electrodes for producing an arc between them, and wherein means are provided for rotating said plate elec¬ trode whereby a bed of carbon particulate on said plate is continuously passed through the arc produced between said electrodes. 


 101. Apparatus as defined in Claim 47 wherein one of the electrodes comprises means for carrying a bed of par¬ ticulate carbon received from the feed means and wherein means are provided for moving one of the electrodes rela- tive to the other whereby an arc produced between said electrodes scans across the bed of carbon particulate carried by said one electrode. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
