<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612281</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPRESSIBLE PRINTING BLANKET AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41N1002	B41D704	B32B522	B41N1004	B32B500	B41F1308	B32B500	B32B526	B41F1308	B41N1000	B32B522	B32B2500	B32B2510	B41D700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41N	B41D	B32B	B41N	B32B	B41F	B32B	B32B	B41F	B41N	B32B	B32B	B32B	B41D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41N10	B41D7	B32B5	B41N10	B32B5	B41F13	B32B5	B32B5	B41F13	B41N10	B32B5	B32B25	B32B25	B41D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-ply laminated compressible printing blanket (10) for use in offset printing comprising in order, a first compressible fabric ply (12), a compressible elastomeric layer (24), at least two additional fabric plys (32, 34) situated above the compressible elastomeric layer, an elastomeric surface (44) and an elastomeric printing face (46) deposited by a solventless process and having a surface profile adapted for reducing dot gain while enhancing the releasability of the printed matter. At least the lowermost fabric ply (12) incorporates a protective coating to prevent wicking of inks, water and/or solvents through the blanket which might otherwise lead to swelling and delamination of the various plys. In addition, both the fabric plys and the compressible layer are at least partially coated with a matrix material (20) having dispersed therein a plurality of closed cells (26) formed, e.g., with the use of blowing agents or by adding thereto a plurality of expanded or expandable microspheres. Articles which may also be formed from the composite structure include gaskets, packing materials, flexible diaphragms or printing blankets.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REEVES BROS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REEVES BROTHERS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BYERS JOSEPH L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLINT W TORIRAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KERR RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BYERS, JOSEPH, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLINT, W., TORIRAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KERR, RICHARD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the field of offset
printing and more particularly to compressible printing
blankets and methods of making same for use in offset
printing presses.The use of so-called "printing blankets" in offset
lithography has been well known for a number of years.
In the process of offset lithographic printing, a
rotary cylinder is covered with a printing plate having
a positive image area receptive to oil-based inks and
repellent to water, as well as a background area in
which the opposite is true. The printing plate is
rotated so that its surface contacts a second cylinder
covered with a rubber-surfaced ink receptive printing
blanket. The ink present on the image surface of the
printing plate transfers, or offsets, to the surface of
the blanket. Paper or other sheet stock to be printed
is then passed between the blanket covered cylinder and
a rigid back-up cylinder to transfer the image from the
surface of the blanket to the paper. During the steps in which the image is transferred from
the plate to the blanket and subsequently wherein the
image is transferred from the printing blanket to the
paper, it is important to ensure intimate contact
between the two contacting surfaces. This is
ordinarily achieved by positioning the blanket covered
cylinder and the supporting cylinder it contacts so
that there is a fixed interference between the two.
Thus, the blanket is compressed throughout the printing
run to a fixed depth, typically about 0.0508 to 0.152mm
(0.002 to 0.006 inches). Moreover, it is also
important that this compression be maintained uniformly
over the entire blanket.This fixed interference between the blanket and the
paper substrate may, for example, be accomplished in
inserting one or more thin layers of paper or the like
between the blanket and the surface of the cylinder to
build up the thickness of the blanket. This process is
known as "packing" a blanket.Early printing blankets used in connection with rotary
printing operations consisted of a fabric substrate
backing layer bonded to a rubber printing face (see,
e.g., U.S. patent No. 2,099,024 to Lewis). Problems
with these early blankets stemmed from the fact that
rubber is non-compressible when confined. Thus, when
pressure was applied to the non-compressible rubber 
surface, the rubber would distort and cause uneven
rolling waves at the nip, i.e., the point between the
printing blanket and the impression cylinder. Such
distortions would cause ink smearing and compression of
the textile backing. Further, repeated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A printing blanket comprising an elastomeric printing
face having a surface profile with a roughness average of

above about 0.6 µm (microns) and below about 0.95 µm
(microns) to enhance releasability while reducing dot gain

during printing operations.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 1 further
comprising at least one fabric ply and a compressible layer

beneath the printing face.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 2 further
comprising a subface immediately beneath the printing face,

wherein the subface is formed from a high durometer, high
tensile, low elongation elastomeric compound.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3
which further comprises at least two fabric plys between

said compressible layer and said elastomeric printing face,
such that said compressible layer is thereby protected from

at least a portion of the stresses occurring at said
printing face. 
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 1 wherein said
elastomeric printing face has a surface profile with a

roughness average of between about 0.7 to 0.9 µm (microns).
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 4 further
comprising a base fabric ply with a protective coating

thereon to prevent absorption and wicking of water, inks and
solvents therethrough.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 6 wherein said
protective coating comprises a fluorocarbon or a silicone

material.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 4 or claim 6,
wherein at least one of the fabric plys and/or the base

fabric ply comprises a plurality of warp and fill fibers or
yarns forming a fabric substrate, and a binder material

substantially impregnating at least one side of the fabric
substrate; the binder material providing no substantial

contribution to the overall thickness of the partially
impregnated fabric substrate and containing a plurality of

cells in an amount sufficient to impart increased
compressibility properties to the fabric ply.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 8 wherein the
warp fibers or yarns have a tensile strength of at least 

about 26.25kN/m (150 pounds per inch), the fill fibers or
yarns have a tensile strength of at least about 10.5kN/m (60

pounds per inch) and the fabric substrate has a weight of
between about 0.14 and 0.27 kg/m
2
 (4 and 8 ounces per square
yard).
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 4 or claim 8

wherein said compressible layer is comprised of a matrix
having a plurality of closed cells distributed substantially

uniformly therethrough and such that said layer has
substantially uniform compression characteristics.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 10 wherein said
matrix is a flexible thermoplastic or elastomeric material.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 8 which further
comprises a protective coating on at least one of said

fabric plys to prevent absorption and wicking of water, inks
and solvents therethrough.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 12 wherein said
protective coating comprises a fluorocarbon or a silicone

material.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 8, wherein the
cells are formed from microspheres having a diameter of 

between about 1 and 200 µm (microns) and the microspheres
are dispersed relatively uniformly throughout the binder

material.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 10, wherein the
closed cells are formed from microspheres having a diameter

of between about 1 and 200 microns and the microspheres are
dispersed relatively uniformly throughout the matrix.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 14 or claim 15,
wherein the microspheres are formed from a material selected

from the group consisting of thermoplastic resins,
thermosetting resins, ceramics, glasses and sintered metals.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 14 or claim 15,
wherein the microspheres include a surface coating to

facilitate bonding with the binder material and/or the
matrix.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 14 or claim 15,
wherein the microspheres are present in the binder material

and/or the matrix at a loading of about 4 to 90% by weight.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 8, wherein the
cells are formed from gas bubbles which are trapped within

the binder material. 
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 10 wherein the
closed cells are formed from gas bubbles which are trapped

within the matrix.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 8, wherein the
binder material is a thermoplastic resin, a thermosetting

resin, a polyurethane or a natural or synthetic elastomer.
A printing blanket as claimed in claim 21, wherein the
elastomer is a nitrile, neoprene or an acrylic elastomer.
A method of preparing a printing blanket having
enhanced releasability and reduced dot gain during printing

operations which comprises

providing a printing blanket having at least one fabric
ply, an elastomeric printng face and a compressible layer

positioned therebetween; and
grinding the printing face to a surface profile with a
roughness average of above about 0.6 µm and below about 0.95

µm.
The method of claim 23 wherein a subface is provided
beneath the printing face to improve the stability of the

printing face and its resistance to cutting, and a
supporting fabric ply is included to support the other

layers, with the supporting fabric ply including a 
protective coating to prevent absorption or wicking of

fluids into the blanket.
The method of claim 23 wherein at least one additional
fabric ply is used and the additional fabric ply(s) are

located between the printing face and the compressible
layer.
The method of claim 23 wherein at least one fabric ply
is a compressible fabric ply, and the printing face is

ground to a surface profile with a roughness of between 0.7
and 0.9 µm.
The method of claim 26 wherein the compressible fabric
ply is made by dipping the fabric into a latex solution of

elastomeric material that contains microspheres therein and
removing excess matrix material by scraping the fabric with

a doctor blade.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
