<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647801</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Shift lever assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60K2002	B60K2002	F16H5902	F16H5902	G05G2500	G05G2504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60K	B60K	F16H	F16H	G05G	G05G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60K20	B60K20	F16H59	F16H59	G05G25	G05G25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shift lever assembly (2) includes a mechanism for 
adjusting the gap (9) between a rigid, spherical boot (7) 

and the periphery of an opening (5) in a console trim 
plate (6) through which a shift lever of a vehicle 

shifting mechanism extends. The mechanism preferably 
provides both radial adjustment for providing a uniform 

gap and also allows for the assembly to be easily 
adjusted up or down with respect to the opening in the 

console trim plate. Preferably, a threaded nut (10) is 
provided which threadably engages the shift lever and 

includes a flange (11) containing a series of positioning 
openings (14a-14c) which are engaged in a circle which is 

eccentric to the axis of the lever. The boot (7) 
preferably includes an opening (31), which is eccentric 

to its body, through which the lever extends. The boot 
includes a pair of ribs (32a, 32b) which, on station of 

the boot to an appropriate angle about the lever, engage 
two of the positioning openings (14a-14c) to lock the 

boot in an adjustment position. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JSJ CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JSJ CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROCK ROBERT DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROCK, ROBERT DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a shifting mechanism, 
particularly for automotive vehicles, such as one in 
which the shift lever extends through an opening having 
a circular periphery and a rigid boot is connected to the 
lever for covering the opening. This invention also 
relates to a shift lever assembly for such a mechanism 
and to means for adjusting a gap between the exterior 
face of the boot and the periphery of the opening. Vehicle shifters have been developed wherein the 
shift lever extends through an opening in the console 
trim plate, the opening permitting a three axis pivoting 
of the shifter. In other words, the shifter lever is 
shifted not only forwardly and rearwardly, but also 
sideways to the right and left. To permit such shifting 
action, it has been proposed that the opening be made 
circular with a rigid semi-spherical boot attached to the 
shift lever so as to substantially and continuously cover 
the circular opening regardless of whether the shift 
lever is shifted forwardly, rearwardly or sideways. 
However, this has created some problems due to various 
tolerances in the building of the shifter, the console, 
and various other components. That is, it has not been 
possible to center the circular opening of the console 
trim plate with the semi-spherical shifter boot. The 
result has been a differing gap along the entire 
periphery of the circular opening. From an aesthetic 
viewpoint, such differences in the gap are unacceptable 
and thereby rendering the use of a shifting mechanism 
having a shift lever with a rigid boot unmarketable. The present invention aims to alleviate these 
problems.  According to a first aspect of the present 
invention, there is provided a shift lever assembly for 
a shifting mechanism having an elongated shift lever with 
one end extending along a longitudinal access through a 
first opening to a pivot point, the first opening having 
a periphery, the shift lever assembly being as claimed in 
claim 1. Preferably, the periphery of the first opening is 
circular. The first opening is preferably in a console 
trim plate of a vehicle. Preferably, the first means comprises nut means 
adapted for connection to the shift lever and adapted for 
movement therewith. According to a second aspect of the present 
invention there is provided a shifting mechanism 
including a shift lever assembly according to the first 
aspect of the invention. According to a third aspect of the present invention 
there is provided a shifting mechanism with the features 
of claim
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A shift lever assembly for a shifting mechanism 
having an elongated shift lever with one end extending 

along a longitudinal axis through an opening to a pivot 
point, the opening having a periphery, the assembly 

comprising a rigid semi-spherical boot (7) adapted for 
connection to a shift lever (2) and adapted for movement 

with said lever in a first opening (5) for substantially 
and continuously covering said first opening, 

characterised by adjustment means for adjusting a gap (9) 
between an exterior face (8) of said boot and a periphery 

of said first opening, the adjustment means comprising 
first means (10) connected to said lever and movable 

therewith, said first means having a plurality of first 
positioning me
ans (14a -14b); and second means (32a, 32b) 
on said boot having a plurality of second positioning 

means, at least one of said second positioning means 
being adapted to co-operatively engage at least one of 

said plurality of said first positioning means to 
establish the position of said face of said rigid boot in 

relationship to said periphery; one of said second 
positioning means and said first positioning means being 

adjustable to selectively engage different ones of said 
other of said first positioning means and said second 

positioning means whereby the gap between said face of 
said boot and the periphery of said first opening can be 

adjusted to substantially provide a uniform gap. 
2. A shift lever assembly as claimed in claim 1 in 
which one of said plurality of first positioning means 

and said plurality of second positioning means comprises 
nibs (32am 32b) and the other said plurality of 

 
positioning means comprises recesses (14a-14c) for 

receiving said nibs. 
3. A shift lever assembly as claimed in claim 2 in 
which the plurality of first positioning means comprises 

recesses (14a-14c) and the second positioning means 
comprise nibs (32a, 32b). 
4. A shift lever assembly as claimed in claim 2 or 
claim 3 in which the recesses comprise openings (14a-14c) 

and the second positioning means includes two 
diametrically oppositely located nibs. 
5. A shift lever assembly as claimed in claim 3 or 
claim 4 in which the recesses lie on a circular locus and 

the second positioning means includes two diametrically 
opposite nibs (32a, 32b) adapted for location on said 

circular locus. 
6. A shift lever assembly as claimed in any one of 
claims 2 to 5 in which the nibs and recesses are adapted 

to lie on a locus comprising a circle having its centre 
of radius ("A") offset from the longitudinal axis of the 

lever and a centerline of the semi-spherical boot (7) 
7. A shift lever assembly as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the first means include a 

flange (11) adapted to extend radially from said lever 
(2) with said plurality of first positioning means (14a-14c) 

located thereon; said boot (7) includes a second 
opening (31) adapted to receive said lever; and said 

second positioning means (32a, 32b) is located on said 
boot adjacent said second opening in a position to 

receive at least one of said first positioning means. 
8. A shift lever assembly as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 6 in which the first means comprise a nut 

(10) adapted for location on said lever and having a 
radial flange (11) with said plurality of first 

positioning means located thereon; said semi-spherical 
boot includes a second opening (31) which is adapted to 

receive said lever with a centerline of said second 
opening (31) being offset from the centerline of the 

semi-spherical boot 7) and said longitudinal axis of said 
lever; and said second positioning means is located 

adjacent said second opening in a position to receive at 
least one of said first positioning means. 
9. A shift lever assembly as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 5 in which said first means comprises a nut 

(10) adapted to be threaded on said lever about a 
longitudinal axis of said lever, said nut having a 

radially extending flange (11) with said first plurality 
of positioning means being adapted for location on a 

circle the centre of radius of which is offset from the 
longitudinal axis of said lever; said nut having a 

cylindrical protrusion (15) extending downwardly from 
said flange and having the same centre of radius as said 

circle, said semi-spherical boot having a second opening 
(31) for receiving said cylindrical protrusion, said boot 

opening having a center of radius offset from a 
centerline of said semi-spherical boot. 
10. A shift lever assembly as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the adjustment means is adapted 

to adjust the boot on said lever in a direction along 
said longitudinal axis. 
11. A shift lever assembly as claimed in claim 10 when 
 

dependent upon anyone of claims 1 to 6 in which the 
adjustment means comprises a nut threadedly adjustable 

longitudinally on said lever and having a radial flange 
(11) with said plurality of first positioning means 

located thereon; said boot includes a second opening (31) 
for receiving said lever; and said second positioning 

means (32a, 32b) is located on said boot adjacent said 
second opening in a position to receive at least one of 

said first positioning means. 
12. A shift lever assembly as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims which includes biasing means (40) for 

forcing said first positioning means and said second 
positioning means into engagement for holding said boot 

in an adjusted position. 
13. A shifting mechanism comprising a shift lever (2) 
with one end extending through a first opening (5) and a 

rigid boot (7) connected to said lever and movable with 
said lever in said first opening for substantially and 

continuously covering said opening, the opening having a 
periphery; said boot comprising a portion of a hollow 

sphere having an exterior face (8); a second opening (31) 
in said boot having a center axis offset from a 

centerline of said portion of said sphere; said lever 
extending through said second opening providing a handle 

(3) at one end and an actuator (4) at the other end; a 
positioning member (10) secured to said lever, said 

member having a plurality of spaced recesses (14a-14c) 
located on a circle having its center of radius on said 

center axis of said second circular opening offset from 
a longitudinal axis of said lever; said portion of said 

sphere having at least one nib (32a, 32b), each nib being 
spaced from the center axis of said second opening and 

 
located in a position to receive at least one of said 

recesses; and said longitudinal axis and said center axis 
being offset one from the other whereby rotatably 

adjusting one of said positioning member and sphere 
portion to different positions wherein different ones of 

said recesses are engaged by said nibs adjusts the 
spacing between said face of said rigid boot and the 

periphery of said first opening. 
14 A shifting mechanism as claimed in claim 13 in which 
the positioning member is rotatably mounted on said lever 

and has a radial flange (11) with said recesses (14a-14c) 
being located on said flange. 
15. A shifting mechanism as claimed in claim 13 or claim 
14 in which an adjustment means (11) is provided for 

adjusting the positioning member and boot on said lever 
in a direction along said longitudinal axis. 
16. A shifting mechanism as claimed in claim 13 or claim 
14 or claim 15 in which said positioning member comprises 

a nut threadedly mounted on said lever. 
17. A shifting mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 
13 to 16 which includes biasing mens for forcing said 

boot upwardly to force said nibs into said recesses. 
18. A shifting mechanism (1) comprising an elongate 
shift lever (2) and a rigid concave boot (7) located on 

the lever and adapted for movement therewith, the boot 
being adapted for location adjacent a periphery of an 

opening (5) for covering the opening, which is preferably 
in a vehicle trim plate (6), with a gap (9) between the 

boot and the 
 

periphery of the opening, characterised by adjustment 
means (10, 14a-14c, 32a,
 32b) for adjusting the gap. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
