<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643920</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of preparing an end closure for shirred casing and end closure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22C1300	A22C1302	A22C1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22C	A22C	A22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22C13	A22C13	A22C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method of forming 
an end closure in one end of a tubular shirred casing and 

the like for stuffing meat products into the casing. The 
partially twisted, compacted end closure is suitable for 

withstanding breakage during pressure injection of meat 
products, e.g., sausage, frankfurter, etc., into the 

casing. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARTEVA TECH SARL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARTEVA TECHNOLOGIES S.A.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLORENTINO MADRIGAL-OCEGUEDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLORENTINO, MADRIGAL-OCEGUEDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an end closure of a hollow shirred tubular casing
composed of a casing material from one end thereof twisted and compacted into a
close-packed knot-configuration and having an axial opening for releasing gases, and
to a process for forming such end closure.In the industry of meat stuffing, e.g., Vienna and frankfurter sausages of special
stuffings, tubular shirred casings are required to stuff the meat products. Dimensions
of these casings vary depending on the particular product and machines used in
preparation of the stuffings.Several decades ago all sausage casings were of natural origin, and prepared
from animal intestines. Thereafter, several types of synthetic tubular casings for
sausages were developed. In particular, regenerated cellulose casings are used in most
of the sausages made and sold today.One of the first stages in preparation of sausages after the meat emulsion has
been prepared is the stuffing of such meat emulsion into the shirred tubular casings.
However, before carrying out the stuffing process, it is required that a closure be formed
at the end of the casing to avoid loss of the product therefrom. To that effect, several
end closures for shirred casings have been suggested.U.S. Patent No. 3,274,005 to Alsys suggests using a hook to twist and invert the
end of a shirred casing to produce an end closure. U.S. Patent No. 3,383,222 to Alsys
and U.S. Patent No. 3,892,869 to Sheridan suggest forming an end closure by pulling
the end of the casing to form a tab, closing the end temporarily; inserting a plunger to
invert the tab; removing the plunger and placing the end in which the tab is inverted 
against a fixed surface; and inserting a plunger into the casing from the opposite end
to compress the inverted tab and form the end closure.U.S. Patent Nos. 3,914,447 and 4,070,729 to Tums teach an end closure
produced by inserting a rod into a hollow shirred casing without engaging any portion
of the casing, and twisting the terminal pleats until a knot is formed, followed by
withdrawing the rod from within the knot without disturbing the closure. The references
also suggest placing a passage in the end closure that will permit the passage of gases
there through but will restrain the passage of food emulsion. In particular, U.S. Patent
No. 4,070,729 is related to a hollow shirred casing stick having the terminal pleats of
one end twisted into a funnel-like configuration from which at least a portion is
implanted with the hollow stick to form an end closure.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An end closure of a hollow shirred tubular casing composed of a casing material from one
end thereof twisted and compacted into a close-packed knot-configuration and having an axial

opening (32) for releasing gases, comprising

a partially twisted, compressed cylindrical element (30a) having a diameter equal to the interior
diameter of the hollow shirred tubular casing,
said cylindrical element (30a) being a wrapped unshirred end (35) of the tubular casing which has
a shirred end (28) and an unshirred, unwrapped end (34);

and
said axial opening (32) having a shape which is conform to the cross-section of an axially sliding
guiding means (24) which wrap the unshirred end (34) to the wrapped unshirred end (35).
The end closure according to claim 1, wherein the unshirred end (34) of the casing is at least
about 15 millimeters in length. 
The end closure according to claim 2, wherein the unshirred end (34) of the casing is from
about 15 to about 30 millimeters in length. 
A process for forming an end closure of a hollow shirred tubular casing, the
end closure being composed of casing material from one end thereof twisted

and compacted into a close-packed knot configuration in the interior of the
hollow shirred tubular casing, and having an axial opening for releasing gases 
characterized in that
 the end closure is the result
of performing the steps of:


a. positioning a shirred, tubular casing having a hollow, axial interior, a
shirred end (28) and an unshirred end (34) inside a casing guide (26) for

securing the shirred end (28) against rotating or shifting about its
longitudinal axis, wherein the unshirred end (34) extends outside the

casing guide (26) at a shirred-unshirred interface;
b. axially sliding compacting means (31) from the shirred end (28) through
the interior of the tubular casing proximal to the shirred-unshirred

interface;
c. axially sliding guiding means (24) having butting means (17) attached
thereto from the unshirred end (34) through the interior fo the tubular

casing proximal to the shired-unshirred interface, wherein the
compacting means (31) and guiding means (24) axially contact proximal

to the shirred-unshirred interface;
d. engaging a sealing means (18) with the unshirred end (34), wherein the
unshirred end intimately contacts the guiding means (24);
e. axially rotating the guiding means (24) in contact with the unshirred end
(34), wherein the unshirred end (34) adheres to the guiding means (24)

and rotates therewith causing the unshirred end (34) to wrap around the
guiding means (24) to produce a wrapped unshirred end (35), and

wherein a portion of the shirred end may be unshirred and taken up in
the wrapped unshirred end; 
f. disengaging the sealing means (18) from the wrapped unshirred end
(35);
g. axially sliding the compacting means (31) and guiding means (24) having
the wrapped unshirred end (35) attached therearound through the casing

to the shirred end (28), wherein a portion of the shirred end at the
shirred-unshirred interface is unshirred and drawn through the casing to

the shirred end (28);
h. axially sliding the butting means (17) into engaging contact with the
shirred-unshirred interface to prevent axial shifting of the casing at the

interface;
i. axially sliding the compacting means (31) and guiding means (24)
through the casing to the butting means, wherein the guiding means are

disengaged from the compacting means proximal to the shirred-unshirred
interface and are withdrawn from the casing, and wherein the

wrapped unshirred end (35) is compacted by the compacting means (31)
against the butting means (17); and
j. axially withdrawing the compacting means (31) from the casing,
disengaging the butting means (17), and removing securing means (26a,

26b) from the casing,

wherein the axial opening is formed in the cross section of the end closure for
releasing gases generated during stuffing the tubular casing which axial

opening conforms to the shape of the cross section of the guiding means. 
The process according to Claim 4, wherein the
compacting means comprise an axial, rod-shaped

internal butt having a cylindrical-shaped compaction 
plunger attached to its end is inserted along the axis of the casing from the shirred end

to compact the end closure.
The process according to Claim 4, wherein at least two concave plates as
parts of the casing guide are detachably adjoining each other.
The process according to Claim 6, wherein the concave plates are held
together by securing clips.
The process according to Claim 4, wherein the guide means are axially
inserted
 into the shirred end of the casing and the compaction plunger is withdrawn to
cause the shirred end to form an elongated unshirred end of at least about 15 mm in

length.
The process according to Claim 8, wherein the compaction plunger is
withdrawn inside of the casing to form an elongated unshirred end from about 15 to

30 mm in length.
The process according to Claim 4, wherein the guiding means comprise an
axial shaped rod with a sharpened tip which contacts the compaction plunger during

the rotation of the guiding means to wrap the unshirred end, the forming of the
elongated unshirred end and the compaction of the wrapped unshirred end against the

butt of the guiding means.
The process according to Claim 4, wherein the axial shaped rod and
sharpened tip having a polygonal cross section are assisting the wrapping of the

unshirred end to the guiding means and are rotating on the surface of the compaction
plunger to gather unshirred casing therearound in forming the opening of the end

closure. 
The process according to Claim 11, wherein the axial rod of the guiding means
has an abrasive surface to assist the wrapping operation.
The process according to Claim 11, wherein the axial shaped rod and
sharpened tip have a triangular cross section to form the opening of the end closure.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
