<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634181</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for internal cleaning of an implanted infusion system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M5142	A61M5142	A61M2500	A61M2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M25	A61M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method for internal cleaning of an implanted infusion 
system, comprising an infusion pump connected on its outlet 

side to a catheter (12) via a nonreturn valve (14), a 
flushing port (2) also being provided downstream the 

nonreturn valve and upstream the catheter, a first flow (Q1) 
of cleaning fluid is passed through the infusion pump and 

the nonreturn valve. A second flow (Q2) of secondary fluid 
is supplied through the flushing port, and a third fluid 

flow (Q3) is discharged through the flushing port. A device 
for such a cleaning comprises pumping means connected to the 

flushing port for supplying the second flow of secondary 
fluid, intended for diluting or otherwise modifying the 

cleaning fluid passing through the infusion pump and the 
nonreturn check valve, and for discharging the third flow. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS ELEMA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS ELEMA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLETTENMARK BRUNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLETTENMARK, BRUNO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and a device for 
internal cleaning of an implanted infusion system, 
comprising an infusion pump connected on its outlet side to 
a catheter via a nonreturn valve, a flushing port also being 
provided downstream the nonreturn valve and upstream the 
catheter, a first flow of cleaning fluid being passed 
through the infusion pump and the nonreturn valve. Implantable infusion systems or infusers deliver medication 
or drugs, usually in liquid form, such as an insulin 
solution, to the patient. For example, such an infuser can 
consist of a.o. a drug reservoir, a micropump with a 
nonreturn valve and a catheter. One problem here is that 
medication can become deposited on the interior surfaces of 
a.o. the pump and the nonreturn valve. A reduced volume 
delivered per pump stroke, valve leakage etc. are some of 
the disruptions which then can occur. If such a disruption 
occurs, the deposits in the system can be dissolved and the 
pump performances restored. For example, the reservoir can 
be filled with some cleaning or washing liquid which 
dissolves the deposits in question and allow the liquid to 
pass through the pump by activating the pump funktion. Since 
the washing liquid can be aggressive, toxic or unapproved as 
a drug etc., it is important to prevent the liquid from 
being pumped out of the catheter and coming into contact 
with body tissues. Allowing dissolved drug deposits to enter 
the body is further inappropriate, since this can cause 
immune reactions. For example, denatured insulin in the 
abdominal cavity can give rise to the formation of 
antibodies, and the patient can ultimately develop 
resistance to insulin. Therefore no flow of washing liquid 
out of the catheter is desirable during the washing 
operation. Nor is an influx of body fluid into the catheter 
desirable. Body fluids contain a.o. proteins which can 
contribute to catheter blockage and contamination of the so-called  
 
flushing port preceding the catheter. The presence of 
body fluid in this part of the infuser can have an adverse 
effect on the drug and on the life of the infuser. As regards the insulin pumps, the problem has hitherto been 
ignored and the patient has been exposed to unacceptable 
risks by pumping corrosive fluids out into the abdominal 
cavity of the patient or the following procedure has been 
used: A drain, consisting of a liquid-filled flexible tube, is 
connected via a cannula to the flushing port with its other 
end positioned on a level lower than the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for internal cleaning of an implanted infusion 
system, comprising an infusion pump connected on its outlet 

side to a catheter via a nonreturn valve, a flushing port 
also being provided downstream the nonreturn valve and 

upstream the catheter, in which method a first flow of 
cleaning fluid is passed through the infusion pump and the 

nonreturn valve, characterized in that a second flow of 
secondary fluid is supplied through the flushing port, and a 

third flow of fluid is discharged through the flushing port. 
Method according to of claim 1, characterized in that 
the second and third flows through the flushing port are 

much larger than the first fluid flow through the infusion 
pump and the nonreturn valve. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the second and third flows through the flushing port are of 

equal magnitude. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the third flow is equal to the sum of the first flow and the 

second flow. 
Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 

the sum of the first and second flow is larger than the 
third flow. 
Method according to any of claims 1 or 2, characterized 
in that the sum of the first and second flow is smaller than 

the third flow. 
Method according to any of claims 1 - 6, characterized 
in that the secondary fluid is a neutral fluid, such as 

 
sterile water, which acts by physical dilution. 
Method according to any of claims 1 - 6, characterized 
in that the secondary fluid is a chemically active fluid for 

neutralizing or otherwise modifying the cleaning fluid. 
Device for internal cleaning of an implanted infusion 
system, comprising an infusion pump connected on its outlet 

side to a catheter via a nonreturn valve, a flushing port 
being provided downstream the nonreturn valve and upstream 

the catheter, characterized in that pumping means are 
connected to the flushing port to supply a second flow of a 

secondary fluid, for diluting or otherwise modifying a first 
flow of cleaning fluid passing through the infusion pump and 

the nonreturn valve, and for discharging a third flow of 
fluid. 
Device according to claim 9, characterized in that the 
pumping means comprise a syringe in the form of a cylinder 

in which a piston is displaceable, said cylinder being 
devised with openings on either side of the piston. 
Device according to claim 10, characterized in that the 
piston can be manipulated by a piston rod running from one 

side of the piston in the longitudinal direction of the 
cylinder and out through one end wall of the cylinder. 
Device according to claim 10, characterized in that a 
piston rod runs from either side of the piston out through 

the end walls of the cylinder. 
Device according to claim 9, characterized in that the 
pumping means comprise two cylinders, each having a piston, 

which pistons are interconnected for joint movement, and in 
that the space on one side of the piston of the first 

cylinder is devised with an opening for discharging and 
drawing in fluid in this space by displacing the piston of 

the cylinder, and the space on the other side of the piston 
 

of the second cylinder is devised with an opening for 
drawing fluid into this space by displacing the piston of 

the cylinder movements during the discharge phase of the 
first cylinder and for discharging fluid during the drawing 

in phase of the first cylinder. 
Device according to claims 12 or 13, characterized in 
that the piston rods have the same thickness. 
Device according to claim 12 or 13, characterized in 
that the piston rods have different thicknesses. 
Device according to any of claims 9 - 15, characterized 
in that a double-lumen catheter is introducible into the 

flushing port to respectively supply and remove the second 
and third flows. 
Device according to any of claims 9 - 16, characterized 
in that a sensor is arranged between the pumping means and 

the flushing port in order to measure the third flow. 
Device according to any of claims 9 - 17, characterized 
in that a sensor is arranged between the pumping means and 

the flushing port in order to measure the second flow. 
Device according to any of claims 10 - 18, 
characterized in that the means are provided to sense when 

the tip of the syringe or cannula is in the correct position 
in the flushing port during the cleaning procedure. 
Device according to any of claims 11 - 19, 
characterized in that position and/or velocity gauges are 

arranged to check that the piston is moving in the intended 
manner. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
