<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610971</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device assembly comprising a leadframe structure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L23495	H01L2348	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
First (30) and second (40) frame bodies are used to 
fabricate a semiconductor device. The first frame body (30) 

includes a die pad (33). The second frame body (40) 
includes a plurality of leads (42). The die pad is depressed 

by a predetermined amount (h) which is equal or greater than 
the thickness of a semiconductor chip (50) to be mounted on 

the die pad. The two frame bodies are welded, and wire 
bonding and cutting of the leads are performed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns a semiconductor device.Recently, the demand for high integration of
semiconductor devices has increased. On the other hand,
there is also a demand for reduction of the external
dimensions of the semiconductor device after sealing. Since
the semiconductor chip size is becoming larger to meet the
demand for high integration, the reduction of the external
dimensions is very difficult. Many efforts have been made to
reduce the external dimensions.FIGS.1A to 1E show a conventional lead frame and a
semiconductor device produced by using the lead frame, shown
in Japanese laid open Patent (Tokkai Sho) No:52-127756.
In the prior art, two metalic frame bodies 10 and 20 are
used. The first metalic frame body 10 includes a die pad
portion 13 and tie bars 12 connecting the die pad portion 13
to a joining band 11. FIG.1C is a cross sectional view along
the line A-A' of FIG.1B. The second metalic frame body 20
has projecting portions 23 and a plurality of leads 25
extending from a lead connecting portion 24 to the central
portion. A dam bar portion 22 supports the leads 25 (FIG.1B, FIG.1C). A semiconductor chip 15 is mounted on the die pad
portion 13. (FIG.1D)The die pad portion 13 is separated from the joining band
11 by cutting along the line B-B'.
The die pad portion 13 having the semiconductor chip 15 is
welded to the projecting portion 23, and is fixed to the
second frame body 20. (FIG.1E)Bonding pads (not shown) on the semiconductor chip 15 are
electrically connected to the inner lead portions of the
leads 25 by bonding wires (not shown).Since the inner lead portions of the leads 25 overlaps
the semiconductor chip 15, it is possible to reduce the
external dimensions of the semiconductor device comparing
with devices wherein the die pad portion and the leads are
produced from a single frame body.However, in the prior art, the die pad portion 13 is
separated from the joining band after the semiconductor chip
is mounted thereon. Thus, there is a problem of dust
adhering to the semiconductor chip during the separation
process. Furthermore, there is a problem in handling the
frame bodies due to the projecting portions 23, since the
projecting portion 23 serves as a hook when the frame bodies
are piled up during the manufacturing process.Various aspects of the present invention will now be
described by way of example only and without limiting the
scope of the invention.Therefore, an object of the present invention is to
provide an improved frame body which is free from the dust
problem and is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor
device comprising: a semiconductor chip (50) having a

plurality of bonding pads (54) on a main surface thereon;

first frame means (30) including;
a die pad portion (33) having a main surface
supporting the semiconductor chip;
a first frame portion (31,36) having a first
surface, surrounding the die pad portion;
tie bar means (32) connecting the die pad
portion to a predetermined portion of the first frame

portion so as to produce an offset (h) between the main
surface and the first surface; and
second frame means (40) stacked on the first
frame means, including;
a second frame portion (41,46) stacked on the
first frame portion, whereby

the first and second frame
portions are, joined and substantially in alignment;
a central portion surrounded by the second frame
portion; 
a plurality of lead portions (42) extending from the
second frame portion to the central portion so as to

overlap the semiconductor chip; bonding wires (51) connecting
respective bonding pads (54) to respective ones of said lead portions;

wherein the first frame
portion includes a first pair of notches (39) on the inner

periphery of the first frame portion on opposite sides of the
tie bar means, thereby increasing the length thereof, and the second

frame portion includes a second pair of notches (49) aligned above
said first pair of notches.
A semiconductor device according to claim 1 further
comprising an insulating buffer layer (57,58) between

the lead portions and the main surface of the
semiconductor chip.
A semiconductor device according to claim 2, whereby
said insulating buffer layer (57) is formed on the

lead portions. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 2, wherein
the insulating buffer layer (58) is formed on the main

surface of the semiconductor chip. 
A semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein each
frame portion is made of a metal having a predetermined

melting point, and each frame portion has a
metal layer (34, 44) thereon which has lower melting point than

the predetermined melting point and the respective metal layers of
each frame portion are located so as to overlap.
A semiconductor device according to claim 5, wherein each 
frame portion is made of copper based material, and the

metal layer is made of tin.
A semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the first
frame portion has a first predetermined inner dimension

and the second frame portion has a second predetermined
inner dimension, and the first predetermined inner

dimension is wider than the second predetermined inner
dimension by a predetermined amount (d).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
