<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646511</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Light weight fatigue resistant railcar bogie sideframe
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B61F500	B61F500	B61F552	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B61F	B61F	B61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B61F5	B61F5	B61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The sideframe (20) of a railway car bogie is constructed such that basic overall 
sideframe appearance is maintained, but the actual construction results in a more 

efficient use of the materials as a means of reducing the sideframe weight. This means 
that material is used according to how the stresses are encountered by the sideframe, 

dictating that the sideframe midsection is structurally heavier than the sideframe ends. 
Maximization of this construction is provided by shaping the entire sideframe into a 

solid, unitary cross-sectional I-beam shape. A solid top flange (30) of the 
I-beam corresponds to the typical top compression member while the solid bottom 

flange (40) corresponds to the typical bottom compression member. The solid vertical web (50), 
which interconnects the top and bottom flanges is a typical thereby allowing the web to 

absorb forces which would normally have to be absorbed by either top or bottom 
member. This feature allows the sideframe to be lighter, yet structurally stronger because 

the top and bottom members can now be cast dimensionally smaller. To take advantage 
of the weight savings even further, the I-beam shape has a structurally tapering thickness 

from the midsection to the ends and this corresponds to the loading experienced by the 
sideframe. The open, I-beam exterior allows for easier and more reliable inspection, as 

well as improved casting quality due to a substantial reduction in casting core usage. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMSTED IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMSTED INDUSTRIES INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWTHORNE V TERREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARLBOROUGH DONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NASSAR RAMI V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWTHORNE, V. TERREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARLBOROUGH, DONALD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NASSAR, RAMI V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an improved railcar bogie and more particularly to a
lightweight sideframe for a three piece freight car bogie.The more prevalent freight railcar construction in the United States includes what
are known as three-piece bogies. Bogies are wheeled structures that ride on tracks and
two such bogies are normally used beneath each railcar body, one bogie at each end.
The "three-piece" terminology refers to a bogie which has two sideframe% that are
positioned parallel to the wheels and the rails, and to a single bolster which transversely
spans the distance between the sideframes. The weight of the railcar is generally carried
by a center plate connected at the midpoint of each of the bolsters.Each cast steel sideframe is usually a single casting comprised of an elongated
lower tension member interconnected to an elongated top compression member which
has pedestal jaws on each end. The jaws are adapted to receive the wheel axles which
extend transversely between the spaced sideframes. Usually, a pair of longitudinally
spaced internal support columns vertically connects the top and bottom members
together to form a bolster opening which receives the truck bolster. The bolster is
typically constructed as single cast steel section and each end of the bolster extends into
each of the sideframe bolster openings. Each end of the bolster is then supported by a 
spring group that rests on a horizontal extension plate projecting from the bottom tension
member.Railcar bogies must operate in severe environments where the static loading can
be magnified, therefore, they must be structurally strong enough to support the car and
the car payload, as well as the weight of its own structure. The bogies themselves are
heavy structural components which contribute to a substantial part of the total tare
weight placed upon the rails. Since the rails are typically regulated by the railroads, who
are concerned with the reliability and the wear conditions of their tracks, the maximum
quantity of product that a shipper may place within a railcar will be directly affected by
the weight of the car body, including the bogies themselves. Hence, any weight
reduction that may be made in the bogie components will be available for increasing the
carrying capacity of the car.The designers of the early cast steel bogies experimented with several types of
cross sections in their quest to reduce sideframe weight, but were unable to develop a
successful "open" cross section. In fact, the efforts were so unsuccessful
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cast open-construction railcar bogie sideframe
(20) for carrying a railcar payload, said sideframe (20)

having a longitudinal axis, a first end (29), a second
end (31) and a midsection therebetween, comprising:


an upper compression member (30);
a horizontally disposed top flange (30)
corresponding to said upper compression member (30);
two downwardly projecting pedestal jaws (35);
a lower tension member (40) having first and second
upwardly extending sections (60,70) and a central

section therebetween, said first and second upwardly
extending sections (60,70) extending to a respective

said pedestal jaw (35);
a bottom flange (40) corresponding to said lower
tension member (40); and
a substantially vertical web (50), said web (50)
including an open portion at said midsection having a

first vertical column (80) and a second vertical column
(90) and a bolster opening (26) therebetween;
said sideframe (20) having a generally I-beam
cross-section along a major part of its length, said

sideframe (20) characterised in that:

the central section of said lower tension member
(40) is generally parallel to said upper compression

member (30);
the width of said top and bottom flanges (30,40)
tapers from the midsection to a respective pedestal jaw

(35); and
the cross-sectional thickness of said top and
bottom flanges (30,40) and said web (50) tapers from the

midsection to a respective pedestal jaw (35).
The sideframe of claim 1, wherein said top and
bottom flanges (30,40) and said web (50) each have a 

substantially constant cross-sectional thickness between
said first and second vertical columns (80,90).
The sideframe of claim 1 or 2, wherein the cross-sectional
thickness of said top and bottom flanges

(30,40) and said web (50) tapers continuously from the
midsection to a respective pedestal jaw (35).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
top and bottom flanges (30,40) have a width of

substantially equal extent.
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein the
width of said top and bottom flanges (30,40) is

substantially constant between said first and second
vertical columns (80,90).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein the
width of said top and bottom flanges (30,40) tapers

continuously from the midsection to a respective
pedestal jaw (35).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, further
comprising simple radii curves of fillet material where

said top and bottom flanges (30,40) join said web (50).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, further
comprising simple radii curves of fillet material where

said first and second vertical columns (80,90) join said
web (50).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, further
including means (55, 120) for reinforcing said web (50)

in order to prevent twisting of said web (50), said
means (55, 120) vertically attached to each side of said

web (50) at each pedestal jaw (35) and at said
midsection. 
The sideframe of any preceding claim, further
including means (85, 95) for reinforcing said web (50)

at each of said first and second vertical columns
(80,90), said means (85, 95) horizontally attached to

each side of said web (50).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein the
cross-sectional thickness of said top flange (30) tapers

along said longitudinal axis in accordance with the
static and dynamic loading expected to be experienced by

said upper compression member (30).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
cross-sectional thickness of said top flange (30) is

about 0.69 inches (18 mm) near said midsection and about
0.50 inches (13 mm) near said pedestal jaw (35), said

thickness generally decreasing from said midsection to
said pedestal jaw (35) wherein said cross-sectional

thickness of said top flange (30) between said first and
second vertical columns (80,90) is continuously about

0.69 inches (18 mm).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
bottom flange (40) has a cross-sectional thickness which

tapers along said longitudinal axis in accordance with
the static and dynamic loading expected to be

experienced by said lower tension member (40).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
cross-sectional thickness of said bottom flange (40) is

about 0.75 inches (19 mm) near said midsection and about
0.62 (16 mm) near said pedestal jaw (35), said cross-sectional

thickness gradually decreasing from said
midsection to said pedestal jaw (35) and said cross-sectional

thickness of said bottom flange (40) between
said first and second vertical columns (80,90) is

continuously about 0.75 inches (19 mm). 
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
web (50) has a cross-sectional thickness which tapers

along said longitudinal axis in accordance with the
static and dynamic loading expected to be experienced by

said web (50).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
cross-sectional thickness of said web (50) is about 0.75

inches (19 mm) near said midsection and about 0.50

inches (13 mm) near said pedestal jaw (35), said cross-sectional
thickness gradually decreasing from said

midsection to said pedestal jaw (35).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
top flange (30) tapers in width from about 8.5 inches

(22 cm) at said midsection to about 3.75 inches (9.5 cm)
at said pedestal jaw (35).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
bottom flange (40) tapers in width from about 8.5 inches

(22 cm) at said midsection to about 3.75 inches (9.5 cm)
at said pedestal jaw (35).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein said
web (50) has at least two longitudinally spaced

lightener openings (200), each of said lightener
openings (200) being vertically disposed an equal extent

from said top flange (30), each of said lightener
openings (200) being defined by a top edge (184), a

perpendicular side edge (182), and an obtuse side edge
(186), each of said edges (182, 184, 186) connected

together to form a generally triangular shape.
The sideframe of claim 19, wherein each of said
lightener openings (200) has a continuous peripheral

edge, said edge comprising a reinforcing lip (170) for
maintaining the section modulus around each of said

lightener openings (200). 
The sideframe of claim 20, wherein said reinforcing
lip (170) varies in cross-sectional thickness around

each of said lightener openings (200) in accordance with
the static loading expected to be experienced by said

web (50).
The sideframe of claim 20 or 21, wherein said
reinforcing lip (170) on said perpendicular side edge

(182) is thicker than on either of said top and obtuse
side edges (184, 186).
The sideframe of any preceding claim, wherein the
payload to weight ratio is about 11 to 1.
A railcar bogie having a longitudinal axis and
including a pair of cast open-construction laterally

spaced sideframes (20) with wheeled axles mounted
therebetween, each of said sideframes (20) having a

first end (29), a second end (31) and a midsection
therebetween, each of said sideframes (20) comprising:


an upper compression member (30);
a top flange (30) corresponding to said upper
compression member (30);
a lower tension member (40);
a bottom flange (40) corresponding to said lower
tension member (40);
two downwardly projecting pedestal jaws (35);
said upper compression member (30) and said lower
tension member (40) being interconnected by a web (50),

said web (50) including an open portion having a bolster
opening (26), said sideframe (20) having a generally I-beam

cross-section along a major part of its length,
said sideframe (20) characterised in that:


the width of said top and bottom flanges (30,40)
tapers from said midsection to a respective pedestal jaw

(35); and
the cross-sectional thickness of said top and
bottom flanges (30,40) and said web (50) tapers from 

said midsection to a respective pedestal jaw (35).
The railcar bogie of claim 24, further comprising a
pair of laterally spaced sideframes as claimed in of any

of claims 1-23.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
