<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621690</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reset logic circuit and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K300	H03K3355	H03K513	H03K513	H03K1901	H03K19017	H03K190948	H03K190948	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K3	H03K3	H03K5	H03K5	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high speed inverter circuit is disclosed. The inverter has a quiescent state, a set state for 
receiving an input pulse and generating a set pulse in response thereto, a reset stage in which a 

delayed version of the same input pulse is used to reset the inverter, and a recovery state for preparing 
the inverter for the arrival of a new input pulse. The inverter has an extremely fast switching speed 

because virtually all of the available energy of the input signal is used to set the inverter. The inverter 
may be used in an inverter chain for rapidly propagating electrical signals. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WENDELL DENNIS L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WENDELL DENNIS L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an inverter, and, more particularly, to an inverter with extremely 
fast switching characteristics and which may be used as a building block in numerous high 
speed circuit applications. The CMOS inverter is a basic building block in modern microelectronics. Multiple inverters 
are used to construct standard logic gates such as NAND gates and NOR gates. Inverters may also 
he used for numerous other applications, such as a clock generator circuit or a decoder circuit. A standard CMOS inverter includes an NMOS transistor and a PMOS transistor. The gates 
of the two transistors are coupled to an input node. The source-drain current channel of the PMOS 
transistor is coupled between Vcc and an output node. The source-drain current path of the NMOS 
transistor is coupled between the output node and ground. When a logical high signal is applied to 
the input node, the PMOS transistor is turned off and the NMOS transistor is turned on. As a result, 
the output node is inverted and pulled down to ground. When a logical low signal is applied to the 
input node, the complement of the above occurs and the output node is pulled up to Vcc. The standard CMOS inverter has a significant problem regarding switching speed. For a 
given channel width and turn on voltage, an NMOS transistor is approximately twice as conductive 
as a PMOS transistor. To ensure that the inverter has approximately the same delay for both high 
to low and low to high transitions, the channel width of the PMOS transistor is typically made twice 
as large as the NMOS transistor. As a consequence, for any given input signal, one third (1/3) of 
the charge is used to drive the NMOS transistor and two thirds (2/3) of the charge is used to drive 
the PMOS transistor. The switching speed of the CMOS inverter is impaired because a significant 
portion of the available charge is used to perform non-productive work, i.e., the turning off of one 
of the transistors. The conventional CMOS inverter is therefore no longer ideal for use in many circuit 
applications, such as high speed microprocessors.  A form of CMOS circuitry with improved speed characteristics is the "post charge logic" 
technique described in U.S. Patent No. 4,985,643 to Robert J. Proebsting. This patent describes a 
chain of logic stages. Each stage includes a set transistor and a reset transistor. The set transistor 
of each stage is responsible for forward propagating an input pulse through the chain. In one embodiment, 
the reset of each stage is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A circuit, comprising: 
   a set circuit for receiving an input signal and generating a set signal in response thereto; 

   a delay circuit for delaying the input signal; and 
   a reset circuit, coupled to the delay circuit, for receiving the delayed input signal, and 

in response thereto, resetting the set circuit. 
The inverter of claim 1, further comprising a recovery circuit for preparing the set 
circuit to receive a new input signal. 
The inverter of claim 1, wherein the set circuit comprises a set transistor configured 
to receive the input signal at its control electrode. 
The inverter of claim 1, wherein the delay circuit comprises at least one inverter. 
The inverter of claim 1, wherein the reset circuit generates a reset signal in response 
to the delayed input signal. 
The inverter of claim 5, wherein the reset signal is generated after the set signal. 
A chain of two inverter stages, comprising: 
   a first inverter having a first set means for receiving an input signal and providing 

a set signal in response thereto; and a first reset means for receiving a delayed version of the 
 

input signal and for resetting the first inverter and generating a reset signal in response thereto; 
and 

   a second inverter having a second set means responsive to the set signal from the first 
inverter and a second reset means responsive to the reset signal from the first inverter. 
The inverter chain of claim 7, wherein the first set means of the first inverter further 
comprises a set circuit for receiving the input signal and generating the set signal. 
The inverter chain of claim 8, wherein the first set circuit of the first inverter comprises 
a set transistor configured to receive the input signal at its electrode and to switch between 

a quiescent potential and a set potential in response thereto. 
The inverter chain of claim 9, wherein the second set means of the second inverter 
comprises a second set circuit for receiving the set signal from the first set circuit of the first inverter 

and switching between a second quiescent potential and a second set potential in response thereto. 
The inverter chain of claim 7, wherein the first reset means of the first inverter further 
comprises a first reset circuit, coupled to the delay circuit, for receiving the delayed input signal and 

in response thereto, resetting the first set means and generating the reset signal. 
The inverter of claim 11, wherein the second reset means of the second inverter is 
responsive to the reset signal from the first reset means of the first inverter. 
The inverter chain of claim 7, wherein the reset signal is generated after the set signal. 
A method of operating a circuit comprising the steps of: 
   receiving an input signal at an input node of a first stage of a circuit and generating 

a set output signal at a set node in response thereto; 
   delaying the input signal at the first stage; and 

   receiving the delayed input signal at a second input of the first stage, and in response 

thereto, resetting the set node of the first stage and generating a reset signal at a reset node 
of the first stage. 
The method of claim 14, further comprising: 
   receiving the first set signal of the first stage at a second set node of a second stage, 

and in response thereto, generating a second set signal; and 
   receiving the reset signal of the first stage at a second reset node of the second stage, 

and in response thereto, resetting the second set node of the second stage and generating a 
second reset signal. 
The method of claim 14, wherein the reset signal is generated after the set signal. 
The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of preparing the first stage for 
receiving a new input signal. 
A method of propagating a signal through a chain of inverters, comprising: 
   providing a plurality of inverters in a chain, each of the inverters having a set node 

and a reset node; 
   coupling in sequence the set nodes of each of the inverters in the chain; 

   coupling in sequence the reset nodes of each of the inverters in the chain;
 

   applying and propagating an input signal to the set node of each of the inverters in 
the chain; 

   delaying the input signal; and 
   applying and propagating the delayed input signal to the reset node of each of the 

inverters in the chain to reset the set node of each of the inverters after it has set. 
A circuit, comprising: 
   a set circuit for receiving an input signal and generating a set signal in response thereto; 

   an inverter circuit for inverting the input signal; and 
   a reset circuit, coupled to the inverter circuit, for receiving the inverted input signal, 

and in response thereto, resetting the set circuit. 
A chain of two circuit stages, comprising: 
   a first stage having a first set means for receiving an input signal and providing a set 

signal in response thereto; and a first reset means for receiving a delayed version of the input 
signal and for resetting the first inverter; and 

   a second stage having a second set means responsive to the set signal from the first 
stage and a second reset means responsive to an inverted version of the set signal from the 

first stage. 
A method of propagating a signal through a chain of logic stages, comprising: 
   providing a plurality of stages in a chain, each of the stages having a set node and a 

reset node; 
   coupling in sequence the set nodes of each of the stages in the chain;

 
   applying and propagating a set signal to the set node of each of the stages in the chain; 

and 
   inverting the set signal and applying the inverted set signal to the reset node of each 

of the stages in the chain to reset the set node of each of the stages after it has been set. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
