<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DYNAMICALLY SELECTABLE MULTIMODE PULSE WIDTH MODULATION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K700	H03K708	H03M150	H03M156	H04J316	H04J316	H04L2549	H04L2549	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03M	H03M	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K7	H03K7	H03M1	H03M1	H04J3	H04J3	H04L25	H04L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORDAN, EDWARD, PERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DYNAMICALLY SELECTABLE MULTIMODE PULSE . WIDTH MODULATION SYSTEMFIELD OF INVENTION This invention relates to a dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system, and more particularly to such a system in which all modes are derived from the same ramps.BACKGROUND OF INVENTION Multimode pulse width modulation systems are those that can selectively provide leading edge modulation (LEM) , trailing edge modulation (TEM) and dual edge modulation (DEM) . While these systems are convenient in many applications they suffer from a number of disadvantages. Typically each mode, LEM, TEM, DEM is generated by a separate subsystem. LEM and TEM arrangements each require a separate ramp and DEM requires two ramps. In addition, in high-speed applications where pulses are to be generated alternately, sequentially in both halves of a clock cycle, for example, LEM and TEM require two ramp generators and DEM requires four ramp generators. In each instance two comparators are utilized with each ramp generator: the circuit is large and complex. Further, since each mode is generated from separate ramps, there is a certain loss of symmetry, accuracy and switching speed, as well as difficulty in synchronizing or aligning the pulses when switching between modes.SUMMARY OF INVENTIONIt is therefore an object of this invention to provide an improved selectable multimode pulse width modulation system.It is a further object of this invention to provide such an improved selected multimode pulse width modulation system which requires but one ramp generator to generate all modes: leading edge modulation (LEM) , trailing edge modulation (TEM) and dual edge modulation (DEM) .It is a further object of this invention to provide such an improved selected multimode pulse width modulation system which 

provides high-speed, accurate switching between modes without alignment errors.It is a further object of this invention to provide such an improved selected multimode pulse width modulation system which is less complex, uses fewer components and requires no alignment adjustment equipment.The invention results from the- realization that a truly simple, reliable, dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system requiring but one ramp to generate all three modes of pulse width modulation — leading edge modulation, trailing edge modulation and dual edge modulation — and which is able to provide high-speed, accurate switching between modes without alignment errors, can be achieved by simultaneously generating leading edge
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system comprising: ramp generator means for generating a ramp; pulse edge modulation means responsive to said ramp generator means for defining a leading edge modulated pulse, a trailing edge modulated pulse, and a dual edge modulated pulse; and mode selection means, responsive to said pulse edge modulation means, for selecting one of said leading edge modulation, trailing edge modulation and dual edge modulation modes of pulse width modulation.
2. The dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system of claim 1 in which said pulse edge modulation means includes variable reference means for providing a variable leading and a variable trailing edge reference; and fixed reference means for providing a fixed reference associated with each of said variable references for defining said leading edge, said trailing edge, and said dual edge modulated pulses.
3. The dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system of claim 2 in which said variable reference means includes a digital to analog converter having a normal and an inverted output.
4. The dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system of claim 1 in which said pulse edge modulation means includes first means for generating leading edge modulation, second means for generating trailing edge modulation and third means, responsive to said first and second means for generating, for generating dual edge modulation.
5. The dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system of claim 4 in which said first means for 


 generating includes first comparator means for defining the variable leading edge and fixed trailing edge for leading edge modulation and a first pulse generator responsive to said first comparator means for generating a leading edge modulated pulse, said second means for generating includes second comparator means for defining the variable trailing edge and fixed leading edge for trailing edge modulation, and a second pulse generator responsive to said second comparator means for generating a trailing edge modulated pulse, and said third means for generating includes a third pulse generator responsive to said first and second comparator means for generating a dual edge modulated pulse.
6. The dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system of claim 4 in which said mode selection means includes gate means, responsive to said first, second and third means for generating, for passing a selected one of a leading edge modulated pulse, trailing edge modulated pulse and dual edge modulated pulse.
7. A dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system comprising: ramp generator means for generating a number of ramps; pulse edge modulation means for producing an alternating like number of sequential pulses, said pulse edge modulation means being responsive to said ramp generator means for defining a leading edge modulated pulse, a trailing edge modulated pulse and a dual edge modulated pulse; and mode selection means, responsive to said pulse edge modulation means, for selecting one of said leading edge modulation, trailing edge modulation and dual edge modulation modes of pulse width modulation for each of said alternating sequential pulses.
8. The dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system of claim 7 in which said pulse edge modulation 

includes mode gate means, responsive to said first, second and third means for generating, for passing a selected one of a leading edge modulated pulse, trailing edge modulated pulse and dual edge modulated pulse.
13. The dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system of claim 7 in which said number is two.
14. A dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system comprising: ramp generator means for generating a ramp; variable reference means for providing a like number of variable leading and a variable trailing edge references; fixed reference means for providing a fixed reference associated with each of said variable references; pulse edge modulation means responsive to said ramp generator means and said fixed and variable references for selectively defining one of a leading edge modulated pulse and a trailing edge modulated pulse, and responsive to said ramp generator means and both of said fixed and variable references for generating a dual edge modulated pulse; and mode selection means, responsive to said pulse edge modulation means, for selecting one of said leading edge modulation, trailing edge modulation and dual edge modulation modes of pulse width modulation.
15. A dynamically selectable multimode pulse width modulation system comprising: ramp generator means for generating a number of ramps; variable reference means for providing a like number of variable leading and a variable trailing edge references; fixed reference means for providing a fixed reference associated with each of said variable references; pulse edge modulation means for producing an alternating like number of sequential pulses, said pulse edge modulation means being responsive to said ramp generator means 


and said fixed and variable references for selectively defining one of a leading edge modulated pulse and a trailing edge modulated pulse and responsive to said ramp generator means and both of said fixed and variable references for generating a dual edge modulated pulse; and mode selection means, responsive to said pulse edge modulation means, for selecting one'of said leading edge modulation, trailing edge modulation and dual edge modulation modes of pulse width modulation for each of said alternating sequential pulses. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
