<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651841</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DECKING BOARD AND ASSEMBLY CLIP.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B27B100	B27B100	B27H100	B27H100	E04F1504	E04F1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B27B	B27B	B27H	B27H	E04F	E04F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B27B1	B27B1	B27H1	B27H1	E04F15	E04F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A decking board (22) having a convex curved top surface (30) for shedding water but which is comfortable to stand and walk on. The curvature of the top surface (30) is selected such that the board (22) retains a convex top surface (30) even after warping during use, and in one construction utilizes a clip (21) system to secure the board (22) to an underlying support (23). The decking board (22) incorporates grooves (34, 35) for cooperation with laterally extending flanges (27, 28) on the clip (21) to secure the board (22) to the clip (21) without requiring the use of separate fasteners extended through the board (22). Fasteners are extended through the clip (21) and into a support member (23) to secure the clip (21) and thus the board (22) to a support member (23). In a preferred form of the invention, the clip (21) has a pair of upstanding hook-like projections (27, 28) which engage in a pair of spaced apart grooves (34, 35) in an undersurface of the board (22) to secure the board (22) to a support (23). The curved board (22) of the invention also reduces the amount of waste or rejected material during the manufacturing process because of the elimination of bark edges during the milling process, and the grooves (34, 35) in the bottom surface (33) of one form of the invention serve not only to attach the board (22) to the clip (21) but also function as drying channels for circulation of air when the boards (21) are stacked on top of one another.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NYSTROM RON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NYSTROM, RON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYSTROM RON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NYSTROM, RON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DECKING BOARD AND ASSEMBLY CLIPTechnical Field of the Invention:This invention relates to building constructions. More particularly, the invention relates to a unique decking board and fastening clip system for use in constructing a floor or other structure, and to a construction assembly and method.Background of the Invention:A variety of specialized flooring materials have been developed for interior and exterior use. Indoor applications are especially varied, including everything from granite and marble to hardwoods and rubber compositions. Hardwood floors for interior use typically range from individual, unfinished strips or boards that are sanded and stained or otherwise finished after being installed, to pre-finished boards and various parquet styles. The individual boards, in particular, used in hardwood flooring usually have stress relief channels cut in their underside, and tongue and groove configurations along the side edges. The major developments in interior hardwood flooring, however, have been related to the use of durable finishes, and not to the basic structural design of the wood strips.Wood flooring materials for exterior use, such as in decks and the like, have undergone very little change since their introduction. Up until fairly recently, wood flooring for exterior use was typically found on covered porches, and was not used in constructions fully exposed to weather conditions. These floors were very close in structure and appearance to interior flooring, and generally included tongue and groove construction and other features used indoors. The same boards might even be used both indoors and outdoors, for example, with a painted surface on the boards used outdoors to aid in resisting weather. 

 Construction materials and methods for exterior decks and porches changed dramatically with the advent of chemically treated lumber, which enabled exterior structures to be fully exposed to the weather. The chemically treated lumber used in these structures makes them weather- resistant, and provides much greater flexibility in architectural style than previously used materials for exterior construction.However, very little change has been made in the basic design of the wood building materials used in such exterior constructions. For instance, flooring or decking used in exterior decks comes in limited configurations, typically 2X4 and/or 2X6 or 2X8 lumber, and so-called 5/4 decking boards. All of these flooring materials are essentially rectangular in cross-sectional configuration.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1 . A board for use in constructing a flooring surface for exterior use, said board having a top surface, a bottom surface and opposite side edges, said top surface being slightly rounded or curved from a longitudinal center line thereof downwardly toward each side edge, thereby defining a convex top surface for shedding water, and said bottom surface having a concave configuration for nesting engagement with the top surface of another board so that a plurality of the boards may be stacked one on top of the other with the stability of conventional boards having flat top and bottom surfaces.
2. A board as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: both the top and bottom surfaces of the board are curved or rounded, with the concave curved surface on the bottom of a board being shaped complementally to the convex curved surface on the top of the board.
3. A board as claimed in claim 2, wherein: the radius of curvature of the top surface of the board is approximately five times as great as the width of the board.
4. A board as claimed in claim 3, wherein: the radius of curvature of the bottom surface of the board is approximately five times as great as the width of the board.
5. A board as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: said board comprises a pressure-treated decking board.
6. A board as claimed in claim 5, wherein: both the top and bottom surfaces of the board are curved or rounded, with the concave curved surface on the bottom of a board being shaped complementally to the convex curved surface on the top of the board. 


 7. A board as claimed in claim 6, wherein: the radius of curvature of the top surface of the board is approximately five times as great as the width of the board.
8. A board as claimed in claim 7, wherein: the radius of curvature of the bottom surface of the board is approximately five times as great as the width of the board.
9. A board as claimed in claim 8, wherein: the board comprises a 5/4 decking board having a width of about five inches and a thickness of about one and three-eighths inches, and said radius of curvature of the top surface results in a difference in level between the longitudinal center of the board and its opposite side edges of about one-eighth of an inch.
10. A board as claimed in claim 9, wherein: said radius of curvature of the bottom surface results in a difference in level between the longitudinal center of the board and its opposite side edges of about one-eighth of an inch.
1 1 . A board as claimed in claim 1 , wherein: the concave configuration of the bottom surface of the board extends over less than the entire width of the board, leaving a relatively narrow, flat surface along each side edge of the bottom surface of the board.
12. A board as claimed in claim 1 1 , wherein: both the top and bottom surfaces of the board are curved or rounded, with the concave curved surface on the bottom of the board being shaped complementally to the convex curved surface on the top of the board. 


 1 3. A board as claimed in claim 1 2, wherein: the radius of curvature of the top surface of the board is approximately five times as great as the width of the board.
1 4. A board as claimed in claim 1 3, wherein: the radius of curvature of the bottom surface of the board is approximately five times as great as the width of the board.
1 5. A decking board for use in constructing a flooring surface for exterior use, said board having a top surface, a bottom surface and opposite side edges, said top surface being slightly rounded or curved from a longitudinal center line thereof downwardly toward each side edge, thereby defining a convex top surface for shedding water, and said bottom surface having a plurality of elongate grooves formed therein to define stress-relief channels and prevent cupping or warping of the board.
1 6. A board as claimed in claim 1 5, wherein: the bottom surface of the board has a radius of curvature approximately five times as great as the width of the board.
1 7. A board as claimed in claim 1 6, wherein: the board comprises a 5/4 decking board having a width of about five inches and a thickness of about one and three-eighths inches, and said radius of curvature of the top surface results in a difference in level between the longitudinal center of the board and its opposite side edges of about one-eighth of an inch.
1 8. A construction system for securing a decking board to an underlying support, comprising: 


 an assembly clip having a body with means to receive fasteners therethrough for securing the clip to a surface of said underlying support, said clip having at least one laterally extending flange thereon in spaced relationship to said surface of said support; and said decking board having a longitudinally extending groove in a surface thereof in a position to receive said flange on the clip when the board is placed against said underlying support surface, whereby said flange engaged in said groove holds said board to said underlying support without requiring the use of separate fasteners extended through said board.
1 9. A construction system as claimed in claim 1 8, wherein: said clip body is adapted to lie flat against said support surface and has opposite ends extending away from the support surface, each end terminating in a laterally extending flange, said ends and flanges defining a pair of spaced apart hook-like projections; and said decking board has a pair of spaced apart, parallel grooves in a bottom surface thereof, said grooves adapted to receive said hook-like projections when the board is placed over said clip and onto said underlying support surface, the flanges of said hook-like projections biting into the side of the respective grooves to prevent withdrawal of the projection from the groove and thereby holding the board to the clip and support surface.
20. An assembly clip for securing a first construction member to a support member, wherein the first construction member has a pair of spaced apart, parallel grooves formed in one surface thereof, said clip comprising: a substantially flat, rectangularly shaped body adapted to lie flat against said support member and having opposite ends projecting transversely from the body, said ends terminating in laterally extending flanges defining hook-like projections for engagement in grooves in a first 


construction member to secure the first construction member to the clip, and means in the body for receiving fasteners to secure the clip to a support member.
21 . A decking board for use in constructing a deck floor, said decking board having a top surface, a bottom surface and opposite side edges, said top surface being convex and having a radius of curvature so that it will shed water and at the same time will present a comfortable surface to walk and stand on, and said bottom surface having a central portion that is recessed so that a plurality of the boards may be stacked one on top of the other and the convex top surface of one board will be accommodated in the recessed bottom surface of a superadjacent board, said boards contacting one another at central and side edge portions to lend stability to a stack of said boards, and defining air circulating spaces to facilitate drying of a plurality of stacked boards. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
