<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618690</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Digital infrared communications system with edge detection.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1006	H04B1006	H04L2503	H04L2503	H04L2549	H04L2549	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04B10	H04L25	H04L25	H04L25	H04L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low-cost, low-power infrared digital communications system (101) 
overcomes the problem of infrared noise from interior lighting without using either a 

high-power infrared source or upmodulation of the source. The system includes an 
infrared collector which uses a non-directional concentrator to concentrate the 

infrared radiation and a circuit (110) which detects the digital infrared signal in the 
noise by detecting the edges of the digital infrared signal (109). Devices in the 

system need not be aimed at each other, but need only be in line of sight of each 
other. The preferred embodiment employs the digital infrared signals to 

communicate between a set of digital devices and a breaker box connected to the 
telephone network. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAVICKI JOSEPH PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAVICKI, JOSEPH PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is being filed on the same day as another application entitled 
Infrared Collector which has the same inventor and assignee as the present 
application and shares part of its disclosure with the present application. The invention relates to digital communication generally and to digital 
communication using infrared radiation in particular. Infrared radiation has long been used for portable communications sytems designed 
for interior use. A simple example is the portable control device used to control 
consumer electronic devices such as televisions or VCRs. Most such control devices 
use infrared light to carry control signals from the device to the television or VCR. Use of infrared radiation for digital communications in the interiors of 
buildings is also attractive. The infrared radiation has no noxious side effects and 
systems in different rooms will not interfere with each other. A problem with the 
use of infrared radiation for digital communications is, however, the fact that the 
typical interior environment produces a great deal of infrared noise. All types of AC 
lighting produce infrared noise and flourescent lighting fixtures are particularly 
noisy. Two techniques have been used in the past to overcome the noise: 
in one approach, the power of the infrared transmitter has simply been increased 
as required to overcome the noise and in the other, the signal employed by the communicating devices has been 
modulated up so that its frequency is different from that of the noise. Both of these approaches have disadvantages. The first approach requires high 
levels of power; the second approach requires extra circuitry to do the modulation 
and demodulation of the infrared signals and infrared light emitting diodes capable 
of operating at the rate required for the transmission frequency. These disadvantages 
are particularly important in the area of portable digital communications equipment. 
The need for high power in portable equipment means that the equipment must be 
expensive, heavy, or both; the need for extra circuitry and fast light-emitting diodes 
adds to the expense. What is provided by the present invention is a simple, low-cost,  
 
low-power technique for distinguishing an infrared signal from infrared noise. The invention takes advantage of a fundamental distinction between the 
digital signal used for communications and the noise: namely, that the digital signal 
changes abruptly between values representing a logical "0" and a logical "1" and 
consequently has
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for detecting a digital signal (105) representing digital data, 
including first means (103) for providing an input signal (109) including the digital 

signal and noise (107) which has a larger magnitude than the digital signal and a 
slow rate of change relative to the digital signal's rise time, second means (110) 

coupled to the first means for deriving a signal (117) indicating the digital data from 
the input signal, and third means (118,119,123) coupled to the second means for 

deriving the digital data from the signal indicating the digital data, the apparatus 
being characterized by means (111,113,115) in the second means for receiving the 

input signal, detecting edges of the digital signal therein, and outputting an edge 
signal (117) indicating each detected edge's direction as the signal indicating the 

digital data to the third means. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first means for providing 
an input signal is infrared collector means (514) coupled to the means for detecting 

edges for responding to infrared radiation including an infrared digital signal by 
providing the input signal. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the infrared digital signal is 
not upmodulated above infrared noise emitted by interior lighting powered by 

alternating current. 
A digital infrared communications system, including a transmitter 
(511) for emitting a digital infrared signal (105) representing digital data, and a 

receiver (509) including infrared collector means (514) responsive to infrared 
radiation including the digital infrared signal and noise (107) which has a larger 

magnitude than the digital infrared signal and a slow rate of change relative to the 
digital infrared signal's rise time, the infrared collector means providing an input 

signal (109) having a digital signal portion and a noise portion, digital signal 
detection means (110) coupled to the infrared collector means for deriving a signal 

indicating the digital data from the input signal, and digital data deriving means 
(118,119,123) coupled to the digital signal detection means for deriving the digital 

data from the signal indicating the digital data, the system being characterized in that 
the digital signal detection means includes means (111,113,115) for detecting edges 

of the digital signal portion in the input signal and outputting an edge signal 
indicating the direction of each detected edge as the signal indicating the digital data. 
A system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the digital data deriving 
means includes means (119) for receiving the edge signal and responding thereto by 

outputting a digital signal having an edge as indicated by the edge signal. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1,2 or 3, or a system as claimed in 
claim 4 or 5 wherein the means for detecting edges includes differentiation means 

(115) for outputting a slope derived from the input signal as the edge signal. 
Apparatus or a system as claimed in claim 6 wherein the 
differentiation means is an operational amplifier. 
A system as claimed in claim 4,5,6 or 7 wherein the transmitter 
includes digital infrared signal emitting means (513) whose operating speed does not 

permit upmodulation of the digital signal above the frequencies of infrared noise 
emitted by interior lighting powered by alternating current. 
A system as claimed in claim 4,5,6,7 or 8 wherein the transmitter 
includes means (605) for distributing the digital infrared signal throughout a half 

space. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or a system as claimed in claim 9 
wherein the infrared collector means includes infrared radiation detection means 

(603), and a nondirectional concentrator (605) for concentrating the infrared 
radiation on the infrared radiation detection means. 
Apparatus or a system as claimed in claim 10 wherein the 

concentrator is made of a light-transmitting dielectric material and has a convex 
shape with respect to a base plane, the infrared radiation detection means is coupled 

to the base plane, and the convex shape is such that any line which connects any part 
of the infrared radiation detection means to the surface of the convex shape intersects 

the surface of the concentrator at an angle less than the critical angle for the material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
