<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0936141</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Wrapping apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8502	B65B1102	B65B1102	B65D8502	B65B2524	B65B2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65B	B65B	B65D	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D85	B65B11	B65B11	B65D85	B65B25	B65B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Wrapping apparatus for winding
a wrapping foil web (F) around an object

(1) to be packaged, said wrapping apparatus
comprising a foil dispenser (2)

arranged to circulate along a ring-like
endless track (3) around the object to

be packaged, which foil dispenser (2)
comprises a frame (4), a detachable and

replaceable foil roll (5) mounted on the
frame, supporting elements (6) for supporting

the foil roll on the frame, and
tensioning means (7) for braking foil

delivery from the roll and maintaining a
predetermined foil tension. The tensioning

means (7) comprise a sensor (8) for
detecting foil web tension, and an electric

motor (9) for driving the foil roll
(5), the torque, speed of rotation

and/or direction of rotation of said
electric motor being controlled on the

basis of foil tension as detected by the
sensor.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALOILA M OY AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OY M. HALOILA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUOLAHTI YRJOE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUOLAHTI, YRJOE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a wrapping apparatus 
as defined in the preamble of claim 1. In prior art, e.g. specification EP 0 544 312 A1 
presents a wrapping apparatus for winding a web of wrapping 
foil around an object to be packaged. Such a wrapping 
apparatus comprises a foil dispenser arranged to 
circulate along a ring-like endless track around the object 
to be packaged. In the prior-art apparatus the track 
is of a substantially elliptical form. The track comprises 
a straight track portion, which passes through the 
center hole of the cylindrical object to be packaged and 
the straight track portion extends outside the hole to a 
distance from the end of the cylindrical object. The 
track also comprises a curved portion which forms a 
curved track between the ends of the straight track portion 
and around the object to be packaged. The foil dispenser 
comprises a frame and a detachable and replaceable 
foil roll mounted on the frame. Furthermore, the foil 
dispenser comprises supporting elements for supporting 
the foil roll on the frame, and tensioning means for 
braking the delivery of foil from the roll to maintain a 
predetermined foil tension. A special problem which 
arises from said form of the track is that, during wrapping, 
in certain parts along the track, the foil span 
(i.e. a portion of the foil extending between a support 
point, e.g. edge point, of the object to be packaged and 
the foil dispenser) does not lengthen, but, instead, becomes 
shorter. Therefore the foil web would slacken if 
the tensioning device would not eliminate the slack. In 
EP 0 544 312 A1 the foil tensioning device is a complicated 
mechanical foil storage device comprising a number 
of fixedly mounted deflecting rollers, a number of flexibly 
mounted deflecting rollers and loading means for 
flexibly applying to the flexibly mounted rollers a load 
acting in a direction away from the fixedly mounted rollers 
so as to maintain tension in a variable amount of  
 
foil web passing along a winding path around the deflecting 
rollers. A problem with this prior-art apparatus is that 
the foil storage takes up a relatively large space in the 
foil dispenser. Moreover, the structure is heavy, complex 
and expensive. Especially in types of wrapping apparatus 
in which the foil dispenser should be as small as possible 
to be able to pass e.g. through the central hole of a 
foil roll, the large size of the prior-art structure 
leads to problems. The heavy weight again results in a 
necessity to use a foil
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Wrapping apparatus for winding a wrapping 
foil web (F) around an object (1) to be packaged, said 

wrapping apparatus comprising a foil dispenser (2) arranged 
to circulate along a ring-like endless track (3) 

around the object to be packaged, which foil dispenser 
(2) comprises a frame (4), a detachable and replaceable 

foil roll (5) mounted on the frame, supporting elements 
(6) for supporting the foil roll on the frame, and tensioning 

means (7) for maintaining a predetermined foil 
tension, 
characterised in that
 the tensioning 
means (7) comprise a sensor (8) for detecting foil web 

tension, and an electric motor (9) for driving the foil 
roll (5), the torque, speed of rotation and/or direction 

of rotation of said electric motor being controlled on 
the basis of foil tension as detected by the sensor. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 1, 
characterised 
in that
 the foil dispenser (2) comprises a 
first diverting element (10), which is connected to the 

frame (4) and around which the foil web drawn from the 
foil roll (5) passes, said first diverting element touching 

the first side (11) of the foil, and a second diverting 
element (12), which is connected to the frame at a 

distance from the first diverting element, said second 
diverting element touching the first side (11) of the 

foil; and that the sensor (8) comprises a spring-loaded 
lever arm (13), a turning axle (14), which is supported 

by a bearing on the frame (4) and to which the lever arm 
is attached, and a third diverting element (15), which is 

connected to the end of the lever arm between the first 
and second diverting elements, said third diverting element 

touching the second side (16) of the foil, so that 
the foil web passing between the first and second diverting 

elements over the third diverting element, which is 
capable of a springing motion, forms a bend that comprises 

a varying length of foil web.  
 
Apparatus as defined in claim 1 or 2, 

characterised in that
 the sensor (8) comprises a 
potentiometer (17) so connected to the turning axle (14) 

that the resistance of the potentiometer changes as a 
function of the angle of rotation of the turning axle, 

said angle being directly proportional to the tension of 
the foil web, to produce a control signal for controlling 

the electric motor (9). 
Apparatus as defined in any one of claims 1-3, 

characterised in that
 the electric motor (9) 
is a direct-current motor. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 3 or 4, 

characterised in that
 the supporting elements 
(6) for supporting the foil roll comprise a first supporting 

element (6
1
), which is rotatably mounted with a 
bearing on the frame and fitted to support the foil roll 

from the side of its first end face (18), and a second 
supporting element (6
2
), which is fitted to support the 
roller from the side of its second end face (19) opposite 

to the first end face, said second supporting element 
(6
2
) comprising a drive shaft (20) supported by a bearing 
on the frame (4), said drive shaft being driven by the 

electric motor (9). 
Apparatus as defined in claim 5, 
characterised 
in that
 it has a first wheel (21), such as a 
belt pulley or the like, mounted on the drive shaft (20); 

that it has a second wheel (23), such as a belt pulley or 
the like, mounted on the shaft (22) of the electric motor 

(9); and that it has a first endless traction means (24), 
such as a belt or the like, arranged to run over the 

first and second wheels to transmit the power of the 
electric motor to the drive shaft. 
Apparatus as defined in any one of claims 3-6, 

characterised in that
 it has a third wheel 
(25), such as a belt pulley or the like, attached to the 

turning axle (14); that it has a fourth wheel (26) connected 
to the potentiometer (17); and that it has a second  

 
endless traction means (27), such as a belt or the 

like, arranged to run over the third and fourth wheels to 

transmit the rotation of the turning axle into rotation 
of the potentiometer. 
Apparatus as defined in any one of claims 1-7, 

characterised in that
 the wrapping apparatus 
comprises a machine frame (28) supporting a wrapping ring 

(29) arranged to guide the motion of the foil dispenser 
(2), said wrapping ring (29) comprising two ring sections 

(30, 31) movable relative to each other between two positions 
(I and II), an open position (I), in which the ring 

sections (30, 31) have a port opening (32) between them, 
and a closed position (II), in which the port opening is 

closed and the wrapping ring forms the endless ring-like 
track (3) referred to; and that the object (1) to be 

packaged is a cylindrical body, such as a band roll, that 
has a central hole (33) going through it; and that the 

wrapping ring (29) in its closed position has been arranged 
to pass through the central hole. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 8, 
characterised 
in that
 the track (3) is of a substantially 
elliptical form, and that the track comprises a straight 

track portion (34), which, in the closed position of the 
wrapping ring (29), passes through the hole (33) and extends 

outside the hole (33) to a distance from the end of 
the cylindrical object (1), and a curved portion (35) 

which, outside the hole, forms a curved track between the 
opposite ends of the straight track portion and around 

the object to be packaged. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
