<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630731</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for molding a plastic article using a multi-point volume control system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4500	B29C4500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C45	B29C45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of molding a plastic article using a multi-point 
volume control system. By using low pressures to inject a 

plastic material through a plurality of gates into a mold cavity, 
the gates may be opened and closed sequentially as the product is 

being molded. A first gate is opened and then succeeding gates 
are opened sequentially as the plastic material passes over the 

gate. Preceding gates are closed soon after succeeding gates are 
opened to limit the number of gates open at any one time, thereby 

focusing the injection force on a minimum number of gates and 
increasing the pressure by which material is injected through any 

one gate. Through the use of this sequential injection method, 
knit lines may be eliminated thereby strengthening the finished 

article as well as eliminating the unaesthetic appeal of these 
lines. This method also allows easy venting of the mold cavity. 

Furthermore, because there are no points in the mold cavity where 
mold fronts meet one another, these areas, which formerly had to 

be vented, no longer require venting assemblies. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HETTINGA SIEBOLT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HETTINGA, SIEBOLT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON MARTY LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HETTINGA SIEBOLT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, MARTY LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HETTINGA, SIEBOLT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the injection 
molding of plastics and, more particularly, to a process for 
injection molding a plastic article wherein a multi-point volume 
control is used to evenly distribute plastic injection material 
into a mold cavity of a plastic injection mold unit. Injection molding machines generally include a two section 
mold unit which, when brought together, forms a mold cavity in 
which a plastic article may be molded. Most typically, one of 
the mold sections is stationary and includes an end gate opening 
for the injection of a plastic material into the cavity. The 
other mold section is generally movable between an open position 
away from the stationary mold section and a closed position where 
the two mold sections are in sealed contact engagement to form 
the mold cavity. The plastic material is generally plasticized until flowable 
and then injected into the mold cavity, through a sprue or 
opening in one of the mold sections, by means of a screw or 
similar injection apparatus. Huge clamps are generally required 
to apply tonnage to the movable mold section as the injection 
apparatus presses more and more plastic into the mold cavity. 
The huge clamp tonnage required in most injection molding 
procedures to keep the mold sections together consumes a large  
 
amount of energy while at the same time placing ever increasing 
wear upon the molding machine. Most typically, material is injected into the mold through a 
single sprue or opening. For anything other than the molding of 
very small parts, however, the single sprue method requires 
extremely high pressures to force the material through the sprue 
and throughout every portion of the mold cavity. These extremely 
high pressures not only add to the cost of the injection molding 
process by requiring very large clamps and injection systems, but 
these pressures increase the wear on the molding machine. 
Because the pressure on the plastic first entering the mold is 
less than the plastic entering the mold last, the finished 
plastic article will have in-molded stress which could result in 
warpage of the final product. Simultaneous injection of a material into a mold cavity 
through several sprues is well known in the art, but involves 
several problems. While simultaneous injection methods increase 
the points at which a mold cavity can be filled, thereby reducing 
the pressure which must be applied to the material to completely 
fill the mold cavity, these prior art methods produce "knit 
lines"
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of injection molding for forming a plastic article, said 
process comprising: 


a) providing a mold apparatus, including a first section and a 
second section opposite to and in mated alignment with said 

first section, said mold apparatus further having a plurality 
of inlets for receiving a plastic material; 
b) clamping said first mold section and said second mold 
section together to form an injection mold cavity for said 

plastic article; 
c) injecting a plastic material through less than all of said inlets 
into said mold cavity; 
d) injecting said plastic material into said mold cavity through 
at least one of said remaining inlets; 
e) closing said injection inlets; 
f) allowing said plastic material to at least partially cool within 
said mold cavity; and 
g) removing said resultant plastic article from said mold cavity. 
The method, according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of inlets 
 

includes a first inlet and a second inlet. 
The method, according to claim 2, wherein first inlet includes a 
first set of inlets and wherein said second inlet includes a second set of 

inlets. 
The method, according to claim 2 or 3, wherein said first inlet and 
said second inlet have an injection side and a mold side, and wherein said 

injection material is not injected through said second inlet until at least a 
portion of said plastic material has travelled over said mold side of said 

second inlet. 
The method, according to any of claims 2 to 4, wherein said plastic 
material is injected through said second inlet after a predetermined amount 

of time has passed since said injection of said plastic material through said 
first inlet. 
The method, according to any of claims 2 to 4, wherein said plastic 
material is injected through said second inlet after the pressure required 

to inject said plastic material through said first inlet has reached a 
predetermined pressure. 
The method, according to any of the preceding claims, and further 
comprising providing an injection means to inject said plastic material into 

said mold cavity, said injection means being provided with a pressure 
monitor to monitor the force required to inject said plastic material into 

said mold cavity. 
The method, according to any of claims 2 to 6, and claims 7 when 
appended to claim 2, wherein said plastic material is injected through said 

second inlet after a predetermined volume of plastic material has been 
injected into said mold cavity through said first set of inlets. 
The method, according to claim 8, further comprising providing an 
injection barrel through which said plastic material is pushed toward said 

first inlet, said injection barrel being fitted with a linear actuator to 
determine what volume of said plastic material has passed out of said 

injection barrel through said first inlet. 
The method, according to any of claims 2 to 6, 8 and 9, and claim 
7 when appended to claim 2, further comprising providing a runner to 

supply said plastic material to said first inlet and said second inlet. 
A method of injection molding for forming a plastic article, said 
 

process comprising : 

a) providing a mold apparatus, including a first section and a 
second section opposite to and in mated alignment with said 

first section, said mold apparatus further including a 
plurality of inlets for receiving an injection material, said 

plurality including at least a first inlet and a second inlet; 
b) clamping said first mold section and said second mold 
section together to form an injection mold cavity for said 

plastic article; 
c) providing an injection means for injecting a plastic material 
into said mold cavity; 
d) providing a runner system operably connecting said injection 
means with said plurality of inlets; 
e) providing a gating means for individually opening and 
closing of said first inlet and said second inlet; 
f) opening said first inlet; 
g) injecting said plastic material through said first inlet into 
said mold cavity; 
h) monitoring said plastic material as said plastic material 
moves away from said first inlet and fills said mold cavity; 
i) opening said second inlet after said plastic material has 
 

expanded said second inlet; 
j) injecting said plastic material through said second inlet into 
said mold cavity; 
k) closing said first inlet; 
l) closing said second inlet; 
m) allowing said plastic material to at least partially harden 
within said mold cavity; and 
n) removing the finished plastic article from said mold cavity. 
The method, according to claim 11, further comprising the steps of: 

a) opening remaining inlets in succession after said plastic 
material has expanded over said remaining inlets; 
b) closing said remaining inlets after said plastic material has 
expanded over a succeeding inlet and said succeeding inlet 

has been opened; and 
c) closing said plurality of inlets when said mold cavity is filled 
with said plastic material. 
The method, according to claim 11 or 12, wherein said plastic 
material is injected through said second inlet after a predetermined amount 

of time has passed since said injection of said plastic material through said 
first inlet. 
The method, according to claim 12, wherein said plastic material 
is injected through said second inlet after the pressure required to inject 

said plastic material through said first inlet has reached a predetermined 
pressure. 
The method, according to claim 14, further comprising providing 
an injection means to inject said plastic material into said mold cavity, said 

injection means being provided with a pressure monitor to monitor the 
force required to inject said plastic material into said mold cavity. 
The method, according to any of claims 11 to 15, wherein said 
plastic material is injected through said second inlet after a predetermined 

volume of plastic material has been injected into said mold cavity through 
said first inlet. 
The method, according to claim 16, further comprising providing 
an injection barrel through which said plastic material is pushed toward 

said first inlet, said injection barrel being fitted with a linear actuator to 
determine the volume of said plastic material passing out of said injection 

barrel through said first inlet. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
