<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647990</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical connector hold down anchor apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1200	H01R1232	H01R13639	H01R13639	H01R1373	H01R1373	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R12	H01R12	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical connector hold down apparatus is 
provided for engaging a side wall defining a hole in a 

printed circuit board to secure the electrical connector to 
the printed circuit board. The apparatus includes a base, 

and a plurality of spring beams extending away from the 
base. Each spring beam includes a body portion and an 

anchor tip portion. The anchor tip portions include a ramp 
surface configured to engage the side wall defining the 

hole in the printed circuit board and to move the spring 
beams radially inwardly so that the spring beams apply a 

radially outwardly directed force against the side wall to 
hold the apparatus within the hole. The anchor tip 

portions also include a barb formed on a trailing end of 
the ramp surface. The barbs are configured to penetrate 

the side wall defining the hole in the printed circuit 
board to increase a retention force of the hold down 

apparatus in the hole. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBINSON NUGENT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBINSON NUGENT, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORTEGA JOSE LUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORTEGA, JOSE LUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an improved 
electrical connector hold down anchor apparatus for 
securing an electrical connector to a printed circuit board 
(PCB). Connector hold downs are typically used to secure 
an electrical connector in a predetermined position on a 
PCB. Such connector hold downs are typically coupled to a 
connector using various techniques. For instance, it is 
known to provide top-actuated eyelets, heat stakes, rivets, 
pinch eyelets, nuts and bolts, or barbed press-fit hold 
downs for securing the connector to the PCB. Such hold 
downs typically extend through or engage a hole drilled in 
the PCB. Connector hold downs reduce stresses on solder 
joints of surface mount components. Connector hold downs 
also align the connectors during placement of the 
connectors on the PCB. In addition, connector hold downs 
hold the connectors in place for soldering or other 
operations and can provide a ground path if necessary. The connector hold down anchor apparatus of the 
present invention is designed to provide a "process-free" 
method of mechanically retaining an electrical connector to 
the surface of a PCB. Process-free methods require that 
the hold down anchor design not incorporate any secondary 
assembly operations which must be performed by the customer 
such as heat-staking a peg or using a nut and bolt hardware 
to secure the electrical connector to the PCB. The 
connector hold down anchor apparatus of the present 
invention is designed to provide maximum reliability and 
simplicity, while adding the lowest possible applied costs 
to the connector. The hold down anchor apparatus of the 
present invention advantageously provides a universal 
design which works well with various printed circuit board 
thicknesses and adequately accommodates standard printed  
 
circuit board drilled hole manufacturing tolerances without 
requiring tooling and assembly of several different size 
components. In the illustrated embodiment, a metallic hold 
down anchor is provided that can be easily and permanently 
coupled to a thermo-plastic connector body before the 
connector body is shipped to the customer. According to one aspect of the present invention, 
an electrical connector hold down apparatus is provided for 
engaging a side wall defining a hole in a printed circuit 
board to secure the electrical connector to the printed 
circuit board. The apparatus includes a base, and a 
plurality of spring beams extending away from the base. 
Each spring beam includes a body portion and an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical connector hold down apparatus 
for engaging a side wall defining a hole in a printed 

circuit board to secure the electrical connector to the 
printed circuit board, the apparatus comprising: 

   a base; and 
   at least two spring beams extending away from the 

base, each spring beam being configured to apply a radially 
outwardly directed force against the side wall defining the 

hole in the printed circuit board, each spring beam 
including a body portion and an anchor tip portion, the 

anchor tip portions being bent so as to curve radially 
outwardly relative to the base with respect to a central 

axis of the hole to define a pair of ramp surfaces for 
moving the spring beams radially inwardly upon insertion of 

the spring beams into the hole in the printed circuit 
board, each ramp surface being formed to include a barb 

configured to penetrate the side wall defining the hole in 
the printed circuit board to increase a retention force of 

the hold down apparatus in the hole. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base 
is formed to include an aperture therein for receiving a 

support peg formed on the electrical connector therethrough 
to couple the base to the electrical connector. 
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the 
support peg is heat staked after the aperture in the base 

is inserted over the support peg to couple the base to the 
electrical connector. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the barbs 
are formed on a trailing end of each ramp surface. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the 
apparatus includes three spring beams coupled to the base 

to provide a three point contact with the side wall 
defining a hole in the printed circuit board to center the 

hold down apparatus relative to the hole. 
The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the three 
spring beams are angularly spaced apart on the base by 

about 120°. 
An electrical connector hold down apparatus 
for engaging a side wall defining a hole in a printed 

circuit board to secure the electrical connector to the 
printed circuit board, the apparatus comprising: 

   a base; and 
   three cantilevered beams extending away from the 

base, each cantilevered beam including a body portion and 
an anchor tip portion, each anchor tip portion bent with 

respect to a central axis of the hole so as to curve 
radially outwardly relative to the base to define a pair of 

ramp surfaces for engaging the side wall defining the hole 
in the printed circuit board to move the cantilevered beams 

radially inwardly as the connector upon insertion of the 
cantilevered beams into the hole in the printed circuit 

board so that the cantilevered beams apply a radially 
outwardly directed force against the side wall to hold the 

apparatus within the hole, the ramped surfaces being formed 
to include a barb configured to penetrate the side wall 

defining the hole in the printed circuit board due to the 
radially outwardly directed force applied by the 

cantilevered beams to increase a retention force of the 
hold down apparatus in the hole. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the base 
is formed to include an aperture therein for receiving a 

support peg formed on the electrical connector therethrough 
to couple the base to the electrical connector. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the 
support peg is heat staked after the aperture in the base 

is inserted over the support peg to couple the base to the 
electrical connector. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the three 
cantilevered beams are angularly spaced apart on the base 

by about 120°. 
An electrical connector hold down apparatus 
for engaging a side wall defining a hole in a printed 

circuit board to secure the electrical connector to the 
printed circuit board, the apparatus consisting essentially 

of: 
   a base; and 

   a plurality of spring beams extending away from 
the base, each spring beam including a body portion and an 

anchor tip portion, the anchor tip portions bent with 
respect to a central axis of the hole so as to curve 

radially outwardly of the base to define a pair of ramp 
surfaces configured to engage the side wall defining the 

hole in the printed circuit board and to move the spring 
beams radially inwardly so that the spring beams apply a 

radially outwardly directed force against the side wall to 
hold the apparatus within the hole. 
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the 
anchor tip portions also include a barb formed on a 

trailing end of the ramp surface, the barbs being 
configured to penetrate the side wall defining the hole in 

the printed circuit board to increase a retention force of 
the hold down apparatus in the hole. 
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the 
apparatus includes three spring beams coupled to the base 

to provide a three point contact with the side wall 
defining a hole in the printed circuit board to center the 

hold down apparatus relative to the hole. 
The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the three 
spring beams are angularly spaced apart on the base by 

about 120°. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
