<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630500</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR CONTROL OF CHAOTIC SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1518	G06F1518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F15	G06F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for determining the amount of coupling between interacting chaotic systems arranged in a distribution that will produce concordant aggregate action. The method uses a subgroup of chaotic systems in the distribution that are operated with a selected set of initial seed condition values. Non-linear differential equations describing actions by the chaotic systems are integrated to determine required values for the coupling constant.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOPE CITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOPE CITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOLEN JAMES L JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEVECZ ROBERT R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOLEN JAMES L JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEVECZ ROBERT R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR CONTROL OF CHAOTIC SYSTEMSTechnical FieldThe present invention relates to methods for effecting concordant action of a collection of interacting, i.e., coupled, chaotic systems organized in a distribution. More specifically, the present invention relates to methods for determining operating parameters in conjunction with selected initial conditions for controlling interacting chaotic systems organized in a distribution so as to effect concordant action.Background Of the InventionChaotic systems are ubiquitous in the natural world. They are found on all scales of time and space, from: astronomical, e.g., asteroid distribution and motion (G.J. Sussman and J. Wisdom, Science 257 (1992) 56) ; through the terrestrial, e.g. mechanical pendulums; to the molecular, e.g. turbulent flow in stirred fluids (H.L. Swinney, and J.P. Gollub, "The Transition To Turbulence," Physics Today 31, No. 8 (August 1978) 41), including levels of chemical constituents seen in the Belousov-Zhabotinski reaction (I.e. Roux, "Experimental Studies of Bifurcations Leading To Chaos In The Belousov- Zhabotinski Reaction", Physica 7D (1983) 57); to the atomic, e.g., pinning site frequency and distribution in high-Tc (YBCO) superconducting films (M. Hawley, I.D. Raistrick, J.G. Berry, R.J. Houlton, "Growth Mechanism of Sputtered Films of YBaz Cu307 Studied By Scanning Tunneling Microscopy," Reports (29 March 1991) 1587), and radiation emitters such as lasers and masers (R.A. 

Elliott, R.K. DeFreez, T.L. Paoli, R.O. Burnham, and W. Streifer, IEEE J. Quantum Electron. QE-21, 598 (1985) ; and even to the subatomic, e.g., chaotic quantum mechanical systems (M.C. Gutzwiller, Chaos in Classical and Quantum Mechanics. (1990) Springer-Verlag, New York) .For more than a century chaotic behavior in physical systems has been a recognized phenomenon. Two characteristics of chaotic behavior are that it is deterministic, i.e., for precisely selected initial conditions the resulting chaotic behavior can be predicted, but this deterministic behavior is non- periodic. Chaotic behavior was first recognized as such when simple mechanical systems were shown to have very complicated motions. Not only is such behavior exceedingly sensitive to precise values for starting or initial conditions, but chaotic behavior never settles into predictable final states via recognizable patterns.Chaotic behavior is pervasive, as outlined above, and can be found even in the presence of deterministic periodic behavior. For example, laser light output intensities
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A method for controlling actions of multiple interacting chaotic systems positioned in a distribution where each chaotic system in said distribution interacts with and thereby affects action from at least one other chaotic system in said distribution so that a predetermined aggregate action is achieved, comprising the steps of:
using a non-linear differential equation for each chaotic system in said distribution to describe action by said chaotic system;
determining achievable boundary condition values for operating parameters of said chaotic systems in said distribution including coupling constants;
selecting a subgroup of chaotic systems in said distribution, said subgroup including at least two chaotic systems;
inputting initial seed conditions to each non¬ linear differential equation describing action from said chaotic systems in said subgroup, where said initial seed conditions are a set of operating parameter values that initiate a selected aggregate output by said chaotic systems in said subgroup;
programming a computer to integrate said non-linear differential equations describing action by all chaotic systems in said distribution and using said computer to integrate said non-linear differential 


 equations for a given value of said coupling constant;
using said computer to determine if integration of said non-linear differential equations has resulted in a stable aggregate action from said chaotic systems in said distribution;
continuing integration of said non-linear differential equations at different values for said coupling constant until stable aggregate action from said chaotic systems is achieved; and
using operating parameter values that produced integration results yielding stable aggregate action for operating said chaotic systems in said distribution to produce said stable aggregate action.
2. The method of claim 1 further including the step of using said boundary conditions for describing positioning of said chaotic systems along a one- dimensional linear distribution.
3. The method of claim 1 further including the step of using said boundary conditions for describing positioning of said chaotic systems about a two- dimensional area distribution.
4. The method of claim 1 further including the step of using said boundary conditions for describing positioning of said chaotic systems within a three- dimensional volume distribution.
5. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: 


 selecting four chaotic systems for said subgroup with each of said selected chaotic systems positioned for interacting with and thereby affecting action from at least one other of said selected chaotic systems, and said selected chaotic systems also positioned in said subgroup to permit a circular path for interaction between said selected chaotic systems; and,
using specific operating parameter values for each of said selected chaotic systems in said subgroup so said initial seed conditions with said specific operating parameter values cause action from each of said selected chaotic systems that has an approximate 90 degree greater phase difference from action from the adjacent said selected chaotic system in a clockwise path. 6. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: selecting four chaotic systems for said subgroup with each of said selected chaotic systems positioned for interacting with and thereby affecting action from at least one other of said selected chaotic systems, and said selected chaotic systems also positioned in said subgroup to permit a circular path for interaction between said selected chaotic systems; and,
using specific operating parameter values for each of said selected chaotic systems in said subgroup so said initial seed conditions with said specific operating parameter values cause action from each 


 of said selected chaotic systems that has an approximate 90 degree smaller phase difference from action from the adjacent said selected chaotic system in a clockwise path.
7. The method of claim 1 further including the step of selecting as said initial seed conditions random uniformly distributed operating parameter values having local state variable values centered about a steady state.
8. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: selecting as said initial seed conditions random uniformly distributed operating parameter values; and, integrating all of said non-linear differential equations at least one thousand times without inputting values for said coupling constants.
9. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: displaying said distribution of chaotic systems to show aggregate action after integration on a cathode ray tube (CRT) ; and, viewing said CRT display to evaluate if sufficient stability is achieved.
10. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of using said computer to: calculate the sum of net diffusion for said distribution of said chaotic systems; and, monitor said sum of net diffusion to determine achievement of stability as when said sum of net diffusion is constant. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
