<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651871</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PNEUMATIC LIGHTING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C108	A61C108	B25F500	B25F502	F21L1300	F21L1302	F21S900	F21S904	F21V3300	F21V3300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	B25F	B25F	F21L	F21L	F21S	F21S	F21V	F21V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C1	A61C1	B25F5	B25F5	F21L13	F21L13	F21S9	F21S9	F21V33	F21V33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pneumatic lighting apparatus (10) for use with a pneumatically driven tool (82) includes a pneumatic motor (46) driven by compressed air, and an electrical generator (44) for generating an electrical current. A lamp (20) is provided in a circuit with the generator (44) for emitting light adapted to be directed onto an area in which the tool (82) is being used. A conduit (86) is provided which is connected between the outlet (68) of the motor (46) and an inlet (146) of the tool (82) in order to deliver compressed air from the apparatus (10) to the tool (82). In order to permit control of the lighting apparatus (10) independent of operation of the tool (82), a control valve (70) is provided for controlling the flow of compressed air through the motor (46).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PNU LIGHT TOOL WORKS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PNU-LIGHT TOOL WORKS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON MARTY J VIOLA APARTME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, MARTY, J. 1206 VIOLA, APARTMENT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PNEUMATIC LIGHTING APPARATUSBackground of the Invention1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates generally to lighting devices and, more particularly, to a pneumatic lighting apparatus for use with a pneumatic tool, or to a tool constructed with a pneumatic lighting apparatus for illuminating a work area in which the tool is to be used.2. Discussion of the Prior ArtIn many manufacturing and industrial maintenance settings, pneumatic tools are used to construct and repair products. In these settings, frequently a worker is required to access a small, hard to reach place that is out of the line of normal illumination of conventional manufacturing area lighting. It is common for the worker to carry a DC or AC powered, hand-held light in order to provide additional lighting of the iπimediate work area.However, because conventional lighting devices typically must be hand-held, the worker may quickly become tied up between handling the tool and the light while also positioning himself and the work piece in a proper orientation. Further, because pneumatic power is already commonly available in the work place for use in powering the tools typically used, the provision of a separate DC or AC power source in addition to the pneumatic lines already present represents unnecessary duplication of power lines in the work area which inhibits movement of workers and reduces their efficiency.Another disadvantage to using most presently available DC powered lighting devices is environmental in nature, and relates to the problem of disposal of batteries and the like which are used to supply the 

power for such devices. It would be desirable to provide a lighting apparatus that does not adversely effect the environment and that is powered by already available pneumatic means typically present in a manufacturing or maintenance environment. Objects and Summary of the InventionIt is an object of the present invention to provide a lighting apparatus which can be used in association with pneumatic tools in order to provide focused light onto the immediate area surrounding the point at which work is being done or at which a tool is directed, wherein the lighting apparatus is powered by the same pneumatic energy used to power the tools.It is another object of the invention to provide a lighting apparatus that is pneumatically driven, and which includes ventilation means for selectively directing exhausted air from the apparatus into a desired region in which a worker is disposed.Yet another object of the invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed Is;
1. A pneumatic lighting apparatus for use with a pneumatically driven tool provided with an air inlet, the apparatus comprising: a lamp for emitting light adapted to be directed onto an area in which the tool is being used; a generator housing including an inlet adapted for connection to a source of compressed air, an outlet, and an exhaust; a conduit for connecting the outlet of the housing with the air inlet of the tool to deliver compressed air from the apparatus to the tool; a pneumatic motor in the housing connected between the inlet and the outlet, the motor being driven by compressed air passing through the apparatus and providing a mechanical output; an electrical generator that is driven by the mechanical output of the motor for generating electrical current; an electrical circuit including the generator and the lamp for supplying electricity to the lamp; a control valve means for controlling the flow of compressed air through the motor; and an exhaust valve means for controlling the flow of compressed air from the exhaust, the exhaust valve means permitting compressed air to flow from the exhaust when the tool is not in use so that the lighting apparatus may be used independent of the tool. 


 2. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the pneumatic motor includes a turbine provided with an axial shaft and a plurality of turbine blades extending radially outward from the shaft, the apparatus further comprising drive means for directing compressed air across the blades to carry out rotary drive of the axial shaft.
3. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the electrical generator includes at least one stator coil that is fixed relative to the generator housing, and a rotor shaft movable relative to the coil and provided with a permanent magnet for generating a current in the coil during rotation of the rotor shaft.
4. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the pneumatic motor includes a turbine provided with an axial shaft and a plurality of turbine blades extending radially outward from the shaft, and the electrical generator includes at least one stator coil that is fixed relative to the generator housing and a rotor shaft that is rotatable relative to the coil, the axial shaft of the motor and the rotor shaft of the electrical generator being collinear.
5. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein the axial shaft of the motor and the rotor shaft are unitary. 


 6. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the conduit is rigid and is adapted to provide mechanical support of the apparatus on the tool.
7. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising carrying means for permitting the apparatus to be carried by a user.
8. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising mounting means for mounting the apparatus on the tool and for permitting removal of the apparatus from the tool.
9. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising means for mounting the lamp on the tool and for directing light emitted by the light onto the area in which the tool is being used.
10. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the lamp is supported on the generator housing, the apparatus further comprising an elongated optic fiber having first and second ends, a connection means for connecting the first end of the optic fiber to the housing and coupling the fiber with the lamp so that light emitted by the lamp is transmitted through the optic fiber and a mounting means for mounting the second end of the optic fiber on the tool so that the light transmitted through the fiber may be directed onto the area in which the tool is being used. 


 11. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the mounting means includes a removable clip which allows attachment and detachment of the second end of the optic fiber on the tool.
12. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the mounting means includes a removable clip which allows attachment and detachment of the lamp on the tool.
13. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the circuit includes a transformer for converting the current generated by the electrical generator into direct current, and a battery for storing the direct current.
14. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the exhaust valve means includes a check valve that automatically releases compressed air from the housing when the pressure of the air exceeds a predetermined value. 


15. A pneumatic tool comprising: a housing including an inlet adapted for connection to a source of compressed air, and an exhaust means for exhausting compressed air from the housing; a first pneumatic, motor in the housing connected between the inlet and the exhaust means, and being driven by compressed air; an output shaft supported on the housing and driven by the first pneumatic motor; a second pneumatic motor in the housing connected between the inlet and the exhaust means, and being driven by compressed air to provide a mechanical output; an electrical generator that is driven by the mechanical output of the motor for generating electrical current; a lamp supported on the hous ng; an electrical circuit connecting the generator and the lamp for supplying electricity to the lamp; and a control valve means for controlling the flow of compressed air through the first and second motors.
16. A pneumatic tool as recited in claim 15, wherein the second pneumatic motor includes a turbine provided with an axial shaft and a plurality of turbine blades extending radially outward from the shaft, the apparatus further comprising drive means for directing compressed air across the blades to carry out rotary drive of the axial shaft. 


 17. A pneumatic tool as recited in claim 15, wherein the electrical generator includes at least one stator coil that is fixed relative to the generator housing, and a rotor shaft movable relative to the coil and provided with a permanent magnet for generating a current in the coil during rotation of the rotor shaft.
18. A pneumatic tool as recited in claim 15, wherein the second pneumatic motor includes a turbine provided with an axial shaft and a plurality of turbine blades extending radially outward from the shaft, and the electrical generator includes at least one stator coil that is fixed relative to the generator housing and a rotor shaft that is rotatable relative to the coil, the axial shaft of the motor and the rotor shaft of the electrical generator being collinear.
19. A pneumatic tool as recited in claim 18, wherein the axial shaft of the second motor and the rotor shaft are unitary.
20. A pneumatic tool as recited in claim 15, wherein the circuit includes a transformer for converting the current generated by the electrical generator into direct current, and a battery for storing the direct current.
21. A pneumatic tool as recited in claim 15, wherein the exhaust valve means includes a check valve that automatically releases compressed air from the housing when the pressure of the air exceeds a predetermined value. 


 22. A pneumatic lighting apparatus comprising: a lamp; an electrical generator for generating electrical current in response to a mechanical input; an electrical circuit connecting the generator with the lamp for energizing the lamp when current is available from the generator; a pneumatic motor for providing the mechanical input to the generator; a valve means for selectively directing compressed air through the motor to drive the motor; and a ventilation means for exhausting compressed air from the apparatus after the compressed air has passed through the pneumatic motor, the ventilation means including means for changing the direction in which the air is exhausted relative to the apparatus.
23. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 22, wherein the pneumatic motor includes a turbine provided with an axial shaft and a plurality of turbine blades extending radially outward from the shaft, the apparatus further comprising drive means for directing compressed air across the blades to carry out rotary drive of the axial shaft.
24. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 22, wherein the electrical generator includes at least one stator coil that is fixed relative to the generator housing, and a rotor shaft movable relative to the coil and provided with a permanent magnet for generating a current in the coil during rotation of the rotor shaft. 


 25. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 22, wherein the pneumatic motor includes a turbine provided with an axial shaft and a plurality of turbine blades extending radially outward from the shaft, and the electrical generator includes at least one stator coil that is fixed relative to the generator housing and a rotor shaft that is rotatable relative to the coil, the axial shaft of the motor and the rotor shaft of the electrical generator being collinear.
26. A pneumatic lighting apparatus as recited in claim 25, wherein the axial shaft of the motor and the rotor shaft are unitary. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
