<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625260</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AIRCRAFT WEIGHT AND CENTER OF GRAVITY INDICATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G900	G01G1907	G01L1904	G01G900	G01K1300	G01K1300	G01G1902	G01M112	G01M100	G01L1904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	G01L	G01G	G01K	G01K	G01G	G01M	G01M	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G9	G01G19	G01L19	G01G9	G01K13	G01K13	G01G19	G01M1	G01M1	G01L19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An onboard system for use in measuring, computing and displaying the gross weight and location/relocation of the center of gravity, for aircraft (1). Temperature and pressure transmitters and transducers (49, 53) are mounted in relation to each of the landing gear struts (8). Transmit those temperature and pressure signals to an onboard micro-computer/controller with redundancy for accuracy and failure protection. The system also incorporates a software correction program to correct and compensate for physical changes to strut components due to temperature fluctuations, O-ring seal (11) drag and hysteresis within modern day "shock absorbing" aircraft landing gear struts. The computer makes adjustments for internal temperature changes and drag; converts sustained pressures to the weight supported by each strut, and computes the aircraft's current gross weight and center of gravity. The computer also is pre-programmed to illuminate a "Hard Landing Indicator Light" mounted on the display (29), when pre-programmed individual strut pressure limits are exceeded and sensed during landing. These pressure readings are stored in the computer memory and can be utilized when the aircraft is inspected and serviced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NANCE C KIRK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NANCE, C. KIRK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NANCE C KIRK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NANCE, C. KIRK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Two critical factors in the flight of any aircraft or airplane are the weight and 
balance of that aircraft or airplane. An airplane manufacturer must determine and 
publish the maximum gross operating weight of that airplane. This is to insure that 
at take-off speed, the wings are generating sufficient lift to lift the weight of the 
airplane. A second but equally important factor to consider is whether the airplane 
is in balance (optimum location for the center of gravity) or within acceptable 
limits, as can be compensated for by trim adjustments. Calculations to determine gross weight and center of gravity in terms of percent 
MAC (Mean Aerodynamic Chord) are well known and well documented. 
Reference may be made to U.S. Pat. No. 3,513,300 to Elfenbein. Prior art methods 
to determine gross weight and center of gravity are performed using 
measurements of sorme portions of the aircraft's payload and estimates of the 
remaining portions of the aircraft's payload. This information is input into ground 
computers which calculate gross weight and center of gravity. The calculations are 
relayed to the pilot in the aircraft before take-off, as illustrated by the following 
example: 
   A McDonald Douglas DC-10 Series 30 Airplane makes a daily non-stop 
flight from London to Dallas/Fort Worth Airport. On this transatlantic 
flight the airplane operates at a maximum gross weight of 
560,000 lbs., capable of carrying a maximum 243,000 lbs. of fuel, with 
a useful payload of approximately 120,000 lbs. This useful payload is 
comprised of freight, in-flight service items, checked baggage, large 
quantities of carry-on baggage (estimated 25 lbs. / person), up to 290 
passengers and 10 members on the flight crew (estimated 180 lbs. / 
person). The weight of the carry-on baggage, passengers and crew are 
estimated under existing airline policies and practices. On this DC-10, 
with a maximum passenger load, this estimated weight could be as 
much as 51.3% of this airplanes useful payload. This invention relates to improvements to the previous so-called "Weight and 
Center of Gravity Indicators". The previous systems use transducers of the strain  
 
gauge variety utilizing simple analog signals to transmit pressure readings for their 
calculations. The lack of those systems being utilized by the major air carriers, 
reinforces the position that those systems are not accurate nor reliable on today's 
more modern aircraft landing gear. From the document PRODUCT ENGINEERING, vol.37, no.18, 29 August 1966, 
NEW
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for determining the weight of an aircraft, said aircraft comprising 
plural landing gear struts, said struts experiencing drag, such as strut seal friction, 

said apparatus comprising: 

a) a pressure sensor for each aircraft landing gear strut, said pressure sensors 
being adapted to couple to said struts so as to measure pressure inside of said 

respective strut; 
b) a temperature sensor for each aircraft landing gear strut, said temperature 
sensors being adapted to couple to said struts so as to measure the temperature of 

said respective strut; 
c) processor means for determining said aircraft weight, said processor means 
being connected to said pressure sensors and said temperature sensors, said 

processor means determining said aircraft weight using temperature 
measurements obtained from said temperature sensors to retrieve an appropriate, 

stored temperature-to-drag pressure adjustment to compensate and adjust each existing landing gear 
strut pressure obtained from said respective pressure sensors, which is distorted by 

said drag, as it relates to the weight said strut is supporting, 
d) means for providing said determined aircraft weight to a human, said means 
being coupled to said processor means. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said pressure sensors comprises a 
digital quartz pressure sensor. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said respective temperature sensors 
and pressure sensors for each of said aircraft landing gear struts are coupled to 

said strut at an existing strut fitting. 
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a protective shut-off valve means 
located on each aircraft strut, each of said protective valve means being 

selectively opened and closed, each of said protective valve means being adapted 
to selectively isolate said respective temperature sensor and said pressure sensor 

from pressure in said landing gear strut during the impact of the aircraft landing, 
and as a means to protect the aircraft in the event of said temperature sensor or 

said pressure sensor leaking or bursting, each of said protective valve means being 
connected to said processor means, wherein said processor means controls the 

opening and closing of said protective shut-off valves.  
 
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein each of said protective shut-off valve means 
automatically closes if said processor means fails. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said processor means comprises a master 
processor and a backup slave processor to provide redundancy. 
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for providing a 
determination of strut drag, said means for providing a determination of strut drag 

being coupled to said processor means, said means for providing a determination 
of strut drag comprising a hydraulic fluid reservoir and pump. 
A method of determining the weight of an aircraft, said aircraft being supported 
by plural landing gear struts, said struts experiencing drag, such as strut seal 

friction, said method comprising the steps of: 

a) determining the internal pressure in each landing gear strut; 
b) determining the temperature of each landing gear strut; 
c) using said strut temperature to determine an appropriate temperature-to-drag 
pressure adjustment, on each landing gear strut; 
d) determining the weight supported by each landing gear strut, using said 
respective adjusted pressure; 
e) determining the total weight of said aircraft by summing said weights 
supported by all of said landing gear struts. 
The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of determining the center of 
gravity of said aircraft in terms of percent Mean Aerodynamic Chord (%MAC) 

using said respective adjusted pressures. 
The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of performing a self-check 
of said weight determination by comparing current weight determinations to 

previous weight determinations, obtained under identical weight and inclination 
conditions. 
The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of storing said weight, 
pressure and temperature determinations so as to create a history of weight, 

pressure and temperature determinations for each landing gear strut, and using 
said respective histories to evaluate the performance of each strut.  

 
The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of: 

a) making said weight and temperature determinations with plural processor 
means, such that a first processor means determines the total weight of said 

aircraft and a second processor means determines the total weight of said aircraft, 
and then; 
b) comparing the first processor means total weight and the second processor 
means total weight to determine a confidence factor which indicates the reliability 

of said total weight determinations. 
The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of: 

a) measuring said internal pressure in each landing gear strut during a landing 
of said aircraft; 
b) comparing said measured pressures to predetermined pressures, wherein if 
measured pressures exceed said predetermined pressures then said aircraft has 

experienced a hard landing; 
c) if said aircraft has experienced a hard landing, then providing an indication 
of said hard landing. 
The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of preventing said 
indication of said hard landing from being deleted without an appropriate passkey. 
The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of determining the effects 
of drag on each landing gear strut by changing the amount of strut extension and 

determining the internal strut pressure as compared to previous strut pressure 
recorded prior to the change of strut extension. 
The method of claim 8 wherein said aircraft total weight is a Clean Loaded 
Weight, further comprising the steps of determining if there is an ice build-up on 

said aircraft by: 

a) determining the weight supported by each landing gear strut and by 
determining the effects of drag at some subsequent time to said determination of 

said Clean Loaded Weight, then determining a subsequent total weight from said 
subsequently determined weights and drag; 
b) comparing said subsequent total weight to said Clean Loaded Weight. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
