<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648401</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATIC CONTROL AND MONITORING OF THE OPERATION OF CONSUMER ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1502	G11B1502	G11B2710	G11B2710	G11B3100	G11B3100	H04B120	H04B120	H04H900	H04H900	H04N544	H04N544	H04N5765	H04N5765	H04N5782	H04N5782	H04N592	H04N592	H04N716	H04N716	H04Q900	H04Q900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04B	H04B	H04H	H04H	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B15	G11B15	G11B27	G11B27	G11B31	G11B31	H04B1	H04B1	H04H9	H04H9	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04Q9	H04Q9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for providing items of information viewable on an electronic display from an information provider. An information provider provides printed material and a portable memory (62) containing information related to the printed material to a user. The information is read from the memory (62) and displayed to the user. The user selects at least one item of information. A record of the user selections is stored in the memory (62). In the preferred embodiment, the information is a program listing for television programs. By selecting information, the user is able to program a controller (28) to automatically turn on electronic devices for either viewing or recording the selected television programs.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MANKOVITZ, ROY J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANKOVITZ, ROY J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUSANDMETHODS FOR AUTOMATICCONTROLANDMONITORING OFTHE OPERATIONOFCONSUMERELECTRONIC PRODUCTSField of the InventionThis invention relates to systems for controlling consumer electric products, and more particularly, for the automatic control and monitoring of the operation of consumer electronic products.Background of the InventionConsumer electronics presently provide a myriad of devices such as televisions, video cassette recorders, stereo systems, compact disk players, radios and laser disk players. Each device has its own remote controller for operating the device at a distance spaced from the device! Each remote controller may have its own unique command instructions. Many of these devices are programmable to select the channel, day, length and time of recording of the VCR, or selecting the order of tracks of music from multiple compact discs in the CD player. The average consumer does not utilize the full programming capability of these devices because of the complexity of each device, the uniqueness of the programming steps and infrequent use by the consumer. Thus, the average consumer pays for device complexity that he or she does not use.Furthermore, the consumer pays more for the electronics because the consumer is buying several remote controllers. Moreover, when the batteries of the remote controllers are fully discharged, the consumer must discard the spent batteries. Thus, the increased battery usage (because of the higher number of remote controllers) is not environmentally desirable.One method for reducing the number of remote controllers that the viewer must use is to use a universal remote controller. For example, U.S. Patent 4,999,622 to Amano, etSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

al., issued March 12, 1991, teaches a multi-commander that stores preprogrammed codes for electronic devices such as videotape recorders, televisions and the like for different manufacturers. The individual user places the multi-commander into a learning mode and activates the individual remote controllers for the electronic devices. The multi-commander receives and stores the transmitted coded signal. The multi-commander identifies the resulting remote controller signal by comparing the received signal to the stored codes of the manufacturers, and stores the signal format from memory into a second memory. After the multi-commander is programmed, the multi-commander is switched into a remote control mode so that when the user activates a command on the multi-commander, the multi-commander reads from the second memory
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of providing items of information viewable on an electronic display from an information provider to a user, comprising the steps of: providing the information to the user stored in portable read/write memory along with at least a portion of the information in printed format; reading the information stored in the memory; displaying the information read from the memory; selecting by user-selection means at least one item of information from the displayed information; and storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items of information selected.
2. The method of claim 1 further including the step of controlling the operation of electronic apparatus in response to the selected information.
3. The method of claim 2 where the information includes a schedule of video programs available to the user.
4. The method of claim 3 where the step of selecting at least one item of information includes the step of selecting a video program for recording, and the step of controlling die operation of electronic apparatus includes the step of controlling a video recorder to record the selected program.
5. The method of claim 4 where the step of controlling the operation of a video recorder includes the step of restricting the controlling of the video recorder to a group of users.
6. The method of claim 3 where the step of displaying the information includes displaying the information on a television receiver, the step of selecting at least one item of information includes the step of selecting a video program for viewing, and the step of controlling the operation of electronic apparatus includes the step of controlling the television receiver to view die selected program.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 7. The method of claim 3 where at least a portion of the information in printed format includes a video program calendar having printed therein at least a portion of die schedule of video programs.
8. The mediod of claim 7 where the step of providing the information to the user includes the step of removably attaching the portable read/write memory to the video program calendar.
9. The method of claim 2 where the information includes a list of telephone service subscribers along with the telephone numbers.
10. The method of claim 9 where the step of selecting at least one item of information includes the step of selecting a telephone subscriber for communication widi the user, and die step of controlling the operation of electronic apparatus includes die step of dialing die telephone number of the selected subscriber from the user's telephone line.
11. The method of claim 9 where at least a portion of the information in printed format includes a telephone directory having printed therein at least a portion of the list of telephone service subscribers along with their telephone numbers.
12. The method of claim 11 where the step of providing the information to the user includes the step of removably attaching the portable read/write memory to the telephone directory.
13. The method of claim 1 further including the step of collecting from the user die memory having stored therein records of the user's information selections.
14. The method of claim 13 where the step of collecting from the user the memory includes the step of providing an incentive for the user to provide the memory to a designated collector.
15. The method of claim 13 where the step of collecting from the user the memory includes die step of mailing die memory to a designated collector.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 16. The method of claim 1 where the memory is selected from the group consisting of magnetic media, nonvolatile semiconductor memory, and magneto-optical memory.
17. The method of claim 16 where the magnetic media includes a floppy disk.
18. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: providing means for cancelling previous selections of information; and erasing from the memory the record of the items of information which are cancelled.
19. The method of claim 2 where the step of storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items selected includes storing in memory a record of the step of controlling die operation of the electronic apparatus in response to the selected information.
20. The method of claim 4 where the step of storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items selected includes storing in memory a record of controlling the video recorder to record the selected information.
21. The method of claim 6 where the step of storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items selected includes storing in memory a record of controlling the television receiver to view the selected program.
22. The method of claim 1 where the step of storing in the memory record of at least some of the items selected includes the step of storing a flag in connection with those items of information previously stored in memory by the information provider which have been selected by the user.
23. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: collecting from the user the records of the user's information selections; and analyzing the selection records to determine the information selection habits of the user.
24. The method of claim 23 where the step of collecting from the user the records includes the step of electronically transmitting the records to a designated collector.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 25. The method of claim 1 where the step of storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items of information selected is replaced by the step of storing in a second memory a record of at least some of die items of information selected.
26. The method of claim 25 further including the steps of: collecting from the user the records stored in the second memory of the user's information selections; and analyzing the selection records to determine the information selection habits of the user.
27. The method of claim 26 where the step of collecting from the user the records includes die step of electronically transmitting the records to a designated collector.
28. The method of claim 13 further including the step of analyzing the selection records stored in the collected memory to determine the user information selections.
29. The method of claim 28 where the information in printed format includes a printed periodical containing multiple items of printed information, the provided information stored in die memory includes user-selectable requests for additional data relating to die items of printed information, and further including the steps of: storing in the memory data identifying the user; analyzing die selection records stored in the collected memory to identify die user and to determine the requests for additional data; and using the analyzed data to provide the requested additional data to the user.
30. The method of claim 1 where the items of information are encoded and further including the steps of decoding the information stored in memory and encoding a record of at least some of the items of information selected.
31. A method of providing items of information viewable on an electronic display from an information provider to a user, comprising the steps of: providing the information to the user on portable read/write memory; reading the information stored in the memory; displaying the information read from memory: selecting by user-selection means at least one item of information from the
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


displayed information; storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items of information selected; and collecting from the user the memory having stored therein records of the information selections.
32. The method of claim 31 further including the step of controlling the operation of electronic apparatus in response to the selected information.
33. The method of claim 32 where the information includes a schedule of video programs available to the user.
34. The method of claim 33 where the step of selecting at least one item of information includes the step of selecting a video program for recording, and the step of controlling the operation of electronic apparatus includes the step of controlling a video recorder to record the selected program.
35. The method of claim 33 where the step of displaying the information includes displaying the information on a television receiver, the step of selecting at least one item of information includes the step of selecting a video program for viewing, and the step of controlling the operation of electronic apparatus includes the step of controlling the television receiver to view the selected program.
36. The method of claim 32 where the information includes a list of telephone service subscribers along with the telephone numbers.
37. The method of claim 36 where the step of selecting at least one item of information includes the step of selecting a telephone subscriber for communication with the user, and the step of controlling the operation of electronic apparatus includes the step of dialing the telephone number of the selected subscriber from the user's telephone line.
38. The method of claim 31 where the step of collecting from the user the memories includes the step of providing an incentive for the user to provide the memory to a designated collector.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 39. The method of claim 31 where the step of collecting from the user the memory includes the step of mailing d e memory to a designated collector.
40. The method of claim 31 where the memory is selected from the group consisting of magnetic media, nonvolatile semiconductor memory, and magneto-optical memory.
41. The mediod of claim 40 where the magnetic media includes a floppy disk.
42. The mediod of claim 31 further including the steps of: providing means for cancelling previous selections of information; and erasing from the memory the record of the items of information which are cancelled.
43. The method of claim 32 where the step of storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items selected includes storing in memory a record of die step of controlling the operation of the electronic apparatus in response to the selected information.
44. The method of claim 34 where the step of storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items selected includes storing in memory a record of controlling die video recorder to record the selected information.
45. The method of claim 35 where the step of storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items selected includes storing in memory a record of controlling the television receiver to view the selected program.
46. The method of claim 31 where the step of storing in the memory record of at least some of the items selected includes the step of storing a flag in connection with those items of information previously stored in memory by the information provider which have been selected by the user.
47. The method of claim 31 where the step of collecting from the user the records includes the step of electronically transmitting the records to
"
 a designated collector.
48. The method of claim 31 where the step of storing in the memory a record of at least some of the items of information selected is replaced by the step of storing in a
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


second memory a record of at least some of the items of information selected.
49. The method of claim 48 further including the steps of: collecting from the user the records stored in the second memory of the user's information selections; and analyzing the selection records to determine the information selection habits of the user.
50. The method of claim 49 where the step of collecting from the user the records includes the step of electronically transmitting the records to a designated collector.
51. The method of claim 31 further including the step of analyzing the selection records stored in the collected memory to determine the user information selections.
52. The method of claim 31 where the items of information include items for purchase, the step of selecting items of information includes the step of selecting items for purchase, and further including the steps of: storing in the memory data identifying the user; analyzing the selection records stored in the collected memory to identify the user and to determine the items selected for purchase; and using the analyzed data to provide the purchased items to the user.
53. The method of claim 52 where the data identifying the user includes user credit information.
54. The method of claim 31 where the items of information include contest questions and multiple answers thereto, the step of selecting items of information includes the step of selecting an answer to each questions, and further including the steps of: storing in the memory data identifying the user; analyzing the selection records stored in the collected memory to identify the user and to determine the selected answers to the questions; and using the analyzed data to determine if the user is a contest winner.
55. Apparatus for providing items of information viewable on a electronic display from an information provider to a user comprising:
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 memory means including portable read/write memory having stored therein the items of information; print media having printed therein at least a portion of the information items; delivery means for delivering the memory means and die print media to the user substantially concurrently; reading means for reading the information stored in the memory means; display means for displaying the information read from the memory means; selection means for user selection of a least one item of information from the displayed information; and recording means for recording in the memory means a record of at least some of the items of information selected.
56. The apparatus of claim 55 further including control means for controlling the operation of electronic equipment in response to the selected information.
57. Apparatus for providing items of information viewable on an electronic display from an information provider to a user, comprising: memory means including portable read/write memory having stored therein the items of information; delivery means for delivering the memory means to the user; reading means for reading the information stored in the memory means; display means for displaying the information read from the memory means; selection means for user selection of at least one item of information from the displayed information; recording means for recording in the memory means a record of at least some of the items of information selected; and collection means for collecting from the user the memory means having recorded therein die record of the information selections.
58. A mediod for blocking commands from individual remote transmitters to a system, comprising the steps of: monitoring a transmission medium for commands; detecting a command from individual remote transmitter; identifying the command; generating an overriding command in response to the identified command; and
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 transmitting the overriding command to the system.
59. The method of claim 58 wherein the system is a television.
60. The method of claim 58 wherein the system is a video cassette recorder.
61. The method of claim 58 wherein the system is a stereo receiver.
62. The method of claim 58 wherein the system is a radio tuner.
63. The method of claim 58 wherein the system is a cable box.
64. The method of claim 58 wherein the commands are infrared signals.
65. A method for displaying the lyrics of songs in synchronization with the playing of the songs comprising the steps of: reading lyrics of a song being played from a memory; monitoring for a synchronization signal; detecting the synchronization signal; and displaying portions of the lyrics in predetermined time relations with the synchronization signal.
66. The method of claim 65 wherein the memory is a portable memory.
67. The method of claim 66 where in the memory is a floppy disk.
68. The method of claim 65 wherein the portions of the lyrics are displayed on a television.
69. The method of claim 65 wherein the song is being played on the radio.
70. The method of claim 65 wherein the song is being played on a compact disk.
71. The method of claim 65 wherein the song is being played on a television.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 72. The method of claim 65 wherein the song is being played on a record.
73. The method of claim 65 wherein the song is being played on a video cassette recorder.
74. The method of claim 65 wherein the synchronization signal is a dual tone multi- frequency signal.
75. The mediod of claim 65 further comprising the steps of: reading a predetermined audio signal from d e second memory; comparing the predetermined audio signal with the monitored signal; and determining the monitored signal is a synchronization signal upon a match between die predetermined audio signal and the monitored signal.
76. A method for programming a compact disk player comprising the steps of: storing a unique number for the compact disk in a memory; selecting tracks of the compact disk and their sequence for playing on a user- selection means; transmitting the selected tracks and sequence to a receiver; storing the received selected tracks and sequence in the memory in association with die unique number; commanding the compact disk player to play a compact disk; selecting the unique number for the compact disk on the user-selection means; transmitting the unique number to the receiver; using the received unique number to retrieve the selected tracks and sequence corresponding to the compact disk with the selected unique number from the memory; and transmitting the selected tracks and sequence to the compact disk player.
77. The method of claim 76 further comprising the steps of: recording the unique number in a second memory; recording the played track numbers in the second memory; and recording the time and date of the playing of the compact disk in die second memory.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 78. The method of claim 77 further comprising the steps of: transmitting die unique number, played track numbers and the time and date from the second memory to an information provider; and analyzing the transmitted information to determine user listening habits.
79. A method for programming a compact disk player comprising the steps of: assigning a unique number to a compact disk; selecting tracks of the compact disk, their sequence for playing, and the time span of each track on a user-selection means: transmitting the selected tracks, sequence, and time spans and the unique number to a receiver: storing the selected tracks, sequence, and time spans and unique number in the memory; commanding the compact disk player to play a compact disk; selecting the unique number for the compact disk on the user-selection means; transmitting the unique number to the receiver; retrieving the selected tracks, sequence, and time spans corresponding to die compact disk with the selected unique number; transmitting the selected tracks in sequence to the compact disk player; calculating the completion time of the track; transmitting the next track upon the completion of the previous track until the last track in the sequence is commanded.
80. The method of claim 79 further comprising the steps of: recording the unique number in a second memory; recording the played track numbers in the second memory; and recording the time and date of the playing of the compact disk in the second memory.
81. The method of claim 80 further comprising the steps of: transmitting the unique number, played track numbers and the time and date from the second memory to an information provider: and analyzing the transmitted information to determine user listening habits. 


 82. A method for identifying a received broadcast signal comprising the steps of: monitoring die date, time, and channel or frequency of one of a plurality of received broadcast signals in response to user-selection means; storing the date, time, and channel or frequency of the one received broadcast signal in a memory; reading a listing containing information about the broadcast signals; comparing die date, time, and channel or frequency of die received broadcast signal to the listing; determining the information in the listing associated widi die received broadcast signal; identifying die received broadcast signal from the determined information: and displaying the identification of the received broadcast signal.
83. The method of claim 82 wherein the received broadcast signal is a television signal.
84. The method of claim 82 wherein the received broadcast signal is a radio signal.
85. The method of claim 82 wherein the displaying of the identification of the received broadcast signal is on a television.
86. The method of claim 82 wherein the step of displaying the identification of die received broadcast signal is done somewhat concurrently with the monitoring of the received broadcast signal.
87. The method of claim 82 including the step of flagging the monitoring the date, time, and channel or frequency of one of a plurality of received broadcast signals in response to user-selection means in the memory.
88. The method of claim 87 including the step of recording the time and date of die flagging.
89. The method of claim 88 including the step of transmitting the flagged information to an information provider. 


 90. The method of claim 89 including the step of analyzing user-selection information to determine user-selection habits.
91. The method of claim 88 including the step of entering the user into a contest.
92. A method for purchasing user selected items from a memory comprising die steps of: reading a memory containing classified advertisements for items for sale; displaying the classified information; selecting items of information by user-selection means; dialing a phone number corresponding to the selected item: flagging the item of information in the memory with the time and date of die dialing of the phone number; flagging the item of information in the memory with the time and date of the completion of the phone call; storing the user selected items of information into a memory; and communicating the user selected items of information from the memory to a provider of the information in the memory.
93. The method of claim 92 wherein the memory is a portable memory.
94. The method of claim 93 wherein the memory is a floppy disk.
95. The method of claim 92 wherein the step of communicating the user selected items of information includes the step of mailing the memory to an information provider.
96. The method of claim 95 including the step of analyzing the user-selection information to determine user-selection habits.
97. The method of claim 92 including the steps of: recording the items of information by user-selection means in a second memory; comparing the selected items of information to the items of information stored in the second memory; and notifying the user if there is a match between the selected items of information 


and die items of information stored in the second memory.
98. The method of claim 97 including the step of deleting an item of information stored in the second memory after it has been stored for a predetermined time.
99. A method of purchasing user selected items comprising the steps of: storing user identification information in a first memory; reading a second memory containing items of information about merchandise for sale; displaying a portion of the items of information; selecting at least one item of information by user-selection means: flagging the at least one user selected item of information into the second memory; reading the user identification information from the first memory; storing the user identification information into the second memory; and communicating the at least one user selected item of information and the user identification from the second memory to a provider of the merchandise.
100. The method of claim 99 wherein the step of communicating the user selected items of information and the user identification from the second memory to a provider of the merchandise includes die step of transmitting the selected items of information and the user identification over a telephone line.
101. The method of claim 99 wherein the step of communicating the user selected items of information and the user identification from the second memory to a provider of die merchandise includes the step of transferring the second memory to the provider of die merchandise.
102. The method of claim 101 wherein the step of transferring the second memory to die provider of the merchandise includes the steps of enclosing the second memory in an envelope supplied with the second memory and supplied by the provider of the merchandise and mailing the envelope to the provider.
103- The method of claim 99 including the step of analyzing the flagged information in die second memory to determine user selection habits. 


 104. The method of claim 99 including the steps of reading the flagged at least one selected item of information and determining whether a selected item of information has been previously selected.
105. The method of claim 104 including the steps of flagging the at least one item of information from the second memory into the first memory; reading a third memory containing items of information about merchandise for sale; displaying a portion of the items of information from the third memory; selecting at least one item of information by user-selection means; flagging the at least one user selected item of information into the third memory; reading the flagged at least one selected item of information in the first memory; and determining whether the selected at least one item of information of the third memory matches the selected at least one item of information in the second memory.
106. A method for controlling an electronic system comprising the steps of: searching a listing of movies; selecting by user-selection means a portion of the movie listing; storing the portion of the movie listing in a first memory; reading a listing of broadcast movies stored in a second memory; comparing the listing of broadcast movies to the portion of the movie listing; determining whether there is a match between the listing of broadcast movies and the portion of the movie listing; storing matched listings in the first memory; displaying the matched listings to the user; selecting from the displayed matched listings by a user-selection means; reading scheduling information about the listings selected from the second memory; storing the read scheduling information in the first memory; monitoring the day and time; comparing the day and time to the scheduling information in d e first memory; and 


 controlling an electronic system upon a coincidence between the day and time and die scheduling information.
107. The method of claim 104 wherein the scheduling information is comprised of date, channel, time, and length of the broadcast signal.
108. The mediod of claim 105 wherein the step of controlling an electronic system is further comprised of die steps of: turning on the electronic system on the coincidence of the date and time; tuning the electronic system to the channel that is in coincidence; turning off the electronic system after the length of time that is in coincidence.
109. The method of claim 106 wherein the electronic system is comprised of a television.
110. The mediod of claim 106 wherein the electronic system is comprised of a video cassette recorder.
111. The method of claim 104 wherein each movie has a unique serial number and the step of comparing the listing of broadcast of broadcast movies to the portion of the movie listing includes the step of comparing the serial numbers of the a portion of the movie listing to the serial numbers of the listing of broadcast movies.
112. The method of claim 104 including the step of flagging matched listings in die second memory.
113. The method of claim 110 wherein the step of flagging matched listings in die second memory includes the step of recording the time and date of the determining die match between the listing of broadcast movies and the portion of the movie listing.
114. The mediod of claim 104 wherein the step of selecting by user-selection means a portion of the movie listing includes the step of flagging the portion of die movie listing.
115. The method of claim 112 wherein the step of selecting by user-selection means a portion of the movie listing includes the step of recording the time and date of the selecting. 


 116. The method of claim 104 including the step of transmitting the user-selection information to an information provider.
117. The method of claim 114 including the step of analyzing die user-selection information to determine user-selection habits.
118. A method for assigning signals at different frequencies to channel numbers comprising the steps of: selecting a provider from a list of providers by user-selection means; reading a map stored in a first memory, the map having a matrix of signals at different frequencies assigned to channel numbers for each provider in the list of providers; retrieving from the first memory the channel numbers assigned to the signals at different frequencies for the selected provider; and storing the channel numbers assigned to the signals at different frequencies for the selected provider in a second memory.
119. The method of claim 116 wherein the provider is a cable company.
120. The method of claim 1 16 wherein the signals at different frequencies are television signals.
121. A method for monitoring user selection habits by flagging program schedule comprising the steps of: monitoring a transmission medium; detecting signals related to user-selections on user-selection means in the transmission medium; and flagging items of information in a memory associated with the selections of the user.
122. The method of claim 119 wherein the detected signals are commands to electronic devices.
123. The method of claim 120 wherein the electronic device is a television. 


 124. The method of claim 120 wherein the electronic device is a video cassette recorder.
125. The method of claim 120 wherein the electronic device is a stereo receiver.
126. The method of claim 120 wherein the electronic device is a radio tuner.
127. The method of claim 120 wherein the electronic device is a cable box.
128. The method of claim 119 wherein the detected signals are infrared signals.
129. The method of claim 119 wherein the items of information are a program listing.
130. The method of claim 127 wherein the program listing is for television programs.
131. The method of claim 127 wherein the program listing is for radio programs.
132. The method of claim 119 wherein the step of flagging includes the step of marking the time and date of d e occurrence of the detection of the signal.
133. The method of claim 1 19 wherein the step of flagging includes die step of limiting access to a portion of the information.
134. The method of claim 119 further including the step of transmitting the information and flags to another entity.
135. The method of claim 132 further including the step of analyzing the user selection flags.
136. A method for monitoring information for analyzing user selection habits comprising the steps of: detecting selections of items of information made by user-selection means; flagging the selected items of information; 


 transferring the flagged selected items of information to an information provider; analyzing the flagged selected items of information; and determining the user-selections habits.
137. The method of claim 134 wherein items of information are in a first medium and are related to items of information in a second medium.
138. The method of claim 135 where the first medium is a portable memory and die second medium is printed material.
139. The method of claim 136 where the portable memory is a floppy disk.
140. A method of providing channel skipping information from a first device at a first location to a second device at a second location comprising the steps of: monitoring, at a first location, a transmission medium for a channel skipping signal; detecting a channel skipping signal; reading a memory for the next channel in a channel skipping sequence; transmitting a command corresponding to the next channel from the first device to the second device at the second location.
141. The method of claim 138 where the channel skipping signal is an infrared signal.
142. The method of claim 138 where the command corresponding to the next channel is an infrared signal.
143. The method of claim 138 where the second device is a television.
144. The method of claim 138 where the second device is a video cassette recorder.
145. The method of claim 138 where the second device is a stereo receiver.
146. The method of claim 138 where the second device is a radio tuner. 


 147. The method of claim 138 where the second device is a cable box.
148. The mediod of claim 138 where the channel skipping command is in a first format and die command for the next channel is in a second format.
149. The method of claim 138 where the second device is responsive to die command for the next channel and is not responsive to the channel skipping command.
150. The method of claim 138 including the step of recording the occurrence of die detected channel skipping signal.
151. The mediod of claim 148 including the step of providing die' recorded occurrences of the detected channel skipping signal to an information provider.
152. The mediod of claim 149 where the second device is a television.
153. The method of claim 150 where the recording of the occurrence of the detected channel skipping signal includes die step of recording the next channel and die date and time of die occurrence.
154. Apparatus for providing items of information viewable on an electronic display from an information provider to a user, comprising: means for reading a portable memory having stored therein the items of information; means for displaying the items of information read from the portable memory; selection means for selecting by a user at least one item of information from the displayed information; memory means; and means for flagging in the memory means a record of at least one of die items of die selected information.
155. The apparatus of claim 148 further including control means for controlling the operation of electronic equipment in response to the selected information.
156. The apparatus of claim 149 further including a second control means for 


controlling the operation of electronic equipment in response to selections of the user, means for detecting d e user selections and means for generating a record of at least some of the user selections in response to the detection means, and means for recording in the memory means the record of at least some of the user selections.
157. A method of delivering time-dependent information to a subscriber comprising the steps of: recording information by an information provider on a floppy disk related to time-dependent information in a printed material; attaching the floppy disk to the printed material; delivering the combination of the floppy disk and the printed material to a user; and returning the floppy disk to the information provider.
158. The method of claim 151 further including the steps of: reading the information from the floppy disk; flagging the read information on the floppy disk; and analyzing the user-reading habits from the flagged information.
159. The method of claim 151 further including the step of providing an incentive to the user for returning the disk. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
