<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636881</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for quality control of objects in particular ceramic articles, by measuring sounds
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2930	G01N2904	G01N2944	G01N2904	G01N2944	G01N2922	G01N2946	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for quality control of components by means of sound measurement, especially of roof tiles, in which a sound spectrum produced by striking a component is picked up and analysed. The analysis result is compared with that of components found to be good and evaluated by adding the amplitudes of the amplitude-frequency spectrum, dividing the amplitude sum by the number of turning points existing between the peaks of the frequency components and thus obtaining an evaluation number. The device for carrying out the method has a mounting device, the mounting elements (32, 33) of which support the component, in each case point-wise, and consist of a highly flexible resilient material. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A method of quality control of components by means of sound
measurement, in particular ceramic parts, in which a component is

mechanically struck and thereby stimulated to acoustic sound
radiation, the sound spectrum is recorded and analysed over a

predetermined frequency range in respect of the amplitudes associated
with the frequency components, and evaluated by means of a computer,

characterised in that by means of the computer the amplitudes of the
amplitude frequency spectrum are summed, the amplitude sum is divided

by the number of the inflection points present between the peaks of
the frequency components in the amplitude frequency spectrum, the

quotient obtained, defined as an evaluation number, is compared to a
predetermined reference evaluation number representing a good

component quality, and in the event of a deviation of the quotient
from the reference evaluation number beyond a given extent the

inadequate quality of the component is established by the computer.
A method according to claim 1 characterised in that for
recording of the sound spectrum a threshold value in respect of volume

is established and only the value of the sound spectrum, that exceeds
the threshold value, is recorded and analysed.
A method according to claim 1 characterised in that for
recording of the sound spectrum, a time interval is established, the

beginning of which is matched to the mechanical striking of the
component, and that only the sound spectrum recorded in the time

interval is analysed.
A method according to one of claims 1 to 3 characterised in
that a frequency window containing at least the fundamental natural

frequencies is selected from the amplitude frequency spectrum and the
amplitude sum is determined from said frequency window. 
A method according to claim 1 characterised in that the given
extent of the deviation is defined by a first limit value as the

quality good range.
A method according to claim 5 characterised in that in addition
to the good range at least one further range is defined by at least

one further limit value which includes evaluation numbers of
correspondingly still admissible component quality.
A method according to one of claims 1 to 6 characterised in
that the component is struck in the moving condition, wherein striking

is effected at least with a component of movement in the direction of
movement of the component to be struck.
A method according to one of claims 1 to 7 characterised in
that the component is softly-elastically supported at least during the

striking step and the frequency analysis step.
A method according to one of claims 1 to 8 characterised in
that in the sound measurement of a plurality of identical components

each component is struck at the same place.
A method according to one of claims 1 to 9 characterised in
that prior to the striking step each component is pre-stressed by a

hit of given force.
A method according to one of claims 1 to 10 characterised in
that the position and orientation of the component with respect to the

support points are ascertained and possibly corrected prior to the
component being supported.
Apparatus for quality control of components (4) by means of
sound measurement, in particular ceramic roof tiles, for carrying out

the method according to one of claims 1 to 11, comprising a support 
device for softly-elastically supporting a component, a striking

element (5) for mechanically striking the component, a microphone (2)
for recording the sound spectrum of the struck component and a

computer (6, 7) for amplitude frequency analysis of the sound spectrum
recorded by the microphone, characterised in that the support elements

serving for supporting the component are arranged in accordance with
the oscillation characteristics to be expected of the component in the

region of oscillation node lines.
Apparatus according to claim 12 characterised in that there
are provided only a few, for example three, punctiform support

elements (32, 33; 98).
Apparatus according to claim 12 or claim 13 characterised in
that the support elements are support pins with resilient heads (33)

arranged at their upper ends.
Apparatus according to one of claims 12 to 14 characterised in
that the support device (3) includes a support frame (30) on which the

support elements (32, 33) are longitudinally and transversely
displaceably arranged for adaptation to the component (4).
Apparatus according to claim 15 characterised in that the
support elements are adjustable in respect of height.
Apparatus according to one of claims 12 to 14 characterised in
that the support elements (98) are arranged non-displaceably on a test

cassette (91) and are adapted to a component (4).
Apparatus according to claim 17 characterised in that the test
cassette (91) is interchangeably fixed on a support device (84).
Apparatus according to one of claims 12 to 18 characterised in
that the support device (3) is arranged stationarily in a measuring 

chamber (1) and there is provided a gripping and depositing device for
introducing components into the measuring chamber and for laying the

components on the support device.
Apparatus according to one of claims 12 to 19 characterised in
that a plurality of support devices (84) are disposed on a conveyor

arrangement (86) for the components and the conveyor arrangement
passes through a measuring chamber (99) cyclically or continuously.
Apparatus according to one of claims 12 to 20 characterised in
that the support device (84) is arranged in the region of the

measuring chamber (99) raisably and lowerably between two runs (70a,
70b) of a conveyor arrangement, which runs support the ends of

conveyed components (4).
Apparatus according to claim 20 or claim 21 characterised in

that disposed upstream of the measuring chamber (99) in relation to
the conveyor arrangement for conveying the components is a device

(100) for positional monitoring and possibly correction of the
components relative to the support device (84).
Apparatus accoridng to claim 21 characterised in that arranged
on the raisable and lowerable support device is a funnel-shaped

aligning device which when the support device is raised firstly aligns
a component lying on the runs of the conveyor arrangement relative to

the support device.
Apparatus according to one of claims 12 to 23 characterised in
that the striking element (5) is an electromagnetically or

pneumatically actuable hammer.
Apparatus according to claim 24 characterised in that the
hammer has a hammer peen (51) comprising a hard or a hard-elastic

material which is harder than the material of the support elements
(33, 98). 
Apparatus according to one of claims 19 to 25 characterised in
that the measuring chamber is of a sound-proofed nature.
Apparatus according to claim 26 characterised in that the
measuring chamber is provided with sound-proofing lock arrangements at

its intake opening and possibly at an exit opening.
Apparatus according to one of claims 12 to 27 characterised in
that the measuring chamber is designed to receive a plurality of

components to be measured.
Apparatus according to one of claims 26 to 28 characterised in
that the intake opening or exit opening of the measuring chamber (29)

respectively is adapted in its contour to the shape of the components
and components disposed in the intake opening or exit opening

respectively act as sound proofing.
Apparatus according to one of claims 12 to 29 characterised in
that it includes a sorting device (110) for putting the components

into different quality classes and that the sorting device is
controlled by the computer (6, 7) in such a way that components with

an evaluation number outside a good range but within a range of still
admissible quality are identified as components of not-good but still

admissible quality.
Apparatus according to claim 30 characterised in that the
sorting device (110) is a gripping device by which components of non-good

but still admissible quality are gripped and identified by being
separated out.
Apparatus according to claim 30 or claim 31 characterised in
that the sorting device identifies components of not-good but still

admissible quality by a marking. 
Apparatus according to one of claims 20 to 32 characterised in
that when the component is struck in the moving condition thereof the

striking element (5) is arranged in such a way that the striking step
is effected with a component of movement in the direction of movement

of the component to be struck.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
