<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0112980</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED SPRING ACTIVATED HEMOSTATIC CLIP APPLICATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B17128	A61B1712	A61B1712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical clip applying device having a main body, a 
clip magazine coupled to the main body for holding a 

plurality of clips, clip deforming jaws coupled to the main 
body for receiving and deforming clips, a clip loading 

mechanism for loading clips from the magazine to a clip feed 
blade which moves clips from the clip magazine to the 

deforming jaws, and a spring activated actuating mechan­
ism. The clip loading mechanism includes a double ratchet 

apparatus coupled to a pawl for advancing the clips through 
the magazine. The actuating mechanism includes handle 

portion, a ratchet member having a cam follower which is 
coupled to a camming surface which is in turn coupled to 

one of the handle portions, a spring connected to the main 
body and the ratchet member, and a latch adapted to engage 

the ratchet member. By movement of one of the handle 
portions with respect to the other handle portion, the 

camming surface engages the cam follower to store energy 
in the spring, which is retained therein via engagement of the 

latch with the ratchet member. In operation, a slight 
movement of one of the handle portions with respect to the 

other handle portion disengages the latch from the ratchet 
member so that the energy stored in the spring is converted 

into rapid forward movement of the clip feed blade. This 
forward movement causes the clip loading mechanism to 

advance a clip and, in addition, causes the clip feed blade to 
slide through the magazine to rapidly place a clip in the 

deforming jaws. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KLIEMAN, CHARLES H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLIEMAN, CHARLES H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 IMPROVED SPRING ACTIVATED HEMOSTATIC CLIP APPLICATOR
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 1.   tending    Patent Applications
 This application is.a continuation-in-part of
Application Serial No.   231,9?6    entitled Spring
Activated Hemostatic Clip Applicator, filed on February 6, 1981, which is a continuation-in-part of Application
Serial No. 183,360 entitled Hemostatic Clip Applicator,   filed    on September 2, 1980, which is a continuation of
Application Serial No. 822,076 filed on August 5, 1977, and now abandoned.


 In U. S. Patent No. 4,188,953 entitled Hemostatic
Clip, issued on February 19, 1980, and assigned to the present assignee, hemostatic clips adapted for utilization in the present invention and similar devices is disclosed.


 In the above-referenced copending U. S. Patent
Application entitled Hemostatic Clip Applicator, and assigned to the present assignee, a Hemostatic Clip
Applicator for the strangulation of tubular members in a rapid and automatic manner is disclosed. That application is directed, in part, to a device having a main body, a clip cartridge, actuating handles, and clip deforming jaws. Disposed within the clip cartridge are a plurality of hemostatic clips, and a clip feed means which moves clips to the clip deforming jaws where the clips are deformed about a blood vessel or the like.


 While the applicator noted in the preceding paragraph provides a novel method for automatically closing blood vessels and other fluid ducts, it requires the manual feeding of a hemostatic clip into the deforming jaws by the forward movement of one of two handles. That is, to operate that device, the surgeon must first move one of the handle portions to a forward position so as to load a hemostatic clip in the  deforming jaws, and then return that handle portion to its neutral position. Once the surgeon has located the hemostatic clip around the tubular member to be closed, he squeezes both handle portions together resulting in the crimping of a clip about the blood vessel. When the surgeon is ready to close another blood vessel, this same sequence of moving one handle portion forward and then rearward must be repeated so as to sequentially load and close a clip.


 In the other above referenced copending U. S.


patent application entitled Spring Activated Hemostatic
Clip Applicator, and assigned to the present assignee, an alternative hemostatic clip applicator is disclosed which also provides for the rapid and automatic strangulation of tubular members. That application is directed, in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:



 1. In a surgical clip applying device (2) of the type having a main body (20), a clip magazine (102) coupled to the main body for holding a plurality of clips (37), clip deforming means (32, 34) coupled to the main body for receiving and deforming said clips, clip feed means (18) for moving said clips from the clip magazine to the deforming means, and two handle portions (4, 5, 6, 7) coupled to the main body and the deforming means for actuating the deforming means as the handle portions are moved together;

 the improvement comprising,
 energizing means (58) coupled to at least one handle portion (6, 7) and the clip feed means, for energizing the clip feed means to cause the clip feed means to move a clip from the magazine to the deforming means, said energizing means having means (62, 26, 50, 54) for storing energy as the handle portions are moved together to deform a clip, and means (50, 54) responsive to a subsequent movement of the handle portions away from each other, for releasing the stored energy to energize the clip feed means independent of further movement of the handle portions.




 2. The clip applying device of claim 1 wherein said energizing means comprises a spring (58) adapted to store energy and selectively couple said energy to said clip feed means.  



 3. The clip applying device of claim 2, wherein said energizing means further includes a ratchet member (50) coupled to said clip feed means, said spring and said main body, wherein movement of one said handle portion with respect to the other said handle portion causes a displacement of said ratchet member and a corresponding storage of energy in said spring, and subsequent movement of one said handle portion with respect to the other said handle portion causes said spring and said ratchet member to supply said energy to said clip feed means.



 4. The clip applying device of claim 3 wherein said energizing means further includes a latch (54) coupled to said main body and adapted to engage said ratchet member, wherein said latch engages said ratchet member so as to prevent reverse movement while energy is stored in said spring and said latch is disengaged from said ratchet member when said energy is to be supplied to said clip feed means.



 5. The clip applying device of claim 4 or claim 1 wherein said clip feed means is a blade member (18) adapted to move longitudinally through said clip magazine, said blade member having a forked portion (21) at the end nearest said clip deforming means, wherein during the contraction of said clip deforming means, said forked portion is also contracted.



 6. The clip applying device of claim 5 wherein said blade member is comprised of a plurality of laminated strips adapted to move longitudinally relative to said main body while bending laterally.  



 7. The device of claim 1 further comprising means (9, 29, 54) for allowing the handle portions to be moved apart from each other a predetermined distance before the clip feed means is energized thereby allowing the handle portions to be opened and closed within the predetermined distance without energizing the clip feed means.



 8. The device of claim 1 wherein the clip feed means includes a clip feed blade (18) adapted to slide past said magazine and into said clip deforming means so as to move said clips from said magazine to said clip deforming means and said energizing means includes a spring (58) coupled to said main body and said feed blade, and a latch (54) coupled to said main body and adapted to engage said feed blade wherein movement of one said handle portion toward the other handle portion causes displacement of said feed blade and storage of energy in said spring,

 and reverse movement of said feed blade is prevented by engagement of said latch with said feed blade until one said handle portion is moved away from the other handle portion a predetermined distance at which time said latch is disengaged from said feed blade thereby allowing the energy stored in said spring to induce rapid reverse movement of said feed blade through said magazine and into said clip deforming means, thereby rapidly moving one said clip into said deforming means.  



 9. The device of claim 1 wherein the energizing means includes a cam follower (62), a camming surface (26) coupled to said one handle portion (7), and a spring (58) coupled to the main body, the cam follower and the clip feed means wherein movement of said one handle portion with respect to the other handle portion causes the camming surface to engage the cam follower and flex the spring thereby storing energy in the spring, and a subsequent movement of said one handle portion with respect to the other handle portion causes the energizing means to supply the energy stored in the spring to the clip feed means so as to cause a clip to be moved rapidly from the clip magazine to the clip deforming means.




 10. The clip applying device of claim 9 wherein the cam follower includes a roller wheel (47) rotatably carried on the cam follower, for engaging the camming surface.



 11. The clip applying device of claim 10 wherein the cam follower includes a plurality of roller bearings (48) on which the roller wheel is rotatably carried to reduce the rotational friction of the roller wheel.



 12. The clip applying device of claim 9 wherein the energizing means further includes a ratchet member (50) coupled to the cam follower and a latch (54) pivotally coupled to the main body and adapted to engage the ratchet member, whereby the latch engages the ratchet member so as to prevent movement of the ratchet member and the cam follower while energy is stored in the spring, and the latch is disengaged from the ratchet member when the energy is to be supplied to the clip feed means.  



 13. The clip applying device of claim 12 wherein the ratchet member includes a connecting rod (50) coupling the spring to the clip feed means to supply the energy to the clip feed means when the latch is disengaged.



 14. The clip applying device of cl-aim 13 wherein the main body defines a groove (25) on one side of the main body in which said connecting rod is slidably carried and the main body further defines an aperture (27) through which the cam follower coupled to the connecting rod extends to engage the camming surface of the energizing means.



 15. The clip applying device of claim 14 wherein the connecting rod defines a groove (31) to accomodate the spring and the device further comprises a cover plate (22) coupling the spring to the main body and covering the connecting rod and the spring.

 


 16. The clip applying device of claim 14 wherein said one handle portion (7) has a recess (29) which defines the camming surface (26).



 17. The clip applying device of claim 9 wherein said one handle portion (7) has a recess (29) which defines the camming surface (26) and the energizing means includes a latch (54) coupled to the cam follower to prevent the energy stored in the spring from being prematurely released, said recess being shaped to allow the cam follower to move within the recess after the cam follower is latched to allow the handle portions to be moved relative to each other without the cam follower engaging the camming surface until the latch is released. 

 18. In a surgical clip applying device of the type having a main body (20), a clip magazine (102) coupled to the main body for holding a plurality of clips (37), clip deforming means (32, 34) coupled to the main body for receiving and deforming the clips, clip feed means (18) for moving the clips from the clip magazine to the deforming means, clip loading means (70, 110, 122) for advancing the clips through the magazine to the clip feed means, and two handle portions (4, 5, 6, 7) coupled to the main body and the deforming means for actuating the deforming means as the handle portions are moved together;

 the improvement comprising,
 energizing means (58) coupled to at least one handle portion (6, 7) and the clip loading means, for energizing the clip loading means to cause the clip loading means to advance the clips through the magazine to the clip feed means, said energizing means having means (62, 26, 50, 54) for storing energy as the handle portions are moved together to deform a clip, and means (50, 54) responsive to a subsequent movement of the handle portions away from each other, for releasing the stored energy to energize the clip loading means independent of further movement of the handle portions.




 19. The clip applying device of claim (18) wherein the clip feed means includes a clip feed blade (18) and the energizing means includes means (50) for energizing the clip feed means, said clip applying device further comprising lost motion means (84, 109) coupling the clip loading means to the clip feed blade wherein the energizing means moves the clip feed blade a predetermined distance before the clip loading means is energized.  



 20. The clip applying device of claim 19 wherein the clip loading means includes a ratchet bar (110) and the lost motion means includes a slot (84) defined by one of the ratchet bar or feed blade and a pin (109) carried on the other of said ratchet bar or feed blade and disposed within the slot wherein the feed blade may move the predetermined distance before the pin engages the end of the slot and the feed blade and ratchet bar move together thereafter
 21.


In a clip loading mechanism for a clip magazine (102) of a surgical clip applying device (2) having clip feed means (18) for feeding clips from the magazine to clip deforming jaws (32, 34), said magazine having a housing (114) and a loading mechanism for   advancing    clips through the magazine housing and loading them in the clip feed means, the improvement in the clip loading mechanism comprising:

:
 a first ratchet bar (70) coupled to the housing, a second ratchet bar (110) coupled to the clip feed means and adapted to be moved in a reciprocating forward and rearward motion, and pawl means (122) for urging the clips through the housing, said pawl means having means (78) for engaging the second ratchet bar as the second ratchet bar moves forward such that the pawl means is moved forward with the second ratchet bar, and means (80) for engaging the first ratchet bar as the second ratchet bar moves rearward to prevent rearward movement of the pawl means.  




 22. The clip magazine of claim 21 wherein each ratchet bar has a plurality of recesses (82, 94) and the engaging means of the pawl means includes a first tab portion (80) for engaging a recess (94) of the first ratchet bar to prevent the pawl means from moving rearward and a second tab portion (78) for engaging a recess (82) of the second ratchet bar as the second ratchet bar moves forward.



 23. The' clip magazine of claim 21 wherein the first and second ratchet bars are positioned parallel with respect to each other and define a groove therebetween for slidingly holding the plurality of clips (37) arranged in a longitudinal line with respect to the ratchet bars.



 24. In a surgical clip applying device (2) of the type having a main body (20), a clip magazine (102) coupled to the main body for holding a plurality of clips, clip deforming means (32, 34) coupled to the main body for receiving and deforming said clips, clip feed means (18) for moving said clips from the clip magazine to the deforming means, clip loading means (70, 110, 122) for advancing clips through the magazine to the clip feed means and two handle portions (4, 5, 6, 7) coupled to the main body and the deforming means for actuating the deforming means, the clip feed means and the clip loading means as the handle portions are moved relative to each other; 

 the improvement comprising, means (29, 50, 54, 9) for allowing the handle portions to be moved apart from each other a predetermined distance before either the clip feed means or the clip loading means is actuated thereby allowing the handle portions to be opened and closed within the predetermined distance to actuate the deforming means without actuating the clip feed means or the clip loading means. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
