<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648280</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND REAGENT FOR DETERMINING SPECIFIC NUCLEOTIDE VARIATIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07H2104	C12Q170	C12Q168	C12N1509	C12N1509	C07H2100	C12Q170	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07H	C12Q	C12Q	C12N	C12N	C07H	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07H21	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12N15	C12N15	C07H21	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Detection of variable nucleotide(s) is based on primer extension and incorporation of detectable nucleoside triphosphates. By selecting the detection step primers from the region immediately adjacent to the variable nucleotide, this variation can be detected after incorporation of as few as one nucleoside triphosphate. Labelled nucleoside triphosphates matching the variable nucleotide are added and the incorporation of a label into the detection step primer is measured. The selection of the detection step primer is important to the method according to this invention and is dependent on the nucleotide sequence of interest. The detection step primers are preferably selected so to span the region immediately toward the 3' end from the variable nucleotide to be detected. The method is useful in identifying specific point mutations and genetic variations.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and reagents
for determining specific nucleotide variations in a defined
polynucleotide region, and to the use of this method in
identifying specific point mutations and genetic variations.The genetic information of living organisms is carried
in the nucleotide sequence of their genome. In the process of
gene expression the nucleotide sequence is translated to
amino acid sequences, i.e. proteins. Minor changes in the
nucleotide sequence, even a single base substitution, may
result in an altered protein product. The altered quality or
quantity of given proteins changes the phenotype (i.e. the
observable characteristics) of the organism or the cell,
which for instance may be observed as a development of a
disease.The knowledge of the exact molecular defects causing
inherited diseases, as well as predisposition to genetic
disorders and cancer is increasing rapidly. The knowledge of
the relevance of somatic mutations in malignancies is,
however, limited due to the lack of rapid and reliable assay
procedures for screening large numbers of samples.Inherited diseases caused by point mutations include
sickle cell anemia and β-thalassemias, which are caused by
mutations in the β-globin gene. (Antonarakis, 1989, New
England J Med, Vol. 320, pp. 153-163) These mutations 
generally involve the replacement, insertion or deletion of
one to four nucleotides from the sequence of the normal gene.
Sickle cell anemia is caused by homozygosity for one unique
base pair substitution in the sixth codon of the β-globin
gene. (Antonarakis, supra) A large number of mutations in the
β-globin gene that can lead to β-thalassemia have been
characterized (Antonarakis, supra).Other known inherited diseases caused by point mutations
include α-thalassemia, phenylketonuria, hemophilia,
α1-anti-trypsin deficiency (Antonarakis, supra) and cystic
fibrosis.Cystic fibrosis is the most common autosomal recessive
genetic disorder. It affects about 1/2000 individuals of
Caucasian populations and consequently the carrier frequecy
is about 5%. The recent cloning and genetic analysis of the
cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) gene (Kerem et
al., 1989, Science, Vol 245, pp. 1073-1080) has revealed one
major mutation, denoted ΔF508, which is a deletion of three
nucleotides leading to loss of the phenylalanine at amino
acid residue 508. The prevalence of this mutation is on the
average 68% in North American and European patient
populations, the range being 40 - 88% in reports containing
more than
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for detecting a specific nucleotide variation at a defined site in a target
nucleic acid polymer wherein a first nucleotide residue is replaced by a second nucleotide

residue, comprising the steps of:

a) performing a modified amplification reaction in which one of the two
amplification primers comprises a first attachment moiety bound to the primer,

thereby obtaining a double-stranded amplification product in which only one of the
strands comprises a first attachment moiety, where said first attachment moiety is

one half of an affinity pair chosen from the group of biotin-avidin/streptavidin, antigens/haptens-antibodies
or heavy metal derivatives-thiogroups;
b) sequentially in any order rendering the amplification
product obtained in step a) single-stranded and immobilizing the strand comprising

the first attatchment moiety to a solid support with the aid of the other component
of the affinity pair, whereafter all unbound material is removed:
c) hybridising a detectable amount of the immobilised single-stranded

target nucleic acid obtained in step b) with a detection step primer comprising a plurality
of nucleotide residues, said primer being complementary to the nucleotide sequence

of interest in a region disposed toward the 3' end from the defined site such
that when the primer is hybridised to the target nucleic acid there are no nucleotide

residues between the defined site and the 3' end of the detection step primer that are
identical to the first or second nucleotide residues to be detected;
d) extending the primer using a polymerizing agent in a mixture comprising
one or more nucleoside triphosphates wherein the mixture includes at least

one nucleoside triphosphate complementary to either the first or second nucleotide
residue which comprises means for detecting the incorporation of the nucleoside

triphosphate in a nucleic acid polymer, and optionally one or more chain terminating
nucleoside triphospates; and 
e) detecting the incorporation of the nucleoside triphosphate using said
means, whereby the identity of the nucleotide residue at the defined site is determined.
A method for detecting a plurality of specific nucleotide variations at defined
sites in a target nucleic acid polymer wherein at least a first nucleotide residue is

replaced by a second nucleotide residue at a first defined site and a third nucleotide
is replaced by a fourth nucleotide residue at a second defined site wherein the first

nucleotide variation is detected by applying the method of claim 1, and subsequent
nucleotide variations are detected after removal of the extended first detection step

primer by applying steps c) d) and e) of the method of claim 1 to the already immobilized
strand for each of the other nucleotide variations.
A method of detecting in a patient a predisposition to a genetic disorder resulting
from a specific nucleotide variation at a defined site in a genetic material of the patient,

wherein a first nucleotide residue is replaced by a second nucleotide residue,

characterized
 by applying the method of claim 1 for detecting said variation on a
sample containing a detectable amount of genetic material derived from the patient.
A method for detecting the existence of point mutations at a defined site in the
genome of a microorganism leading to altered patogenicity or resistance to therapy

in the microorganism, wherein a first nucleotide is replaced by a second nucleotide
residue, 
characterized
 by applying the method of claim 1 for detecting said pont
mutation on a sample containing a detectable amount of genetic material derived

from the microorganism.
A method for detecting cells having a point mutation at a defined site in the genetic
material, wherein a first nucleotide residue is replaced by a second nucleotide

residue, when said cells are mixed in a cell population, 
characterized
 by applying
the method of claim 1 for detecting said point mutation on detectable quantity of 

genetic material from the cell population in which the ratio of mutated to unmutated
cells is maintained.
A method according to claims 1-5, wherein the detection step primer is complementary
to a region of the nucleotide sequence of interest extending toward the 3'

end of the target nucleic acid polymer from the nucleotide residue immediately adjacent
to the defined site.
A method according to claims 1-5, wherein the detection step primers are immobilized
during or after the detection step primer extension step d).
A method according to claims 1-5, wherein the nucleoside triphosphate comprising
means for detecting the incorporation of the nucleoside triphosphate in a nucleic

acid is a deoxyucleoside triphosphate.
A method according to claims 1-5, wherein the nucleoside triphosphate comprising
means for detecting the incorporation of the nucleoside triphosphate in a nucleic

acid polymer is a dideoxynucleoside triphosphate.
A method according to claims 1-5, wherein the mixture includes a second nucleoside
triphosphate comprising a second means, different from said first means,

for detecting the incorporation of the second nucleoside triphosphate in a nucleic
acid polymer.
A method according to claim 1, wherein the extended product of step (d) is
eluted before determining the incorporation of the incorporated nculeoside triphosphate.
A method according to claim 7, wherein the nucleotide variations are detected in
one single step by adding a plurality of detection step primers and differently labelled 

nucleoside triphospates identifying the variable nucleotide residues.
A method according to claim 4, wherein the microorganism is HIV.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the point mutation is at a site selected
from among Asp 67, Lys 80 and Thr 215.
A method according to claim 5, wherein the cells are lymphocytes.
A method according to claim 15, wherein the cells are leukemic cells.
A kit for use in determining specific nucleotide variations in a target nucleic
acid polymer comprising in packaged combination


(a) one pair of amplification oligonucleotide primers where one primer is complementary
to and hybridizes with a portion of one of the strands of the double-stranded

target nucleic acid polymer and the other is complementary to and hybridizes to a
portion of the other strand of said target nucleic acid and also comprises a first attachment

moiety, where said first attachment moiety is one half of an affinity pair
chosen from the group of biotin-avidin/streptavidin, antigens/haptens-antibodies or

heavy metal derivatives-thiogroups, and which pair of oligonucleotide primers is effective
as primers for enzymatic nucleic acid polymerization;
b) at least one detection step primer comprising an oligonucleotide which is complementary
to and hybridizes with a portion 3' to a variable nucleotide of the target

nucleic acid polymer; and optionally
c) at least one solid support comprising a solid matrix and at least one attachment
site which is capable of immobilizing the oligonucleotide of the amplification probe

through the first attachment moiety; and
d) at least one nucleoside triphosphate containing means for detecting the incorporation
of the nucleoside triphosphate in a nucleic acid polymer.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the identification of the nucleotide variation
of apolipoprotein E polymorphism, wherein the detection step primer comprises

the sequence 5'-GCG CGG ACA TGG AGG ACG TG.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the identification of the nucleotide variation
of apolipoprotein E polymorphism, wherein the detection step primer comprises

the sequence 5'-ATG CCG ATG ACC TGC AGA AG.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the identification of the nucleotide variation
of apolipoprotein E polymorphism, wherein the detection step primer comprises

the sequence 5'-GTA CTG CAC CAG GCG GCC GC.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the identification of the nucleotide variation
of apolipoprotein E polymprhism, wherein the detection step primer comprises

the sequence 5'-GGC CTG GTA CAC TGC CAG GC.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of the nucleotide variation in
codon 6 of the human b-globin gene causing sickle cell anemia, wherein the detection

step primer comprises the sequence 5'CAT GGT GCA CCT (GAC TGG TG.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of the nucleotide variation in
codon 6 of the human b-globin gene causing sickle cell anemia, wherein the detection

step primer comprises the sequence 5'-CAG TAA CGG CAG GCG GCC GC.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of a nucleotide variation in
codon 12 of the K-ras gene. wherein the detection step primer comprises the sequence

5'-AAG GCA CTC TTG CCT ACG CCA. 
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of a nucleotide variation in
codon 12 of the K-ras gene, wherein the detection step primer comprises the sequence

5'-AGG CAC TCT TGC CTA CGC CAC.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of a nucleotide variation in
codon 12 of the K-ras gene, wherein the detection step primer comprises the sequence

5'-AAC TTG TGG TAG TTG GAG CT.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of a nucleotide variation in
codon 12 of the K-ras gene, wherein the detection step primer comprises the sequence

5'-ACT TGT GGT AGT TGG AGC TG.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of a nucleotide variation in
codon 12 of the N-ras gene, wherein the detection step primer comprises the sequence

5'-ACT GGT GGT GGT TGG AGC AG.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of resistance to AZT in HIV-1
viruses, wherein the detection step primer comprises the sequence 5'-ATC TGT

TGA GGT GGG GAC TT.
A kit according to claim 17 for use in the detection of cystic fibrosis, wherein
the detection step primer comprises the sequence 5'-TGG CAC CAT TAA AGA

AAA TAT CAT.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
