<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658251</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WATER SOLUBLE POLYMERS FOR USE IN IMMUNOASSAYS AND DNA HYBRIDIZATION ASSAYS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N3350	G01N3350	G01N33532	G01N33532	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33544	G01N33545	G01N33547	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and compositions are provided for immunoassays in which a specific binding receptor is coupled to a polymer having a linear backbone. The resulting receptor: polymer complex is soluble in aqueous solution. The complex provides the advantage of performing assays without the use of secondary binding reagents or without the use of particles.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DADE INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DADE INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIERENFELDT-TROY SUSAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIERENFELDT-TROY, SUSAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Water Soluble Polymers for Use in I unoassays and DNA Hybridization AssaysCross-Reference to Related Applications This invention is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 07/949,746, filed September 23, 1992 which is a continuation of U.S. Serial No. 07/772,624 filed October 4, 1991, now abandoned, which is a continuation of U.S. Serial No. 07/417,397 filed October 5, 1989, now abandoned.Field of the Invention The present invention relates generally to methods for immobilizing assay binding reagents onto a support. In particular, this invention relates to a method to immobilize reagents onto a solid phase support using polymers. This invention also relates to methods to conduct immunoassays or DNA hybridization assays utilizing water soluble polymers. This invention also relates to solid phase supports having immobilized reagents useful in diagnostic assays.Background of the InventionIn vitro diagnostic assays may be used to measure amounts of an analyte found in a bodily fluid sample or tissue sample. The analyte must be distinguished from other components found in the sample. Analytes may be distinguished from other sample components by reacting the analyte with a specific receptor for that analyte and a labeled reactant or indicator. Assays that utilize specific receptors to distinguish and/or 

 quantify analytes are often called specific binding assays.The most common receptors include antibodies and other proteins such as Intrinsic Factor, Folate Binding Protein, and Thyroid Binding Globulin. These receptors have a specific binding affinity for an analyte or an analogue of that analyte. Together the binding receptor and analyte are often called a binding pair. Other receptors include DNA or RNA strands. These receptors are useful in detecting the presence of DNA duplexes or DNA:RNA hybrids. Formats for conducting in vitro diagnostic assays include competitive, sequential and sandwich formats. In vitro diagnostic assays, and in particular immunoassays have historically been categorized as being either homogeneous or heterogeneous. In the homogeneous systems the entire assay is conducted within a single, essentially fluid phase. The reactants, samples and indicators (i.e. labeled reactants) are contained within the same liquid fraction and the monitoring of the amount of the indicator is performed without any separation between the receptor bound materials and those materials which remain free in the fluid. A physical or chemical signal distinguishes the bound material from the free material.In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A specific binding assay complex comprising: a) a polymer having a linear backbone; b) a specific binding assay receptor covalently coupled to the polymer wherein the binding assay receptor: polymer complex is substantially water soluble or water suspensible; and c) a porous solid phase having the binding assay receptor:polymer complex immobilized thereon.
2. The specific binding assay complex of claim 1 wherein the polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylenemaleic anhydride, polymethyl methacrylate, and polyethyleneimine.
3. The specific binding assay complex of claim 1 wherein the porous solid phase is glass fiber paper.
4. The specific binding assay complex of claim 1 wherein the specific binding receptor is selected from the group consisting of a protein receptor, protein receptor fragment, an antigen and a nucleotide strand.
5. The specific binding assay complex of claim 1 wherein the specific binding receptor is an antibody or antibody fragment.
6. A method for immobilizing a specific binding assay receptor on a porous solid phase, comprising: a) covalently coupling the receptor to a polymer having a linear backbone; and 


 b) contacting the covalently coupled receptor:polymer with the porous solid phase under conditions effecting immobilization of the covalently coupled receptor:polymer on the porous solid phase.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the receptor is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, an antibody fragment, a specific binding protein, and an antigen.
8. The method of claim 6 wherein the porous solid phase is glass fiber paper.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the covalently coupled receptor:polymer is applied to a delimited area of the glass fiber paper.
10. A method for conducting a specific binding assay to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in a sample, comprising: a) covalently coupling a specific binding receptor with specificity for the analyte to a polymer having a linear backbone to form a specific binding receptor:polymer complex; b) contacting an effective amount of the covalently coupled specific binding receptor:polymer complex to a porous solid phase under conditions which effect immobilization of the covalently coupled specific binding receptor:polymer complex to the porous solid phase to form a reaction zone; c) applying the sample and an indicator under immunological binding conditions to the reaction zone; 


 d) determining the amount of indicator immunologically bound in a delimited area of the reaction zone; and e) correlating the amount of indicator to the presence or concentration of the analyte in the sample.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the indicator is selected from the group consisting of labeled analytes, labeled analyte analogues and labeled second binding receptors.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein substantially all unbound indicator is removed from the delimited area of the porous solid phase by applying an eluting solvent.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the sample and indicator are applied to substantially the center of the delimited area of the porous solid phase.
14. The method of claim 12 wherein the eluting solvent is applied to substantially the center of the delimited area of the porous solid phase.
15. A method for conducting a specific binding assay to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in a sample, comprising: a) covalently coupling a specific binding receptor with specificity for the analyte to a polymer having a linear backbone; 



 b) contacting an effective amount of the covalently coupled specific binding receptor:polymer to a porous solid phase under conditions which effect immobilization of the covalently coupled specific binding receptor: polymer to the porous solid phase to form a reaction zone; c) applying the sample under immunological conditions to the reaction zone; d) applying an indicator under immunological binding conditions to the reaction zone; e) determining the amount of indicator immunologically bound to a delimited area of the reaction zone; and f) correlating the amount of indicator to the presence or concentration of the analyte in the sample.
16. A method for conducting a specific binding assay to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in a sample, comprising: a) providing an effective amount of an aqueous solution of water soluble covalently coupled specific binding receptor:polymer, wherein the polymer has a linear backbone; b) adding the sample under immunological binding conditions to the specific binding receptor:polymer; c) applying an aliquot of the reaction mixture of step b) under immunological conditions to a porous solid phase to form a reaction zone; d) applying an indicator under immunological binding conditions to the reaction zone; 


 e) determining the amount of indicator immunologically bound to a delimited area of the reaction zone; and f) correlating the amount of indicator to the presence or concentration of the analyte in the sample.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein substantially all the unbound indicator is removed from the delimited area of the porous solid phase by applying an eluting solvent.
18. The method of claim 16 wherein the reaction mixture and indicator are applied to substantially the center of the delimited area of the porous solid phase.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein the eluting solvent is applied to substantially the center of the delimited area of the porous solid phase.
20. A method for conducting a specific binding assay to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in a sample, comprising: a) providing an effective amount of an aqueous solution of water soluble covalently coupled specific binding receptor:polymer, wherein the polymer has a linear backbone; b) adding the sample and an indicator under immunological binding conditions to the specific binding receptor: polymer; 


 c) applying an aliquot of the reaction mixture of step b) under immunological conditions to a porous solid phase to form a reaction zone;
d) determining the amount of indicator immunologically bound to a delimited area of the porous solid phase; and
e) correlating the amount of indicator to the presence or concentration of the analyte in the sample.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein substantially all the unbound indicator is removed from the delimited area of the porous solid phase by applying an eluting solvent.
22. The method of claim 20 wherein the reaction mixture and indicator are applied to substantially the center of the delimited area of the porous solid phase.
23. The method of claim 21 wherein the eluting solvent is applied to substantially the center of the delimited area. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
