<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652850</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR DIGESTION OF BAUXITE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01F706	C01F700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01F	C01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01F7	C01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved process for extracting monohydrate and trihydrate alumina from bauxite containing both forms of alumina. The slurry of bauxite is subjected to a first digestion in a first portion of spent liquor at conditions sufficient to extract the trihydrate. The liquor containing the dissolved trihydrate is separated from the slurry under conditions of temperature and pressure that are similar to those existing in the trihydrate digestion. The slurry of undissolved solids is then subjected to a second digestion in a second portion of spent liquor under conditions sufficient to dissolve the monohydrate. To retain the free caustic content of the liquor passing to the high temperature second digestion at a level below a point at which it will severely corrode the high temperature heaters, optionally a portion of suitable liquor or slurry of low free caustic concentration is added to this liquor to reduce its free caustic concentration just before it is passed through the high temperature heaters. The invention makes it possible to simply and easily retrofit a double digestion process into an existing single digest circuit.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCAN INT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCAN INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULFORD GEORGE DENNISON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULFORD, GEORGE, DENNISON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a process for extracting 
gibbsite (alumina trihydrate) and boehmite (alumina 
monohydrate) with a caustic solution, and to an apparatus 
for carrying out the process. More particularly, the 
present invention relates to a process and apparatus 
wherein the digestion of both monohydrate and trihydrate 
can be carried out separately under conditions suitable 
for extracting each form of alumina. In the Bayer process, alumina is reacted with strong 
base in the form of caustic soda solution to form sodium 
aluminate, which is readily soluble in caustic soda 
solutions. The sodium aluminate solution may be filtered 
off and the residue containing oxides of iron, silicon, 
titanium, and remaining unwanted byproducts of the 
digestion process (commonly known as "red mud") may be 
separated for disposal or further processing. During the 
subsequent processing of the red muds, they are subjected 
to a counter current washing procedure followed by a 
thickening process to recover the dissolved caustic soda 
and aluminate values. This counter current washing 
thickening operation produces a liquor, known as wash 
thickener overflow, of moderate caustic and aluminate 
content, which is returned to the circuit. In the Bayer 
process, the bauxite is usually digested under pressure 
with hot sodium hydroxide to form a solution of sodium 
aluminate. The sodium aluminate solution can then be 
cooled, diluted, seeded and agitated to cause 
precipitation of purified alumina hydrate. The caustic-aluminate 
mother liquor, called spent liquor, left after 
the precipitation is reconditioned and recycled to the 
digestion step. As mentioned above, alumina in bauxite generally 
exists predominantly in the form of alumina trihydrate 
(Al2O3·3H2O) but also as alumina monohydrate (Al2O3·H2O).  
 
Alumina monohydrate does not dissolve in caustic solution 
or spent liquor as easily or to as great an extent as 
alumina trihydrate. The monohydrate requires either a 
higher caustic concentration or a higher digestion 
temperature (and possibly pressure) to dissolve 
substantially all of the aluminum monohydrate contained in 
the bauxite. Attempts have been made to increase 
extraction efficiency of aluminum monohydrate by lowering 
the alumina-to-caustic (A/C) digestion ratio in digestion 
or by raising the digestion temperature. To digest bauxite containing alumina trihydrate and a 
recoverable amount of alumina monohydrate, at least part 
of the digestion step is commonly carried out at a high 
temperature
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for digesting a slurry of bauxite 
containing alumina monohydrate and alumina trihydrate, 

comprising: 

forming a slurry of bauxite containing both alumina 
monohydrate and trihydrate in caustic solution; 
adding said slurry and a first portion of a Bayer 
process spent liquor solution to a first digester; 
digesting the slurry under temperature and pressure 
conditions sufficient to dissolve substantially all of 

said trihydrate contained in said slurry; 
separating caustic solution containing dissolved 
alumina trihydrate from remaining slurry containing 

undissolved solids, without reducing the pressure to 
atmospheric prior to separation, in a pressurized 

separator at a temperature above the atmospheric boiling 
point of the solution; 
disilicating the separated caustic solution 
containing dissolved alumina trihydrate to form a 

desilicated solution; 
heating a second portion of the Bayer process spent 
liquor solution; 
adding the heated second portion of the spent liquor 
solution and the remaining slurry to a second digester; 

and 
digesting the slurry containing undissolved solids 
in said second digester under conditions effective to 

dissolve alumina monohydrate included in said slurry. 
A process in accordance with claim 1, wherein the 
desilicated caustic solution containing dissolved alumina 

trihydrate is combined with the product from the second 
digester. 
A process in accordance with claim 1, wherein the 
slurry containing undissolved solids is cooled to below 

the boiling point at atmospheric pressure of the liquor in 
said slurry prior to digesting said slurry in said second 

digester.  
 
A process in accordance with any one of 
claims 1-3, further comprising diluting the second portion 

of spent liquor solution prior to heating said second 
portion to reduce the free caustic content thereof to a 

level below that which causes corrosion to heat exchangers 
used for said heating. 
A process in accordance with claim 1 for 
digesting a mixed bauxite slurry containing boehmitic and 

gibbsitic alumina, comprising; 

(a) digesting the mixed bauxite slurry in caustic 
solution to dissolve at least a major portion of the 

gibbsitic alumina to yield a product slurry having an 
alumina to caustic ratio close to the gibbsite solubility 

ratio; 
(b) separating the product slurry into a thickened 
underflow stream containing red mud and boehmitic alumina 

and a low solids overflow stream containing dissolved 
gibbsite; 
(c) desilicating the low solids overflow stream to 
form a desilicated overflow liquor; 
(d) feeding the thickened underflow stream to a high 
pressure digester; 
(e) adding to the thickened underflow stream an 
amount of spent liquor sufficient to lower the free 

caustic concentration of the thickened underflow stream 
below about 145 to 150 g/l; 
(f) digesting said thickened underflow stream 
containing the added spent liquor in said high temperature 

digester to dissolve boehmitic alumina contained in said 
underflow stream; and 
(g) combining the dissolved boehmitic alumina with 
the desilicated overflow liquor. 
A process in accordance with claim 5, wherein the 
dissolved boehmitic alumina is recombined with the 

desilicated overflow liquor at a location wherein the 
temperature of the desilicated overflow liquor approxmates 

the temperature of the dissolved boehmitic alumina.  
 
A process in accordance with claim 6, wherein the 
location is a flash train of vessels. 
A process in accordance with claim 4, wherein a 
condensate stream is added to the second portion of spent 

liquor solution in an amount effective to lower the free 
caustic concentration of the spent liquor below a 

concentration wherein the free caustic concentration 
causes corrosion to heat exchangers. 
A process in accordance with claim 8, 
additionally comprising the step of recombining the slurry 

from the second digestion step including the dissolved 
alumina monohydrate with the desilicated solution at a 

location wherein the temperature of the desilicated 
solution approximates the temperature of the slurry from 

the second digestion step. 
A process in accordance with clam 9, wherein 
recombining takes place in a series of flash tanks. 
A process in accordance with any one of 
claims 1-3, further comprising the step of adding a 

portion of wash thickener overflow to said second portion 
of spent liquor solution prior to heating said second 

portion of spent liquor solution. 
A process in accordance with claim 11, wherein 
the wash thickener overflow is added to the second portion 

of spent liquor solution in an amount effective to lower 
the free caustic concentration of said spent liquor below 

a concentration wherein the free caustic concentration 
causes corrosion to heat exchangers. 
A process in accordance with any one of 
claims 1-3, further comprising the step of adding a 

portion of the slurry containing undissolved solids from 
the first digester to said second portion of spent liquor 

solution prior to heating said second portion of spent 
liquor solution. 
A process in accordance with claim 13, wherein 
the portion of the slurry containing undissolved solids is 

added to the second portion of spent liquor solution in an  
 

amount effective to lower the free caustic concentration 

of said spent liquor below a concentration wherein the 
free caustic concentration causes corrosion to heat 

exchangers. 
A process in accordance with claim 8, 12 or 14, 
wherein the free caustic concentration is lowered to about 

145 to 150 g/l. 
A process in accordance with claim 1, wherein 
the first portion of the spend liquor solution and the 

second portion of the spent liquor solution flow from a 
single incoming stream of spent liquor. 
A process in accordance with claim 5, wherein 
the product slurry of (a) has an alumina to caustic ratio 

of about 0.690-0.760. 
An apparatus for digestion of a bauxite slurry 
(102) containing alumina monohydrate and alumina 

trihydrate according to the process of claim 1, 
comprising: 


a first digester (106) for dissolving alumina 
trihydrate contained in the slurry (102) in a first 

portion of a Bayer process spent liquor solution (139); 
a pressurized mud separator for separating caustic 
solution containing dissolved alumina trihydrate (126) 

from remaining slurry (114) after completion of a first 
digestion at a temperature above the atmosphere boiling 

point of the solution; 
a desilication vessel (128) for disilicating the 
caustic solution (126) containing dissolved alumina 

trihydrate; 
a heat exchanger (142) for heating a second portion 
of the spent liquor solution (140); 
a second digester (144) for dissolving alumina 
monohydrate contained in said remaining slurry (114) in 

said heated second portion (154) of spent liquor solution; 
a pump (125) for introducing the remaining slurry and 
a pump (156) for introducing the second portion of spent 

liquor solution into the second digester (144),  
 
and a conduit (170) for feeding desilicated caustic 
solution containing dissolved alumina trihydrate into a 

product stream (160) from the second digester (144). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
