<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631461</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic circuit device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K330	H05K334	H05K330	H05K334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic circuit device comprising a printed 
wiring board (15) having a major surface and pads (13) 

located above the major surface, a leadless component 
(11) mounted on the major surface of the printed wiring 

board (15), a plurality of electrodes (12) provided 
partly on at least one major surface of the leadless 

component (11) and partly on sides of the leadless component 
(11), a plurality of bumps (14) provided on the 

pads (13), providing a gap between the major surface of 
the printed wiring board (15) and the major surface of 

the leadless component (11), and electrically connecting 
those parts of the electrodes (12) which are provided on 

the major surface of the leadless component (11) to the 
pads (13), and a plurality of electrically conductive 

members (14a) integral with the bumps (14), extending 
from the bumps (14) to those parts of the electrodes 

(12) which are provided on the sides of the leadless 
component (11). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an electronic 
circuit device comprising a printed wiring board and 
leadless components which are mounted on and connected 
to the printed wiring board by conductive bumps. In recent years electronic technology has advanced 
fast. It has made it possible to miniaturize electronic 
equipments, to utilize electronic components and 
semiconductor elements in the form of chips, and to 
provide wiring patterns having high line-density for use 
in these electronic equipments. It is increasingly 
demanded that electronic components and semiconductor 
elements be mounted on a printed wiring board in high 
density. In surface mount technology, now employed most 
widely, use is made of two-terminal leadless components 
called "chip components," such as passive-element components 
(e.g., resistors and capacitors). Chip components 
are mounted on a printed wiring board, with 
their terminal electrodes connected by a fillet-shaped 
solder to the pads provided on the printed wiring board. 
Generally, the reflow soldering method, wherein 
soldering paste is applied, is employed to mount chip 
components on a printed wiring board by using a fillet-shaped 
solder. The reflow soldering method is classified into 
hot-air reflow, infrared-ray reflow and vapor-phase  
 
soldering. Any of these reflow soldering methods 
comprises three steps. In the first step, solder paste 
is print-coated on the pads provided on a printed wiring 
board. In the second step, chip components are positioned 
on the solder paste layers thus print-coated. In 
the third step, the layers of solder paste are melted, 
thereby mounting the chip components on the printed 
wiring board. Packages such as QFPs (Quad Flat 
Packages), each containing a semiconductor device, are 
mounted on a printed wiring board in a similar method. The reflow soldering method can be successfully 
employed only in the case where the pads on the printed 
wiring board are larger than the chip component 
electrodes to be mounted on the pads. Consequently, 
each chip component occupies a relatively large surface 
area of the printed wiring board. This is a bar to an 
increase in the mount density of chip components. To 
minimize the area occupied by each chip component, 
thereby to increase the mount density, it is proposed 
that bump interconnection be employed in place of the 
reflow method. Bump interconnection, generally known as "flip chip 
method" in the field of semiconductor chips, is applied 
to mount chip components which are small
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic circuit device comprising: 

a printed wiring board (15) having a major surface and pads (13) provided on 
the major surface; 
a leadless component (11, 21) located above the major surface of said printed 
wiring board (15) and having a major surface opposing the major surface of said printed 

wiring board (15); 
a plurality of electrodes (12, 22) provided on at least two end portions of the 
major surface of said leadless component (11, 21) and two side surfaces respectively 

adjacent to the end portions of said leadless component (11, 21); 
a plurality of solder bumps (14) electrically connecting said pads (13) to said 
plurality of electrodes (12, 22), respectively, so as to provide a distance between 

opposing ones of said plurality of electrodes (12, 22) and said pads (13), said bumps 
(14) having a portion (14a) extending from said bumps (14) and spread onto the side 

surfaces of said leadless component (11, 21), respectively, the electrodes being wettable 
by said solder, wherein, each of said pads (13) has an outer edge 

substantially aligned with an outer edge of that portion of the corresponding electrode 
(12, 22) which is provided on the major surface of said leadless component (11, 21), 

and, as said leadless component (11, 21) is viewed from above, a part of each of said 
solder bumps (14) substantially bulges from the side of said leadless component (11, 

21), such that an outermost part of said bumps (14) is located above an outside area of 
an outermost edge of a corresponding one of said pads (13). 
An electronic circuit device according to claim 1, further characterized in that an 
outer surface of each of said solder bumps (14) and an inner surface of the pad (13) 

connected to the bump define a contact angle (A) of at least 90°. 
An electronic circuit device according to claim 1, further characterized in that an 
outermost part of each of said solder bumps (14) looks located substantially at a  

 
midpoint on the side of said leadless component (11, 21), as said leadless component 

(11, 21) is viewed from above. 
An electronic circuit device according to claim 1, further characterized in that 
said leadless component (21) is a multi-terminal surface-mount component. 
An electronic circuit device according to claim 1, further characterized in that 
said leadless component (11) is a two-terminal chip component. 
An electronic circuit device according to claim 1, characterized by further 
comprising a spacer (33) located in a gap between the major surface of said leadless 

component (31) and the major surface of said printing wiring board. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
