<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640701</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A partial plating method for a plate member and masking jig for use therein
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C25D502	C25D1708	C25D1706	C25D502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C25D	C25D	C25D	C25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C25D5	C25D17	C25D17	C25D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method for partially 
plating, for example, strip-shaped metallic straps which are 

parts of a support grid for a nuclear fuel assembly, and further 
relates to a masking jig for use in the method. The masking jig 

has a plurality of tubular bodies 11 and a support plate 12 on 
which the tubular bodies 11 are fixed. A pair of slits 13 is 

formed in each of the tubular bodies 11. When carrying out 
partial plating, a strap is inserted into the slits 13 so that 

each of the portions 4 of the strap 1 not to be plated are 
arranged within each of the tubular bodies 11. By subsequently 

carrying out plating, a plating layer can be formed on the 
portions 6 of the strap to be plated, without forming a plating 

layer on the portions 4 of the strap 1 not to be plated. 
Moreover, it is possible to prevent any damage from being 

inflicted to the portions 4 not to be plated due to external 
force. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI NUCLEAR FUEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI NUCLEAR FUEL CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OWAKA HIROAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OWADA, HIROAKI ,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for carrying out 
the partial plating of a plate member, such as a strap which is 
a part of a support grid for nuclear fuel assembly, and relates 
to a masking jig for use in the method. In general, a fuel rod support grid is formed by crossing 
a plurality of thin tabular straps, and then brazing together 
the portions of intersection between the straps. Furthermore, 
in order to obtain good brazing of the intersecting portions of 
the straps, it is preferable to perform nickel plating on the 
sites to be brazed. However, if nickel is deposited at the contacting portion 
of an aforementioned strap to a fuel rod, this can lead to 
embrittlement due to local hydrogenation of a metal tube of the 
fuel rod. For this reason, utmost control must be exercised to 
avoid nickel deposition. Accordingly, when performing nickel 
plating of the aforementioned straps, it is necessary to carry 
out partial plating such that plating is applied only to the 
sites to be brazed. When performing a partial plating by means of 
electroplating, it has been the common practice in the 
conventional art to cover the portions which are not to be 
plated by a masking coating or a masking tape, and then, in 
this state, proceeding with the plating. However, in this case, 
when removing the masking coating or tape after completion of 
the plating process, it is necessary to confirm that any 
silicon, boron or the like, which are included in the masking 
material, are completely removed. Furthermore, when 
coating/affixing and removing the masking material, since the 
spring portions of the strap can be easily deformed, there is a 
risk that deformation will occur as a result of the application 
of excessive force. For this reason, this method is problematic 
in that operations must be carried out with meticulous care. As a result of various investigations designed to uncover a 
method wherein partial plating is carried out without using a  
 
masking coating or tape, the inventors of the present invention discovered 
the following phenomena. Namely, the present inventors discovered that, 
in an electroplating bath, an inner surface of a tubular or a bottle-shaped 
workpiece is rarely plated except of the region adjacent to the opening 
thereof as a result of a sharp drop of an electric current density inside 
such a workpiece. An example of this type of partial plating is disclosed in US Patent 
No. 2,511,128 wherein a tubular rack is provided for supporting articles 
in an electroplating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for partially electroplating an electroconductive plate 
member (1) having portions (4) not to be plated, the method comprising 

the steps of: 

(a) preparing a masking jig (10) having a plurality of tubular 
bodies (11) in each of which a pair of opposing slits (13) terminating at 

an end of the tubular body (11) are formed and directed in an axial 
direction of the tubular body (11); 
(b) inserting the plate member (1) in a releasable manner into the 
slits (13) of the tubular bodies (11) so that each portion (4) of the plate 

member (1) not to be plated is arranged within each of the tubular bodies 
(11) and the portion (6) of the plate member (1) to be plated is arranged 

outside each of the tubular bodies (11); 
(c) soaking the plate member (1) together with the masking jig 
(10) in an electroplating solution; 
(d) performing electroplating of the plate member (1) by 
supplying electric current between the plate member (1) and an anode 

contacting the electroplating solution; and 
(e) freeing the plate member (1) from the masking jig (10). 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the plate member is a 
metallic strip shaped strap (1) which is a part of a support grid for a 

nuclear fuel assembly, and wherein spring and dimple portions (2,3) are 
formed as the portions (4) not to be plated and are positioned at fixed 

intervals in a lengthwise direction of the strap (1), and wherein the 
portions (6) to be plated which extend in the direction of width of the 

strap (1) are formed between each of the spring and dimple portions (2,3). 
A method according to claim 2 wherein the masking jig (10) has a 
plurality of tubular bodies (11) which are mutually arranged in parallel at  

 
a pitch identical to a pitch of the spring portions (3) in the lengthwise 

direction of the strap (1), the slits (13) of the tubular bodies (11) are 
arranged in a common plane; and wherein, in step (b), the strap (1) is 

inserted along the slits (13) of tubular bodies (11) so that each of the 
portions (4) not to be plated are respectively arranged inside each of the 

tubular bodies (11). 
A method according to claim 1, wherein each of the tubular bodies 
(11) comprises a tubular inner circumferential layer (11a) formed of an 

electroconductive material, and an outer circumferential layer (11b) 
formed of an insulating material on the outer circumferential surface of the 

inner circumferential layer (11a). 
A method according to claim 2, wherein nickel plating is carried 
out in step (c). 
A method according to claim 2, wherein each of the slits (13) of the 
tubular bodies (11) has a opening width of less than the thickness of the 

plate member (1), and wherein, in step (b), the plate member (1) is 
flexibly held in the slits (13) of the tubular bodies (11). 
A masking jig (10) for partially electroplating an electroconductive 
plate member (1) having portions (4) not to be plated which comprises a 

plurality of tubular bodies (11) in each of which a pair of opposing slits 
(13) terminating at an end of the tubular body (11) are formed and 

directed in an axial direction of the tubular body (11);
 
   wherein the slits (13) have an opening width less than a thickness 

of the plate member (1) in order to elastically hold the plate member (1) 
when the plate member (1) is inserted into the slits (13), with the portions 

(4) not to be plated thereof being positioned within the tubular bodies (11),  
 

and the portions (6) to be plated thereof being positioned outside the 

tubular bodies (11). 
A masking jig (10) according to claim 7, wherein each of the 
tubular bodies (11) comprises a tubular inner circumferential layer (11a) 

formed of an electroconductive material, and an outer circumferential 
layer (11b) formed of an insulating material on an outer circumferential 

surface of the inner circumferential layer (11a). 
A masking jig according to claim 7 wherein:
 
   the plate member is a metallic strip shaped strap (1) which is a part 

of a support grid for a nuclear fuel assembly, and wherein spring and 
dimple portions (2,3) are formed on the strap as the portions (4) not to be 

plated at fixed intervals in a lengthwise direction of the strap (1), and 
portions (6) to be plated which extend in a widthwise direction of the strap 

are formed between each of the spring and dimple portions (2,3); the 
masking jig has a support body (12) and a plurality of tubular bodies (11) 

which are attached to the support body (12); the tubular bodies being 
mutually disposed in parallel at a pitch identical to a pitch of the portions 

(4) not to be plated; and all the slits (13) formed in the tubular bodies (11) 
are arranged in a common plane. 
A masking jig (10) according to claim 7 wherein each of the tubular 
bodies (11) has a cylindrical shape of an external diameter which is equal 

to a width of each of the portions (4) not to be plated in a lengthwise 
direction of the strap (1). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
