<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652451</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Planar optical waveguides with low back reflection pigtailing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B638	G02B630	G02B630	G02B642	G02B638	G02B642	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical waveguide component (42), with a pigtail (40) attached thereto, 
is disclosed in which a portion of a surface (46) of the component is bevelled 

and a portion of the endface (44) of the pigtail is bevelled. The bevelled 
portion of the pigtail endface is oriented to be substantially parallel to 

the bevelled portion of the component surface or is oriented to be open with 
respect to the component surface. The pigtail endface can be continuously 

bevelled to form a substantially conical shape on the pigtail endface, 
wherein the substantially conical shape is offset from the optical axis of 

the pigtail. Adhesive or gel (43) is used to attach pigtail (40) to component 
(42). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANNOUX THIERRY LUC ALAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FABRICE JEAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIRTION ERIC JEAN HENRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERVE PATRICK JEAN PIERRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANNOUX, THIERRY LUC ALAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FABRICE, JEAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIRTION, ERIC JEAN HENRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERVE, PATRICK JEAN PIERRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a connection between an optical fiber pigtail and a planar
optical waveguide which has improved back reflection performance.Planar optical waveguides are gaining increasing acceptance for various
applications. In the manufacture of planar optical waveguides, a length of optical fiber,
commonly referred to as a "pigtail", is attached to the planar optical waveguide. The
pigtail is used during installation of the planar optical waveguide to connect the planar
optical waveguide to other components, for example other planar optical waveguides,
optical fiber, transmitters or receivers, in a system. Pigtails may be attached to
components individually or in blocks containing a plurality of pigtails.The performance of system components can be degraded by optical reflections at
connections, including the connection between the pigtail and the planar optical
waveguide. The back reflection from the connection between the pigtail and the planar
optical waveguide can result in optical power feedback to components such as lasers and
other optical power sources. Although the acceptable level of back reflection depends on
the protocols used and the network structure, system designers routinely specify back
reflection performance of less than -50 dB for individual components. To reduce the
level of back reflection, it is desirable to have a low reflectance connection between the
pigtail and the planar optical waveguide. One method used to reduce the back reflection level is to include optical isolators
in the system. However, optical isolators increase optical loss, cost and complexity of the
overall system. In addition, optical isolators may introduce wavelength and polarization
sensitivities into the system. Also, some recent experiments have shown that, even with
the use of optical isolators, severe system degradation can occur in Gbit/second systems
due to multiple reflections from connectors. Gimlett et al., "Degradation in Gbit/s DFB
Laser Transmission Systems Due to Phase-to-Intensity Noise Conversion by Multiple
Reflection Points", Electronics Letters, vol. 24, no. 7, pp. 406-408, 1988.Bevelling the endface of a fiber is primarily used in fiber-to-fiber connections. A
problem with using a bevelled endface of an optical fiber in connecting a pigtail to an
optical waveguide component is the subsequent requirement of orientation of the pigtail
endface to obtain the best results. One orientation of the pigtail endface is shown in FIG.
2. In particular, without proper orientation, such a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A planar optical waveguide which includes an optical waveguide component
with at least one optical fiber pigtail attached to said optical waveguide

component of said planar optical waveguide, said pigtail having a first optical
axis, a pigtail fiber core region, a pigtail fiber clad region, and a pigtail fiber

mode field diameter and said waveguide component having a second optical
axis, a waveguide component core region, a waveguide component clad region,

and a waveguide component mode field diameter, characterized in that

a. only a portion of an endface of said pigtail is bevelled, said portion of said
endface intersecting said first optical axis, said portion including said fiber core

and extending beyond said fiber core into said fiber clad and encompassing said
fiber mode field diameter,
b. at least a portion of a surface of said component is bevelled, said portion of
said surface intersecting said second optical waveguide axis, said portion

including said waveguide component core and extending beyond said component
core into said component clad and encompassing said component mode field

diameter, and
c. an index matching material is inserted between said portion of said pigtail
and said portion of said component,

said pigtail being attached to said component such that said first optical axis is
substantially aligned with said second optical axis, and said pigtail is oriented

such that said bevelled portion of said pigtail endface is substantially parallel to said bevelled portion of
said waveguide component surface.
The planar optical waveguide of claim 1, wherein only a portion of said surface
of said component is bevelled.
The planar optical waveguide of claim 1, wherein said pigtail is attached to said
component by an adhesive. 
The planar optical waveguide of claim 1, wherein an index matching gel is
inserted between said portion of said pigtail and said surface of said component.
The planar optical waveguide of claim 1, wherein a plurality of pigtails, each of
said plurality of pigtails having an optical axis, are attached to a plurality of

optical waveguide component paths, each of said plurality of optical waveguide
component paths having an optical axis.
The planar optical waveguide of claim 3, wherein said plurality of pigtails are
combined in a block or ribbon configuration.
The planar optical waveguide of claim 3, wherein a back reflection from said
surface of said component is directed away from a plane which includes the

optical axes of said plurality of pigtails and the optical axes of said plurality of
optical waveguide component paths.
A planar optical waveguide which includes an optical waveguide component
with at least one optical fiber pigtail attached to the component, said pigtail

having a first optical axis and said component having a second optical axis,
characterized in that


a. an endface of said pigtail is substantially continuously
bevelled to form a conical shape on said endface, said conical shape being offset

from said first optical axis, and a portion of said conical surface being bevelled,
b. at least a portion of said component is bevelled, said portion of said surface
intersecting said second optical axis, and
c. an index matching material is inserted between said portion of said pigtail
and said portion of said component,

wherein said pigtail is attached to said component such that said first optical axis
is substantially aligned with said second optical axis, and said pigtail is oriented

such that said bevelled portion of said pigtail endface is substantially parallel to said portion of
said waveguide component surface. 
A planar optical waveguide which includes an optical waveguide component
with at least one optical fiber pigtail attached to the component, said pigtail

having a first optical axis and a fiber pigtail mode field diameter and said
component having a second optical axis and a component mode field diameter,

characterized in that

a. a first portion of an endface of said pigtail is bevelled, said first portion
intersecting said first optical axis and encompassing said fiber pigtail mode field

diameter,
b. a second portion of said endface of said pigtail is bevelled,
c. at least a portion of a surface of said component is bevelled, said portion of
said surface intersecting said second optical axis and encompassing said

component mode field diameter and
d. an index matching material is inserted between said portion of said pigtail
and said portion of said component,

said pigtail being attached to said component such that said first optical axis is
substantially aligned with said second optical axis, and said first bevelled portion is

oriented parallel to said bevelled surface of said waveguide component and said second bevelled portion is
oriented in an open configuration relative to said surface of said waveguide component.
A method for manufacturing a planar optical waveguide which includes an
optical waveguide component having a first optical axis with at least one optical

fiber pigtail attached to said component, said pigtail having a second optical axis,
comprising


a. bevelling a portion of said component to form a bevelled surface, said
bevelled surface intersecting said first optical axis, 
b bevelling a first end of said pigtail to form a bevelled endface, said bevelled
endface intersecting said second optical axis, wherein said step of bevelling a

first end of said pigtail further comprises continuously bevelling said first end to
form a substantially conical shape on said first end of said pigtail, and bevelling a portion

of said conical shape on said first end, said conical shape being offset from said second
optical axis,
c. attaching said pigtail to said component such that said first optical axis is
substantially aligned with said second optical axis and said bevelled waveguide component surface is

substantially parallel with said bevelled pigtail endface.
The method of claim 10, wherein said step of continuously bevelling said first
end further comprises polishing said first end of said pigtail on a rotating

abrasive tool while simultaneously rotating said pigtail.
The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of bevelling a portion of
said conical shape on said first end of said pigtail on a rotating abrasive tool

while preventing rotational movement of said pigtail.
A method for manufacturing a planar optical waveguide which includes an
optical waveguide component having a first optical axis with at least one optical

fiber pigtail attached thereto, said pigtail having a second optical axis substantially
aligned with said first optical axis, the method

comprising

a. aligning said first and second optical axes,
b. attaching said pigtail to said component, and
c. simultaneously bevelling only a portion of said component, to form a
bevelled and a non-bevelled surface portion, and a portion of said pigtail, to form a bevelled and a non-bevelled endface portion,

wherein said bevelled portion of said component intersects said first optical axis and said bevelled
portion of said pigtail intersects said second optical axis and said bevelled

surface portion is substantially parallel to said bevelled endface portion.
The method of claim 13, wherein a block or ribbon containing a plurality of
optical fiber pigtails is attached to said component.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
