<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645981</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRODUCING SPECTRAL PATTERNS OF HEART SOUNDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B50456	A61B700	A61B50452	A61B500	A61B700	A61B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B7	A61B5	A61B5	A61B7	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a system (10) and a process for detecting, assessing, grading and diagnosing heart conditions in human beings. The system includes device(s) (22, 26, 34) for providing or generating an acoustic blood flow signal and a signal representative of the electrical activity of a subject's heart, a conditioning circuit (16) for processing the electrical activity (ECG) signal to provide a timing or calibration signal having QRS spikes at the onset of each systolic portion of a heart cycle, and a conditioning circuit (14) for the acoustic blood flow (MCG) signal to filter out unwanted noise and to amplify low frequency sounds. The calibration signal and the MCG signal thus conditioned are fed into a microprocessor (18) wherein the MCG signal is converted in a spectral pattern of heart sounds and matched with the timing signal. The output from the microprocessor is a combined, real time MCG pattern/ECG wave signal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDACOUSTICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDACOUSTICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REEVES WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REEVES, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system and a process for 
detecting, assessing and grading heart conditions in 
human beings. In accordance with the system and process of the 
present invention, a spectral phonocardiogram signal and a 
corresponding electrocardiogram signal are displayed 
simultaneously in a synchronized relationship, to 
facilitate the detection, assessment and grading of a 
heart condition. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,967,760 and 5,012,815, both to Bennett 
et al., illustrate dynamic spectral phonocardiogram (DSP) 
systems for generating a spectral phonocardiogram which 
summarizes time dependent changes in the heart sounds through a 
heart cycle. The systems are based on the projection of 
spectral surfaces of the Fourier transform of heart sounds as a 
function of time. They have been used to screen people for 
heart disease. U.S. Patent No. 4,905,706 to Duff et al. illustrates a 
similar method and apparatus for detecting coronary artery 
disease. The Duff et al. system records and analyzes that 
portion of the phonocardiogram lying between about 100 to 600 
Hz. An electrocardiogram is recorded and examined in order to 
pinpoint the diastolic window of PCG data. This window of data 
is subjected to autocorrelation analysis and spectral analysis 
to yield a partial correlation coefficient index and a power 
density index. A linear combination of these two indices is 
then used to generate yet another index, termed a Cardiac 
Screening Index, which is indicative of the presence or absence 
of coronary artery disease. The principal disadvantages associated with these systems 
are that they are limited in scope to dynamic spectral 
phonocardiograms without any synchronization, which severely  
 
limits their clinical utility and application, and to a 2-d 
phonocardiogram system with electrocardiogram (ECG) which is 
also severely limited in diagnostic utility because it omits the 
critical parameters of full frequency and amplitude distribution 
of heart spectra as a function of time. The Bennett et al. 
systems, in particular, confine production of spectral patterns 
to Fast Fourier Transform functions and omit other forms of 
mathematical approaches which are capable of providing a 
spectral pattern with adequate resolution for diagnostic 
purposes. Bennett et al.'s DSP system is further limited by its time 
resolution in distinguishing first heart sound (systolic 
function) from second heart sound (diastolic function) and the 
critical timing of murmur spectra which has a direct bearing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system (10) for detecting, assessing, and grading 
the condition of a subject's heart, said system comprising 

means (22, 26) for providing an input acoustic blood flow 
signal and means (34, 26) for providing an input signal 

representative of electrical activity in said subject's 
heart, wherein said system is characterized by comprising 

means (18) for converting said acoustic blood flow signal 
into a signal representing a three dimensional spectral 

pattern of heart sounds and means for synchronizing said 
three dimensional spectral pattern signal with said signal 

representative of electrical activity, whereby said 
spectral pattern signal synchronized with said signal 

representative of electrical activity is used to detect, 
assess, and grade the condition of said subject's heart 

and wherein said system is capable of monitoring changes 
in frequency over a range of 300 to 4000 Hz. 
The system of claim 1 further comprising: 

means (16) for conditioning said input electrical 
activity signal so as to produce a calibration signal 

having spikes at each onset of a systolic portion of 
the subject's heartbeat; and means (14) for 

conditioning said input acoustic blood flow signal to 
filter out unwanted background noise and highlight 

low frequency portions of the heart sounds. 
The system of claim 2 wherein said electrical 
activity signal conditioning means comprises means (52, 

54) for amplifying the input electrical activity signal 
and for suppressing and rejecting noise and harmonics from 

the input electrical activity signal, filter means (56) 
for cutting off all signal noise above a desired level, 

and differentiation and rectification means (58) for 
removing noise and low voltage potential and for 

suppressing a negative component to the input electrical 
activity signal so as to generate said calibration signal.  

 
The conditioning circuit of claim 3 which comprises: 

an amplifying means comprising a first amplifying 
circuit (52) having twin transistors which act to 

suppress and reject 60 Hz noise and harmonics and a 
second amplifying circuit (54) in series with said 

first amplifying circuit; said filtering means 
comprises a 4-pole, 2-stage BUTTERWORTH filter (56); 

and said differentiation and rectification means 
comprises an electrical circuit (58) containing twin 

transistors. 
The system of claim 2 further characterized by: 

said input acoustic blood flow signal conditioning 
means comprising a filter amplification device (42) 

for weighing the acoustic signal and removing 
extraneous background noise and a 20-pole BUTTERWORTH 

filter (44) for filtering out said unwanted 
background noise; and said converting means and said 

synchronizing means comprising a microprocessor (18) 
which receives said conditioned input acoustic blood 

flow signal and said calibration signal. 
The system of claim 5 further characterized by: 

said microprocessor including digital signal 

processing means (92) for producing said three 
dimensional spectral pattern of heart sounds from 

said conditioned input acoustic blood flow signal and 
having timing logic means (96) for matching an onset 

of an acoustic first heart sound of said spectral 
pattern with a first spike in said calibration 

signal. 
The system of claim 6 wherein said microprocessor 
makes a preliminary diagnosis of the subject's condition.  

 
The system of claim 6 further comprising an output 
device (20) for receiving and displaying said three 

dimensional spectral pattern of heart sounds synchronized 
with said signal representative of electrical activity. 
The system of claim 8 wherein said output device 
comprises a video monitor (62) or a printer (66). 
The system of claim 6 further comprising means for 
storing (68) said spectral pattern of sounds synchronized 

with said signal representative of said electrical 
activity. 
The system of claim 6 further comprising means (70) 
for inputting an unconditioned signal representative of 

said electrical activity in said subject's heart into said 
microprocessor and for matching said unconditioned signal 

with said onset of said first acoustic heart sound. 
The system of claim 1 wherein said input acoustic 
signal providing means comprises at least one of a 

microphone (22), a transducer (22) attached to the 
subject, and an acoustic signal stored in a storage device 

(26). 
The system of claim 1 wherein said means for 
providing an electrical activity input signal comprises an 

electrocardiograph (34) attached to said subject or an ECG 
signal stored in a storage device (26). 
A process for detecting the condition of a human 
heart comprising the steps of: 


providing a first acoustic signal representative of 
the heart's sounds; 
providing a second signal representative of 
electrical activity in said heart; 
said process being characterized by the steps of;  
 
conditioning said second signal to obtain a 
calibration signal having a spike at each onset of a 

systolic cycle in the heart; 
processing the first acoustic signal to obtain a 
three dimensional spectral pattern of heart sounds; 
generating a simultaneous display of said three 
dimensional spectral pattern and a wave signal 

indicative of electrical activity in said heart, said 
generating step including matching said spectral 

pattern with said calibration signal, whereby said 
simultaneous display is used to detect the condition 

of a human heart; and
 
wherein said process is capable of monitoring changes 

in frequency over a range of 300 Hz to 4000 Hz. 
The process of claim 14 further comprising 
conditioning said first acoustic signal to remove unwanted 

noise and highlight low frequency portions of said first 
acoustic signal. 
The process of claim 14 wherein said conditioning 
step comprises amplifying said second signal to a desired 

level, filtering out unwanted information from said second 
signal and cutting off all signal noise above a desired 

level, and differentiating and rectifying said filtered 
signal to remove noise and low voltage potential from said 

filtered signal and to suppress a negative component to 
said second signal. 
The process of claim 14 further comprising displaying 
said simultaneous display on a video monitor (62) and 

optionally, providing means (50) for an operator to listen 
to the heart sounds during said displaying step. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
