<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0969691</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPEAKER AND ELECTRONIC APPARATUS USING SPEAKER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R502	H04R502	H04R700	H04R704	H04R708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R5	H04R5	H04R7	H04R7	H04R7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A speaker apparatus in which the acoustic sound is radiated by flexural
oscillations of a diaphragm in the form of a panel having a substantially flat surface.

The speaker apparatus includes a panel-shaped diaphragm the outer rim of which can

be oscillated substantially freely at least in the direction along the diaphragm thickness
and at least one driver unit constituting an oscillation source secured to the diaphragm

surface for imparting oscillations to the diaphragm. The diaphragm is set into flexural
oscillations by oscillations applied from the driver unit driven on the basis of the

playback input signal. By flexurally oscillating the diaphragm to radiate the acoustic
sound, optimum frequency response characteristics can be obtained over a wide

frequency range from the low to high frequency range. Moreover, the acoustic sound
of optimum sound quality may be radiated in a state of minimum sound pressure level

fluctuations over a frequency range from the low to high frequency range.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASADA KOHEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIMURA AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUUCHI TAKAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI TOORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASADA, KOHEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIMURA, AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUUCHI, TAKAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI, TOORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a speaker apparatus having a panel-shaped diaphragm
and an electronic apparatus employing this speaker apparatus. More particularly, it
relates to a speaker apparatus in which flexural oscillations (bending wave vibrations)
are produced in the panel-shaped diaphragm by the oscillations applied from a driver
unit to reproduce the acoustic sound.Up to now, a conically-shaped dynamic speaker or a horn-shaped dynamic
speaker is used extensively as a speaker apparatus.The conically-shaped dynamic speaker is made up of a conically-shaped
diaphragm, a driver unit driving this diaphragm and a cabinet for housing these
components. The driver unit is made up of a voice coil placed on the proximal end of
a voice coil bobbin mounted as-one on a mid portion on the proximal end of the
diaphragm and an external magnet type magnetic circuit unit. The magnetic circuit
unit is made up of a yoke having a center pole, a magnet arranged on the yoke for
surrounding the center pole, and a top plate arranged on the magnet and adapted for
defining a magnetic gap between it and the center pole. The diaphragm is supported,
via a washer, by a frame secured at an external end on the proximal end on the 
magnetic circuit unit by inserting a voice coil placed around the voice coil bobbin into
the magnetic gap of the magnetic circuit unit. The diaphragm is supported by a
damper mounted across the voice coil bobbin and the frame. The damper supports the
diaphragm so that, when the diaphragm is set into vibrations, it will be oscillated
uniformly parallel to the center axis of the diaphragm. On the inner periphery of the
diaphragm is mounted a center cap for closing an opening end of the tubular voice coil
bobbin. The center cap constitutes a portion of the diaphragm.If, with the conical dynamic speaker, as described above, an acoustic playback
input signal is supplied to a voice coil, the diaphragm is set into vibrations by the force
generated by the interaction between the driving current flowing in the voice coil and
the magnetic flux radiated from the magnetic circuit unit to radiate the acoustic sound.The diaphragm used for a conical dynamic speaker is formed in a conical shape
from a lightweight material which undergoes significant internal losses. The frame
supporting the diaphragm is provided with a hole for releasing the sound radiated from
the back side of the diaphragm. The function of this hole is to prevent adverse effects
otherwise caused by the oscillations of the diaphragm by the sound radiated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A speaker apparatus comprising:

a diaphragm formed in a panel shape having a substantially planar surface; and
at least one driver unit connected to the surface of said diaphragm;
sound radiation being realized by flexural oscillations induced in the diaphragm
by oscillations applied from said driver unit based on a playback input signal.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said diaphragm is substantially
freely oscillatable at an outer rim portion thereof at least in a direction along the

thickness thereof.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said diaphragm has a surface
density at least on an outer rim portion or the vicinity thereof larger than the surface

density of a portion thereof connected to said driver unit.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said diaphragm is made up
of a base member having a substantially uniform surface density and a mass weight

member of a material different from that of the base member, said mass weight
member being secured to an outer rim portion of said base member or to the vicinity

thereof.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said diaphragm is made up of
a base member having a substantially uniform surface density and a mass weight

member secured to an outer rim portion of said base member or to the vicinity thereof
and having a loss coefficient larger than the loss coefficient of said base member.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said diaphragm and the driver
unit are provided with a connecting member in a connecting portion there between, said

connecting member having a connecting portion thereof to said diaphragm different
in shape from a connecting portion thereof to said driver unit.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the connecting portion of said

diaphragm to said driver unit is different in material type from the remaining portion
thereof.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the connecting portion of said
diaphragm to said connecting member is different in material type from the remaining

portion thereof.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said driver unit is constituted
by a dynamic driver unit and wherein the voice coil of said dynamic driver unit or a

member around which is wound the voice coil is connected to said diaphragm.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said driver unit is constituted
by a piezoelectric driver unit and wherein an oscillation driving unit of said

piezoelectric driver unit is connected to said diaphragm.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising:

protection means arranged for extending from the outer rim of said diaphragm;
said protection means being arranged via elastic means adapted for setting up
non-contact state to permit oscillations of said diaphragm or a state of substantially

free oscillation of said diaphragm along the direction of thickness thereof.
A speaker apparatus comprising:

a diaphragm formed in a panel shape having a substantially planar surface;
a plurality of driver units connected to the surface of said diaphragm; and
a supporting member for securing said plural driver units;
sound radiation being realized by flexural oscillations induced in the diaphragm
by oscillations applied from said driver units based on a playback input signal.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the area of said connecting
portions of said plural driver units and the area enclosing the center of gravity position

of said diaphragm are smaller than the area of the remaining diaphragm portions.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 12 further comprising:

signal switching means for independent switching and setting of inputting states
of the playback input signal to at least one of said plural driver units.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 14 further comprising:

at least one band-limiting means for limiting the band of the playback input
signal, said plural driver units being fed with the playback input signal or the playback

input signal band-limited by said band-limiting means, whichever is selected by said
signal switching means.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said plural driver units are
fed with the same playback input signal.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 12 further comprising:

at least one filtering means; said filtering means relatively changing the
amplitude and the delay time of the playback input signal inputted to at least one of the

plural driver units.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said diaphragm constitutes
at least one surface of a casing of said voice outputting device.
A speaker apparatus comprising:

a diaphragm in the form of a substantially flat panel, said diaphragm being
fixedly supported at an end of an outer rim thereof with the outer rim of said

diaphragm other than said one end being substantially freely oscillatable at least in the
direction of thickness of the diaphragm; and
at least one driver unit connected to the surface of said diaphragm;
sound radiation being realized by flexural oscillations induced in the diaphragm
by oscillations applied from said driver unit based on a playback input signal.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said driver unit is mounted
at an offset position from the mid portion towards one end of the diaphragm fixedly

mounted to said driver unit.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 19 further comprising:

a protective frame for protecting said diaphragm;
said protective frame being arranged for extending to an outer rim of the
diaphragm.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said diaphragm has an end
of an outer rim thereof fixedly supported by said protective frame.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising:

a protective plate arranged facing at least one surface of the diaphragm for
protecting the diaphragm and wherein said protective frame supports said protective

plate.
The speaker apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said driver unit is constituted
by a dynamic driver unit, there being provided a voice coil of the dynamic driver unit

causing oscillations of the diaphragm or a member around which is placed said voice
coil, said member being supported solely by said diaphragm.
An electronic equipment comprising:

a main body portion of the equipment;
a lid provided for opening/closure on said main body portion of the equipment;
and
at least one driver unit arranged in said main body portion of the equipment or
in a casing thereof;
sound radiation being realized by flexural oscillations induced in the main body
portion of the equipment and/or the casing of said lid by oscillations applied from said

driver unit based on a playback input signal.
The electronic equipment according to claim 25 wherein said driver unit is
constituted by a piezoelectric driver unit and wherein the oscillation driving unit of said

piezoelectric driver unit is connected to said diaphragm.
The electronic equipment according to claim 26 wherein said piezoelectric driver
unit has a weight mass component arranged in an outer rim thereof.
The electronic equipment according to claim 26 wherein said piezoelectric driver
unit has a mid portion of the major surface thereof supported by a supporting member

formed of a material having a large attenuation factor for said piezoelectric driver unit
and the diaphragm.
The electronic equipment according to claim 26 wherein plural piezoelectric driver
units are arranged on said lid and wherein means for attenuating the oscillations

transmitted form each piezoelectric driver unit is provided between the piezoelectric
driver units.
The electronic equipment according to claim 29 wherein said attenuation means
is an oscillation regulating member having a weight mass different from that of the

piezoelectric driver unit or the diaphragm.
The electronic equipment according to claim 29 wherein said attenuation means
is shaped in said diaphragm to render the thickness of the diaphragm non-continuous.
The electronic equipment according to claim 25 wherein said lid has a liquid
crystal display unit on one surface thereof the opposite surface of the lid carrying said

driver unit.
The electronic equipment according to claim 25 further comprising:

first and second driver units arranged on said lid;
first and second filtering means for interrupting high-frequency components of
the input signal at a pre-set cut-off frequency; wherein,
of the first and second supplied playback input signals, the first playback input
signal is inputted to said first filter means, an output of said first filter means being

subtracted from said second playback input signal to send the resulting signal to said
first driver unit and wherein an output of said second filtering means is subtracted from

said first playback input signal to send the resulting signal to said second driver unit.
The electronic equipment according to claim 25 further comprising:

first and second driver units in said lid;
high-cut-off filter means for interrupting high-frequency components of the
input signal at a pre-set cut-off frequency and first and second low-cut-off filters for

interrupting low-frequency components of the input signal at a pre-set cut-off
frequency, wherein
the supplied first and second playback input signals are summed and caused to
pass through said high-cut-off filter to produce low-range sound signals; said first

playback input signal is inputted to said first low-cut-off filter means and summed to
said low-range sound signal to send the resulting signal to said first driver unit; said

second playback input signal is inputted to said second low-cut-off filter means to
subtract said low-range sound signal to send the resulting signal to said second driver

unit.
The electronic equipment according to claim 25 further comprising:

first and second driver units in said lid; and
first and second level adjustment means for adjusting the level of the input
signal; wherein,
of the supplied first and second playback input signals, the first playback input
signal adjusted by said first level adjustment means is subtracted from the second

playback input signal and the resulting signal is sent to said first driving unit and
wherein the second playback input signal adjusted by said second level adjustment

means is subtracted from the first playback input signal and the resulting signal is sent
to said second driving unit.
The electronic equipment according to claim 25 further comprising:

first and second driver units in said lid; and
phase inverting means for inverting the phase of the input signal; wherein
of the supplied first and second playback input signals, the first playback input
signal is phase-inverted by phase inverting means and the resulting signal is sent to said

first driver unit, and wherein said second playback input signal is directly supplied to
said second driver unit.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
