<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647430</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Instrument for closing trocar puncture wounds.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1704	A61B1704	A61B1706	A61B1706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical instrument 10 for applying sutures 
through body tissue including a handle assembly, an 

elongated housing 16 removably mounted to said handle 
assembly and having a proximal end portion and a distal end 

portion, at least one needle carrier 24, 26 operatively 
mounted in the distal end portion and movable between a 

retracted position and a deployed position, and a needle 
12, 14 releasably retained in the needle carrier member. 

The instrument may also include a retaining mechanism 68, 
70, 72, adapted to retain the at least one needle carrier 

in the partially deployed position. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASTRO MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOTT IAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITFIELD KENNETH H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASTRO MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOTT IAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITFIELD KENNETH H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to instruments for 
suturing puncture wounds and more particularly to 
instruments for closing trocar puncture wounds formed 
during endoscopic surgical procedures. With laparoscopic and endoscopic surgery, a small 
incision or puncture is made in the patient's body to 
provide access for a tube or a cannula device. Once 
extended into the patient's body, the cannula allows for 
insertion of various surgical instruments such as scissors, 
dissectors, retractors, or biopsy instruments to perform 
diagnostics and/or surgery. Upon completion of the 
surgical procedure, the remaining trocar wound may require 
some attention, e.g., in the form of placing sutures to 
close the wound. In certain cases it may be desirable to 
close the wound from within. A device which forms sutures from within the 
urethra is shown in Soviet Patent SU 1093329. The device 
is inserted into the urethra and pivotally deploys needles 
from which sutures are subsequently pulled through the side 
walls of the urethra. Other devices have been developed which are used 
to place sutures from within a wound. For example, co-pending 
commonly assigned US Patent Applications Serial No. 
07/950,073 filed September 23, 1992 and Serial No. 
08/013,244 filed February 23, 1993 as well as co-pending  
 
application Serial No. 07/876,511 relate to different 
surgical instruments for placing sutures from within a 
trocar wound. U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 
08/091,793, filed July 14, 1993 also discloses a surgical 
instrument for placing suture. Also, a device has been 
developed for placing sutures from within a trocar wound 
which includes a needle clamping device for capturing the 
needles upon deployment thereof. Such a device is shown in 
a product brochure of REMA-Medizintechnik GmbH of Germany. It would be advantageous to provide a reloadable 
instrument which would allow replacement of fresh needles 
and sutures to close several trocar wounds in the patient. The present invention provides a novel surgical 
instrument for applying sutures through body tissue and 
includes a lightweight and easy to use instrument which may 
be operated quickly and efficiently. In one aspect of the present invention, the 
instrument includes an elongated body having a proximal end 
portion and a distal end portion, at least one needle 
carrier member operatively mounted in the distal end 
portion and movable between at least a retracted position 
and a deployed position, a needle releasably retained in 
the at least one needle
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue, which comprises: 


(a) an elongate body having a proximal portion 
and a distal portion, 
(b) at least one needle carrier member 
operatively mounted in said distal end 

portion and movable between at least an 
initial position, a partially deployed 

position and a fully deployed position; 
(c) a needle releasably retained in said at 
least one needle carrier; 
(d) a predetermined length of suture material 
having one end thereof affixed to said 

needle; and 
(e) a retaining mechanism operatively associated 
with said at least one needle carrier 

member, said retaining mechanism being 
adapted to retain said at least one needle 

carrier in said partially deployed position. 
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 1, 
wherein said retaining mechanism includes a latch member 

mounted on said elongate body and a post member operatively 
associated with said at least one needle carrier member and 

movable in relation to said latch member, whereby upon 
movement of said at least one needle carrier member to said 

partially deployed position, said post member engages said 
latch member and is releasably retained therein such that 

said at least one needle carrier member is releasably 
retained in said partially deployed position. 
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 1 
or 2, further comprising an actuator member operatively 

associated with said at least one needle carrier member and 
said retaining mechanism, said actuator member being 

movable between at least a first position and a second 
position to move said at least one needle carrier member 

into said initial position, said partially deployed 
position and said fully deployed position. 
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 1, 
2 or 3, wherein said actuator member is biased toward said 

first position. 
A surgical instrument as recited in any one 
of the preceeding claims, further comprising a needle 

retaining mechanism disposed in said elongate body and 
adapted to retain said needle therein when said at least 

one needle carrier member is in said deployed position. 
A surgical instrument recited in any one of 
the preceding claims, further comprising a needle skewing 

mechanism movable from a first position to a second 
position to change the alignment of said needle relative to 

said retaining member. 
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 6, 
wherein said needle skewing mechanism includes at least one 

arm member moveable between at least an initial position 

and a final position, said arm member being operatively 
associated with said actuator member, whereby upon movement 

of said actuator member from said first position to said 
second position said arm member is moved from said initial 

position to said final position. 
A surgical instrument as recited in any one 
of the preceding claims, further comprising a deployment 

 
indicator adapted to provide an indication to an operator 

of said instrument when said at least one needle carrier 
member is in said second position. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue, which comprises: 


(a) an elongate body having a proximal portion 
and a distal portion; 
(b) at least one needle carrier member 
operatively associated with said distal 

portion of said body portion, said at least 
one needle carrier member movable between at 

least a first position and a second 
position; 
(c) a needle member releasably retained in said 
at least one needle carrier member; and 
(d) an indicator adapted to provide an 
indication to an operator of said instrument 

when said at least one needle carrier member 
is in said second position. 
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 9, 
wherein said indicator is a deployment indicator and 

includes an illuminating member which illuminates when said 
at least one needle carrier member is moved to said second 

position. 
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 
10, wherein said illuminating member is a light bulb 

connected in a series circuit with a power source, said 
circuit being closed when said at least one needle carrier 

member is in said second position. 
A surgical instrument recited in any one of 
the preceding claims, further comprising a suture material 

tensioning member disposed within said elongated body for 
maintaining said suture material in tension during movement 

of said at least one needle carrier member from said 
retracted position to said deployed position. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue, which comprises: 


(a) a handle assembly; 
(b) an elongate housing extending from said 
handle assembly and having a proximal end 

portion and a distal end portion, said 
elongate housing being removably mounted to 

said handle assembly; 
(c) at least one needle carrier associated with 
said distal end portion of said elongate 

housing for carrying at least one needle, 
said needle carrier being movable between a 

retracted position and an extended position; 
and 
(d) at least one needle positioned on said at 
least one needle carrier. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to claim 13, further 

comprising an elongate member slidably disposed within said 
elongate housing and operable from said proximal end 

thereof to actuate said at least one needle carrier. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to claim 14, wherein said 

 
handle assembly comprises at least one pivotable handle, 

said pivotable handle cooperating with said elongate member 
such that movement of said pivotable handle actuates said 

elongate member. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to claim 15, further 

comprising a gear associated with said pivotable handle for 
actuating said elongate member. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to claim 15, 16 or 17, 

wherein said needle carrier includes at least one arm 
member for holding said at least one needle, said at least 

one arm member releasably holding said at least one needle. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to any one of claims 13 to 

17, further comprising a rotatable screw for releasably 
securing said elongate housing within a longitudinal bore 

of said handle assembly. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to any one of claims 13 to 

18, wherein said handle assembly comprises a pair of 
flexible members for moving the needle carrier. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to claim 19, as dependent on 

claim 14, wherein said elongate member includes a recess 
and said handle assembly further comprises a lever 

operatively associated with each of said flexible members 
and engagable with said recess to drive said elongate 

member wherein squeezing of said flexible members towards a 
longitudinal axis of said handle assembly moves said 

elongate member distally. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to any one of claims 13 to 

20, wherein said handle assembly comprises an elongate body 
portion and a button protruding therefrom, said button 

operatively associated with said elongate member. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to claim 21, wherein said 

button comprises a pivotable lever having a projecting 
surface for engaging and driving said elongated inner 

member distally. 
A surgical instrument for applying sutures 
through body tissue according to claim 14, or any one of 

claims 15 to 22 as dependent on claim 14, wherein said 
elongate member has an elongate slot and is mounted to said 

handle assembly by a bayonet mount arrangement. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
