<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645731</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Handwritten keyboardless-entry computer system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B500	G06F3048	G06F3033	F02B7502	G06F3048	G09B506	G06K922	F02B7502	G06F3033	G06K922	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	G06F	G06F	F02B	G06F	G09B	G06K	F02B	G06F	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B5	G06F3	G06F3	F02B75	G06F3	G09B5	G06K9	F02B75	G06F3	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A keyboardless-entry computer system includes a 
transparent input screen (18) that generates positional 

information when contacted by a stylus (16) and a display 
screen (20) mounted below the input screen so that a 

displayed character or symbol can be viewed through the 
input screen. When a handwritten symbol is written or 

drawn by a user, the positional information is input to a 
processor to identify the handwritten symbol as a font or 

command symbol, and to display the font or command symbol 
on the display screen. The processor can access a 

respective personalised database for each of a plurality 
of users, in which characteristics of handwritten symbols 

previously written or drawn by that user are stored in 
association with font or command symbols. A 

characteristic of a handwritten symbol subsequently 
written or drawn by that user is compared by 
the processor 
with the characteristics stored in the database for that 

user and if a comparison is successful, the subsequently 
written or drawn handwritten symbol is identified as 

corresponding to the associated font or command symbol. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AST RESEARCH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AST RESEARCH, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKLAREW RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKLAREW, RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a
handwritten symbol recognition apparatus and method for a
computer, and when combined with a central processing unit,
to a keyboardless-entry computer system. More particularly,
the present invention relates to an information storage,
manipulation and transfer device on which text, data,
computer commands and functions can be entered by writing
alphanumeric or any other characters and symbols by hand
with a pen-like stylus on an Input/Output (I/O) screen. In
a preferred embodiment the I/O screen includes a transparent
touch screen incorporated over a substantially flat output
display. The present invention in a preferred embodiment
comprises, or may be implemented in, a self-contained
computer system or a peripheral to a host computer.Large amounts of information and sophisticated
applications software are now available on conventional
keyboard computers. We have appreciated that the utility of
this information and of applications software could be
greatly increased if text and data could be entered and
applications software manipulated by writing in a normal
fashion directly on a flat display. Thus, there is a need to
allow the utility of computer technology to be extended for
use by non-keyboard oriented individuals. One way this
problem has been approached is to employ a keyboardless
entry system, such as a touch screen. However, conventional
input devices of this type do not easily allow accurate
detailed input within a real time framework with high
resolution in a manner which is familiar and natural to the
user. A known type of keyboardless input system uses
handwriting recognition to enter handwritten text
characters, as described, for example, in United States
Patent US-A-3,487,731 (Frank).US Patent No. 4,491,960 to Brown shows a handwritten
symbol recognition system in which an array of image Points,
in the form of a raster line sampling, is converted into
segment-oriented lists which are filtered and compressed to
obtain topologic features which are then analysed with a
logic tree decision mechanism.US Patent No 4,262,281 to Buckle et al. discloses a
handwriting recognition device. The disclosed embodiment is
for use with a host computer and does not employ coincident
display technology.US Patent No. 4,475,239 to Van Raamsdonk discloses
a text editing apparatus. The '239 patent calls for the use
of paper as a medium for the entering of editing functions
and requires a conventional keyboard for the inputting of
text.US Patent 4,521,909 to Wang shows
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A handwritten symbol recognition apparatus
comprising:


a display screen (18,20);
a hand-held means (16) for use by a user to write or
draw a handwritten symbol on or over at least a portion of

the display screen;
a digitiser (18, 64) for digitising the handwritten
symbol to enable evaluation of a characteristic of the

handwritten symbol;
a database for storing, in each of one or more
database entries, a characteristic of each of one or more

handwritten symbols previously written or drawn by an
individual user to correspond respectively to one or more

given font symbols or command symbols; and
a processor (14) coupled to the digitiser and the
database for comparing the characteristic of the handwritten

symbol with the characteristic of the or each previously
written or drawn handwritten symbol stored in the database

and, if the comparison is successful, identifying the
handwritten symbol as corresponding to the respective given

font symbol or command symbol, the processor further
including means for enabling modification of the database if

an error occurs in the comparison procedure.
An apparatus according to claim 1, in which, if the
error occurs because the handwritten symbol is identified as

corresponding to an erroneous font symbol or command symbol,
the modifying means enables a handwritten symbol for a

desired font symbol or command symbol to be re-inputted to
modify the database. 
An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, in which, if
the error occurs because no successful comparison of the

handwritten symbol with any database entry can be made, the
modifying means causes a message to be displayed on the

display screen asking the user if the handwritten symbol
should be added to the database as a new entry.
An apparatus according to claim 3, in which the
message asks the user to type in the font symbol or command

symbol corresponding to the handwritten symbol.
An apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 3, in
which, if an error occurs, further input is requested either

by flashing a font symbol or command symbol which is a close
match to the handwritten symbol, or by displaying a non-recognition

symbol.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, in
which characteristics of a plurality of handwritten symbols

corresponding to a plurality of font symbols or command
symbols are stored as entries in the database and, depending

on the frequency of use of respective handwritten symbols by
the user, the order of the entries in the database is

shuffled so that, when a comparison is made between a
characteristic of a handwritten symbol and entries in the

database, the comparison is made with the most frequently
used database entries first.
An apparatus according to claim 6, in which, if the
database is modified by the addition of a new entry, the new

entry is initially added as the least-frequently-used
database entry.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, in
which the database includes characteristics of two or three 

different previously written or drawn handwritten symbols
corresponding to one font symbol or command symbol.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, in
which the handwritten symbol is analysed by the processor to

determine a set of stroke characteristics to characterise
the handwritten symbol, and the set of stroke

characteristics is stored in the database.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim, in
which the database is a personalised database so that the

user who writes or draws the handwritten symbol is the same
as the individual user who previously wrote or drew the one

or more handwritten symbols.
An apparatus according to claim 10, in which the
database can store a characteristic of a user-defined or

customised handwritten symbol written or drawn by the user
to correspond to a given font symbol or command symbol.
An apparatus according to claim 10 or 11, comprising
means for performing an initialisation routine in which a

font symbol or command symbol is identified and the user
writes or draws a handwritten symbol corresponding to the

identified font symbol or command symbol, a characteristic
of the handwritten symbol being stored in the database in

association with the identified font symbol or command
symbol.
An apparatus according to claim 12, in which the

database is created by an initialisation routine in which
each of a plurality of font symbols or command symbols is

displayed in sequence on the display screen and the user
writes or draws a handwritten symbol corresponding to each

font symbol or command symbol. 
An apparatus according to any of claims 10 to 13,
comprising a plurality of databases, each for storing a

handwritten symbol characteristic of a handwritten symbol
written or drawn by a different user.
A method for recognising a handwritten symbol
entered into a handwritten symbol recognition apparatus

comprising comparing a characteristic of the handwritten
symbol written or drawn by a user with a characteristic of

each of one or more handwritten symbols previously written
or drawn by an individual user and stored in entries in a

database in association with one or more corresponding font
symbols or command symbols, the handwritten symbol being

identified as corresponding to a respective font symbol or
command symbol if the comparison is successful, and

modification of the database being enabled if an error
occurs in the comparison procedure.
A method according to claim 15, in which, if the
error occurs because the handwritten symbol is identified as

corresponding to an erroneous font symbol or command symbol,
the database is modified by enabling a handwritten symbol

for a desired font symbol or command symbol to be re-inputted.
A method according to claim 15, in which, if the
error occurs because no successful comparison of the

handwritten symbol with any database entry can be made, a
message is displayed on the display screen asking the user

if the handwritten symbol should be added to the database as
a new entry.
A method according to any of claims 15 to 17, in
which the database includes characteristics of two or three 

different previously written or drawn handwritten symbols
corresponding to one font symbol or command symbol.
A method according to any of claims 15 to 18, in
which the user who writes or draws the handwritten symbol is

the same as the individual user who previously wrote or drew
the one or more handwritten symbols.
A method according to claim 19, in which
characteristics of handwritten symbols written or drawn by

different users are stored in different databases and, when
a user uses the handwritten symbol recognition apparatus,

the database for that user is used for handwritten symbol
identification.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
