<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651910</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MAKING ELECTRICAL CONNECTION WITH A MOVABLE MEMBER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01V116	G01V118	H01F706	H01F706	H02K522	H02K522	H02K3318	H02K3318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01V	G01V	H01F	H01F	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01V1	G01V1	H01F7	H01F7	H02K5	H02K5	H02K33	H02K33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for making electrical connection to a reciprocating element (48), such as to a voice coil of an actuator. An electrical flow path utilizing the helical centering springs (52) as a primary element in conducting current ensures reliable current flow to a reciprocating element (48) and avoids high-speed flexing of brittle wires (22, 24). Hard-wired connections (47) are utilized only between stationary elements (32, 28). A second double coil actuator (50) embodiment employs a coaxial, substantially co-extensive pair of springs  (52, 53) as the input and return current flow paths for each actuactor (48, 48a).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORD CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEATH MICHAEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEATH, MICHAEL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUINN, JOHN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MAKING ELECTRICAL CONNECTION WITH A MOVABLE MEMBERBackground and Summary of the InventionThis invention relates to the field of electrical connectors. More particularly, this invention is directed to a method and an apparatus for making electrical connection to an electrical element on a movable member, such as to the coil of an actuator, for example.In developing the fluid mount described and claimed in copending U.S. patent application serial no. 07/776,118 filed October 15, 1991, entitled "Fluid Mount with Active Vibration Control," which is hereby incorporated by reference, one of the most significant problems was in making reliable electrical contact with the reciprocating voice coil on actuator 36. Conventional connections proved unworkable. Such a connection utilized a wire which was required to flex repeatedly at a high velocity and frequency. Any wire that was used to effect connection between a relatively stationary power source and the relatively movable actuator coil would quickly fatigue and break.In choosing a current path, it was of primary importance in the design to use wire connections only between relatively stationary members and to utilize an alternate connector capable of repeated flexing between relatively moving members. By doing so, the fatigue problems associated with repeated flexing of the connecting wire can be eliminated.The objective of obtaining a reliable electrical connection to a reciprocating member is accomplished by modifying the electrical flow path to permit helical centering springs to form the connecting element in the moving segment of the system. Wires are then used to connect elements that experience little or no relative movement so no flexing of potentially brittle wires results. The centering springs, which are used to return the piston of an actuator to its neutral position, are contacted on each end by a washer made of conductive (e.g., brass, copper) material. 

 An electrical connector that is mounted upon a relatively stationary structure is hard-wired to a first washer that experiences no motion relative to that stationary structure. Electrical current is transmitted from an electrical supply, through the connector, via the hard-wired connection to the first washer, then axially through the helical centering spring to the second washer. This second washer is hard-wired to the coil of the actuator. Again, there is no relative motion between the second washer and the coil, since both move together.In a first single-coil
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A method for making electrical connection between a member mounted upon a relatively stationary element and a relatively movable element characterized by the steps of
a) providing first helical centering spring means operative between said relatively stationary element and said relatively movable element, said spring means being axially compressible to store energy as said relatively movable element moves from a first position and to return said relatively movable element to said first position utilizing said stored energy;
b) connecting an electrical connector which is mounted on said relatively stationary element to an electrical element mounted on said relatively movable element by conducting current spirally through said helical centering spring means from a first end to a second opposite end of said spring means.
2. The method of Claim 1 characterized by said providing step includes providing an opposing helical centering spring means on an opposite side of a portion of said relatively stationary element opposing said at least one centering spring.
3. The method of Claim 2 wherein said providing step is characterized by providing a first inner and a second outer helical spring as said at least one helical centering spring means and providing a third inner and fourth outer helical centering spring as said opposing helical centering spring means.
4. The method of Claim 3 wherein said providing step is further characterized by said first inner spring and second outer spring providing at least a portion of an electrical input path and an electrical return path, respectively, for said electrical element.
5. The method of Claim 4 wherein said providing step is further characterized by said third inner spring and said fourth outer spring 


providing at least a portion of an electrical return path and an electrical input path, respectively, for a second electrical element.
6. Apparatus for supplying electrical current to a movable coil such as in an actuator, comprising
a) helical centering spring means positioned on a first side of a support structure acting axially to bias said coil to a first position relative to said support structure;
b) first electrical connector means contacting a first end of said helical centering spring means;
c) second electrical connector means contacting a second end of said helical centering spring means;
whereby said helical spring means is made an element in a primary conductor path for said electrical current flowing to said coil.
7. The apparatus according to Claim 6 wherein said first and second electrical connector means comprises first and second metallic washers.
8. The apparatus according to Claim 7 further comprising a current input wire affixed to said first metallic washer and a lead wire inputting current to said coil affixed to said second metallic washer, as by soldering.
9. The apparatus according to Claim 8 wherein said current return path further comprises a second helical centering spring means.
10. The apparatus according to Claim 9 wherein said second centering spring means is positioned on a side of said support structure which is opposite to said first centering spring means.
11. The apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein a current return path further comprises a through-bolt used to attach said coil to support structure. 


 12. The apparatus according to Claim 9 further comprising third and fourth electrical connector means positioned at opposite ends of said second centering spring means.
13. The apparatus according to Claim 12 wherein said third and fourth electrical connector means comprise third and fourth metallic washers, respectively.
14. The apparatus according to Claim 13 wherein said first and second helical spring means are coiled one within the other and are substantially coterminous.
15. The apparatus according to Claim 14 further comprising a spring retainer disc for receiving said first and third washers.
16. The apparatus according to Claim 15 further comprising outwardly protruding tabs formed upon said first and third washers, said tabs being received in rotation-preventing slots in said spring retainer disc.
17. The apparatus according to Claim 16 further comprising an inwardly protruding tab on at least one of said first and third washers, said inwardly protruding tab being received within a slot in a spool about which said washers and spring means slide to prevent relative rotation between said at least one washer and said spool.
18. The apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein said spring retainer disc has a first level to receive said first washer and a second level to receive said third washer whereby said first and third washers are electrically isolated.
19. The apparatus of Claim 18 further comprising a second spring retainer disc for receiving said second and fourth metallic washers.
20. The apparatus of Claim 19 further comprising a second movable coil and duplicate electrical current supply apparatus positioned at an opposite end of said spool on an opposite side of said support structure.
21. A double-acting actuator comprising a spool member extending through an opening in a support structure; a first coil positioned on a first end of said spool; a second coil positioned on a second opposite end 


of said spool; first and second electrical input means for conducting current to said first and second coils, respectively, each said electrical input means including
a) an electrical connector mounted upon said support structure for attachment to an electrical current source;
b) a first washer positioned adjacent said support structure;
c) a first current input wire connecting said electrical connector to said washer;
d) a first helical spring having a first end in contact with said first washer;
e) a second washer contacting a second opposite end of said first helical spring;
f a second current input wire connecting said second washer with said coil;
g) a third washer adjacent said first washer;
h) a spring retainer disc receiving said first and third washers and maintaining them in non-engaging, non-rotating interposition;
i) a second helical spring extending substantially collinearly with said first helical spring, a first end of said second helical spring contacting said third washer;
j) a fourth washer contacting a second opposite end of said second helical spring;
k) a first current return wire interconnecting said coil and said fourth washer;
1) a second spring retainer disc receiving said second and fourth washers and maintaining them in non-engaging, non- rotating interposition; 


 m) a second current return wire interconnecting said third washer to said electrical connector. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
