<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618431</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Clinical thermometer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J510	G01K1300	G01J500	A61B501	A61B501	G01J510	G01J500	G01K1300	G01J504	G01J504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01K	G01J	A61B	A61B	G01J	G01J	G01K	G01J	G01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J5	G01K13	G01J5	A61B5	A61B5	G01J5	G01J5	G01K13	G01J5	G01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a clinical thermometer for measuring 
the temperature of a living body in a noncontacting 

manner by receiving infrared radiation from an eardrum 
or a body surface. An infrared sensor senses infrared 

radiation incident through an opening portion for 
narrowing the angle of field of the infrared sensor. An 

electrical signal from the infrared sensor is converted 
into the value of the temperature of an object to be 

measured. A maximum value TP
ob
 of the converted 
temperature values is detected. In this manner, the 

maximum value TP
ob
 detected when a predetermined time 
has elapsed from the start of the measurement is 

determined as the temperature of the object to be 
measured. The predetermined time at which the 

measurement is ended is extended in accordance with the 

time elapsed when the maximum value TP
ob
 is detected, 
thereby determining the temperature of the object to be 

measured. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TERUMO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TERUMO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIOKAWA MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIOKAWA, MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a noncontacting
clinical thermometer for measuring the temperature of
an eardrum or a body surface as an object of
temperature measurement.Conventionally, contacting clinical thermometers
for measuring the skin temperature of a living body
have been extensively used for general purposes. The
temperature of a body surface to be measured by such a
clinical thermometer is strongly influenced by an
environmental temperature. Therefore, the body surface
temperature is different in nature from a so-called
body temperature which is used in fields of medical
treatments and medical science for the purposes of
screening for the presence/absence and the condition of
a disease, and for the basal body temperatures of
women. For this reason, it is inadequate to measure
and use the skin temperature as a body temperature for
these purposes.Consequently, thermometry for an eardrum has begun
to be performed by using a noncontacting temperature
sensor. The clinical meaning of an eardrum temperature 
will be mentioned. A body temperature means a core
temperature at which homeostasis is held in a living
body, and a hypothalamus is considered to be the center
for regulating this core temperature. From an
anatomical viewpoint, an internal carotid artery
perfused in the hypothalamus as the thermoregulatory
center runs near an eardrum, which means that the
eardrum and the hypothalamus share blood. It is
therefore assumed that the correlation between the
eardrum and the hypothalamus with respect to a
temperature change is extremely high.For this reason, the eardrum temperature has long
attracted attention as a site reflecting the
temperature of the hypothalamus as the thermoregulatory
center of a living body. However, any conventional
contacting clinical thermometer cannot measure the
eardrum temperature, since thermometry using a
contacting sensor may give damages to an eardrum. A
radiation clinical thermometer using an infrared sensor
has been proposed to eliminate this danger of eardrum
damages and to make body temperature measurement within
a short time period possible.As shown in Fig. 13, however, a conventional
noncontacting eardrum clinical thermometer making use
of radiation has a wide angle of field (V1) of an
infrared sensor and an optical system associated with 
the sensor. Therefore, this clinical thermometer
captures not only an eardrum V2 but also an external
auditory meatus within the field of view of the
infrared sensor. Note that the wide angle of field of
the optical system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A clinical thermometer for measuring a
temperature of a living body in a noncontacting manner

by receiving infrared radiation from an eardrum or a
body surface, comprising:


an infrared sensor means (10), for sensing
infrared radiation;
a narrowing means (110, 111) for narrowing the
angle of field of said infrared sensor means (10);
converting means (3) for converting an electrical
signal from said infrared sensor means into a value of

a temperature of an object to be measured;
detecting means (32-34) for detecting a maximum
value of the temperature values converted by said

converting means; and
temperature determining means (34, 35) for
determining the temperature of the object to be

measured, based on the maximum value detected by said
detecting means, when a predetermined time has elapsed

from the start of the measurement;

characterised in that the narrowing means (110,
111) is adapted to narrow the angle of field of the

infrared sensor means to a solid angle of 0.068 to
0.586 π sr, and in that the infrared sensor means (10)

comprises an infrared light-receiving unit (102) for
sensing infrared radiation and a bolometer type

temperature-sensitive element (104) mounted on said
infrared light-receiving unit and having a resistance

as a function of temperature.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 1,
further comprising control means (34) for determining

the temperature of the object to be measured by
extending the predetermined time in accordance with at

least one of the time elapsed when said detecting means
detects the maximum value, the temperature values and a

change of the temperature values measured in the time. 
The clinical thermometer according to claim 1,
further comprising sound generating means (7) for

generating sound when the maximum value detected by
said detecting means is updated.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 1,
wherein said narrowing means has a long, substantially

cylindrical member (140) for guiding the infrared
radiation to said infrared sensor means.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 1,
wherein said narrowing means has a lens (130) for

condensing the infrared radiation.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 1,
further comprising display means (6) for displaying

information indicating that the temperature of the
object to be measured is measured completely.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 1,
wherein said converting means includes A/D-converting

means (33) for converting the electrical signal from
said infrared sensor means into a digital signal, and

means for processing the digital signal to obtain a
digital value and for setting a mean value of the

digital value as the temperature value of the object to
be measured.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 2,
further comprising control means (34) for determining

the temperature of the object to be measured by
extending the predetermined time in accordance with the

number of the digital values obtained before said
detecting means detects the maximum value. 
The clinical thermometer according to claim 1,
wherein the object whose temperature is to be measured

is an eardrum.
The clinical thermometer according to any
previous claim and comprising:


a battery (50);
time measuring means (35) for measuring a time
elapsed from the start of the measurement; and
display means (6) for displaying the temperature
value determined by said temperature determining means.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 10,
wherein said display means (6) displays the temperature

value and at the same time informs the completion of
the temperature measurement.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 11,
wherein the completion of the temperature measurement

is informed by sound generated by a buzzer (7).
The clinical thermometer according to claim 10,
wherein a probe (41) for accommodating said infrared

sensor means is formed separately from a main body (70)
having said display means (71), said probe and said

main body being connected through a cable (40).
The clinical thermometer according to claim 13,
wherein said main body (70) has a switch (72) for

designating the start of the body temperature
measurement.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 7,
wherein said converting means includes temperature

estimating means for estimating a temperature value of
the object to be measured, by referencing a table based 

on the digital value, and smoothing means for smoothing
the digital value and/or the temperature value

estimated by said estimating means, by using a digital
filter.
The clinical thermometer according to claim 1,
characterised by further comprising a temperature-sensitive

element (103) for correcting the output of
the bolometer type temperature-sensitive element (104).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
