<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627801</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cover strip-off method in a covered wire cutting and stripping apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B600	H02G112	H02G112	G02B600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	H02G	H02G	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	H02G1	H02G1	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cover at an end portion of a covered wire is 
incised by upper and lower cutting blades. The covered 

wire and the cutting blades are moved relatively in the 
longitudinal direction of the covered wire to thereby 

start the cover stripping operation at an end portion of 
the cover on the core. Thereafter, during this relative 

movement, the depth of incising the cover by the cutting 
blades is reduced step by step within a range where blade 

portions of the cutting blades can catch the cover. Even 
in the case where the cover of a covered wire is thin, it 

is made possible not only to strip the cover surely, but 
also to prevent a core from being injured. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASHIMOTO MASAYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KODERA HIROJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMANO YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASHIMOTO, MASAYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KODERA, HIROJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMANO, YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a cover strip-off 
method in an apparatus for cutting and stripping covered 
wires such as covered electric wires, optical fiber cables, 
and the like, used in various electric machineries and apparatuses. Generally, a covered electric wire 31 cut to a predetermined 
size as shown in Fig. 14 is used in an electronic/electric 
machine or apparatus. This covered electric 
wire 31 has a cover 33 on the surface of a core 32 of copper 
or the like. The cover 33 is made of polyvinyl chloride 
resin mainly for insulation. The length L1 of the covered 
electric wire 31, the length L2 of the cover 33, and the 
exposed lengths of the core 32, that is, the stripped-off 
lengths L3 and L4 of the cover 33, are configured to predetermined 
sizes in accordance with the portion where the 
wire is used. As an apparatus for automatically configuring such a 
covered electric wire, the applicant of the present application 
has proposed an automatic electric wire cutting and 
stripping apparatus shown in Japanese Patent Unexamined 
Publication No. Sho-61-273114. The covered electric wire cutting and stripping method 
in this cutting and stripping apparatus includes steps in 
which a pair of upper and lower cutting blades facing each 
other are moved from a standby position where their blade 
portions do not reach the cover of the covered electric 
wire to a cutting position where the cutting blades cut the 
covered electric wire. The cutting blades are moved back to 
the standby position from the cutting position, and the 
covered electric wire is moved in its longitudinal direction 
in the state where the cutting blades have been moved 
to the standby position. This covered electric wire cutting 
and stripping method further has a step in which the  
 
above-mentioned cutting blades are moved from the standby 
position to an incision position so as to form an incision 
in the cover of the covered electric wire, and thereafter, 
the cutting blades are moved to a non-interference position 
retracted from the incision position or from a core of the 
covered electric wire within a range where the blade portions 
of the cutting blades can catch the cover. The core 
of the covered electric wire and the cover at the end portion 
of the covered electric wire are moved relative to 
each other from the state where the cutting blades have 
been moved to the non-interference position so as to strip 
the cover on the core by the cutting blades, and thereafter, 
the cutting blades are moved back to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cover strip-off method for a covered wire cutting 
and stripping apparatus in which a cover (33) at an end 

portion of a covered wire (31) is stripped and the covered 
wire (31) is cut to a predetermined length (L1), the method 

comprising the steps of: 

incising the cover (33) at the end portion of said 
covered wire (31) by means of a plurality of cutting blades 

(8, 9) disposed in a cutting device (10) opposite to each 
other by an amount that said cut extends toward a core (32) 

of said covered wire (31); and 
moving said covered wire (31) and said cutting blades 
(8, 9) relative to each other in a longitudinal direction 

of said covered wire (31) to strip off the cover (33) at 
the end portion of said covered wire (31) from said core 

(32), 
 
   characterized by the further step of:
 
   reducing the amount of incision of said cutting blades 

(8, 9) into said covered wire (31) independent of the movement 
of the covered wire (31) relative to the cutting device 

while maintaining a range where blade portions (8a, 
9a) of said cutting blades (8, 9) can catch said cover 

(33). 
The method of claim 1, wherein in said incising 
step said cutting device (10) is inserted into said cover 

(33) by a predetermined amount, said amount being less than 
a thickness (T) of said cover (33). 
The method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, further comprising, 
prior to said incising step, the steps of: 


setting a cutting length (L1) of said covered wire 
(31); 
setting at least one stripping length (L3, L4) for 
stripping said covered wire (31); and  

 
inputting the thickness ((T) of said cover (33). 
The method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising, 
prior to said incising step, the step of feeding said 

covered wire (31) in accordance with said cutting length 
(L1). 
The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said incising 
step comprises the step of incising said cover (33) 

at a location determined in accordance with said at least 
one stripping length (L3, L4). 
The method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising, 
prior to said incising step, the step of determining a 

maximum insertion depth into said cover (33) in accordance 
with said thickness (T) of said cover (33), said predetermined 

amount corresponding to said maximum insertion depth 
determined in said determining step. 
The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising, 
prior to said inserting step, the step of determining 

a maximum insertion depth into said cover (33), said predetermined 
amount corresponding to said maximum insertion 

depth determined in said determining step. 
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said reducing 
step comprises the step of maintaining said cutting 

device (10) in contact with said cover (33). 
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said reducing 
step comprises the step of stepwise reducing the 

amount of insertion of said cutting device (10) during said 
moving step. 
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said reducing 
step comprises the step of continuously gradually  

 
reducing the amount of insertion of said cutting device 

(10) along a straight line during said moving step. 
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said reducing 
step comprises the step of initially abruptly reducing 

the amount of insertion of said cutting device (10) 
then maintaining the reduced amount during said moving 

step. 
An apparatus for stripping a cover (33) off of a 
core (32) of a covered wire (31), the apparatus comprising: 


a cutting device (10) for incising said cover (33) by 
inserting said cutting device (10) into said cover (33) by 

a predetermined amount; 
means (4, 7) for moving said covered wire (31) relative 
to said cutting device (10) in a stripping-off direction; 

and 
means for reducing the amount of insertion of said 
cutting device (10) during said moving step, 
 
   characterized in that
 
   said means for reducing the amount of insertion of 

said cutting device (10) comprise driving means for reducing 
the amount of incision of said cutting device (10) into 

said covered wire (31) independent of the movement of the 
covered wire (31) relative to the cutting device (10) while 

maintaining a range where blade portions (8, 9, 8a, 9a) of 
said cutting device (10) can catch said cover (33). 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 12, further comprising: 
means (23) for setting a cutting length (L1) of 

said covered wire (31); means (24A) for setting at least 
one stripping length (L3, L4) for stripping said covered 

wire (31); and input means (25) inputting the thickness (T) 
of said cover (33).  

 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising 
feeding means (4, 7) for feeding said covered wire 

(31) in accordance with said cutting length (L1). 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein said 
cutting device (10) comprises means (8, 9) for incising 

said cover (33) at a location determined in accordance with 
said at least one stripping length (L3, L4). 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising 
means for determining a maximum insertion depth 

into said cover (33) in accordance with said thickness (T) 
of said cover (33), said predetermined amount corresponding 

to said maximum insertion depth determined by said determining 
means. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 12, further comprising 
means for determining a maximum insertion depth 

into said cover (33), said predetermined amount corresponding 
to said maximum insertion depth determined by said determining 

means. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein said 
reducing means comprises means for maintaining said cutting 

device (10) in contact with said cover (33). 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein said 
cutting device (10) comprises a pair of cutting blades (8, 

9) disposed on opposite sides of said covered wire (31). 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein one 
(9) of said pair of cutting blades (8, 9) is reciprocatingly 

movable by a motor (M3), said motor (M3) coupled to 
and controlled by sa
id reducing means. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein the 
movable cutting blade (9) comprises one of a rack (20) and  

 
a pinion (21), said motor (M3) comprising the other of said 

rack (20) and said pinion (21) for driving the movable cutting 
blade (9) in accordance with said stepwise reducing 

means. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein the 
end of each of said pair of cutting blades (8, 9) facing 

said covered wire (31) comprises a V-shape blade portion 
(8a, 9a). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
