<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615340</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Low-delay subband adaptive filter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H2100	G06F1714	G10K1100	H03H2100	H04M908	H04B304	H03H1700	G10K11178	H04B110	G05B1300	H04B110	G06F1714	H04M908	H03H1702	H03H1702	G05B1300	H03H1700	H04B304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	G06F	G10K	H03H	H04M	H04B	H03H	G10K	H04B	G05B	H04B	G06F	H04M	H03H	H03H	G05B	H03H	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H21	G06F17	G10K11	H03H21	H04M9	H04B3	H03H17	G10K11	H04B1	G05B13	H04B1	G06F17	H04M9	H03H17	H03H17	G05B13	H03H17	H04B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A subband adaptive filter is disclosed that retains the computational and 
convergence speed advantages of subband processing while eliminating delay in the 

signal path. The technique has applications in active noise control where delay 
seriously limits cancellation performance and in acoustic echo cancellation where 

transmission delay specifications may limit the use of conventional subband designs. 
A reference signal (x(t)) and a residual error signal (e(t)) are each decompased into a 

plurality of subband signals, (y
o
...y
m
, e
o
...e
m
), and a set of adaptive weighting 
coefficients (w
O
...w
M
) is generated for each of these subbands by a conventional 
complex LMS (least-mean-squared) technique (in 20-0...20-M). These sets of 

subband weighting coefficients are then transformed into the frequency domain, (in 
22-0,...22-M), appropriately stacked and inverse transformed (in 24) back into the 

time domain to obtain wideband filter coefficients for a programmable filter (12). 
The reference signal, (x(t)), which is correlated with the disturbance signal to be 

eliminated, is filtered by this programmable filter (12) to produce a disturbance 
estimate signal d and(t) which may be subtracted (14) from the signal d(t)) containing the 

disturbance. The process iterates in order to minimize the residual error signal (e(t)) 
and thereby reduce the disturbance. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORGAN DENNIS B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THI JAMES CHI HUU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORGAN, DENNIS B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THI, JAMES CHI HUU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field of adaptive filtering
techniques and specifically to the use of such techniques for adaptive noise
cancellation.Adaptive filtering techniques are now in widespread use for a number of
applications such as adaptive arrays, adaptive line enhancement, adaptive modeling
and system identification, adaptive equalization, and adaptive noise cancellation,
including acoustic echo cancellation and active noise control.In particular, the adaptive noise cancellation problem typically involves
the generation of a signal which reflects an estimate of a disturbance (i.e., noise)
which is to be reduced or eliminated (i.e., cancelled) from a primary source signal.
Once determined, this estimate signal may then be subtracted from this primary
source signal to reduce the effect of the disturbance. Active noise control in
particular involves the generation of a secondary signal (e.g., sound) for the purpose
of counteracting the effect of a preexisting noise disturbance. Adaptive filtering
techniques are advantageously employed in the context of adaptive noise
cancellation because a source signal from which a disturbance has been partially
removed may be iteratively tested and processed to further reduce (e.g., minimize)
the presence of the disturbance (see e.g. the document WO-A-88 03341).Certain adaptive filtering applications involve adaptive filter lengths
with hundreds of taps. Examples of such applications include wideband active noise
control for complex mechanical structures and acoustic echo cancellation, both of
which are characterized by long impulse responses. The computational burden
associated with these long adaptive filters precludes their use for many low-cost
applications. In addition to computational complexity, adaptive filters with many
taps may also suffer from long convergence times, especially if the reference signal
spectrum has a large dynamic range.A technique that involves the use of subbands has been recently
exploited to address the above problems (see e.g. the document 1990 Int. Symposium on Circuits and Systems; 1-3/5190; New Orleans (US); pp. 279-282; E. Hänsler: "Adaptive Echo Compensation Applied to the Hands-Free Telephone Problem"). Processing the signals in subbands has a
twofold advantage. First, the computational burden is reduced by approximately the
number of subbands, since both the tap length and weight update rate can be
decimated in each subband. Second, faster convergence is possible because the
spectral dynamic range within
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for generating a signal reflecting an estimate of a
disturbance, the method comprising the steps of


filtering a signal reflecting reference information with a plurality of
subband filters to produce a plurality of subband reference reflecting signals;
filtering a signal reflecting a disturbance with a plurality of subband
filters to produce a plurality of subband disturbance reflecting signals;
generating a plurality of sets of time domain subband weighting signals
based on said subband reference reflecting signals and said subband disturbance

reflecting signals;
combining said plurality of sets of time domain subband weighting
signals to form a set of combined time domain weighting signals; and
filtering said reference signal with use of said set of combined time
domain weighting signals to produce the signal reflecting an estimate of a

disturbance.
The method according to claim 1 wherein said signal reflecting
reference information is correlated with said disturbance signal.
The method according to claim 1 wherein said generating step
comprises use of a complex LMS process.
The method according to claim 1 wherein said step of combining said
plurality of sets of time domain subband weighting signals comprises the steps of


transforming said plurality of sets of time domain subband weighting
signals to a plurality of sets of frequency domain subband weighting signals;
combining said plurality of sets of frequency domain subband weighting
signals to form a combined set of frequency domain weighting signals; and
transforming said combined set of frequency domain weighting signals
to a set of combined time domain weighting signals.
The method according to claim 4 wherein said step of transforming
said plurality of sets of time domain subband weighting signals comprises use of a

Fourier Transform process.
The method according to claim 5 wherein said step of transforming 
said combined set of frequency domain weighting signals comprises use of an

inverse Fourier Transform process.
The method according to claim 1 wherein said signal reflecting
reference information comprises a reference signal.
The method according to claim 1 wherein said signal reflecting
reference information is generated by filtering a reference signal.
The method according to claim 1 wherein said signal reflecting a
disturbance further reflects said signal reflecting an estimate of a disturbance.
An adaptive filter for generating a signal reflecting an estimate of a
disturbance, the apparatus comprising


a plurality of subband filters (16-O,...,16-M) for generating a plurality of subband
reference reflecting signals based on a signal reflecting reference information;
a plurality of subband filters (18-O,...,18-M) for generating a plurality of subband
disturbance reflecting signals based on a signal reflecting a disturbance;
means (20-O,..., 20-M) for generating a plurality of sets of time domain subband
weighting signals based on said subband reference reflecting signals and said

subband disturbance reflecting signals;
means (24) for combining said plurality of sets of time domain subband
weighting signals to form a combined set of time domain weighting signals; and
a programmable filter (12) for filtering said reference signal with use of said
set of combined time domain weighting signals to produce the signal reflecting an

estimate of a disturbance.
The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said signal reflecting
reference information is correlated with said disturbance signal.
The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said generating means (20-O,...,20-M)
comprises use of a complex LMS process.
The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said means (24) for
combining said plurality of sets of time domain subband weighting signals

comprises 

means (22-O,...,22-M) for transforming said plurality of sets of time domain subband
weighting signals to a plurality of sets of frequency domain subband weighting

signals;
means (24) for combining said plurality of sets of frequency domain subband
weighting signals to form a combined set of frequency domain weighting signals;

and
means (24) for transforming said combined set of frequency domain
weighting signals to a set of combined time domain weighting signals.
The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said means (24) for
transforming said plurality of sets of time domain subband weighting signals

comprises means for performing a Fourier Transform.
The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said means (24) for
transforming said combined set of frequency domain weighting signals comprises

means for performing an inverse Fourier Transform.
The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said signal reflecting
reference information comprises a reference signal.
The apparatus according to claim 10 further comprising a filter (28) for
generating said signal reflecting reference information based on a reference signal.
The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said signal reflecting a
disturbance further reflects said signal reflecting an estimate of a disturbance.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
