<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Female clinch fastener with cold-formed locking flange and associated installation method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23P1906	B23P1906	F16B3704	F16B3704	F16B3706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23P	B23P	F16B	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23P19	B23P19	F16B37	F16B37	F16B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A female clinch fastener adapted to be secured to 
a sheet (21) by cold-forming includes a generally tubular 

body having a plurality of circumferentially 
distributed splines. Longitudinally extending portions 

(35a) of the splines are adapted to be displaced by 
cold-forming or a peeling action to form a laterally 

extending flange along a medial portion of the tubular body. 
The clinch fastener also preferably includes a 

laterally extending flange (33) at one end cooperating with 
the cold-formed flange to secure the fastener within a 

pilot (26), or collar, formed at an opening in the sheet to 
which the clinch nut is secured. The splines (35b) adjacent 

the end flange are also secured within the pilot of the 
sheet and prevent rotation of the clinch fastener. The 

tubular body also preferably has a second end portion being 
tapered to serve as a guide surface to facilitate alignment 

with an opening in the sheet during installation, and also 
serves as a guide surface for beginning the cold-forming, or 

peeling, of the splines to form the flange in the medial 
portion of the tubular body. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMHART INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMHART INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULTZ ROBB M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FULTZ, ROBB M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the field of fasteners, and, 
more particularly, to a female clinch fastener, or clinch 
nut, mounted to a sheet and an associated method for 
installing the clinch fastener. A conventional female clinch fastener, or clinch nut, 
is permanently installed into a portion of a metal sheet so 
that the nut becomes an integral part of the metal sheet. 
The clinch nut is installed by cold-forming the metal of the 
sheet or the nut, rather than welding. The clinch nut thus 
provides a threaded bore with greater holding capacity than 
could be obtained by simply threading an opening in the 
sheet metal alone. Such a clinch nut is commonly used in 
automobiles to provide a means for fastening bolts to a 
metal sheet, for example. One conventional clinch nut is available from RB&W 
Corporation of Mentor, Ohio, under the designation SPAC®nut. 
The SPAC®nut includes a back-tapered polygonal portion that 
is press fit into a slightly undersized opening in a sheet. 
The nut is locked into the sheet by a coining action as the 
sheet material flows to fill the space defined by the 
back-tapered portion. Similar to the SPAC®nut are the 
STRUX-nut offered by Maclean-Fogg, and the HT-nut offered by 
NPR. Each of these clinch nuts relies upon the volumetric 
displacement of parent material from the sheet to fill an 
undercut or back-taper to create a kind of dove-tail joint 
between the fastener and the sheet. Unfortunately, such a 
clinch nut may not have sufficiently high performance 
characteristics, such as pull-through, push-out, and 
torque-out.  Another conventional clinch nut offered by the 
applicant, requires that a hexagonal opening be punched into 
the sheet to accommodate the hexagonal body portion of the 
clinch nut. In other words, the clinch nut is a directional 
nut which requires proper orientation of the opening and 
proper alignment of the nut within the opening. Another conventional clinch nut known commercially as 
the FLANGEFORM ™ from RB&W, is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 
4,018,257 to Jack entitled Self-Flanging Nut and Joint 
Construction. The FLANGEFORM ™ nut forms, and then wraps 
around, a collar or pilot in the sheet into which the nut 
has been pressed. The nut is press fit into an undersized 
opening in the sheet thereby bending edge portions of the 
sheet downward to form the pilot for receiving the tubular 
body of the nut. A laterally extending flange on an end of 
the tubular body is seated flush with the surface of the 
sheet. The tubular body includes a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1 A combination of a female clinch fastener (20) and a 
sheet (21) to which the clinch fastener is secured, the 

sheet having an opening (25) with edge portions of said 
sheet adjacent the opening being deformed to define a pilot 

(26) depending from said sheet, characterised in that said 
clinch fastener comprises: 

   a generally tubular body (30); 
   first and second laterally extending flanges connected 

to said tubular body in longitudinally spaced relation and 
cooperating to secure said tubular body within said pilot of 

said sheet, said first flange (33) connected to a first end 
of said tubular body, said second flange (40) connected to a 

medial portion of said tubular body and abutting outer end 
portions of said pilot; and 

   a plurality of circumferentially distributed splines 
(35a) connected to a first portion of said tubular body and 

extending longitudinally between said first and second 
flanges, said splines being in engagement with said pilot to 

prevent rotation of said clinch fastener within said pilot, 
said splines having peripheral portions defining an 

imaginary circle having a predetermined diameter; 
   said tubular body having a second portion extending 

longitudinally outward from said second flange, said second 
portion having a transverse cross-sectional diameter less 

than said predetermined diameter defined by peripheral 
portions of said splines. 
2 A combination according to Claim 1 characterised in 
that said tubular body (30), said first flange (33) and said 

splines (35) are integrally formed of metal; and wherein 
said second flange (40) comprises cold-formed metal 

displaced from said second portion of said tubular body. 
3 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said second portion of said tubular body includes a 

plurality of circumferentially distributed longitudinally 
extending grooves in alignment with respective grooves 

defined by said plurality of splines (35a) on said first 
portion of said tubular body (30). 
4 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said second flange (40) comprises a plurality of 

radially outwardly extending protrusions longitudinally 
aligned with respective splines. 
5 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that a second end portion of said tubular body (30) is 

tapered. 
6 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said first flange (33) is positioned flush with a 

surface of said sheet (21) opposite the pilot (26). 
7 A combination according to claim 6, characterised in 
that said generally tubular body (30) has a threaded bore 

and is adapted for receiving a mating threaded fastener (23) 
and in that said splines (35a) define a star-like transverse 

cross-sectional shape. 
8 A combination according to claim 6, characterised in 
that said generally tubular body (30) has a threaded bore 

adapted for receiving a mating threaded fastener (23) and in 
that said splines (35a) define a serpentine generally 

circular transverse cross-sectional shape. 
9 A combination according to either claim 7 or claim 8, 
characterised in that said threaded bore extends throughout 

i an entire extent of said tubular body (30), and in that 
 

threaded portions adjacent the second end of said tubular 
body (30) are distorted to provide a locking action to a 

mating threaded fastener (23) received within said tubular 
body (30). 
10 A combination according to claim 6, characterised in 
that said first flange (33) has an inwardly tapered annular 

surface transverse to said tubular body for facilitating 
flush mounting of said first flange with said sheet (21). 
11 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said tubular body (30) has a threaded bore extending 

throughout an entire extent of said tubular body and adapted 
to receive therein a mating threaded fastener (23). 
12 A combination according to Claim 11, characterised in 
that threaded portions adjacent the second end of said 

tubular body (30) are distorted to provide a locking action 
to a mating threaded fastener (23) received within said 

tubular body. 
13 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said plurality of splines define a polygonal transverse 

cross-sectional shape. 
14 A combination according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that said plurality of splines (35a) is a predetermined 

number in a range of about 8 to 16. 
15 A method for securing a female clinch fastener (20) to 

a sheet (21), the clinch fastener including a tubular body 
(30) with a first laterally extending flange (33) at an end 

thereof and a plurality of longitudinally extending splines 
(35) circumferentially distributed on the tubular body, 

characterised in that the method comprises the steps of:
 

   forming an opening (25) in the sheet (21) having a 
diameter less than a diameter defined by peripheral portions 

of the splines; 
   driving the tubular body of the clinch fastener into 

the opening to form a pilot (26) from edge portions of the 
sheet so that the pilot surrounds the splines (35a) along a 

first longitudinal portion of the tubular body; and 
   longitudinally displacing portions of the splines (35b) 

from along a second longitudinal portion of the tubular body 
to form a second laterally extending flange (40) abutting 

the pilot and cooperating with the first flange to secure 
the clinch fastener to the sheet. 
16 A method according to Claim 15, characterised in that 
the step of driving the tubular body (30) comprises driving 

same so that the first flange (33) is flush with a surface 
of the sheet (21). 
17 A method according to Claim 15, wherein the clinch 
fastener (20) includes a tapered second end, characterised 

by aligning the clinch fastener (20) with the opening (25) 
in the sheet by positioning the tapered second end partially 

extending into the opening. 
18 A method according to Claim 15, characterised in that 
the steps of driving the tubular body (30) and forming the 

second flange (40) are performed simultaneously. 
19 A method according to Claim 15, wherein the clinch 
fastener (20) includes a threaded bore extending throughout 

an entire length of the tubular body (30) characterised by 
distorting end threads to provide a locking action to a 

mating threaded fastener (23) secured within the tubular 
body (30). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
