<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637200</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF BOVINE HERD MANAGEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K6700	A01K2900	A01K2900	A01K6702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K67	A01K29	A01K29	A01K67	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention features a method of bovine herd management based upon a dynamic mathematical model. The method gathers data on milk production on a periodic or routine basis for each cow in the herd. The data includes factors denoting both the quantity and the quality of the milk being produced. A database for each cow is established and continuously updated. A mathematical herd management model is used to establish the database, wherein the gathered data is then modified and used to interpret and determine the actual productivity of each cow in the herd for that test day. Using this data, a manager of the herd can then breed those cows having a capability superior to their associates in the herd. Likewise, the less productive members of the herd can be culled or eliminated from the herd. Another aspect of the invention includes the use of the database to quantitatively assess the effect of change, including changes made in formulas, in environmental conditions and in breeding practices. Thus, for the first time, herd management can be scientifically controlled on a quantitative basis. Genetic evaluations can be made from the databases of many herds in order to select primary, artificially inseminated, bulls capable of siring daughters in many herds. For maximum efficiency, databases of many herds can be combined or linked across the entire nation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNELL RES FOUNDATION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNELL RESEARCH FOUNDATION, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVERETT ROBERT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVERETT, ROBERT, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention refers to a method of bovine herd management
comprising the steps of gathering data on milk production
for each member of a herd on a routine basis.Such a method is known from EP-A-0 095 883. It describes a
method for determining supplementary feed concentrate
rations for cows by recording milk yields of each cow of a
herd and computing the values of feed concentrate rations
for each cow according to an algorithm. The method shows
the amount of concentrate feed necessary in addition to
the natural feed for a cow in a special condition to
optimize her milk yield.The present invention refers to a dynamic, mathematical
technique for periodically analyzing and upgrading
individual milk production databases. The ultimate goal of
the method is the maximization of milk production, whereby
the best lactating constituents of the herd are determined
and bred. Less productive bovines are quickly recognized
and subsequently culled from the herd in order to maximize
the herd's production. Utilizing databases of many herds,
genetic evaluations can be made in order to select primary
A-1 bulls having daughters in many herds. For maximum efficiency, databases of many herds can be
combined or linked across the entire nation.The raising of bovine herds for milk production is an
industry that has its roots in antiquity. Many influential
factors must be considered in determinng whether a
particular herd of cows will be productive, i.e., provide
large quantities of high-quality milk. Environmental
elements, for example, affect each cow separately, as well
as the 
herd as a composite. Factors such as season,
parity, age, pregnancy and the number of days dry
also affect the overall quantity and quality of a
cow's milk with respect to fat, protein, water
content and somatic cell content. Additionally,
the introduction of new members to the herd (e.g.,
when a calf is born) shifts the disposition and
functioning of the overall herd.Many studies have been conducted and models
created for maximizing a herd. Most such prior
models are based upon a theoretical, standard
production curve that averages a global herd
population. This so-called "average" curve does
not actually predict the production for any given
herd composite; rather, it serves as a standard by
which one could make a comparison of the relative
merits of a particular cow or herd in question.A particular bovine herd cannot ever conform to
any theoretical curve. Each herd is unique. It
cannot follow any set criteria, since it is a
living, changing, shifting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of bovine herd management comprising
the steps of:


a) gathering data on milk production for
each member of a herd on a routine

basis;
b) using a mathematical herd management
model to modify the data to determine

the actual productivity of each cow in
the herd;
c) establishing a database for each member
of said herd, based upon the modified

data of step (b); and
d) continuously updating said database;

said method being 
characterised by
:

e) making physical changes to said herd
based upon information in said database,

in order to increase milk productivity
of said herd,

   wherein the gathering of data of step
(a) includes obtaining quantitative and qualitative

milk production data for each member of a herd on a
routine basis, and
 
   wherein the mathematical herd

management model of step (b) comprises at least one
equation that includes individual member adjustment

factors that account for an individual member's
productivity changes, resulting from effects based

upon age, pregnancy, position on a lactation curve,
a month of freshening and random and fixed

residuals.
The method of herd management in accordance
with claim 1, wherein said gathering of data on a

routine basis includes test-day information.
The method of herd management in accordance
with at least one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the modified data of step (c)

includes actual productivity data for each
individual member of a herd.
The method of herd management in accordance
with at least one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the physical changes of step

(e) include culling the less-productive members
from a herd.
The method of herd management in accordance
with at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the physical changes of step

(e) include breeding the more productive members in
a herd. 
The method of herd management in accordance
with at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the physical changes of step

(e) include changing a herd's feed formulations to
maximize milk production.
The method of herd management in accordance
with at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the physical changes of step

(e) include changing the environmental conditions
in which a herd is housed.
The method of herd management in accordance
with at least one of the preceding claims,

comprising the further steps of: 

linking or combining said database with
other like databases in order to make

genetic evaluations and selections of
primary, artificially inseminated bulls

that can sire daughters in many herds;
and
mating said primary, artificially
inseminated bulls with cows from

different herds.
The method of herd management in accordance
with claim 10, wherein said linking or combining

step comprises the linking and combining of
databases of a plurality of herds nationwide.
The method of herd management
in accordance with

claim 5, wherein said equation reads:

Y
ijklmn
 = H
i
 + A
j
 + D
k
 + P
l
 + F
m
 + e
ijklmn

where:

Y
ijklmn
is a vector of test-day
observations for a cow whose test-day

milk is tested for protein,
fat, water and somatic cell

content; 
H
i
is a fixed effect of the i
th
 test-day
within the herd;
A
j
is a fixed effect of the j
th
 age of
the cow when observed on test-day;
D
k
is a fixed effect of the k
th
 days in
milk (position on the lactation

curve) when observed on test-day;
P
t
is a fixed effect of the 1
th
 days in
pregnancy of the cow when observed

on test-day;
F
m
is a fixed effect of the m
th
 month
freshening of a cow when observed

on test-day; and
e
ijklmn
are random residuals with

(co)variance structure R;

wherein the random residuals "e" for a cow are
obtained by subtraction and are combined to produce

an n-day lactation, where "n" is usually 305 days
of production per year, and "t
n
" is obtained from
the formula:


t
n
 = l'RM(MRM)
-1
 (ê)
 
where:


t and
n
is the sum of the "n" day
residuals, producing an n-day

lactation as a deviation with mean
zero;
R
is the residual covariance matrix;
M
is a mapping incidence matrix of
the observed test days of the "n"

possible test days; and
ê
is the vector of residuals (y -
X
i
B and)
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
