<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652380</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fastening arrangements
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16B3704	F16B3704	F16B502	F16B502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16B	F16B	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16B37	F16B37	F16B5	F16B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fastening arrangement for connecting two items 
comprises a stud 16 secured to one item 14 and a captive 

fastener 18 located in a fastener body 20 secured to the 
other item. The captive fastener 18 is made up of a nut 32, 

a washer 34 and an outer clip 36 for securing the nut to the 
clip. The nut, washer and clip 36 may all be passed though 

the access opening 30 in the fastener body when separate, 
but when assembled, they resist withdrawal. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH AEROSPACE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH AEROSPACE PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALL CRAIG EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER DAVID JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALL, CRAIG EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVER, DAVID JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to captive fastening arrangements.Such arrangements are commonly used in applications,
e.g. on aircraft, where a loose fastener such as a nut could
cause severe damage. Captive fastenings may also simplify
assembly and maintenance components. For example a rectangular
panel may be provided with captive nut assemblies
at each corner which are screwed onto studs on an underlying
structure. Where a large degree of float is required
between the captive fastener and the fastener body, existing
arrangements may not provide a satisfactory solution. A
requirement for a large degree of float may also make
initial engagement of the cooperating fastening elements
problematic. The embodiment described herein provides a
fastening with relatively large float, captive parts, and
relatively easy location between the cooperating elements
due to a degree of self alignment between the parts.British Patents Nos. 1,139,257 and 1,231,723 each show
arrangements in which an internally threaded component is
held captive within a recess and is prevented from rotating.
This type of arrangement requires a loose bolt to be screwed
into the nut and is not suitable for use with a fixed bolt
or threaded stud which require that the nut be engaged by a
tool and rotated to run it down the bolt or stud. Also, the
need in the earlier arrangements to prevent rotation of the
nut means that the nut is not capable of float relative to 
the bolt or stud and so any tolerance must be provided by
the loose bolt or stud. Further, the use of a loose bolt
defies the principle of a captive fastening.U.S. Patent No. 3,678,981 describes a fastener insert
in which a nut is received in a fastener housing and is
prevented from axial movement by rotating the nut during
assembly to bring tabs on the nut into axial abutment with
internal lands on the housing. The nut is then locked
against rotation by means of a retainer, the retainer and
the nut being held within the fastener housing by a retainer
ring. Following assembly the nut is not free to rotate, and
no access to the nut is available for tools or the like.
Furthermore although there is co-operation between the nut,
the retainer and the ring, they are not assembled or
attached together. According to one aspect of this invention, there is
provided a fastening arrangement for connecting two items
together, said arrangement comprising a first connector means
associated with one of said items, a recess provided in
another of said items or in a fastener body attached thereto,
and a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fastening arrangement for connecting two items (10,
12) together, said arrangement comprising:


a first connector means (16) associated with one of said
items (10),
a recess provided in another of said items or in a
fastener body (20) attached thereto, and a second connector

means (32, 34, 36) associated with said other item and housed
generally within said recess and being capable of rotation

therein, said recess defining an aperture (28) for allowing
said first (16) and second connector mea
ns (32, 34, 36) to be
engaged, said recess further including an access opening (30)

spaced axially from said aperture (28) to allow access to
said second connector means (32, 34, 36) by a tool when said

first (16) and second connector means (32, 34, 36) are
engaged, said second connector means (32, 34, 36) being made

up of a plurality of parts (32, 34, 36) which are passed
separately through said access opening (30) and assembled in

said recess but which, when assembled resist withdrawal
through said opening (30) and said aperture (28), when

the first (16) and second connector means (32, 34, 36) are
not engaged.
An arrangement according to Claim 1, wherein said
first connector means comprises a threaded male member (16)

and said second connector means comprises a threaded female
member (32).
An arrangement according to Claim 2, wherein said
second connector means includes an internally threaded

element (32) and a resiliently deformable outer retaining 
element (36) of diameter greater than that of said access

aperture (30) for being connected to said internally
threaded element (32).
An arrangement according to Claim 3, wherein said
second connector means further includes washer means (34),

said outer retaining element (36) being operable to clip
together said washer means (34) and said internally threaded

element (32).
An arrangement according to any of Claims 2 to 4,
wherein said internally threaded element (32) is provided

with a flared surface (38) to provide a lead into the
threaded part.
An arrangement according to Claim 5, when dependent
on Claim 4, wherein said washer means (34) includes a

flared surface (38) which cooperates with the flared surface
(38) on said internally threaded element to provide a lead

into the threaded part.
An arrangement according to Claim 5 or Claim 6,
wherein the external dimension of the second connector means

(32, 34, 36), the internal dimension of the recess, and the
extent of said flared surfaces (38) are such that at least

part of at least one of said flared surfaces is accessible
to the first connector (16) means through said aperture

(28).
A captive nut arrangement including means defining
a recess having a threaded member access aperture (28), and

a captive nut assembly (32, 34, 36) disposed within said
recess, said captive nut assembly comprising an internally 

threaded element (32) and a retaining element (36)

characterised in that
 said recess includes a tool opening
(30), said retaining element (36) is attachable to said

internally threaded element (32), and said recess, said
internally threaded element (32) and said retaining element

(36) are dimensioned so that:-

(i) when separate, the internally threaded element
(32) and the retaining element (36) may be passed through at

least one of the access opening (30), and the access
aperture (28), but when attached together within said

recess, said elements resist withdrawal therefrom, and
(ii) said nut assembly (32, 34, 36) may be engaged with
a tool 
via
 said tool access opening (30) and rotated to
assist threaded engagement in use with a threaded male

member.
A captive nut arrangement according to Claim 8,
wherein said recess defining means comprises a generally

cylindrical housing (20) for being attached to a structural
item.
A captive nut arrangement according to Claim 9,
wherein said housing (20) includes an internal annular

flange (26) bounding one end region of said recess and
defining said threaded member access aperture (28), the

surface of said flange remote from said recess being flared
or tapered to tend to direct in use a threaded member

towards and through said access aperture.
A panel assembly comprising a panel element
releasably secured to an underlying structure provided with 

two or more externally threaded members (16) projecting
therefrom, said panel element being provided at positions

corresponding to said two or more externally threaded
members with respective captive nut arrangements (10) each

including means defining a recess having a tool access
opening (30) and a threaded member access aperture (28), and

a captive nut assembly (32, 34, 36) disposed within said
recess, said captive nut assembly comprising an internally

threaded element (32) and a retaining element (36) for being
attached to said internally threaded element, wherein the

recess, said internally threaded element (32) and said
retaining element (36) are dimensioned so that:-


(i) when separate, the internally threaded element and
the retaining element may be passed through at least one of

the access opening and the access aperture, but when
attached together within said recess, said elements resist

withdrawal therefrom, and
(ii) said nut assembly (32, 34, 36) may be engaged
with a tool 
via
 said tool access opening (30) and rotated to
assist threaded engagement in use with one of said externally

threaded male members (16).
A panel assembly according to Claim 11 wherein
each recess defining means comprises a generally cylindrical

housing (20) secured within a respective bore within said
panel means, and wherein said tool access opening is

accessible from the side of the panel element remote from
the underlying structure.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
