<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650861</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Retractable hardtop vehicle roof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60J704	B60J704	B60J708	B60J712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60J	B60J	B60J	B60J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60J7	B60J7	B60J7	B60J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A retractable hardtop roof (20) for a vehicle (10) for selectively converting the 
passenger compartment (12) from a closed compartment to an open air compartment. 

The roof moves along a low profile to permit opening even while the vehicle is moving. 
The roof conversion includes a frame track (24) mounted within the vehicle body to 

guide and drive the roof panels. The retractable roof compises a top panel (40) and a 
back panel (38) which are hingedly connected. The back panel is in turn hingedly 

connected to the frame for full pivotting movement of the panels relative to the vehicle 
body. A drive mechanism (48) attached to the top panel moves the vehicle roof panels 

along overhead and rear tracks in the frame for full retraction rear of the passenger 
compartment. Power for the drive mechanism is conducted through metal components 

of the vehicle top eliminating the need for wiring. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MASCOTECH AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MSX INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINES CHARLES P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINES, CHARLES P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to convertible tops of the vehicles 
and, in particular, to a hardtop roof for a vehicle which can be 
selectively retracted from a position enclosing the passenger 
compartment to an open position wherein the rock is stored near of 
the passenger compartment. Convertible vehicles are widely popular to provide the 
passengers of a vehicle an open air experience while driving. The 
traditional convertible top has been limited to passenger vehicles 
an includes a soft vinyl top mounted to a frame structure. The top 
attaches to the front header to enclose the passenger compartment. 
To open the passenger compartment, the vehicle must be brought to 
a complete stop to fold the frame and top material rearward for 
storage in the rear boot. Because the top must be compactly folded 
for storage, the top material is thin and pliable providing only a 
minimal barrier against the elements. Retractable hardtop roofs for vehicles have been developed to 
provide limited openness of the passenger compartment. Typically 
such roofs have also been developed which facilitate exposure of a 
greater portion of the passenger compartment. However, these 
vehicles roofs have been limited to traditional passenger vehicles 
since utility trucks and the like incorporate different 
configurations and restrictions. The present invention overcomes the disadvantages of the prior 
known convertible vehicles by providing a retractable hard top 
vehicle roof particularly suited for the passenger compartment of 
a utility truck. The retractable hard top roof of the present invention 
includes a frame track which conforms to the top and rear panel of 
the passenger compartment. The frame is mounted within the vehicle  
 
roof and includes a track along both sides adapted to cooperate 
with the drive mechanism for the roof. The roof comprises a top 
panel and a back panel hingedly connected together. The back panel 
is in turn hingedly connected to the rear of the frame while the 
top panel carriers the drive mechanism. The drive mechanism 
includes end tractor wheels which cooperate with and roof along the 
track in the frame. The drive mechanism connected to the front 
header along the upper and rear track portions to fold the roof 
rear of the passenger compartment. The roof may be stopped 
anywhere along the track providing a slightly open roof for 
ventilation to a full open passenger compartment. The drive mechanism incorporates a central motor which, 
through outwardly extending axles, drives the end
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A retractable hardtop roof (20) for a vehicle (10) having a passenger compartment 
(12), said passenger compartment being enclosed by a front windshield with a header 

(18), a top portion (14) and a rear portion (16), said retractable hardtop roof 
comprising: 

   a guide frame (24) mounted to said passenger compartment, said guide flame (24) 
including track means (34); 

   a rigid back panel (38) pivotably connected to said guide frame; 
   a rigid top panel (40) pivotably connected to said back panel; and 

   drive means (48) mounted to said top panel (38), said drive means cooperating with 
said track means (34) to selectively move said rigid panels between a closed position 

enclosing said passenger compartment (12) and an open position exposing said 
passenger compartment. 
The retractable roof as defined in claim 1, characterized in that said guide frame (24) 
includes a substantially horizontal segment (30) mounted within said top portion (16) of 

said passenger compartment (12) and a substantially vertical segment (32) mounted 
within said rear portion (16) of said passenger compartment. 
The retractable roof according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in 
that said track means (34) of said guide frame (24) including a pair of spaced horizontal 

tracks along said horizontal segment and a pair of spaced vertical tracks along said 
horizontal segment (30), said horizontal tracks cooperating with said vertical tracks to 

form a continuous track for said drive means (48). 
The retractable roof according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in 
that said drive means (48) includes a drive motor (50) and a pair of spaced apart drive 

wheels (54), said drive wheels (54) cooperating with said spaced tracks to move said 
roof panels along said guide frame. 
The retractable roof according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in 
that said drive means (48) is mounted proximate a front edge of said top panel (40) 

whereby said top panel can be selectively engaged with the header (18) to sealingly 
enclose the passenger compartment. 
The retractable roof according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in 
that said rigid back panel (38) is hingedly connected to said guide frame (24) at the 

lower end of said spaced vertical tracks, said rigid top panel (40) hingedly connected to 
said back panel (38) such that said drive means (48) moves along said track means until 

said drive means is proximate said lower end of said track means. 
The retractable roof according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in 
that it comprises a reinforcement bar (56) for said passenger compartment (12), said 

reinforcement bar spanning said compartment at the joinder of said top and rear 
portions, said rigid top panel (40) travelling beneath said reinforcement bar. 
A retractable hardtop roof (20) for a vehicle having a passenger compartment (12), 
said passenger compartment being enclosed by a front windshield with a header (18), a 

top portion (14) and a rear portion (16), said retractable hardtop roof comprising: 
   a guide frame (24) mounted to said top and rear portions of said passenger 

compartment, said guide flame (24) including a pair of spaced horizontal tracks along 
said top portion (19) and a pair of spaced vertical tracks along said rear portion (16); 

   a rigid back panel (38) pivotably connected to said guide frame at the lower end of 
said spaced vertical tracks; 

   a rigid top panel (40) pivotably connected to said back panel; and 
   drive means (48) mounted to said top panel, said drive means including drive wheels 

(54) cooperatively engaging said spaced tracks, said drive wheels selectively moving 
along said spaced horizontal tracks and vertical tracks to selectively move said rigid 

panels between a closed position enclosing said passenger compartment (12) and an 
open position exposing said passenger compartment. 
The retractable roof according to claim 8, characterized in that said drive means 
includes a drive motor drivingly connected to said drive wheels (48) to move said top 

panel along said guide frame until said drive means is proximate said lower end of said 
spaced vertical tracks. 
The retractable roof according to claims 8 or 9, characterized in that said drive 
means (48) is mounted proximate a front edge of said top panel whereby said top panel 

can be selectively engaged with the header (18) to sealingly enclose the passenger 
compartment. 
A retractable hardtop roof (20) for a vehicle having a passenger compartment (12), 
said passenger compartment being enclosed by a front windshield with a header (18), a 

top portion (14) and a rear portion (16), said retractable hardtop roof comprising: 
   a guide frame (24) mounted to said passenger compartment, and including a 

substantially horizontal segment (30) mounted within said top portion of said passenger 
compartment and a substantially vertical segment (32) mounted within said rear portion 

of said passenger compartment; 
   track means (34) within said guide frame, said track means including a pair of 

spaced horizontal tracks along said horizontal segment and a pair of spaced vertical 
tracks along said vertical segment, said horizontal tracks cooperating with said vertical 

tracks to form a continuous track means; 
   a rigid back panel (38) hingedly connected to said guide flame at the lower end of 

said spaced vertical tracks; 
   a rigid top panel (40) hingedly connected to said back panel; and 

   drive means (48) mounted proximate a front edge of said top panel, said drive means 
including a drive motor (50) and a pair of drive wheels (54) drivingly connected to said 

drive motor, said drive wheels cooperatingly engaging said spaced apart tracks, said 
drive wheel selectively moving along said horizontal tracks and vertical tracks to 

selectively move said rigid panels between a closed position enclosing said passenger 
compartment (12) and an open position exposing said passenger compartment. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
