<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630410</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF PRODUCTION OF POLY-BETA-HYDROXYALKANOATE COPOLYMERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14195	C07K14225	C12N900	C12N900	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1552	C12N1552	C12N1553	C12N1553	C12P762	C12P762	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C07K14	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12P7	C12P7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) technology and, more particularly, to a process whereby polybetahydroxyalkanoate (PHA) copolymers can be synthesized in a recombinant host strain containing the poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) biosynthetic genes of Alcaligenes eutrophus.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOVATIVE TECH CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOVATIVE TECH CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENNIS DOUGLAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLATER STEVEN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENNIS DOUGLAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SLATER STEVEN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONMETHOD OF PRODUCTION OF POLY-BETA-HYDROXYALKΛNOATE COPOLYMERSThis is a continuation-in-part of copending U.S. Serial No. 07/362,514 filed June 7, 1989, now , which is expressly incorporated herein by reference, and is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 07/528,549 filed May 25, 1990, now , which is expressly incorporated herein by reference .TECHNICAL FIELDThe invention is generally related to recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid(DNA) technology and, more particularly, to cloning the genes responsible for biosynthesis of poly-betahydroxyalkanoates (PHA) from Alcaligenes eutrophusH16 (A. eutrophus) into Escherichia coli (E. coli) and expressing the PHA's biosynthetic pathway in E. coli.In particular, the invention is related to a process whereby poly-beta- hydroxyalkanoate (PHA) copolymers comprising, for example, poly-beta- hydroxybutyrate (PHB) and poly-betahydroxyvalerate (PHV) can be synthesized in a recombinant strain of Escherichia coli containing the PHB biosynthetic genes of Alcaligenes eutrophus. 

 BACKGROUND ART Poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoates (PHA's) are a heterogeneous family of biodegradable aliphatic polyesters which include,' for example, derived polymers such as poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) and poly-beta- hydroxyvalerate (PHV).PHB is an energy storage material produced by a variety of bacteria in response to environmental stress. Lemoigne discovered the presence of PHB in Bacillus in 1926 and it has since been identified in many different bacterial genera, including Azotobacter, Beijerinckia, Alcaligenes, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium, and Rhodospirillum. PHB is a homopolymer of D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyrate and has physical properties comparable to polypropylene. The biodegradability of PHB makes it especially suitable for a wide variety of purposes. PHB has also been used as a source of chiral centers for the organic synthesis of certain antibiotics, and has been utilized in drug delivery and bone replacement applications.The biosynthesis of PHB has been studied extensively in A. eutrophus and Azotobacter beijerinckii. Figure 1 outlines a three step biosynthetic pathway for PHB found in many prokaryotic organisms. Beta-ketothiolase first catalyzes the reversible condensation of two acetyl coenzyme A (CoA) molecules to acetoacetyl-CoA. The acetoacetyl-CoA is reduced by acetoacetyl-CoA reductase to D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA. Enzyme action of the acetoacetyl-CoA reductase is dependent on NADPH. PHB synthetase polymerizes the D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA to PHB.PHB accumulates when
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A method for producing poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymers comprising:
(a) introducing a vector containing a DNA sequence coding for a poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate biosynthetic pathway into a host cell;
(b) culturing the host cell in a first substrate which induces production of acetate utilization genes in the host cell;
(c) culturing the host cell in a second substrate comprising a carbon source; (d) obtaining expression of the poly-betahydroxybutyrate biosynthetic pathway in the host cell; and,
(e) recovering poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoatecopolymers produced by the host cell.
2. A method for producing poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymers comprising:
(a) culturing a host cell in a first substrate which induces production of acetate utilization genes in the host cell;
(b) introducing a vector containing the DNA sequence coding for a poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate biosynthetic pathway into the host cell;
(c) culturing the host cell in a first substrate which induces production of acetate utilization genes in the host cell;
(d) culturing the host cell in a second substrate comprising a carbon source; 


 (e) obtaining expression of the poly-betahydroxybutyrate biosynthetic pathway in the host cell; and,
(f) recovering poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymers produced by the host cell.
3. The method of claim 1 in which the first substrate comprises acetate, propionate, other 3-carbon source, or mixtures thereof.
4. The method of claim 1 in which the host cell is cultured in the first substrate until its growth reaches late log phase.
5. The method of claim 1 in which the carbon source comprises glucose, fructose, sucrose, lactose, maltose or mixtures thereof.
6. The method of claim 1 in which the DNA sequence coding for poly- beta hydroxybutyrate biosynthetic pathway is obtained from Alcaligenes eutrophus HI 6.
7. The method of claim 1 in which the vector is a plasmid.
8. The method of claim 7 in which the plasmid is p4A which is deposited with the American Type Culture Collection in E. coli HMS174 and given Accession No. 68329.
9. The method of claim 1 in which the host cell is cultured on the first substrate comprising propionate; allowed to grow to late log phase; and, thereafter cultured on the second substrate comprising propionate and glucose.
10. The method of claim 1 in which the host cell is cultured on the first substrate comprising propionate and acetate, allowed to grow to late log 


 phase; and, thereafter cultured on the second substrate comprising propionate, acetate and glucose.
11. The method of claim 1 in which the host cell is cultured on the first substrate comprising acetate; allowed to grow to late log phase; and, thereafter cultured on the second substrate comprising propionate and glucose.
12. The method of claim 1 in which the poly-betahydroxyalkanoate copolymers comprise poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate and poly-beta- hydroxyvalerate.
13. The method of claim 1 in which the poly-betabydroxyalkanoate copolymer comprises approximately 5-50% polyhydroxyvalerate, based on total percentage of poly-betahydroxyalkanoate copolymers produced.
14. The method of claim 1 in which the host cell is selected from the group comprising Escherichia and Salmonella.
15. The method of claim 1 in which the host cell is Escherichia coli.
16. The poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymers produced by the method of claim 1.
17. The method of claim I in which the acetate utilization genes in the host cell are controlled for a period of time whereby butyrate is incorporated into the poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymer, and thereafter activating the acetate utilization genes in the host cell whereby butyrate and at least one other alkanoate are incorporated into the poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymer. 


 18. The method of claim 17 in which the acetate utilization genes in the host cell are controlled by cloning into a plasmid an acetyl-CoA synthetase gene, introducing the plasmid into the host cell, and controlling the expression of the cloned acetyl-Co A synthetase gene whereby incorporation of the other alkanoate into the poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymer is controlled.
19. The method of claim 18 in which the poly-betahydroxyalkanoate copolymer comprises a polymer chain consisting of poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate interspersed with a polymer chain consisting of poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate and other poly-betahydroxyalkanoate .
20. The method of claim 19 in which the alkanoate comprises valerate
21. A method for producing poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymers comprising:
(a) introducing into a host cell which expresses enzymes of acetate utilization constituitively, a vector containing a DNA sequence coding for a poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate biosynthetic pathway; (b) culturing the host cell on a substrate comprising a carbon source and propionate;
(c) obtaining expression of the poly-betahydroxybutyrate biosynthetic pathway in the host cell; and,
(d) recovering poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymers produced by the host cell.
22. The method of claim 21 in which the DNA sequence coding for the poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate biosynthetic pathway is obtained from Alcaligenes eutrophus H16.
23. The method of claim 21 in which the vector is a plasmid. 


 24. The method of claim 23 in which the plasmid is p4A which is deposited with the American Type Culture Collection in E. coli HMS174 and given Accession No. 68329.
25. The method of claim 21 in which the carbon source comprises glucose, fructose, sucrose, lactose, maltose or mixtures thereof.
26. The method of claim 21 in which the propionate in the substrate is present in a concentration from about 2.5 mM to about 100 mM.
27. The method of claim 21 in which the poly-betahydroxyalkanoate copolymers comprise poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate and poly-beta¬ hydroxyvalerate.
28. The method of claim 21 in which the poly-betahydroxyalkanoate copolymers comprise approximately 10-50% polybeta-hydroxyvalerate, based on total percentage of poly-betahydroxyalkanoate copolymers produced.
29. The method of claim 21 in which the bacterial strain is selected from the group comprising Escherichia and Salmonella.
30. The method of claim 21 in which the host cell is Escherichia coli.
31. The poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymers produced by the method of claim 21.
32. The method of claim 21 in which the acetate utilization genes in the host cell are controlled for a period of time whereby butyrate is incorporated into the poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymer, and thereafter activating the acetate utilization genes in the host cell whereby butyrate and 


at least one other alkanoate are incorporated into the poly-beta¬ hydroxyalkanoate copolymer.
33. The method of claim 21 in which the acetate utilization genes in the host cell are controlled for a period of time whereby butyrate is incorporated into the poly-beta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymer, and thereafter activating the acetate utilization genes in the host cell whereby butyrate and at least one other alkanoate are incorporated into the poly-beta¬ hydroxyalkanoate copolymer.
34. The method of claim 33 in which the acetate utilization genes in the host cell are controlled by cloning into a plasmid and acetyl-CoA synthase gene; introducing the plasmid into the host cell; and, controlling the expression of the cloned acetyl-CoA synthase gene whereby incorporation of the other alkanoate into the polybeta-hydroxyalkanoate copolymer is controlled.
35. The method of claim 34 in which the poly-betahydroxyalkanoate copolymer comprises a polymer chain consisting of poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate interspersed with a polymer chain consisting of poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate and other poly-betahydroxyalkanoate .
36. The method of claim 1 in which the host cell is made recombinant stable using a recA protein.
37. The method of claim 1 in which the host cell strain is E. coli 5218 (recA) having a p4A plasmid which is deposited with the American Type Culture Collection and given Accession No. 68681. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
