<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634260</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method of recycling a used product, and an apparatus for carrying out such method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29K2100	B29B1700	B07C534	B29B1700	B29B1702	B09B300	B07C534	B09B500	G06Q1000	B09B500	B29B1702	B09B300	B03B906	G06Q1000	B03B900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29K	B29B	B07C	B29B	B29B	B09B	B07C	B09B	G06Q	B09B	B29B	B09B	B03B	G06Q	B03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29K21	B29B17	B07C5	B29B17	B29B17	B09B3	B07C5	B09B5	G06Q10	B09B5	B29B17	B09B3	B03B9	G06Q10	B03B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
When recycling used products, each product is 
divided (2) into components, each component being of 

one, or one main, material. The degree of degradation 
is assessed (5) for at least one of the materials, and 

recycling is carried out on the basis of that 
assessment. Normally, the degree of degradation will 

depend on the type of the material, so it is normally 
necessary to determine this after the product has been 

divided into components. In some cases the product 
may carry a label or other display which gives 

information about the age of the product, in which 
case the degree of degradation may be assessed on the 

basis of that age. Otherwise, the degree of 
degradation may be determined on the basis of a 

physical property of the material. Physical 
properties may also be used to determine the material 

of each component. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of
recycling a used product. It also relates to an
apparatus for recycling a used product.It is becoming increasingly desirable to recycle
materials from used products. When the product is of
a single material, such as a glass bottle or aluminum
can, recycling is relatively straightforward.
However, most products are made of more than one
material, and also it is not always practical to
collect only products of a single type. In refuse
collection, for example, products of many different
types will be mixed.Therefore, it is also well known to separate used
products into components, each component being
normally of a single material. Sometimes, where one
product of a mixture of products is made of a single
material, that product itself may be considered a
"component" and separated from other products in a 
mixture of products, but normally more complex
products will have to be broken down into separate
components before recycling can occur.The method used to separate the components will
depend on the types of products. For example, US
Patent Specification No. 4,187,775 proposes that a
mixture of products be separated into components, with
those components identified according to the type of
material and also to the source of the product. As a
further development, in order to more clearly identify
the components in a product, the products may be
disassembled or crushed. This is also mentioned in US
Patent Specification 4,187,775 referred to above.In the known recycling methods discussed above,
it is assumed that the material of a component can be
used directly once that component has been separated
from the used product, or from a mixture of used
products. It has been realized that this is not
applicable to materials which change their nature with
time. For example, plastics or rubber materials will
normally degrade with time, and metals may have
increasing amounts of oxidation. Hence, simple
separation of the used products into components of
different materials may not necessarily result in
suitable materials for recycling. Therefore, proposals have been made to assess the
suitability of a used product for recycling. In EP-A-0166899,
the oxidation rate of the plastics materials of
the product were determined.Similarly, EP-A-0068086, the ageing of plastics
materials was determined using IR techniques. In each
case, the assessment was used to determine whether the
product was directly reused or recycled by a predetermined recycling
resource producing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of recycling a used product in which the
used product is divided (2) into a plurality of

components and recycled (7, 8, 11);

   whereby:

for at least one of said plurality of components,
the degree of degradation of at least one material of

said at least one of said components is assessed (3, 4)
from a range of degradation values; and
the recycling (7, 8,11) of said at least one of said
components is effected by at least one process selected on the

basis of said degree of degradation from a plurality of
recycling resource producing processes, the plurality of recycling

resource producing processes
having different methods and different conditions from

each other.
A method according to claim 1, wherein each of the
materials forming said at least one of said components is

assessed prior to said assessing of the degree of
degradation of said at least one material.
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein
the assessing (3) of the degree of degradation is carried

out on the basis of the date of manufacturing of said
used product.
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein
said assessing (4) of the degree of degradation is

carried out on the basis of at least one physical
property of said at least one material of said at least

one of said components. 
A method according to claim 4, wherein said at least
one physical property is selected from the group

consisting of density, deformation temperature, brittle
temperature, refractive index, thermal conductivity,

volume specific resistivity withstand voltage and
dielectric constant.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the dividing of said used product

includes identifying those of said components which are
of plastics, and said assessing (3, 4) of the degradation

is carried out on the components which are of plastics.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the dividing (2) of said used product

includes identifying those of said components which are
of rubber, and said assessing (3, 4) of the degradation

is carried out on the components which are of rubber.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein said recycling of said at least one of

said components includes adding a reforming agent to said
material of said at least one of said components.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, in which only those components for which the

degree of degradation of the material thereof is less
than a predetermined value are recycled, other components

being discarded.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the degree of degradation of another

component of the used product is estimated, and said 
another product is recycled on the basis of the

estimated degree of degradation.
A method according to claim 10, wherein the
estimating of the degree of degradation is carried out on

the basis of the assessing of thee degree of degradation
of said at least one of said plurality of components.
A method according to claim 10 or claim 11, wherein
the assessment of the degree of degradation is carried

out on rubber or plastics materials, and the estimating
of the degree of degradation is carried out on materials

other than rubber of plastics materials.
An apparatus for recycling a used product
comprising:


means for dividing said used product into a
plurality of components;
means for recycling the components;
and means for assessing the degree of degradation of at
least one material of said at least one of said

components from a range of degradation values;

   wherein the recycling means is arranged to operate
by a process selected on the basis of said degree of

degradation from a plurality of recycling resource producing processes, the
plurality of recycling resource producing processes having different methods

and different conditions from each other.
An apparatus according to claim 13, having means for
estimating the degree of degradation of at least one

other of said components;
 
   wherein the recycling means is arranged to operate

on the respective degrees of degradation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
