<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628341</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Removal of heavy metals from incinerator flue gases
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5364	B01D5370	B01D5381	B01D5370	B01D5381	B01D5346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Toxic metal vapor phase compounds, and in particular, 
mercury and cadmium, are removed from waste incinerator 

combustion gases by contact with dry alkaline material and 
dry activated carbon followed by solids separation. The 

resulting gas is subjected to quench/wet scrubbing with 
recycle hydrochloric acid solution formed 
in situ
 by 
absorption of HCl from the gas. Blowdown liquid withdrawn 

from the recycle acid liquor, may be recycled to the 
incinerator or further treated by neutralization, 

precipitation, and filtration of the precipitated toxic 
metals. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECO ENG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LERNER BERNARD J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECO ENGINEERING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LERNER, BERNARD J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LERNER BERNARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LERNER, BERNARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Reference is hereby made to US-A-5238665
(Application Serial No. 07/712,475, filed June 10, 1991) to
Bernard J. Lerner entitled "Method for Minimizing
Environmental Release of Toxic Compounds in the Incineration
of Wastes".This invention relates to removal of vapour phase toxic
metal compounds from exhaust gases resulting from
incineration of wastes and apparatus for effecting such
removal.Incineration of municipal solid wastes (MSW),
biomedical wastes (MBW), and the like, produce combustion
products containing various toxic metals. These metals and
their compounds are know to be inimical to human health.
Most of the toxic metals oxidize and condense to particulate
form on cooling, and can therefore be filtered out by
appropriate filter means. However, some toxic 
metals, particularly mercury and cadmium and their halogen
and oxide compounds, tend to remain in vapor form on
cooling from combustion temperatures. These metals and
their compounds are not removable by filtration. On the
other hand, these metals and compounds are toxic at the
vapor phase concentrations that exist in the typical
combustion gases and stack emissions. The environmental
standards of several states now require a limit on mercury
emissions of 50 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter
(µg/DSCM), and 50 µg/DSCM for cadmium and thallium combined
corrected to a reference concentration of oxygen or carbon
dioxide content in the gas.In the presence of hydrochloric acid (HCl) in the gas,
mercury and cadmium compounds found in the waste combustion
gases from MSW and BMW incineration are predominantly in
the form of uncondensed vapor-phase chlorides. On cooling
from the elevated combustion temperatures, both mercury and
cadmium react as elements or as oxides with the HCl in the
gas to form the vapor-phase chlorides.It is known in the art that gas-phase mercury and
cadmium chlorides may be removed from combustion gases by
adsorption on high surface area sorbents, such as activated
carbon, or by wet scrubbing with aqueous solutions. Wet
scrubbing, which comprises treating the cooled combustion
gases with an aqueous scrubbing solution in an efficient
gas-liquid contactor, is conventionally employed to remove
the acid gases, HCl and SO2, from the combustion gases. Wet
scrubbers typically use an aqueous solution of alkali metal
or alkaline earth carbonate or hydroxide for
neutralization of the absorbed HCl. Although effective for
HCl and SO2 removal, wet scrubbing has been found to be only
partially effective for mercury and cadmium removal.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for reducing toxic emissions of mercury,
cadmium and/or thallium in waste exhaust gases, which

process comprises

contacting a first stream comprising waste exhaust
gases containing at least one of mercury, cadmium or

thallium in chloride form and HCl with alkaline material and
a finely divided high surface area, solid sorbent material

characterised in that
both the alkaline material and the sorbent material are
substantially dry, that the alkaline material is finely

divided, the alkaline and solid sorbent material being for
removal of a major portion of said chloride,
wherein a second stream comprising the chloride-depleted
gas stream is passed to a solids separation zone

for removal of particulate matter comprising spent alkaline
solids and spent sorbent,
and a third stream comprising the substantially
particulate matter-free gas stream is passed to a wet

scrubber zone, recycling acid liquid to said wet scrubber
zone for absorption of residual toxic metal compounds from

said particulate matter-free gas stream,
and a substantially toxic metal-free gas stream is
withdrawn.
A process according to Claim 1, wherein said waste
exhaust gases are formed by incineration of wastes

containing at least one of mercury, cadmium or thallium in
a waste incineration zone.
A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein said
wastes contain insufficient chlorine to convert said

mercury, cadmium and thallium to the chloride form during
incineration and hydrochloric acid or a hydrochloric acid-generating

material is added to said wastes for conversion
of mercury, cadmium or thallium present in said wastes to 

chloride form during incineration in said waste incineration
zone.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
wherein said wastes comprise wood or coal.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein said waste exhaust gases are cooled prior to contact

with said alkaline material and said sorbent material.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5,
wherein said waste exhaust gases are cooled to a temperature

in the range of from about 175°C to about 235°C.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
wherein gas removed from said wet scrubber zone is passed to

a second scrubber for removal of residual hydrochloric acid.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 7,
wherein said solids separation zone comprises a fabric

filter baghouse.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 8,
wherein blowdown liquid from said wet scrubber is passed to

said waste incineration zone.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 9,
wherein blowdown liquid from said wet scrubber is treated to

remove toxic metals.
A process according to claim 10, wherein blowdown
liquid from said wet scrubber is treated to precipitate

toxic metals, filtered and neutralised.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 11,
wherein said sorbent is activated carbon or fuller's earth. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 12,
wherein said alkaline material is hydrated lime or sodium

bicarbonate.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5,
wherein said sorbent and said alkaline material are added to

and admixed with cooled waste exhaust gases.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 14,
wherein a liquid stream is withdrawn from said quench/wet

scrubber zone.
A process according to Claim 15, wherein said liquid
stream withdrawn from said quench/wet scrubber zone is

passed to said incineration zone.
A process according to claim 3, wherein hydrochloric
acid-generating material is added to said incineration zone

and comprises polyvinyl chloride plastic.
A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 17,
wherein the acid liquid is formed in situ.
Apparatus for minimising the environmental release of
acid gas and toxic metal compounds in the exhaust gases from

an incinerator, said apparatus comprising:

incinerator means (1) having inlet means (2) for
introducing toxic-metal containing wastes to said

incinerator (1) and outlet means (7) for discharge of
exhaust gases,
gas-cooling means (8) communicating with said

incinerator outlet means (7) having an inlet means for
receiving exhaust gases and an outlet means,

characterised in that
a first gas-treating means (11, 12, 13, 14, 15)
communicating with said gas-cooling outlet means for

contacting said gas with substantially dry, finely-divided 
alkaline solids, a second gas treating means (16, 17, 18,

19, 20) communicating with said gas-cooling outlet means for
contacting gases with substantially dry, finely-divided high

surface area sorbent,
conduit means (21, 22) for passing gases contacted with
said alkaline solids and high surface area sorbent to a

solids separation means (26) for the removal of dry solids
and fly ash particulate;
said solid separation means outlet means (30)
communicating with a third gas treating means for

incremental removal of the toxic metals and acid gas
comprising a quench/wet scrubber means (32) for dissolution

of residual toxic metal compounds and acid gases, means (38,
40) for storing acid liquor draining from said quench/wet

scrubber means (32), means (36, 40, 44) for circulating acid
liquor to said quench/wet scrubber means (32) from said

liquor storage means, means (60, 62, 64, 66) for withdrawal
of an acid blowdown stream containing dissolved toxic metals

from said circulation means (36) for further treatment,
and tail-gas wet scrubber means (48) communicating with
an outlet means from said quench/wet scrubber means (32).
Apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said means (60
- 66) for withdrawal of an acid blowdown stream from said

circulation means communicates (92, 94, 98) with said
incinerator means (1) for incineration of dissolved toxic

metals in said acid blowdown stream.
Apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said means (60
- 66) for withdrawal of an acid blowdown stream from said

circulation means (36 - 44) communicates with precipitation
means (66, 74) and said precipitation means (74)

communicates with solids separation means (82) for
separation of dissolved toxic metals from said acid blowdown

stream.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 19 to 21, 
wherein said gas cooling means (8) comprises a waste heat

boiler.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 19 to 22,
wherein said solids separation means (26) comprises a fabric

filter baghouse.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 19 to 23,
wherein said solids separation (26) comprises an

electrostatic precipitator.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 19 to 24,
wherein said tail-gas scrubber means (48) comprises a

countercurrent contactor.
Apparatus according to any one of claims 19 to 25,
wherein said incinerator comprises means for introducing HCl

or HCl- generating material.
Apparatus according to claim 24, wherein said means
(60, 62) for withdrawal of an acid blowdown stream

communicates with valve means (64), said valve means being
movable between a first position communicating said means

for withdrawal of an acid blowdown stream with precipitation
means (66) and a second position communicating said means

for withdrawal of an acid blowdown stream with said
incineration means (1), said precipitation means (66)

communicating with solids separation means (82) for
separation of dissolved toxic metals from said acid blowdown

stream.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
