<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611061</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Displacement sensor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B702	G01B702	G01D512	G01D512	G01D1300	G01D1306	G01F2330	G01F2368	G01F2372	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01D	G01D	G01D	G01D	G01F	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B7	G01B7	G01D5	G01D5	G01D13	G01D13	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sensor (1) for sensing the displacement of a 
body (12) comprises a deformable strip (2) enclosed in 

a chamber 3. The strip is constrained under 
longitudinal and transverse constraint such that end 

portions (9,10) of the strip are parallel to a 
direction of movement of the body, the strip being 

locally deformed in the form of an S-bend. A magnetic 
means operable between the strip and the body varies 

the location of the S-bend along the length of the 
strip according to the position of the body. Optical 

or electronic means are provided for indicating the 
sensed position. The sensor may be used for sensing 

liquid levels or displacement of moving bodies such as 
valve elements particularly in hazardous environments 

including aircraft. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISHER ROSEMOUNT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISHER-ROSEMOUNT LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON JAMES STEWART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON, JAMES STEWART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a sensor for sensing 
the displacement of a body and in particular to a 
sensor which is suitable for use in hostile 
environments where direct contact with the body is 
undesirable. It is known for displacement to be sensed using 
a follower device such as disclosed in US-3065635 in 
which a magnetic follower is isolated from the body 
but moves in unison with the body by virtue of 
magnetic coupling. The displacement of the follower 
device is then taken as an indication of the body's 
displacement. Such sensors have particular application to 
measurement of liquid levels where the body 
constitutes a float. It is also known from US-4637254 to provide a 
position sensor in which a deformable strip adopts an 
S-bend configuration at a localised position along its 
length and the position at which the S-bend is formed 
is determined by the position of a body whose 
displacement is to be sensed. The position at which 
the S-bend is formed is then detected as an indication 
of body position. A disadvantage of this system is 
that the body is biassed into contact with the strip 
in order to deform the strip and a flexible seal 
arrangement is required to protect the sensor from the 
environment in which the body is movable. According to the present invention there is 
disclosed a sensor for sensing the displacement of a 
body comprising a deformable strip, a rigid enclosure 
defining a chamber within which the strip is received 
and isolating the strip from contact with the body, 
constraining means operable to maintain the strip 
under longitudinal and transverse constraint such that  
 
first and second end portions of the strip extend 
substantially parallel to a longitudinal direction in 
which the body is movable relative to the sensor and 
locally deforming the strip in a transverse direction 
orthogonal to the first and second portions such that 
a deformed portion in the form of an S-bend 
integrally and unitarily connects the first and second 
end portions, and first magnetic means operable 
between the strip and the body to apply a magnetic 
force non-uniformly to the strip such that the 
location at which the strip is deformed to constitute 
the deformed portion is longitudinally variable in 
registration with a reference portion of the body 
whereby the longitudinal displacement of the deformed 
portion is representative of the displacement of the 
body. An advantage of such an arrangement is that the 
rigid enclosure avoids the need for any flexible seal 
arrangement
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sensor (1,20) for sensing the 
displacement of a body (12) comprising a deformable 

strip (2), a rigid enclosure (4) defining a chamber 
(3) within which the strip is received and isolating 

the strip from contact with the body, constraining 
means (7,8,5,6;22) operable to maintain the strip 

under longitudinal and transverse constraint such that 
first and second end portions (9,10) of the strip 

extend substantially parallel to a longitudinal 
direction in which the body is movable relative to the 

sensor and locally deforming the strip in a transverse 
direction orthogonal to the first and second portions 

such that a deformed portion (11) in the form of an 
S-bend integrally and unitarily connects the first and 

second end portions, and first magnetic means (12) 
operable between the strip and the body to apply a 

magnetic force non-uniformly to the strip such that 
the location at which the strip is deformed to 

constitute the deformed portion is longitudinally 
variable in registration with a reference portion (14) 

of the body whereby the longitudinal displacement of 
the deformed portion is representative of the 

displacement of the body. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
strip is comprised of ferromagnetic material and the 

body comprises a magnetic element (12) arranged in 
closer proximity to the first end portion than to the 

second end portion thereby constituting the first 
magnetic means. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the length of the chamber is less than the 

undeformed length of the strip whereby end walls (7,8) 
 

of the enclosure constitute longitudinally 
constraining element of the constraining means. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the enclosure comprises longitudinally 

extending first and second walls (5,6) contacted by 
the respective first and second end portions of the 

strip and wherein the first magnetic means is operable 
to bias the first end portion into contact with the 

first wall. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 4 further 
comprising biassing means (15) operable to bias the 

second end portion into co-planar contact with the 
second wall. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the 
biassing means comprises a second magnetic means (15) 

operable to apply substantially uniformly to the strip 
a magnetic force in opposition to and of smaller 

magnitude than the magnetic force applied by the first 
magnetic means. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the 
biassing means comprises electrostatic means operable 

to apply an electrostatic force in opposition to and 
of lesser magnitude than the magnetic force applied by 

the first magnetic means. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the 
biassing means comprises a clamp (22) operable on the 

second linear portion to apply a transverse 
deformation such that the second linear portion 

exhibits an arcuate profile when viewed in 
longitudinal projection. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the magnetic element extends longitudinally in 

a direction parallel to the direction of motion and 
wherein the magnetic element is transversely 

magnetised along its length. 
a sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the enclosure comprises a window through which 

the strip is visible. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 10 wherein 
the chamber is filled with a liquid. 
A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim 
further comprising sensing means (25,26;5,6) operable 

to sense the position of the deformed portion and to 
produce an electrical signal representative of the 

longitudinal displacement of the deformed portion. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 12 wherein 
the sensing means comprises at least one electrode 

(5,6) associated with the enclosure and wherein the 
sensing means is operable to produce an electronic 

signal responsive to the capacitance between the 
electrode and the strip. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 12 wherein 
the sensing means comprises two or more inductive 

elements (25,26) associated with the enclosure and 
wherein the sensing means is operable to produce an 

electronic signal responsive to inductive coupling 
between the elements. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 12 wherein 
the sensing means comprises a transmitter (61) of 

electromagnetic radiation operable to transmit 
 

longitudinally through the chamber, a detector (61) 
operable to detect reflective radiation, ranging means 

operable to generate an output signal representative 
of the range at which the radiation is reflected and 

reflecting means associated with the deformed portion 
whereby the output signal is representative of the 

displacement of the deformed portion. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 15 wherein 
the constraining means is operable to induce an S-bend 

at the deformed portion in which the strip is deformed 
through substantially 90° relative to its 

longitudinal extent. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 12 wherein 
the sensing means comprises a longitudinally extending 

fluorescent light guide (70), the sensor further 
comprising a light source operable to illuminate the 

deformed portion and an optical detector operable to 
produce a signal representative of the longitudinal 

location of the light guide at which the fluorescence 
is detected. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 17 wherein 
the constraining means is operable to deform the strip 

such that the strip is deformed through substantially 
45° at the S-bend whereby a longitudinally directed 

light beam is transversely deflected through 
substantially 90° at the deformed portion. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 12 wherein 
the sensing means comprises a scale (36) extending 

longitudinally of the enclosure and optical reading 
means operable to read the portion of scale in 

registration with the deformed portion. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 19 wherein 
the scale comprises markings (36) applied to the strip 

and wherein the deformed portion comprises an S-bend 
in which the strip is bent through substantially 90° 

relative to its longitudinal extent. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 19 wherein 
the scale comprises markings applied to a wall of the 

enclosure and wherein the deformed portion comprises 
an S-bend in which the strip is bent through 

substantially 45° relative to its longitudinal 
extent. 
A sensor as claimed in claim 21 wherein 
the optical detector comprises one or more lenses (30) 

or mirrors mounted on a sledge (31) coupled to the 
strip so as to be localised to and movable with the 

deformed portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
