<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652600</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of manufacturing an aggregate of semiconductor micro-needles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L3300	G02B612	G02B612	H01L3300	H01L310352	H01L21308	G02B6124	G02B6124	H01L3118	H01L310248	H01L2102	H01L3118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	G02B	G02B	H01L	H01L	H01L	G02B	G02B	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L33	G02B6	G02B6	H01L33	H01L31	H01L21	G02B6	G02B6	H01L31	H01L31	H01L21	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
On a silicon substrate (1) is formed a silicon dioxide film (5) and 
then hemispherical grains made of silicon, each having an 

extremely small diameter, are deposited thereon by LPCVD (6). 
After annealing the hemispherical grains, the silicon dioxide 

film is etched using the hemispherical grains as a first dotted 
mask, thereby forming a second dotted mask composed of the 

silicon dioxide film. The resulting second dotted mask is used 
to etch the silicon substrate to a specified depth from the 

surface thereof, thereby forming an aggregate of semiconductor 
micro-needles. Since the diameter of each of the semiconductor 

micro-needles is sufficiently small to cause the quantum size 
effects as well as has only small size variations, remarkable 

quantum size effects can be obtained. Therefore, it becomes 
possible to constitute a semiconductor apparatus with a high 

information-processing function by using the aggregate of 
semiconductor micro-needles (quantized region). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In recent years, there has been developed an optical
element in which porous silicon is formed to be used as a light
emitting element. Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 4-356977
discloses such an optical element, in which a large
number of micro-pores 102 are formed in the surface region of
a silicon substrate 101 by anodization, as shown in FIG. 33.
If the porous silicon is irradiated with light, photoluminescence
having its absorption edge in the visible region
is observed, which implements a light-receiving/light-emitting
element using silicon. That is, in a normal semiconductor
apparatus composed of single-crystal silicon, an excited
electron makes an indirect transition to a lower energy level
so that the energy resulting from the transition is converted
into heat, which renders light emission in the visible region
difficult. However, there has been reported a phenomenon that,
if silicon has a walled structure, such as porous silicon, and
its wall thickness is about 0.01 µm, the band width of the
silicon is enlarged to 1.2 to 2.5 eV due to the quantum size
effects, so that an excited electron makes a direct transition
between the bands, which enables light emission.It has also been reported that two electrodes are provided 
on both ends of the porous silicon so that electroluminescence
is observed by the application of an electric field.However, if electroluminescence is to be obtained by the
application of an electric field or photoluminescence is to be
obtained by the irradiation with light of the porous silicon
formed by anodization in the surface region of the silicon
substrate 101 as shown in FIG. 33, the following problems are
encountered.That is, the diameter and depth of the micro-pore 102
formed by anodization are difficult to control. In addition,
the configuration of the micro-pore 102 is complicated and the
distribution of its wall thickness is extremely random. As a
result, if etching is intensely performed in order to reduce
the wall thickness, the wall portions may be partially torn and
peeled off the substrate. Moreover, since the distribution of
the wall thickness is random, the quantum size effects are not
generated uniformly over the whole wall portions, so that light
emission with a sharp emission spectrum cannot be obtained.
Furthermore, the wall surface of the micro-pore in the porous
silicon readily adsorbs molecules and atoms during anodization,
due to its complicated configuration. Under the influence of
the atoms and molecules attached to the surface of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), including:


etching a silicon substrate by using a dotted mask (Ms1,Ms2) so as to form a large
number of semiconductor micro-needles (2) each extending from the surface of

silicon substrate (1) to a specified depth, said dotted mask (Msl,Ms2) being formed
by deposition of a large number of grains on said silicon substrate (1), each of said

grains having a diameter sufficiently small to cause quantum size effects in the
underlying semiconducting material after the etching,
characterized in that
 in the step of forming said dotted mask

metal seeds (8) are deposited on the surface of said silicon substrate, and
grains (6) of a semiconductor material are grown over said metal seeds (8).
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to claim 1,
characterized in that
an insulating layer (3) is formed surrounding each of said semiconductor micro-needles
(2).
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to claim 2,
characterized in that
said insulating layer(3)is formed by filling the space surrounding each of said

semiconductor micro-needles (2) with insulating material.
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to claim 3,
characterized in that
said insulating layer (3) is formed by CVD.
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to claim 3,
characterized in that
said insulating layer (3) is formed by oxidizing the side portions and top ends of said
semiconductor micro-needles (2).
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to claims 1 to 5,
characterized in that
said dotted mask (Ms1,Ms2) is removed from the surface of said silicon substrate
(1), and 
an upper electrode (4) is formed over the upper end of said semiconductor micro-needles
(2), said upper electrode (4) being electrically connected to each of said

semiconductor micro-needles (2).
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to claim 6,
characterized in that
a p-n junction (2a) is formed in said silicon substrate (1), and
said semiconductor micro-needles (2) are formed by etching to a point at least lower
than said p-n junction (2a).
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to claims 6 and 7 ,
characterized in that
a discrete insulating layer (9) is formed surrounding the aggregate of semiconductor
micro-needles (2).
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to claim 8,
characterized in that
at least one lateral electrode (10) is formed surrounding said discrete insulating layer
(9).
Method of manufacturing a semiconductor device comprising an aggregate of
semiconductor micro-needles (2), according to one of the previous claims,
characterized in that
rhodium or tin is used as metal seeds (8).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
