<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650511</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHOTOTRANSCHROMIC INK.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09D1100	C09D1100	C09D1102	C09D1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09D11	C09D11	C09D11	C09D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A phototranschromic ink suitable for use in a printing machine, including a water soluble, inert, non-ionic polymeric resin carrier base having film forming properties, a photo acid or photo base progenitor which releases or takes up protons upon exposure to light, a pH sensitive dye which changes color in response to a change in proton levels, a water compatible non-ionic wetting agent which cooperates with said dye to allow said dye to change color in response to said change in proton levels, a water compatible non-ionic thickening agent which cooperates with said dye to allow said dye to change color in response to said change in proton levels, a neutral water soluble flow aid which cooperates with said dye to allow said dye to change color in response to said change of proton levels; wherein said base, progenitor, dye, wetting agent, thickening agent and flow aid all cooperate to provide an ink which changes color upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation and is of suitable consistency for use in a printing machine.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XYTRONYX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XYTRONYX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOMAN PETER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIRDESAI SUNIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOMAN, PETER, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIRDESAI, SUNIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONPhototranschromic InkBackground of the InventionThis invention relates to systems designed to measure exposure to ultraviolet radiation.Mullis, U.S. Patent 5,028,792, describes a system for the visualization of exposure to ultraviolet light radiation, in which a combination of polyvinyl alcohol, an acid sensitive dye, and a bisulfite adduct of an ortho- nitro substituted aromatic aldehyde are provided. This mixture changes from one color to a different color upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation. This color change reflects the effect of ultraviolet light radiation on the aldehyde to cause an increase in acidity. This increase in acidity in turn causes the acid sensitive dye to change color, and thus provide a visual signal of exposure to ultraviolet light. In one example (Example 23) a phototranschromic ink was made by forming a mixture of diethylene glycol, polyvinyl alcohol, an ortho- nitrobenzaldehyde, and bromophenol blue. This ink was applied to paper with a brush.Summary of the InventionThis invention provides a phototranschromic ink which is suitable for use in a printing machine, including for use in processes such as silk screening, or those involved with a letter press machine, a flexigraphic process, or an offset process. Specifically, in a first aspect, the invention features a phototranschromic ink which is formed from a water soluble, inert and non-ionic polymeric resin carrier base having film forming properties. That is, the base is of sufficiently high molecular weight to form a continuous layer of molecules, rather than separated areas containing one or more molecules. The ink also contains a photoacid or photobase progenitor (which releases or 

takes up protons upon exposure to a desired light, e.g. , ultraviolet light) , a pH sensitive dye (which changes color in response to a change in proton levels) , a water compatible non-ionic wetting agent, a water compatible non-ionic thickening agent, and a neutral water-soluble flow aid. The wetting agent, thickening agent and flow aid all cooperate with the dye to allow the dye to change color in response to a change in proton level. In addition, the photoacid or photobase progenitor, dye, wetting agent, thickening agent and flow aid all cooperate to provide a phototranschromic ink which changes color upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation, and is of suitable consistency for use in a printing machine.By "phototranschromic ink" is meant a fluid ink which provides a sufficiently high color density for use in a printing machine,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A phototranschromic ink suitable for use in a printing machine, comprising a water soluble, inert, non-ionic polymeric resin carrier base having film forming properties, a photo acid or photo base progenitor which releases or takes up protons upon exposure to light, a pH sensitive dye which changes color in response to a change in proton levels, a water compatible non-ionic wetting agent which cooperates with said dye to allow said dye to change color in response to said change in proton levels, a water compatible non-ionic thickening agent which cooperates with said dye to allow said dye to change color in response to said change in proton levels, a neutral water soluble flow aid which cooperates with said dye to allow said dye to change color in response to said change of proton levels; wherein said base, progenitor, dye, wetting agent, thickening agent and flow aid all cooperate to provide an ink which changes color upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation and is of suitable consistency for use in a printing machine.
2. The phototranschromic ink of claim 1, wherein said ink is suitable for use in a letter press machine, a flexigraphic process, an offset process or in silk screening.
3. The phototranschromic ink of claim 1, wherein said carrier base is selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl acetate, polyvinyl pyrrolidone and copolymers with vinyl acetate, polyethylene oxide, polyurethane dispersions, and acrylic emulsions. 


 4. The phototranschromic ink of claim 1, wherein said photoacid progenitor is selected from the group consisting of ortho-nitrobenzaldehyde, 2,4- dinitrobenzaldehyde, 2,6-dinitrobenzaldehyde and ortho- nitrocinnamaldehyde.
5. The phototranschromic ink of claim 1, wherein said pH sensitive dye is selected from the group consisting of bromophenol blue, phenol red, thymol blue, ethyl orange, m-Cresol purple, New Fuchsin, p-Methyl red, and lissamine green.
6. The phototranschromic ink of claim 1, wherein said wetting agent is selected from the group consisting of low molecular weight copolymers of polyalkylene oxide- modified methylpolysiloxanes, fluoroaliphatic polymeric esters and polyethyleneglycol.
7. The phototranschromic ink of claim 1, wherein said thickening agent is selected from the group consisting of polyurethane dispersions.
8. The phototranschromic ink of claim 1 wherein said flow aid is selected from the group consisting of glycols, gum esters, and ester alcohols.
9. The phototranschromic ink of claim 1 further comprising a pigment, colored dye, Titanium dioxide, metallic reflective powder or fluorescent brightener.
10. A substrate having an inert surface comprising a phototranschromic ink applied thereto by a printing machine.
11. The substrate of claim 10 further comprising a spectral filter. 


 12. The substrate of claim 10 further comprising adhesive.
13. The substrate of claim 12 wherein said adhesive is selected from an acrylic resin based adhesive in an organic solvent and an acrylic water based emulsion.
14. The substrate of claim 10 further comprising a chemical filter.
15. The substrate of claim 14 wherein said filter is selected from dimethoxy benzaldehyde, n-butyl-p- aminobenzoate, substituted 2-hydroxybenzophenones, and butyl-methoxydibenzoylmethane.
16. A method for forming a light dosimeter comprising the step of providing a substrate and applying a phototranschromic ink thereto with a printing machine.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the printing machine is selected from a letter press machine, a flexigraphic process, an offset process or silk screening.
18. The method of claim 16 wherein the substrate is selected from any plastic or coated paper product having an inert substrate surface compatible with the phototranschromic ink.
19. The method of claim 16 comprising the step of applying a spectral filter to said substrate.
20. The method of claim 16 comprising the step of applying an adhesive to said substrate. 


 21. A phototranschromic ink suitable for use in a printing machine, comprising a water soluble, inert, non-ionic polymeric resin carrier base having film forming properties, a photo acid or photo base progenitor which releases or takes up protons upon exposure to light, a pH sensitive dye which changes color in response to a change in proton levels, a water compatible non-ionic wetting agent which cooperates with said dye to allow said dye to change color in response to said change in proton levels, a neutral water soluble flow aid which cooperates with said dye to allow said dye to change color in response to said change of proton levels; wherein said base, progenitor, dye, wetting agent and flow aid all cooperate to provide an ink which changes color upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation and is of suitable consistency for use in a printing machine. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
