<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653971</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEALING COLLET.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B3100	B23B3100	B23B3120	B23B3120	B23Q100	B23Q100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	B23B	B23B	B23Q	B23Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B31	B23B31	B23B31	B23B31	B23Q1	B23Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sealing collet (10) is provided having a plurality of independent gripping jaws (12) longitudinally disposed about a common centerline axis. The gripping jaws (12) have exposed inner (14) and outer (18) faces. A resilient material (22) is disposed between the gripping jaws (12) and holds the jaws (12) in a predetermined longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about the centerline axis of a collet (10). A continuous outer diameter seal (24) is disposed circumferentially about the conical outer surface (20) of the collet (10). The outer diameter seal (24) is formed integral with the resilient material (22). A continuous inner diameter seal (26) is also disposed circumferentially within the inner diameter (16) of the collet (10) and also formed integral with the resilient material (22). At least one coolant fluid channel (54) may be defined in the resilient material (22) in fluid communication with a coolant port (56) defined through the face (50) of the collet (10) for introducing cooling fluid onto the working surfacesof a tool held by the collet (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POWER TOOL HOLDERS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POWER TOOL HOLDERS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAAN ROGER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALPAKA GLENN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAAN, ROGER, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALPAKA, GLENN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE OF THE INVENTIONSEALING COLLET BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to machine collets, and more particularly to a sealing collet for use with tools having a through-hole for the induction of cooling fluid through the tool. A variety of conventional drills and tools are commercially available having holes or passages defined therethrough to enable the induction of coolant to the cutting edge or working surfaces of the drill or tool. Coolant is a cutting fluid known to reduce the frictional forces acting on the drill. However, in order for a cutting fluid to function effectively, two requirements must be met. First, the fluid must have the thermal capability of removing heat generated by the tool and, secondly, the fluid must reach the cutting area or working surfaces of the tool. In order to use this conventional type of through-hole drill the collet holding the drill must be sealed to allow the coolant to flow to the cutting edge of the drill at a relatively high pressure. If the collet is not adequately sealed, the coolant will leak from around the tool holder cone and the tool holder nut and will not reach the cutting edge with adeguate pressure and flow.Conventional sealing collets are commercially available, such as the ER-COOLITtm Collet manufactured by Engineers Tool Manufacturing Company, Limited, of Israel and sold through GTE Valenite Corporation of Troy, Michigan. Another example of conventional sealing collets are the Sealing Collets sold by Rego-Fix Tool Corporation of Indianapolis, Indiana. The conventional sealing collets, such as the type mentioned, relate to the commonly known split steel type collets. The conventional sealing collets are generally inadequate since they seal only at relatively low pressures and at nominal clamping diameters only. A reason for this inadequacy may be that the conventional split steel collets are made into sealing collets through a method of adding a sealing media 

between the steel segments. This method is very expensive and does not hold very well to the split steel segments.The Jacobs® Chuck Manufacturing Company manufactures and markets a well known Rubber-Flex® Collet of the type having a plurality of individual gripping members held in position and equally spaced about a common axis. The spaces between the gripping members is filled with an adherent resilient material, such as rubber or rubber composition. The gripping members have perforations therethrough so that the resilient material not only fills the space between
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A sealing collet for use with tools having through holes defined therein for the induction of coolant fluid to the working surfaces of the tool, said collet comprising: a plurality of independent gripping jaws longitudinally disposed about a common centerline axis, said gripping jaws having an inner gripping face parallel to the centerline axis and defining an inner diameter for said collet through which the shaft of a machine tool is inserted, said gripping jaws having an outer face whereby said plurality of gripping jaws forms an outer surface of said collet; resilient material disposed between each said gripping jaw, said resilient material holding said gripping jaws in a predetermined longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about the centerline axis; a continuous outer diameter seal disposed circumferentially about said outer surface, said outer diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material and extending circumferentially radially outward beyond said outer faces of said gripping jaws; and a continuous inner diameter seal disposed circumferentially within said inner diameter structurally independent of said outer diameter seal, said inner diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material and extending circumferentially radially inward from said inner faces of said gripping jaws.
2. The collet as in claim 1, wherein said outer diameter seal is disposed generally near the back end of said collet in relation to said collet within a tool holder.
3. The collet as in claim 1, wherein said inner diameter seal is disposed generally at the front end of said collet in relation to said collet within a tool holder.
4. The collet as in claim 1, wherein said outer diameter seal comprises a single-lip seal.
5. The collet as in claim 1, wherein said outer diameter seal comprises a double-lip seal. 


 6. The collet as in claim 1, further comprising at least one additional said inner diameter seal.
7. The collet as in claim 1, wherein each said gripping jaw further comprises at least one said perforation defined therethrough, said resilient material extending through said perforations so as to form essentially concentric rings of resilient material through said gripping jaws.
8. The collet as in claim 1, wherein said outer diameter seal and said inner diameter seal are molded integral with said resilient material.
9. The collet as in claim 7, wherein said outer diameter seal and said inner diameter seal are formed of said resilient material.
10. A sealing collet for use with tools having through holes defined therein for the induction of coolant fluid to the working surfaces of the tool, said collet comprising: a plurality of independent gripping jaws longitudinally disposed about a common centerline axis, said gripping jaws having an exposed inner face parallel to the centerline axis and defining an inner diameter for said collet through which the shaft of a machine tool is inserted, said gripping jaws having an angled exposed outer face whereby said plurality of gripping jaws forms a conical outer surface of said collet, each said gripping jaw having at least one hole defined therein whereby all of said holes are circumferentially aligned about said centerline axis; a resilient material disposed between said gripping jaws and extending through said holes to form at least one concentric ring through said gripping jaws, said resilient material maintaining said gripping jaws in a predetermined longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about said centerline axis; a resilient material outer diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material, said outer diameter seal extending radially outward from said resilient material beyond and across said outer faces of said gripping jaws; and 


 a resilient material inner diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material and physically separate from said outer diameter seal, said inner diameter seal extending radially inward from said resilient material beyond and across said inner diameter faces of said gripping jaws.
11. The collet as in claim 10, wherein said outer diameter seal and said inner diameter seal form essentially continuous seals about said outer diameter faces and said inner diameter faces respectively of said gripping jaws.
12. The collet as in claim 10, wherein said outer diameter seal comprises a double-lip seal.
13. The collet as in claim 10, further comprising a plurality of said inner diameter seals.
14. The collet as in claim 10, wherein said resilient material is essentially flush with said exposed outer faces of said gripping jaws.
15. A sealing collet for use with tools having through holes defined therein for the induction of coolant fluid therethrough to the working surfaces of the tool, said collet comprising: a plurality of independent gripping jaws longitudinally disposed abut a common centerline axis, said gripping jaws having an exposed inner face parallel to the centerline axis and defining an inner diameter for said collet through which the shaft of a machine tool is inserted, said gripping jaws having an angled exposed outer face whereby said plurality of gripping jaws forms a conical outer surface of said collet, each said gripping jaw having at least one hole defined therein whereby all of said holes are circumferentially aligned about said centerline axis; a resilient material disposed between said gripping jaws and extending through said holes to form at least one concentric ring through said gripping jaws, said resilient material maintaining said gripping jaws in a predetermined longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about said centerline axis; and 


 a continuous outer diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material, said outer diameter seal extending radially outward from said resilient material beyond said outer faces of said gripping jaws.
16. The seal as in claim 15, further comprising a continuous inner diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material, said inner diameter seal extending radially inward from said resilient material beyond said inner diameter faces of said gripping jaws.
17. A sealing collet for use with tools having through holes defined therein for the induction of coolant fluid therethrough to the working surfaces of the tool, said collet comprising: a plurality of independent gripping jaws longitudinally disposed abut a common centerline axis, said gripping jaws having an exposed inner face parallel to the centerline axis and defining an inner diameter for said collet through which the shaft of a machine tool is inserted, said gripping jaws having an angled exposed outer face whereby said plurality of gripping jaws forms a conical outer surface of said collet, each said gripping jaw having at least one hole defined therein whereby all of said holes are circumferentially aligned about said centerline axis; a resilient material disposed between said gripping jaws and extending through said holes to form at least one concentric ring through said gripping jaws, said resilient material maintaining said gripping jaws in a predetermined longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about said centerline axis; and a continuous inner diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material, said inner diameter seal extending radially inward from said resilient material beyond said inner diameter faces of said gripping jaws.
18. The seal as in claim 17, further comprising a continuous outer diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material, said outer diameter seal extending 


radially outward from said resilient material beyond said outer faces of said gripping jaws.
19. A sealing collet for use with tools having through holes defined therein for the induction of coolant fluid to the working surfaces of the tool, said collet comprising: a plurality of independent gripping jaws longitudinally disposed about a common centerline axis, said gripping jaws having an inner face parallel to the centerline axis and defining an inner diameter for said collet through which the shaft of a machine tool is inserted, said gripping jaws having an outer face whereby said plurality of gripping jaws forms a conical outer surface of said collet, each said gripping jaw having at least one hole defined therein whereby all of said holes are circumferentially aligned about said centerline axis; a resilient material disposed between said gripping jaws and extending through said holes to form at least one concentric ring through said gripping jaws, said resilient material maintaining said gripping jaws in a predetermined longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about said centerline axis, said resilient material being essentially flush with said outer faces of said gripping jaws; a resilient material outer diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material, said outer diameter seal extending radially outward from said resilient material beyond and across said outer faces of said gripping jaws; a resilient material inner diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material, said inner diameter seal extending radially inward from said resilient material beyond and across said inner diameter faces of said gripping jaws; and compression recesses defined in said resilient material between each said gripping jaw.
20. A sealing collet for use with tools having through holes defined therein for the induction of coolant fluid to the working surfaces of the tool, said collet comprising: 


 a plurality of independent gripping jaws longitudinally disposed about a common centerline axis, said gripping jaws having an inner gripping face parallel to the centerline axis and defining an inner diameter for said collet through which the shaft of a machine tool is inserted, said gripping jaws having an outer face whereby said plurality of gripping jaws defines an outer surface of said collet; resilient material disposed between each said gripping jaw, said resilient material holding said gripping jaws in a predetermined longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about the centerline axis; a continuous outer diameter seal disposed circumferentially about said outer surface, said outer diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material and extending circumferentially radially outward beyond said outer faces of said gripping jaws; and a continuous inner diameter seal disposed circumferentially within said inner diameter independent of and axially displaced from said outer diameter seal, said inner diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material and extending circumferentially radially inward from said inner faces of said gripping jaws, said inner diameter seal comprising a double-lip seal configuration.
21. The collet as in claim 20, wherein said double-lip inner diameter seal is disposed at a distance within said inner diameter from the front end of said collet.
22. The collet as in claim 21, further comprising an additional inner diameter seal disposed within said inner diameter generally at the extreme front end of said collet.
23. The collet as in claim 22, wherein said additional inner diameter seal comprises a single-lip seal configuration.
24. A sealing collet for use with tools having through holes defined therein for the induction of coolant fluid to the working surfaces of the tool, said collet comprising: a front face and a back face; a plurality of independent gripping jaws longitudinally disposed about a common centerline axis between said front 


face and said back face, said gripping jaws having an inner gripping face parallel to the centerline axis and defining an inner diameter for said collet through which the shaft of a machine tool can be inserted, said gripping jaws having an outer face whereby said plurality of gripping jaws forms an outer surface of said collet; resilient material disposed between each said gripping jaw, said resilient material holding said gripping jaws in a predetermined longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about the centerline axis; a continuous outer diameter seal disposed circumferentially about said outer surface, said outer diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material and extending circumferentially radially outward beyond said outer faces of said gripping jaws; a continuous inner diameter seal disposed circumferentially within said inner diameter, said inner diameter seal formed integral with said resilient material and extending circumferentially radially inward from said inner faces of said gripping jaws; at least one longitudinal channel defined within said collet between at least two of said gripping jaws, said channel extending from said back face to said continuous inner diameter seal for carrying coolant fluid through said collet up to said inner diameter seal; and at least one coolant port defined through said front face of said collet in fluid communication with said longitudinal channel, said coolant port defining a path for coolant from within said collet to the working surfaces of a tool carried by said collet.
25. The collet as in claim 24, wherein said longitudinal channel is defined through said resilient material between two adjacent said gripping jaws.
26. The collet as in claim 25, further comprising a plurality of said longitudinal channels defined between said gripping jaws. 


 27. The collet as in claim 24, wherein said coolant port is defined through said front face at a point radially outward of said inner diameter seal.
28. The collet as in claim 27, comprising a plurality of said coolant ports.
29. The collet as in claim 24, further comprising a nozzle configured at the front end of said coolant port.
30. The collet as in claim 29, wherein said nozzle is positionable relative said coolant port so that coolant can be directed at any given angle from said front face.
31. The collet as in claim 24, wherein said coolant port is defined through said resilient material between said gripping jaws.
32. The collet as in claim 31, wherein said coolant port comprises a tube extending through said resilient material.
33. The collet as in claim 24, comprising three said coolant ports disposed equidistantly around said centerline axis of said collet, each said port further comprising a pivotable nozzle disposed in the end thereof, said nozzle being variably positionable to direct coolant fluid from said port at varying angles onto a tool extending from said collet. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
