<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647370</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW LINE HARMONIC AC TO DC POWER SUPPLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M100	H02M100	H02M142	H02M304	H02M3155	H02M706	H02M706	H02M712	H02M712	H02M721	H02M721	H02M7217	H02M7217	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M1	H02M1	H02M1	H02M3	H02M3	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The PWM control scheme is illustrated in conjunction with a power distribution control circuit (30), wherein the duty cycle of convverter (32) is suitably controlled by a number of feedback loops embodying various parameters, for example a voltage error signal, an average (eg. RMS) value of the input voltage (Vin). Circuit (30) comprises a rectifying circuit (42), a converter circuit (32), for example an AC-DC converter, a capacitor (C), an oscillator and PWM circuit (44), an error signal (46), a multiplier circuit (48), a differencing amplifier (50), and a synthesizing circuit (52). Circuit (30) appears as a resistive load to the line for feed PWM, a fixed load, and a fixed RMS input voltage. To stabilize the output voltage (Vout), the pulse width signal (44a) applied to converter suitably varies in proportion to both changes in the RMS value of the input voltage and the output voltage. The output voltage error signal applied to multiplier circuit by error circuit provides the correction value for Vout variations. The line RMS signal applied to multiplier by the line RMS filter circuit (52) compensates the PWM signal for variations in the RMS value of Vin. In this regard, the RMS loop modulator control signal may be advantageously normalized by Vrms (square) since Pin varies as Vin (square). Decreases in either the output error signal or the RMS signal increase the PWM value.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GABOR GEORGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GABOR, GEORGE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GABOR GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GABOR, GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOW LINE HARMONIC AC TO DC POWER SUPPLYTechnical FieldThe present invention relates, generally, to methods and apparatus for implementing a power supply having a power factor substantially equal to one while substantially eliminating line harmonics, and more particularly to a technique involving the generation of an ideal synthesized current reference waveform which is independent of the AC line voltage waveform and which is employed in the control loop for controlling the duty cycle of the switch mode DC power supply as used in AC-DC, AC- AC, and DC-DC converter applications. Background Art and Technical ProblemsFor an ideal utility power delivery system characterized by an AC line voltage Vin, a line impedance Zin, and an AC current Iin, the power delivered to a load is the dot product of the voltage across the load and the current running through the load, or Pout = Vout • loutcos(0) where θ represents the phase difference between the voltage across the load and the current running through the load. Maximum power is thus most efficiently delivered to the load when the phase angle of the current coincides with the phase angle of the voltage at the load (cos(0) = 1), corresponding to a power factor of one.Power distribution systems typically supply power for loads which are both purely resistive as well as loads which exhibit impedances having substantial reactive components, for example electric motors, power supplies (converters), fluorescent and HID lighting, and the like. The reactive component of load impedance, whether capacitive or inductive, shifts the phase angle of the current running through the load with respect to the supply voltage, resulting in a proportional decrease in power factor at the load and corresponding reduction in the efficiency of the power distribution system. Stated another way, for power factors less than one, an electric utility power company must provide more "power" than is actually consumed by the various loads connected to the power distribution system. Power factor correction techniques are generally well known. Typically, electronic devices having a reactive component equal in magnitude but opposite in sign to the reactive component of the impedance exhibited by the load are placed in parallel with the load; for-1-SUBSTITUTE SHEET BULE 26 

example, the common technique is to place a bank of capacitors in parallel across an inductive motor to cancel the inductive reactance produced by the motor. In this way, the power factor is corrected to unity, and the overall
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. Power electronics system comprising respective input voltage and current lines, an energy storage circuit, the system being characterized by an output voltage and current, said output voltage being stabilized by of a synthesized, ideal current reference waveform, there further being control means between put current and said reference current wave form, said synthesized wave form being phase-locked input voltage line.
2. In a switched power supply system: a. a rectifier adapted to be connected to the alternating current line; b. a boost converter connected to the output of said rectifier, said converter including an input circuit having a series-connected inductance coil and an output circuit having a shunt connected storage capacitor; c. and further including a power switch connected between the inductance coil and the storage capacitor; d. and a control circuit connected to said power switch for providing a switching signal for said converter having a current reference which tracks the zero crossings of the ling current line voltage to cause the power supply to exhibit unity power factor to the alternating current line; e. said control circuit including a voltage error amplifier connected to the output of said converter and to a source of reference voltage for producing an output which is a function of the difference between the output voltage of the converter and the reference voltage from the source; f . a switching analog multiplier circuit connected to the output of said rectifier to produce an output which is proportional to the output of said voltage error amplifier multiplied by the instantaneous line voltage and divided by the RMS line voltage squared; g. a current regulator amplifier connected to the converter and to the the multiplier and responsive to a voltage representing the current flow in the converter and to the output of the multiplier for producing a current error signal; h. and circuit means including a pulse-width modulator connected to said current or amplifier and responsive to said current error signal therefrom for introducing said ng control signal to said power switch. 



 3. The system of claim 2 in which said multiplier is a switching type, and in said control circuit includes a timer and ramp signal generator for supplying clock signals to said switching multiplier and ramp signals to said pulse width modulator.
4. In the apparatus of claim 1 the further improvement wherein said energy transformation mechanism is switched at a high frequency compared with the fundamental operating frequency of said power electronics circuitry there being a bifilar wound magnetic element positioned between said energy transformation mechanism and said energy storage means wherein the energy contained in the harmonics of said high switching frequency are efficiently transformed into energy of said fundamental operating frequency.
5. In the apparatus of claim 1 the further improvement wherein said energy storage means comprises at least one of the capacitors and bifilar magnet elements.
6. In the apparatus of claim 1 the further improvement wherein said control means being at least one of phase-locked synthesized reference waveform and a secondary voltage control loop.
7. In the apparatus of claim 1 the further improvement wherein said cooperative to synthesize said ideal wave shape being at least one of a phase-lock loop driving a Read Only
Memory (ROM) lockup table in turn driving a Digital to Analog Converter (DAC) and a phase-lock loop with a direct wave form oscillator.
8. In the apparatus of claim 4 the further improvement wherein said high frequency switching being at least 50X higher than said fundamental operating frequency.
9. In the apparatus of claim 4 the further improvement wherein said bifilar wound element is an inductor.
10. In a heat sink for structurally supporting at least a portion of a heat generating device in intimate thermal relationship therewith and for removing heat flux from the region of thermal contact therebetween at or about a heat exchange surface, said heat sink providing
-31- LE 2« 


a heat exchange fluid environment proximate said heat exchange surface and including flow means for providing a current of coolant fluid to remove heat from said heat exchange surface, the improvement comprising means to cause the coolant velocity to increase in a prescribed manner as it flows along said heat exchange surface from coolant input to coolant output such that the progressive increase in coolant temperature with flow along said heat exchange surface is at least partially canceled by the decrease in temperature driving force caused by said increase in coolant velocity.
11. In the apparatus of claim 10 the further improvement wherein said means is a linear tapered coolant conduit whose input cross section is greater than the output cross section.
12. In the apparatus of claim 10 the further improvement wherein said means comprises a generally circular conduit whose input cross section is greater than the output cross section and wherein the cross section of said conduit decreases in a prescribed manner from said coolant input to said coolant output.
13. In a battery charging system comprising: a. an incoming Utility power line connected to a building; b. said building having internal electrical wiring for predetermined usage; c. at the connection of said power line and said building there being a further electrical connection to a battery charger; d. there being electrical current sensing means positioned at the connection point of said incoming line and said building and said battery charger, said current sensing means measuring at least two of: the current in said incoming power line and the current flowing into said internal wiring of said building and the current flowing to said battery charger; e. there being control circuitry connected to said current sensing means and said battery charger, said control circuitry being provided with means to control the flow of current to said battery charger independent of the circuitry charging the battery. Said control circuitry being provided with at least one of algorithms and other built-in information and computational means that contain the values of at least one of the highest predetermined current capacity of said incoming line and the Utility 


 transformer connected to said incoming line. Said control circuitry responding to said current sensor input by ensuring that the current from at least one of said incoming lines and Utility transformer do not exceed said predetermined current and that the current into said building and die current to said battery charger together also do not exceed said predetermined current limit. At such time as when the combined building and charger load drop below said limit (reduced building power and/or below peak battery charger rates) said control circuitry need no longer exercise control over said battery charger as the total load is less than the specified maximum.
14. In the apparatus of Claim 13 the further improvements wherein said Utility pole transformer being connected respectively to multiple incoming power lines which in turn are connected to multiple buildings. Said transformer having at least one current sensing means for at least N-l incoming lines where N is the number of incoming lines, and current control circuitry. Said transformer current control circuitry and associated control means communicating with said control circuitry attached to each of said buildings and associated battery chargers such that said transformer control circuitry in a predetermined manner instructs each of said control circuitry to draw its appropriate share of current such that the total current draw does not exceed the transformer limits (e.g. those batteries with maximum discharge can receive priority, or those willing to pay a premium rate). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
