<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653290</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for compression moulding of a multilayer article impregnated by extrusion.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05D720	B05D720	B29B1510	B29B1512	B29C4322	B29C4328	B29C4330	B29C6900	B29C6900	B29C7004	B29C7006	B29C7006	B29C7008	B29C7008	B29C7050	B29K6900	B29K10308	B29K10508	B29K10516	B62D2900	B62D2904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05D	B05D	B29B	B29B	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29K	B29K	B29K	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05D7	B05D7	B29B15	B29B15	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C69	B29C69	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29K69	B29K103	B29K105	B29K105	B62D29	B62D29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention is directed to a continuous 
process for producing a molded thermoplastic fiber 

reinforced article having a high resin concentration 
in at least one surface thereof. The finished 

article may be prepared by compression molding and 
can have a Class A surface. The continuous process 

comprises coating at least one surface of a heated 
fiber mat core (12) with a melted first thermoplastic 

resin (18), passing the fiber mat core into an extrusion 
zone (22) wherein a melted second thermoplastic resin (20) 

is extruded onto at least one surface of the fiber 
mat core and then molding the fiber mat core and 

thermoplastic resin into a finished article (26). The 

continuous process of this invention provides for 
fast production of molded finished articles such 

as roof tile, automobile exterior panels, house 
siding, etc. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNTON THOMAS PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUTSCH ERICH OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNTON, THOMAS PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUTSCH, ERICH OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a continuous 
process for producing a fiber reinforced thermoplastic 
resin article. The finished article can 
have a Class A surface, if desired, depending on 
the finish of the mold surfaces. While a Class A 
surface does not have a universally accepted definition 
or specification, one accepted definition 
is a glossy, smooth and polished surface which 
should be as smooth as that of a current automobile 
exterior part made from sheet metal. Another definition 
is that the visible surface of the article 
in the finished state is free of exposed glass 
fibers, flash, sharp edges, visible parting lines, 
crazing, porosity, hair line cracks, blisters, and 
obvious repairs. Briefly, the continuous process of this invention 
comprises taking a heated fiber mat core, 
coating at least one surface thereof with a melted 
first thermoplastic resin, passing the coated 
fiber mat core through an extrusion zone where in 
a melted second thermoplastic resin is coated onto 
at least one surface thereof, and then molding the 
combination into the finished article. The 
finished article can have a Class A surface, if 
desired, depending upon the finish of the mold 
surface and will have a high concentration of the  
 
second thermoplastic resin in the surface or 
surfaces thereof, depending on whether or not the 
second thermoplastic resin is extruded on one or 
both surfaces of the fiber mat core in the extrusion 
zone. The continuous process of this invention provides 
a process for the continuous production of 
fiber reinforced thermoplastic resin articles that 
have such uses as automobile exterior panels 
(fenders, hoods, trunk lids, etc.), roofing tiles, 
house siding, etc. Producing finished articles that have a high 
concentration of thermoplastic resin on the 
surfaces thereof is known in the art as disclosed 
in U.S. Patent 4,983,247 and also described in 
other U.S. patents, particularly U.S. Patent No. 
4,859,524 and U.S. Patent No. 4,716,072. While 
these references disclose producing articles of 
thermoplastic resin and fiber reinforcement and 
further disclose articles that have a resin rich 
surface which may be a Class A surface, the 
references nevertheless disclose essentially a 
batch process for forming the articles. U.S. Patent 4,983,247 discloses forming a composite 
that can have a Class A surface by forming a 
fiber free layer of a first thermoplastic resin 
and juxtaposing with a layer at least a portion of 
a thermoplastic blank comprising a second
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A continuous process for producing a molded 
thermoplastic resin fiber reinforced article 

comprising a fiber mat core and thermoplastic resin 
wherein the surface of the molded article has a 

high concentration of thermoplastic resin, which 
process comprises continuously applying a melted 

first thermoplastic resin onto at least one surface 
of a heated fiber mat core, passing the combination 

to an extrusion zone where a melted second thermoplastic 
resin is continuously applied to at least 

one surface of the heated fiber mat core and melted 
first thermoplastic resin, passing the combination 

of the melted first thermoplastic resin, melted 
second thermoplastic resin and fiber mat core to a 

molding zone, wherein the heated combination is 
molded under pressure into a molded thermoplastic 

resin fiber reinforced article having on at least 
one surface a high concentration of the second 

thermoplastic resin. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the fiber 
mat core consists essentially of at least two 

layers of fiber mat. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the first 
melted thermoplastic resin and the second melted 

thermoplastic resin are the same thermoplastic 
resin. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the first 
melted thermoplastic resin is an aromatic polycarbonate 

resin having an intrinsic viscosity of 
less than about 0.5 dl/gram and the second melted 

thermoplastic resin is an aromatic polycarbonate 
resin having an intrinsic viscosity of greater than 

about 0.5 dl/gram. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the second 
thermoplastic resin is extruded onto the top and 

bottom surface of the combination of fiber mat and 
first melted thermoplastic resin. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the heated 
fiber mat core is impregnated with the first melted 

thermoplastic resin prior to extruding the melted 
second thermoplastic resin onto said heated fiber 

mat core by passing the fiber mat core and first 
melted thermoplastic resin through a pair of opposing 

heated "wet-out" rolls. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the temperature 
of the heated fiber mat is such as to maintain 

the second thermoplastic resin in the melted state 
when in the molding zone. 
The process of claim 1 wherein a material 
selected from the group consisting of powdered 

pigment and a blend of a powdered pigment and a 

powdered thermoplastic resin is applied to the 
surface of the combination of fiber mat core and 

melted first and second thermoplastic resin having 
the high concentration of the second thermoplastic 

resin prior to the molding of the said combination. 
A continuous process for producing a molded 
thermoplastic fiber reinforced article comprising a 

fiber mat and thermoplastic resin wherein the surface 
of the molded article has a high concentration 

of thermoplastic resin, which process consists 
essentially of: 

   passing at least one layer of a fiber mat core 
into a preheat zone, 

   heating the fiber mat core to a temperature 
sufficient to maintain the first thermoplastic 

resin in the molten state, 
   passing the preheated fiber mat core through a 

resin coating zone wherein the melted first 
thermoplastic resin is applied to at least 

one surface of the heated fiber mat core, 
   passing the heated fiber mat core and first 

melted thermoplastic resin to an extrusion 
zone wherein a melted second thermoplastic 

resin is extruded onto at least one surface 
of the fiber mat core, 

   passing the heated combination of fiber mat 
core, first melted thermoplastic resin and 

second melted thermoplastic resin to a 
molding zone, and 

   molding the combination under pressure into the 
molded thermoplastic resin fiber reinforced 

article wherein at least one surface 
thereof has a high concentration of the 

second thermoplastic resin. 
The process of claim 9 wherein in the coating 
zone, the melted first thermoplastic resin is 

applied to both top and bottom surface of the fiber 
mat core. 
The process of claim 9 wherein the fiber 
mat core having the first melted thermoplastic 

resin coated onto one surface of the fiber mat 
core is passed between at least two opposing 

heated "wet-out" rolls, the temperature of the 
surface of which rolls are such as to avoid 

sticking of the first melted thermoplastic resin 
to the surface of the rolls and wherein the pressure 

of the rolls on the fiber mat core and first 
melted thermoplastic resin is sufficient to force 

said thermoplastic resin into the fiber mat core in 
order to coat the fiber surfaces thereof. 
The process of claim 11 wherein the fiber 
core consists of chopped glass fibers of about 1/8'' 

to about 2'' in length. 
The process of claim 9 wherein a blend of 
powdered pigment and powdered thermoplastic resin 

is applied to the surface of the combination of 
fiber mat core and first and second melted resin 

having the high concentration of the second thermoplastic 
resin prior to the molding of the said 

combination. 
A fiber reinforced thermoplastic molded 
article comprising of at least one surface thereof 

having a high concentration of a second 
thermoplastic resin and a fiber mat substrate 

impregnated with a first thermoplastic resin. 
The article of claim 14 wherein the molded 
article is a compression molded article. 
The molded article of claim 14 wherein the 
article has a Class A surface on at least one side 

thereof. 
The molded article of claim 14 wherein the 
side thereof having the second thermoplastic resin 

surface contains a fine particulate filler, and 
further that the filler particles do not protrude 

through the surface thereof. 
The article of claim 17 wherein the fine 
particulate filler is mica. 
The molded article of claim 14 wherein at 
least one surface having the high concentration of 

the second resin has a decorative affect provided 
by applying a material selected from the group 

consisting of a powdered pigment and blends a 
powdered pigment and powdered thermoplastic resin, 

which material is applied prior to molding. 
The article of claim 1 wherein the high 
concentration surface resin is an aromatic 

polycarbonate having an intrinsic viscosity of 
greater than 0.5 deciliters/gram. 
A fiber reinforced thermoplastic molded 
article consisting essentially of at least one 

surface thereof having a high concentration of a 
second thermoplastic resin and a fiber mat 

substrate impregnated with a first thermoplastic 
resin. 
The molded article of claim 21 wherein the 
fiber mat substrate consists of glass fibers. 
The molded article of claim 21 wherein the 
fiber mat substrate consists of a combination of 

continuous random glass fibers and chopped glass 
fibers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
