<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618980</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COLORIMETRIC DETERMINATION OF PEROXIDASE AND PEROXIDE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q126	C12Q126	C12Q128	C12Q128	C12Q160	C12Q160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method to determine the presence or amount of peroxidase or hydrogen peroxide employing a sulfonephthalein dye or a phthalein dye having a major absorbance peak in the visible region, preferably at a wavelength from between about 500 nanometers to about 700 nanometers, and which absorbance peak is subject to a degree of oxidative extinguishment without strong alkali treatment, is disclosed. The method is performed by forming a reaction system comprising such sulfonephthalein dye or phthalein dye, and a test sample containing an unknown amount of (i) peroxide, (ii) a peroxidase, (iii) a compound which is capable of being oxidized to generate hydrogen peroxide, or (iv) a catalyst which participates in such oxidation, wherein the hydrogen peroxide causes peroxidase-catalyzed extinguishment of the absorbance peak of such dye whereby the unknown amount under determination can be determined by monitoring such extinguishment.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALT STEVEN DALE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIEGEL NEAL ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALT, STEVEN, DALE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIEGEL, NEAL, ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COLORIMETRIC DETERMINATION OF PEROXIDASE AND PEROXIDEField of the InventionThe present invention relates to the colorimetric determination of peroxidases and peroxide. In particular, the present invention relates to the colorimetric determination of peroxidases, peroxide, compounds which can be directly or indirectly oxidized to yield a stoichiometric quantity of hydrogen peroxide, and catalysts which directly or indirectly oxidize compounds to yield a stoichiometric quantity of hydrogen peroxide.Background of the InventionThe generation of hydrogen peroxide (HO ) when poly orphonuclear leukocytes and macrophages are subjected to certain membrane stimuli, ' and the reaction of H202 with phenol red in the presence of horseradish peroxidase to produce a reaction product which changes the color of the system from red to yellow, have been described [Pick, et al., Journal of Immunoloqical Methods, Vol. 38, pages 161- 170 (1980)]. The described yellow color of such system changes to purple-mauve when the pH is raised to 12.5 wherein the amount of H_,02 is determined by measuring the absorbance of the purple-mauve system at 610 nanometers against the absorbance of a buffered phenol red solution. Similarly, the determination of neutrophil-generated lipid peroxides by the oxidation of phenol red has also been 

 described [Moslen, et al., Journal of Immunoloqical Methods- Vol. 98, pages 71-76 (1987)], as well as the determination of the degree of oxidation of molten fats utilizing various oxidizable dyes in a very strongly alkaline medium (German Patent No. 2,630,052 and German Patent No. 2,543,543).However, such methods require treatment with strong alkali solutions of pH 10 or above, either during or after oxidation of the dyes employed therein, in order to achieve the desired change in color.Summary of the InventionThe present invention provides a method to determine the presence or amount of peroxidase, hydrogen peroxide (HO ), and substances which are capable of generating hydrogen peroxide, or catalyzing the generation of hydrogen peroxide. According to such method, a sulfonephthalein dye or a phthalein dye having a major absorbance peak in the visible region, preferably at a wavelength from between about 500 nanometers to about 700 nanometers, is subjected to oxidative extinguishment without strong alkali treatmen .The method is performed by forming a reaction system comprising such sulfonephthalein dye or phthalein dye and: (a) a test sample containing an unknown amount of peroxidase; and an amount of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 We claim:
1. A method for determining the presence or amount of peroxidase, hydrogen peroxide, or substances capable of generating hydrogen peroxide or catalyzing the generation of hydrogen peroxide, in a test sample, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) forming a reaction system comprising (i) a sulfonephthalein dye or a phthalein dye having an oxidizably extinguishable absorbance peak in the visible region, and (ii) a test sample suspected of containing an unknown amount of peroxidase, hydrogen peroxide, or substances capable of generating or catalyzing the generation of hydrogen peroxide; and
(b) monitoring the extinguishment of said absorbance peak as a function of said unknown amount present in said test sample.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said reaction system comprises (i) a test sample comprising an unknown amount of peroxidase, (ii) said dye, and (iii) hydrogen peroxide in an amount sufficient to cause extinguishment of the absorbance peak of said dye, whereby said unknown amount of peroxidase present in said test sample is determined by monitoring such extinguishment.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein said reaction system comprises (i) a test sample comprising an unknown amount of a compound which is capable of undergoing a reaction with oxygen to form hydrogen peroxide, (ii) said dye, and (ii) a peroxidase, wherein the hydrogen peroxide which is generated causes extinguishment of the absorbance
TITUTE SH ET 


 peak of said dye whereby said unknown amount of the compound present in said test sample is determined by monitoring said extinguishment.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein said reaction system comprises a catalyst in an amount sufficient to cause the compound to undergo a reaction to form hydrogen peroxid .
5. The method of claim 1 wherein said reaction system comprises (i) a test sample comprising an unknown amount of a peroxide, (ii) said dye, and (iii) peroxidase, wherein the peroxide causes extinguishment of the absorbance peak of said dye whereby said unknown amount of peroxide in said test sample is determined by monitoring said extinguishment. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said reaction system comprises (i) a test sample comprising an unknown amount of a catalyst which reacts with a compound in the presence of oxygen to form hydrogen peroxide, (ii) said dye, and (iii) a peroxidase, wherein the amount of hydrogen peroxide which is generated causes extinguishment of the absorbance peak of said dye whereby said unknown amount of the catalyst in said test sample is determined by monitoring said extinguishment.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein said reaction system comprises a sulfonephthalein dye.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein said reaction system comprises a phthalein dye.
9. The method of claim 7 wherein said sulfonephthalein dye is selected from the group consisting 


 of bromcresol green, bromcresol purple, bromcresol blue, bromthymol blue, thymol blue and phenol red.
10. The method of claim 7 wherein said sulfonephthalein dye is bromocresol green. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein said phthalein dye is phenolphthalein.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein said oxidizably extinguishable absorbance peak is from between about 500 nm to about 700 nm. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said unknown amount is determined by comparing the extinguishment of said absorbance peak with the extinguishment of an absorbance peak of a known standard sample.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein said unknown amount is determined by monitoring the extinguishment of said absorption peak with an instrument.
15. The method of claim 1 wherein said unknown amount is determined by monitoring the extinguishment of said absorption peak visually. 16. A reaction system for determining the presence or amount of peroxidase, hydrogen peroxide, or substances capable of generating or catalyzing the generation of hydrogen peroxide, in a test sample, said reaction system comprising (i) a sulfonephthalein dye or a phthalein dye having an oxidizably extinguishable absorbance peak in the visible region and (ii) a test sample suspected of containing an unknown amount of peroxidase, hydrogen peroxide, or substances capable of generating or catalyzing the generation of hydrogen peroxide, whereby said
SUBSTITUTESHξET 


 absorbance peak is extinguished as a function of said unknown amount present in said test sample.
17. The reaction system of claim 16 comprising (i) a test sample comprising an unknown amount of a compound which is capable of undergoing a reaction with oxygen to form hydrogen peroxide, (ii) said dye, and (ii)' a peroxidase.
18. The reaction system of claim 17 comprising a catalyst in an amount sufficient to cause the compound to undergo a reaction to form hydrogen peroxide.
19. The reaction system of claim 16 comprising (i) a test sample comprising an unknown amount of a peroxide, (ii) said dye, and (iii) peroxidase.
20. The reaction system of claim 16 comprising (i) a test sample comprising an unknown amount of a catalyst which reacts with a compound in the presence of oxygen to form hydrogen peroxide, (ii) said dye, and (iii) a peroxidase.
21. The reaction system method of claim 16 comprising a sulfonephthalein dye.
22. The reaction system of claim 16 comprising a phthalein dye.
23. The reaction system of claim 21 wherein said sulfonephthalein dye is selected from the group consisting of bromcresol green, bromcresol purple, bromcresol blue, bromthymol blue, thymol blue and phenol red.
24. The reaction system of claim 22 wherein said phthalein dye is phenolphthalein. 


 25. The reaction system of claim 23 wherein said sulfonephthalein dye is bromocresol green.
26. The reaction system of claim 16 wherein said oxidizably extinguishable absorbance peak is from between about 500 nm to about 700 nm.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
