<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635410</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved wiper blade for a vehicle windshield.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60S132	B60S132	B60S138	B60S138	G09F2100	G09F2104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60S	B60S	B60S	B60S	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60S1	B60S1	B60S1	B60S1	G09F21	G09F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wiper blade (1) of the type used on a vehicle windshield having an 
indicator (14) means painted on the wiper blade which indicates that the 

wiper blade (1) should be replaced. The exposure to UV light of the 
indicator (14) painted on the wiper blade causes it to change in color 

and thus communicate to the user that it is time to change. The 
indicator paint is a silicone resin paint and would be applied to a 

wiper blade made of a resilient elastomeric material which is degraded 
with exposure to UV light in the atmosphere. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JMK INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JMK INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBBON ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBBON, ROBERT M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an indicator which is 
attached to a wiper blade of the type used on a vehicle 
windshield. The indicator is a paint having an active 
ingredient that causes the indicator to change in 
appearance when exposed to ultraviolet radiation. This 
change in appearance corresponds to the useful life of 
the wiper blade. It is generally known to those skilled in the art 
that organic rubber tends to degrade when exposed to 
ultraviolet light. This is usually seen as hardening 
and cracking of the rubber. Most windshield wiper 
blades are made of this organic rubber, and with time, 
these wiper blades will lose their effectiveness. Heretofore, unless the user of the wiper blade 
kept track of how long the blade had been in use, there 
was no way to determine when the wiper blade should be 
changed without a close inspection. Because the deterioration of the wiper blade is a 
gradual process, a user would continue to use the wiper 
blade long past its optimum life. Vision during use 
would thus be obscured if the wiper blade had 
deteriorated past its effective life. Therefore it 
would be desirable to have an indicator which would 
alert the user when to replace the blade.  The present invention provides a simple method for 
determining when the useful life of the wiper blade is 
over. An indicator is painted on a visible portion of 
the wiper blade. When the indicator changes 
appearance, the user will know that it is time to 
replace the wiper blade. This would be especially 
helpful where windshield wiper maintenance is critical 
such as on airplanes. The present invention provides an elongate body, 
typically formed of an organic rubber, a silicone 
rubber or other resilient elastomeric material, with 
opposing longitudinal extending faces which terminate 
in opposing ends. The elongate body has a relatively 
thin longitudinally extending wiping edge. An indicator means is located on at least one of 
the opposing longitudinal extending faces for 
irreversibly displaying visual evidence of exposure of 
the wiper blade to light rays in the atmosphere over 
time. This irreversible visual evidence provides an 
indication of the life expectancy of the wiper blade. 
The indicator means comprises one or more painted 
regions on the elongate body and preferably is a 
painted strip which is painted in a continuous line on 
at least one of the longitudinally extending faces of 
the elongate body. The strip is painted with a 
silicone resin paint which contains a pigment as an 
active
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An improved wiper blade of the type used on a vehicle 
windshield, comprising: 

   an elongate body formed of a resilient, elastomeric material, said 
elongate body having opposing longitudinally extending faces which terminate in 

opposing ends, said elongate body having a relatively heavy backing portion which 
tapers outwardly to a relatively thin longitudinally extending wiping edge; 

   indicator means located on at least one of said opposing longitudinally 
extending faces for displaying visual evidence of exposure of said blade to ultraviolet 

light rays over time, whereby said visual evidence provides an indication of the life 
expectancy of said wiper blade. 
The improved wiper blade of claim 1, wherein said indicator 
means is a coating strip which extends in a continuous line on at least one of said 

longitudinally extending faces of said elongate body. 
The improved wiper blade of claim 2, wherein said coating strip 
is comprised of a silicone resin paint having as an active component a pigment which 

is sensitive to ultraviolet radiation. 
The improved wiper blade of claim 1, wherein said indicator 
means is a coating applied in non-continuous locations to at least one of said 

longitudinally extending faces of said elongate body. 
The improved wiper blade of claim 4, wherein said coating is 
applied in a pattern of alphanumeric characters which forms an intelligible message 

regarding the life expectancy of said wiper blade, said pattern of characters being 
initially unobservable and being irreversibly displayed upon exposure of said blade to 

light rays in the atmosphere over time. 
An improved wiper blade of the type used on a vehicle 
windshield, comprising: 

   an elongate body formed of organic rubber, said elongate body having 
opposing longitudinally extending faces which terminate in opposing ends, said 

elongate body having a relatively heavy backing portion which provides a generally 
triangular cross-sectional profile for said body and which tapers outwardly to a 

relatively thin, longitudinally extending wiping edge; 
   an indicator strip painted on at least one of said opposing longitudinally 

extending faces, said strip being comprised of a silicone resin paint having as an 
active component a paint pigment which is sensitive to exposure to ultraviolet 

radiation for displaying visual evidence of exposure of said blade to light rays over 
time, said painted strip being gradually converted with time from an initial state in 

 
which said visual evidence is unobservable to an aged state in which said visual 

evidence is observable, whereby said visual evidence provides an indication of the life 
expectancy of said wiper blade. 
The improved wiper blade of claim 6, wherein said indicator 
means is a painted strip which extends in a continuous line on at least one of said 

longitudinally extending faces of said elongate body for substantially the entire length 
of said longitudinally extending face. 
The improved wiper blade of claim 6, wherein said indicator 
means is a coating applied in non-continuous locations to at least one of said 

longitudinally extending faces of said elongate body, said coating forming a pattern of 
alphanumeric information. 
A wiper, comprising: 
   an elongate blade of elastomeric material for use in an environment 

including a source of ultraviolet radiation, and having a finite useful life; and 
   a marker joined to said blade, said marker including a pigment which is 

sensitive to ultraviolet radiation, said marker changing color after exposure to a 
predetermined amount of ultraviolet radiation, such that said marker gives visual 

evidence of whether said blade needs to be replaced. 
The wiper of Claim 9. wherein said marker is affixed directly to 
said blade. 
The wiper of Claim 9, wherein said marker comprises a coating 
of paint containing said pigment. 
The wiper of Claim 11, wherein said paint includes a silicone 
resin. 
The wiper of Claim 9, wherein said pigment includes a 
component selected from the group consisting of C. I. Pigment Yellow 14, C. I. 

Pigment Red 48:3, and C. I. Pigment Red 53:1. 
A wiper for use on vehicles, comprising: 
   a body of elastomeric material having an exterior surface; and 

   a coating on at least a portion of said exterior surface, a pigment 
forming a portion of said coating, said pigment changing color upon exposure to a 

predetermined amount of ultraviolet radiation, such that said coating gives visual 
evidence of whether said blade needs to be replaced. 
The wiper of Claim 14, wherein said exterior surface includes at 
least one wiping edge operable to contact a surface to be wiped and a remainder of 

 
said surface, said coating placed on at least a portion of said remainder of said 

surface. 
The wiper of Claim 14, wherein said body includes a base 
portion and a blade portion integrally formed with said base portion, said blade 

portion undergoing more flexure than said base portion while in use, said marker 
affixed to said base portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
