<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655850</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Transmission and reception of a digital information signal.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2014	G11B2014	H04L2549	H04L2549	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	G11B20	H04L25	H04L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transmitter (fig.1) for transmitting a digital information signal is 
disclosed comprising an input terminal (1) for receiving the digital information signal, 

channel coding means (2) for converting n-bit information words in the digital 
information signal into m-bit channel words, where m and n are integers for which the 

following relation holds: m
>
n. Synchronizing signal generator means (3) are available 
for generating a synchronizing signal so as to obtain frames comprising a synchronizing 

signal and a number of channel words (CW1,CW2,...). Further merging means (4,5) 
for generating a p-bit merging word (MW) and for inserting the p-bit merging word 

between packets of q subsequent channel words each so as to obtain a channel signal. 
The channel signal is applied to transmission means (6) for applying the channel signal 

to a transmission medium (TRMM,20). p and q are integers. The merging word (MW) 
can be a fixed p-bit word, two neighbouring bits of the merging word being (a,b), 

where a is a bit of a first binary value, b being a bit of the second binary value. The 
merging words are used upon reception in a receiver (fig.4) so as to detect 1-bit 

insertions or deletions in the channel signal received, where 

p=x+1 
 
. If the p-bit 

merging word is not a fixed p-bit word, the various p-bit merging words occur in a 

regularly recurring sequence. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIBEIRO FILHO MILTON DE ANDRAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHOUHAMER IMMINK KORNELIS ANT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIBEIRO FILHO MILTON DE ANDRAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHOUHAMER IMMINK KORNELIS ANT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a transmitter for transmitting a digital information 
signal, the transmitter comprising 
an input terminal for receiving the digital information signal,  channel coding means for converting n-bit information words in the digital information 
signal into m-bit channel words, where m and n are integers for which the following 
relation holds: m>n,  synchronizing signal generator means for generating a synchronizing signal so as to 
obtain frames comprising a synchronizing signal and a number of channel words, merging means for generating a p-bit merging word and for inserting the p-bit 
merging word between packets of q subsequent channel words each so as to obtain a 
channel signal, transmission means for applying the channel signal to a transmission medium, p and q 
being integers. The invention also relates to a record carrier that has been obtained by 
means of the transmitter, which is in the form of an arrangement of recording the 
digital information signal on the said record carrier. The invention further relates to a 
receiver for receiving the digital information signal. The transmitter, the record carrier and the receiver, as defined in the 
foregoing, are known from published British patent application no. 2,083,322, 
document (1) in the list of references. Further technical details of the coding and 
decoding carried out in the known transmitter and receiver can be found in the 
publication titled 'Compact disc: system aspect and modulation' by J.P.J. Heemskerk et 
al in Philips Techn. Rev. 40, pp. 157-164, 1982, no.6, which is document (2) in the list 
of references. More specifically, the above identified documents describe the coding 
method for the compact disc digital audio system, where n(=8)-bits information words 
are converted into m(=14)-bits channel words, and where 3-bit merging words are 
inserted between subsequent channel words. The choice for the 3-bit merging words is  
 
based on the requirements that, one the one hand the channel signal thus obtained is 
substantially DC free, and that further the runlength conditions for the channel signal 
are satisfied. In the compact disc system, those runlength conditions are Tmin=3 and 
Tmax=11, or: at least 2 and at the most 10 'zeroes' may be present between two 
subsequent 'ones' in the serial datastream of the channel signal. Various 3-bit bitarrays 
for the merging words are possible, but not all of the 2³ possible bitarrays are allowed. 
This for the reason that some of them do not satisfy the Tmin=3
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. Transmitter for transmitting a digital information signal, the transmitter 
comprising 


an input terminal for receiving the digital information signal, 
channel coding means for converting n-bit information words in the digital information 
signal into m-bit channel words, where m and n are integers for which the following 

relation holds: m
>
n, 
synchronizing signal generator means for generating a synchronizing signal so as to 
obtain frames comprising a synchronizing signal and a number of channel words, 
merging means for generating a p-bit merging word and for inserting the p-bit 
merging word between packets of q subsequent channel words each so as to obtain a 

channel signal, 
transmission means for applying the channel signal to a transmission medium, p and q 
being integers, 
 
characterized in that p≧2 and the merging words having two neighbouring bits of 

opposite binary values. 
2. Transmitter as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the merging word 
is a fixed p-bit word. 
3. Transmitter as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that q
>
1. 
4. Transmitter as claimed in claim 2 or 3 as far as dependent of claim 2, 
characterized in that p=2 and the merging word equals (0,1). 
5. Transmitter as claimed in claim 2 or 3 as far as dependent of claim 2, 
characterized in that p=2 and the merging word equals (1,0). 
6. Transmitter as claimed in claim 2 or 3 as far as dependent of claim 2, 
characterized in that three neighbouring bits of the merging word being (a,a,b), where a 

is a bit of a first binary value and b being a bit of the second binary value. 
7. Transmitter as claimed in claim 2 or 3 as far as dependent of claim 2, 
characterized in that three neighbouring bits of the merging word being (a,b,b), where a 

is a bit of a first binary value and b being a bit of the second binary value. 
8. Transmitter as claimed in claim 6 or 7, characterized in that p=3 and that 

a equals '0'. 
9. Transmitter as claimed in claim 6 or 7, characterized in that p=3 and that 
a equals '1'. 
10. Transmitter as claimed in claim 1 or 3 as far as dependent of claim 1, 
characterized in that p=2. 
11. Transmitter as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that each second 
merging word in the channel signal equals (0,1) and the intermediate merging words in 

the channel signal equal (1,0). 
12. Transmitter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that it is in the form of an arrangement for recording the digital signal in a track on a 

record carrier, the transmission means being in the form of recording means for 
recording the channel signal in the track on said record carrier. 
13. Record carrier that have been obtained by means of the transmitter as 
claimed in claim 12, characterized in that it has a channel signal recorded in a track, the 

channel signal being in the form of subsequent frames, each frame comprising a 
synchronizing signal, a number of m-bit channel words being included in each frame, 

and a p-bit merging word being inserted between packets of q subsequent channel 
words, that p≧2, that the merging word is a fixed p-bit word, and the merging words 

having two neighbouring bits of opposite binary values. 
13. Receiver for receiving a digital information signal, comprising 

receiving means for receiving a channel signal, 
synchronizing signal detector means for detecting a synchronizing signal so as to 
identify frames in said channel signal, the channel signal being in the form of 

subsequent frames, each frame comprising the synchronizing signal, a number of m-bit 
channel words being included in each frame and a p-bit merging word being inserted 

between packets of q subsequent channel words in said channel signal, where p and q 
are integers, 
channel decoding means for reconverting m-bit channel words in the channel signal 
into n-bit information words, so as to obtain the digital information signal, where m and 

n are integers for which the following relation holds: m
>
n, 
an output terminal for supplying the digital information signal, 
 
characterized in that the receiver comprises merging word detector means, the merging 

 
word detector means being adapted to detect a merging word at that location in the 

serial datastream of the channel signal where a merging word should occur and being 
adapted to detect a shift in the serial datastream of x bittimes of the serial datastream 

from the actual location of the said merging word, and to generate a first or a second 
control signal upon detection of a shift of the serial datastream over said x bittimes in a 

forward or backward direction respectively, that 
p=x+1  

, m, n, p and x being integers 
larger than zero and the merging words having two neighbouring bits of opposite binary 

values. 
14. Receiver as claimed in claim 13, characterized in that it further comprises 
timing means for generating time pulses for supplying the time pulses to the channel 

decoding means, the timing means being adapted to shift the moments of occurrence of 
the time pulses in time in the forward or backward direction over said x bittimes, in 

response to the first and second control signal respectively. 
15. Receiver as claimed in claim 13 or 14, characterized in that p=2 and the 
merging word equals (0,1), the merging word detector means being adapted to detect a 

shift of one bittime of the serial datastream and to generate said first or second control 
signal upon detection of the shift over said one bittime in the forward or backward 

direction respectively. 
16. Receiver as claimed in claim 13 or 14, characterized in that p=2 and the 
merging word equals (1,0), the merging word detector means being adapted to detect a 

shift of one bittime of the serial datastream and to generate said first or second control 
signal upon detection of the shift over said one bittime in the forward or backward 

direction respectively. 
17. Receiver as claimed in claim 13 or 14, characterized in that p=2 and that 
each second merging word in the channel signal equals (0,1) and the intermediate 

merging words equal (1,0), the merging word detector means being adapted to detect 
said two merging words and to detect a shift of one bittime of the serial datastream and 

to generate said first or second control signal upon detection of the shift over said one 
bittime in the forward or backward direction respectively. 
18. Receiver as claimed in claim 13 or 14, characterized in that p=3, the 
three neighbouring bits of the merging word being (a,a,b), the merging word detector 

means being adapted to detect a shift of two bittimes of the serial datastreem and to 
generate said first or second control signal upon detection of the shift over said two 

 
bittimes in the forward or backward direction respectively. 
19. Receiver as claimed in claim 13 or 14, characterized in that p=3, the 
three neighbouring bits of the merging word being (a,b,b), the merging word detector 

means being adapted to detect a shift of two bittimes of the serial datastream and to 
generate said first or second control signal upon detection of the shift over said two 

bittimes in the forward or backward direction. 
20. Receiver as claimed in claim 18 or 19, characterized in that a equals '0'. 
21. Receiver as claimed in claim 18 or 19, characterized in that a equals '1'. 
22. Receiver as claimed in claim 13 or 14, characterized in that p=3 and that 
the channel signal comprises at least two different 3-bit merging words included in a 

regular sequence in the serial datastream of the channel signal, the merging word 
detector means being adapted to detect said at least two 3-bit merging words in said 

channel signal and to generate said First or second control signal upon detection of the 
shift over two bittimes in the forward or backward direction respectively. 
23. Receiver as claimed in claim 18, 19 or 22, characterized in that the 
merging word detector means is further adapted to detect a shift in the serial datastream 

of one bittime of the channel signal from the actual location of said merging word and 
to generate a third and a fourth control signal upon detection of a shift of the serial 

datastream over one bittime in the forward or backward direction respectively. 
24. Receiver as claimed in claim 23, characterized in that the timing means 
are further adapted to shift the moments of occurrence of the time pulses over said one 

bittime in said forward or backward direction, in response to the third and fourth 
control signal respectively. 
25. Receiver as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 13 to 24, 
characterized in that it is in the form of a arrangement for reproducing the digital 

signal from a track on a record carrier, the receiving means being in the form of 
reproducing means for reproducing the channel signal from the track on said record 

carrier. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
