<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621910</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITE ELASTIC NONWOVEN FABRIC.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D01G2500	D01G2500	D04H146	D04H146	D04H148	D04H148	D04H170	D04H170	D04H1300	D04H1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D01G	D01G	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D01G25	D01G25	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H13	D04H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides composite elastic nonwoven fabrics and the process of making them. The composite elastic fabrics of the invention include an elastomeric net and at least one fibrous web including binder fibers and which is intimately hydroentangled with the elastomeric net. At least a portion of the binder fibers in the hydroentangled fibrous web have been thermally activated thereby bonding the hydroentangled web into a coherent, substantially unitary structure encompassing the elastomeric net.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIBERWEB NORTH AMERICA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIBERWEB NORTH AMERICA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUSTIN JARED A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUANTRILLE THOMAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIMMERMAN G STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUSTIN, JARED A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUANTRILLE, THOMAS E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIMMERMAN, G. STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPOSITE ELASTIC NONWOVEN FABRICField of the Invention The invention relates to composite elastic nonwoven fabrics and to processes for producing them. More specifically, the invention relates composite nonwoven fabrics having desirable coherency, strength, conformability, and stretch and recovery properties. Background of the Invention Nonwoven elastic fabrics have been the subject of considerable attention and effort. Elastic fabrics are desirable for use in bandaging materials, garments, diapers, supportive clothing and personal hygiene products because of their ability to conform to irregular shapes and to allow more freedom of body movement than fabrics with limited extensibility. Elastomeric materials have been incorporated into various fabric structures to provide stretchable fabrics. In many instances, such as where the fabrics are made by knitting or weaving, there is a relatively high cost associated with the fabric. In cases where the fabrics are made using nσnwoven technologies, the fabrics can suffer from insufficient strength and only limited stretch and recovery properties.Elastomers used to fabricate elastic fabrics often have an undesirable rubbery feel. This is particularly true with thermoplastic elastomers rather than crosslinked elastomers. When these materials are used in composite nonwoven fabrics, the hand and 

texture of the fabric can be perceived by the user as sticky or rubbery and therefore undesirable.U.S. Patent 4,775,579 to Hagy, et al. discloses desirable composite elastic nonwoven fabrics containing staple textile fibers intimately hydroentangled with an elastic web or an elastic net. One or more webs of staple textile fibers and/or wood pulp fibers can be hydroentangled with an elastic net according to the disclosure of this invention. The resulting composite fabric exhibits characteristics comparable to those of knit textile cloth and possesses superior softness and extensibility properties. The rubbery feel traditionally associated with elastomeric materials can be minimized or eliminated in these fabrics.U.S. 4,413,623 to Pieniak discloses a laminated structure such as a disposable diaper which can incorporate an elastic net into portions of the structure. The elastic net can be inserted in a stretched condition between first and second layers of the structure and bonded to the layers while in the stretched condition. Subsequent relaxation of the elastic net can result in gathering of the structure. U.S. 4,525,407 to Ness discloses elastic fabrics which include
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A composite elastic nonwoven fabric comprising: an elastomeric net having a plurality of apertures; a fibrous web comprising binder fibers and being intimately hydroentangled with said net such that at least a portion of said binder fibers extend through at least a portion of the apertures in said net; and at least a portion of said binder fibers having been thermally activated thereby bonding said hydroentangled web into a coherent, substantially unitary structure encompassing said elastomeric net.
2. The nonwoven fabric of Claim 1 wherein said fibrous web comprises binder fibers in an amount of between about 5 and about 50 wt. %.
3. The nonwoven fabric of Claims 1 or 2 wherein said fibrous web comprises fibers selected from the group consisting of polyester, polyolefin, nylon, acrylic, modacrylic, rayon, cellulose acetate, wool, cotton and/or wood pulp.
4. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein said elastomeric net is substantially rectangular, and elastic in only one of the longitudinal or transverse directions.
5. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein said elastomeric net is substantially rectangular, and is elastic in both the longitudinal and transverse directions. 


 6. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein said elastomeric net is of a non- rectangular geometry, and is elastic in one direction and inelastic in another direction.
7. The non-woven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein said elastomeric net is of a non- rectangular geometry, and is elastic in all directions.
8. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 7 wherein said elastomeric net is maintained in a stretched condition during hydroentangling of said fibrous web and said net.
9. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 8 wherein said hydroentangled fibrous web and elastomeric net has been thermally treated in the stretched state.
10. The nonwoven fabric of sny of Claims 1 to 8 wherein said hydroentangled fibrous web and elastomeric net has been thermally treated in the relaxed state.
ll. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 10 additionally comprising a web of continuous filaments, bonded or unbonded, hydroentangled with said fibrous web and said net.
12. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 11 additionally comprising a meltblown web intimately hydroentangled with said fibrous web and said net. 


 -SO- IS. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 12 wherein said binder fibers are thermally activated at a temperature in the range of between about 100°C and about 135°.
14. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 13 wherein said elastomeric net comprises a thermoplastic elastomer.
15. The nonwoven fabric of Claim 14 wherein said elastomer is crosslinked.
16. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 14 wherein said elastomeric net comprises an A-B-A block copolymer, wherein A represents a styrene block and B represents unsaturated or fully hydrogenated rubber block.
17. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 16 wherein said elastomeric net additionally comprises a blended thermoplastic polymer.
18. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 17 wherein said binder fibers comprise polyethylene.
19. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 18 wherein said binder fibers comprise a polyester or copolyester polymer.
20. The nonwoven fabric according to any of Claims 1 to 19 wherein said binder fibers are bicomponent fibers. 


 21. The nonwoven fabric according to any of Claims 1 to 20 wherein said binder fibers are present in said fibrous web in an amount of between 10 and about 40 wt. %.
22. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 21 wherein at least a portion of said binder fibers are thermally bonded to said elastomeric net.
23. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 21 wherein there is substantially no bonding between said binder fibers and said elastomeric net.
24. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 23 wherein said elastomeric net comprises between about 2 and about 30 strands per inch in each direction.
25. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 24 wherein said elastomeric net is substantially free from thermal disruption.
26. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 25 wherein said binder fibers are thermally activated by calendering.
27. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 1 to 26 wherein said binder fibers are thermally activated by through-air bonding.
28. The nonwoven fabric of any of Clains 1 to 27 further comprising a second fibrous web comprising binder fibers and being disposed on the opposed side of said net from said fibrous web and being intimately hydroentangled with said net such that at least a portion of said binder fibers in each of said fibrous webs extend through apertures in said net; 


 at least a portion of said binder fibers in each of said webs having been thermally activated thereby bonding said hydroentangled first and second webs into a coherent, substantially unitary structure encompassing said elastomeric net.
29. The nonwoven fabric of Claim 28 wherein said second fibrous web comprises binder fibers in an amount of from about 5 to about 50 wt. %.
30. The nonwoven fabric according to any of Claims 28 and 29 wherein said second fibrous web comprises fibers selected from the group consisting of polyester, polyolefin, nylon, acrylic, modacrylic, rayon, cellulose acetate, wool, cotton, and/or wood pulp.
31. The nonwoven fabric of any of Claims 28 to 30 wherein said binder fibers are present in said second fibrous web in an amount of between about 10 and about 40 wt. %.
32. A process for producing a composite elastomeric nonwoven fabric comprising the steps: forming a layered structure comprising an elastomeric net having a plurality of apertures and a fibrous web comprising binder fibers; intimately hydroentangling said elastomeric net and said fibrous web sufficiently that at least a portion of said binder fibers in said fibrous web extend through apertures in said elastomeric net; and thermally treating said hydroentangled fibrous web sufficiently to thermally activate at least a portion of said binder fibers thereby bonding said hydroentangled web into a coherent, substantially unitary structure encompassing said elastomeric net. 


 33. The process according to Claim 32 additionally comprising the step of stretching said elastomeric net in at least one of the longitudinal or transverse directions prior to said hydroentangling step; and maintaining said web in said stretched condition during said hydroentangling step.
34. The process of Claims 32 or 33 wherein said layered structure formed in said forming step additionally comprises a web of continuous filaments, bonded or unbonded.
35. The process of any of Claims 32 to 34 wherein said layered structure formed in said forming step additionally comprises a meltblown web.
36. The process of any of Claims 32 to 35 wherein said fibrous web comprises between about 5 and about 50 wt. % binder fibers.
37. The process of any of Claims 32 to 36 wherein said fibrous web additionally comprises fibers selected from the group consisting of synthetic fibers, natural fibers and wood pulp fibers.
38. The process of any of Claims 32 to 37 wherein said thermal treating step is conducted by passing said hydroentangled web through heated calender rolls.
39. The process of Claim 38 wherein said heated calender rolls are smooth calender rolls.
40. The process of any of Claims 32 to 37 wherein said thermal heating step is conducted by passing said hydroentangled web through a through-air oven. 


 41. The process of any of Claims 32 to 40 wherein said thermal heating step is performed with the web in a stretched state.
42. The process of any of Claims 32 to 40 wherein said thermal heating step is performed with the web in a relaxed state.
43. The process of any of Claims 32 to 42 wherein said binder fibers are present in said fibrous web in an amount of between about 10 and about 40 wt. %.
44. The process of any of Claims 32 to 43 wherein said elastomeric net comprises about 5 to about 30 strands per inch in each direction.
45. The process of any of Claims 32 to 44 wherein said layered structure formed in said step of forming a layered structure comprises said elastomeric net sandwiched between said fibrous web and a second fibrous web.
46. The process of Claim 45 wherein binder fibers are present in said second fibrous web in an amount of between about 5 and about 50 wt. %.
47. The process of Claims 45 or 46 wherein said second fibrous webs includes fibers selected from the group consisting of synthetic fibers, natural fibers and wood pulp fibers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
