<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0080980</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modular building component for construction of buildings and process and machine for the manufacturing  thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B28B722	B28B722	E04B1348	E04B1348	E04B141	E04B141	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B28B	B28B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B28B7	B28B7	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	E04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Components for construction of buildings by means of 
coupling and combining of said components which are 

produced with a machine and process suited for a series 
production in the factory, said machine being formed by 

forming elements which combine in order to obtain a form 
for the casting of the component in reinforced conglomerate 

material. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUSCICA FRANCESCO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUSCICA, FRANCESCO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSCICA FRANCESCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSCICA, FRANCESCO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 Modular building component
 for construction of buildings
 and process and machine
 for the manufacturing thereof.


This invention relates to a process and a machine for manufacturing pre-equipped modular building components for the construction of buildings, as well as the components so produced.


The building components manufactured through the method and the machine according to the invention allow the construction of buildings through assembly of the components themselves through elements of connection incorporated therein, without the necessity of having to construct the skeleton of the building in the field and of later carrying out, still in the field, the operations for the formation of the rooms.


According to the invention, by means of a new system, the construction of the components for the building takes place completely in the factory, including the  accessory parts such as the fixtures, plumbing work, electric and telephone wiring and the actual raising of the building in the field requires only mounting of the components in a minimum amount of time and with a minimum number of labour out of the factory.


Furthermore, the new system based on this invention allows to manufacture the said components with a production accuracy never obtained so far with the current techniques, so that it may be stated that the building, though with an extremely great flexibility of design and variety of shapes, is manufactured in the factory following a method and working organization similar to that followed for the series manufacturing, in line, of articles of totally different type and of typically mechanical nature, such as, for example, automobiles.


The prior art has employed several different prefabrication systems in the construction of buildings.


The prefabrication systems according to the prior art generally involve the construction in the factory of wall panels or other particular parts of the   building,    or also the construction in the factory of parts of small buildings which are later assembled in the field.


However, in the first case the construction of the main frame of the building must always be carried out in the field, while in the second case it is possible to build only rather small buildings, which in fact do not require a main frame of particular importance.  


Furthermore, in the prefabrication systems according to the prior art, a great accuracy of manufacture is not required, such an accuracy being acceptable in the order of the centimetre plus or minus.


In contrast
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims



1. Pre-equipped building modular component, tridimensional
 according to axes X, Y, Z for the construction of

 buildings, characterized by the fact of comprising, in
 one single piece:

 a floor element having, in the direction of the Z axis
 a width of one or more standard modular units and, in

 the direction of the X axis, a length of a multiple of
 said modular units, said floor being provided with a

 longitudinal through cavity in the sense of its length,
 in direction of the X axis, in each of the modular units

 which form its width, and two through transversal
 cavities in the direction of its width, in direction of

 the Z axis, communicating with said longitudinal cavity;

;
 two side walls perpendicular to said floor having, in

 the direction of the Y axis, a height above said floor,
 equal to one modular unit and, beneath said floor,

 equal to two modular units, the inner surfaces of
 said side walls, facing towards the floor, being smooth

 and the outer surfaces being provided with a channel
 in the direction of the Y axis, in each of the modular

 units which form their width, the edge surfaces on the
 thickness of said side walls, as well as the edge

 surfaces on the thickness of said floor, being shaped
 so as to be provided with continuous grooves therealong,

 communicating with said inner surfaces of said walls;

;
 a longitudinal wall lying in a plane of direction X, Y

 integral and perpendicular with said floor and said  
 two side walls and having the same height thereof,

 said longitudinal wall being placed on one side and/or
 the other side of the plane of the floor, and having

 both its surfaces smooth; and
 connecting elements placed on the surfaces of the

 upper and lower edges of said side walls, in coincidence
 of the intermodular lines and the ends.




2. The component according to claim 1, wherein said
 connecting elements are formed by two small steel cups

 integral with the ends of a rod having the direction
 of the Y axis, embedded in the side wall, said small

   cups    being embedded one on said upper edge and the
 other on said lower edge, and having their concavity

 facing towards the outside and being provided with a
 welding flange and a recess for the insertion of a

 connecting body.



3. The component according to claim 1, wherein said
 longitudinal wall is placed on one single side of the

 floor, in coincidence with the free end of a modular
 unit.




4. The component according to claim 1, wherein said
 longitudinal wall is placed on only one side of the

 floor, in coincidence with an intermodular line.



5. The component according to claim 1, wherein said
 longitudinal wall is placed on both sides of the

 floor in coincidence with the free end of one modular
 unit.  




6. The component according to claim l,wherein said longi
 tudinal wall, on one sid
e of the floor, is placed in
 coincidence of the free end of one modular unit, while

 on the other side of the floor it is placed in coincidence
 of an intermodular line.




7. The component according to claim 1, wherein said longi
 tudinal wall is placed on one or the other side of the

 floor in coincidence with one same intermodular line.



8. The component according to claim 1, wherein said longi
 tudinal wall is placed on both sides of the

 floor in coincidence of two different intermular lines.



 9. The component according to any of the preceding claims
 from 3 to 8, wherein the thickness of said longitudinal

 wall is internal with respect to the width of the modular
 unit of the floor and of the side wall adjacent thereto.




10. The component according to any of the preceding claims,
 wherein said longitudinal wall is on one side and/or

 on the other side of the floor and is provided with
 through cavities having the direction along the Y

 axis, placed at modular intervals.



11. The component according to claim 10, wherein the thick
 ness of said longitudinal wall provided with through

 cavities is external to or on the same axis with a modular
 or intermodular line.




12. The component according to any of the preceding claims,
 wherein said longitudinal wall is provided with spaces

 for doors and/or windows.  



13. The component according to claim 1, modified so as it
 does not display said longitudinal wall.




14. The combination of components according to any of the
 preceding claims by laying one over the other

 and/or placing side by side and connecting by welding
 said connecting elements one with the other of the

 respective components in order to achieve the structure
 of a building.




15. The process for the manufacturing of a modular pre
 equipped building component, such as claimed in any

 of the preceding claims from 1 to 13, wherein said
 component is produced through casting of a material

 hardening up to a conglomerate, in form frames which
 delimit a cavity having the shape of said component,

 characterized by the operation of:    .   



 mounting said form frames in such a way that said floor
 assumes a position in a vertical plane with the X and

 Y axes of the component in the horizontal position and
 the Z axis of the component in the vertical position;

 disassembling the form for the inner surfaces of said side
 walls by means of a translation movement of the respective

 form frame towards the bottom in an oblique direction
 with respect to the plane of said side walls, to the

 plane of said floor and to the horizontal plane; and
 successively   disassemDling    the form for the surface of said floor

 and the inner surface of said longitudinal wall, through
 a translation movement towards the bottom of the related  

 form frames, in an oblique direction with respect to
 the plane of said floor and to the horizontal plane.




16. A machine for manufacturing a modular component for
 the construction of buildings, such as claimed in any

 of the preceding claims from 1 to 14, placed on three
 horizontal planes defined respectively as bottom plane,

 base plane and upper plane and oriented according to a
 longitudinal X axis, a transversal Y axis and a vertical

 Z axis comprising:

:
 a)   two pairs    of vertical supporting pillars having their

 basis on said bottom plane, placed at the vertexes of a
 rectangle and carrying upperly at the level of said

 upper plane, supporting guides having the direction ac
 cording to the longitudinal X axis;

 b) a pair of horizontal beams, parallel to the direction
 of the longitudinal X axis, guided at their ends

 respectively along a pair of said pillars for a movement
 according to the direction of the vertical Z axis, sup

 ported on vertically movable supports, moved by a motor
 and apt to assume, independently one from the other, a

 lowered position below said base plane and several raised
 positions at the level of said base Plane; 


;
 c) a supporting deck formed by a pair of beams parallel

 to the transversal Y axis, connected rigidly one to the
 other, resting on vertically movable supports moved by

 a motor and guided along vertical fixed guides resting
 on said bottom plane, said supporting deck being movable

 between a position at the level of said base plane and a
 position above same; 


 d) a carriage movable along the transversal Y axis on said base plane, said carriage carrying form surfaces for the formation of the edge surfaces along the Y axis of said side walls and of the edge of said floor along the X axis, and being movable between an external position with respect to the machine and a resting position on said supporting deck;

 e) two groups of lower inner form frames, each supported on one of said two horizontal beams, said form frames carrying form surfaces for the formation of the inner surfaces of said side walls, of said longitudinal wall and of the floor; f) two groups of outer form frames supported on said base plane, each group carrying form portions for the formation of the outer surfaces of said side walls, and of the edge along the Y axis of said longitudinal   wall,said    form portions being movable through motors in the direction in the longitudinal X axis, said groups further carrying heads for the formation of the edges of
 thickness having a direction along the Z axis of said sidewalls, movable by means of motors in the direction of the transversal Y axis, as well as cores for the formation of said longitudinal through cavities at the inside of the thickness of the floor,


 movable by means of motors in the direction of the longitudinal X axis and cores for the formation of said transversal through cavities of the floor, movable through motors in the direction of the vertical Z axis; g) two elevators movable by means of motors between an  upper plane and said base plane, and being guided each at the ends for a vertical movement, in the direction of the Z axis, on a same pair of pillars on which one of said horizontal beams is guided; h) a core carrier slidingly supported
 in the direction of the transversal Y axis on each of said elevators, said core carrier carrying cores for the formation of the through cavities in the direction of the Y axis in said longitudinal wall, as well as a form portion for the formation of the edge of said longitudinal wall;


 i) an upper inner form frame supported in a sliding way in the direction of the transversal Y axis on each of said elevators, said form frame carrying a form for the formation of the surface facing towards the top of a longitudinal wall, placed on an intermodular line, as well as the formation of the part of the surface of the floor and of the side walls comprised between their edge facing towards the top and the longitudinal wall;

 j) a form frame for said edge facing towards the top, slidable on said supporting guides at the level of said upper plane in the direction of the X axis, said form frame for the edge facing towards the top carrying a form frame movable in the direction of the Z axis, for the formation of edges facing towards the top of the floor and of the side walls, said form frame for the edge facing towards the top being provided with passages for the casting of the conglomerate mixture;  
 k) an upper box carrier slidable on said

 supporting guides at the level of said upper plane
 in the direction of the X axis, said upper carrier

 carrying boxes movable in the direction of the Z
 axis, to be used as forms for the formation of openings

 for doors and windows in said longitudinal wall, said
 boxes having openings wherein said cores carried by

 said core carrier penetrate;

 and
 1) means apt to transport and discha
rge said mixture
 of conglomerate, whereby preparing a reinforcement

 on said lower carriage, bringing said lower
 carriage over said supporting deck, bringing into

 position the various forms and carrying out the
 casting, the form disassembly after the hardening

 leaves the form piece on the lower carriage, which is
 extracted from the machine translating said lower

 carriage on said base plane.



17. The machine according to claim 16, wherein said supports
 movable for the pair of horizontal beams are worm screws

 actuated by an electric motor and said beams present
 ends provided with grooved wheels which slide over

 corners of said pillars.



18. The machine according to claim 16, wherein said movable
 supports for said supporting deck are formed by a piston

 of a hydraulic jack and said supporting deck is provided
   witil    vertical extensions which slide in contact with the

 grooves of wheels fixed to said vertical fixed guides.  



19. The machine according to claim 16, wherein each of said
 lower inner form frames comprises: a first supporting

 frame work integral with one of said two horizontal
 beams; a second frame work carrying a form portion for

 the formation of one of the surfaces of the floor, as
 well as the formation of the inner surface of the

 longitudinal wall, said second framework and said first
 framework being connected though means which allow a

 movement of said second framework with respect to said
 first framework according to an oblique trajectory

 with respect to the directions of the Z and Y axes;
 two form portions the formation of the inner

 surfaces of the side walls, connected with said second
 framework through means which allow the movement of said two form

 portions with respect to said second frame work, ac
 cording to an oblique direction with respect to the

 three X, Y, Z axes.



20. The machine according to claim 19, wherein said means
 are formed by a system of connecting rods shaped as

 a linked . parallelogram and by motors having
 hydraulic pistons.




21. The machine according to claim 16, wherein each of said
 two groups of outer form frames is formed by sub

 groups carrying each respectively a form portion for the
 formation of one modular unit of outer surface of said

 side walls, each sub-group being provided individually
 with a hydraulic linear motor which carries out the

 separation of the form portion from the finished piece, while
 motor means carry out a global movement of the group

 in the direction of the X axis, each sub-group being  
 associated with a core for the formation of a longitudinal

 through cavity of the floor, said core being guided
 along guides carried by the main framework of the group,

 each core carrying on its inside two cores for the
 formation of said transversal through cavities of the

 floor,

 said cores for the transversal cavities being
 brought into the working position on the outside of

 the longitudinal core, after that the latter has as
 sumed its working position.


 

22. The machine according to claim 16, wherein said heads
 for the formation of the edges of thickness having a

 direction along the Z axis of said side walls, of the
 outer form frame groups, comprise forming surfaces

 having shapes for the formation of branching boxes,
 said shapes being brought selectively into the

 operating position of casting by means actuated by a
 selective control.


 

23. The machine according to claim 16, comprising pin
 blocking elements on said supporting deck and said

 inner form frames, to the end of blocking the position
 related therebetween, as well as pin blocking elements

 rigidly connecting said outer form frames and said
 carriage with said supporting deck.




24. The machine according to any of the preceding claims,
 further comprising means apt to vibrate the forms during

 the casting of the material for the formation of the
 conglomerate. 


25. The machine according to   ally    of the preceding claims, compri
 comprising means for carrying out a heating of the

 forms during the casting of the material for the
 formation of the conglomerate. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
