<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647690</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pigment dispersion composition, display apparatus, and method of manufacturing the apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J2989	H01J2918	C09D1700	H01J2918	H01J2989	C09D1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	C09D	H01J	H01J	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J29	H01J29	C09D17	H01J29	H01J29	C09D17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The pigment dispersion composition having a good 
dispersibility, a good transparence and an anti-coating 

properties, which contains 0.5 to 50 parts by weight of 
an inorganic pigment, at least one type of dispersant 

selected from the group consisting of a sodium salt, an 
ammonium salt and an amine salt of an acrylic resin, an 

acryl copolymer resin, a polycarbonic acid, a condensation 
product of aromatic formalin sulfonate, and water 

or a solvent miscible with water. 
Display apparatus, such as a cathode ray tube, with a coating of said 
pigment disfusion and method of manufacturing the apparatus. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a pigment dispersion
composition having a good dispersibility and a good
transparence, with such excellent anti-coating properties
that the composition does not have an adverse
influence on other materials, i.e. soaking into other
coatings. The present invention further discloses a
display apparatus such as a cathode ray tube and a
method of manufacturing the apparatus.A color cathode ray tube is an example of a display
apparatus for displaying an image by using emitting
light from a phosphor layer. Conventionally, various
methods for improving the contrast or color purity of
such a display device have been proposed.For example, Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publications
Nos. 48-17263, 52-63060 and 64-7457 each disclose a
method in which a pigment layer having the same color as
that of the emitting color from the phosphor layer is
provided between the face plate and the phosphor layer.Further, Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication
No. 52-77578 discloses a method of forming a pigment
layer by adding a pigment into a pre-coating solution
before the phosphor layer is applied. Jpn. Pat. Appln.
KOKAI Publications Nos. 53-69577 and 56-160746 each
mention a method of embedding phosphor particles into
a pigment layer which was made sticky.Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication No. 53-65654 
discloses that a phosphor screen is formed by forming a
pigment layer containing a binder in the inner surface
of a panel and then applying a phosphor suspension
containing a photo-sensitive binder on the pigment
layer, thereafter exposing the suspension to light and
developing.However, the above-described methods entail the
below-described drawbacks, and therefore it is difficult
to actually employ such a phosphor film having a pigment
filter layer. First, the transparence of the pigment
layer is insufficient, and the performance of the filter
is poor, thus making it not possible to achieve good
contrast properties. Second, the method involves a
limited condition for work, and therefore defect-free
filter layers cannot be constantly obtained.According to the method of manufacturing a phosphor
screen disclosed in Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication
No. 64-7457, the pigment layer is formed by the slurry
method, and after a while, the phosphor layer is formed
by further using the slurry method. As a result, the
number of the steps involved is twice as many as a
general method, and the production cost is increased.The present invention has been proposed in
consideration of the drawbacks of the conventional
tech
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pigment dispersion composition containing:

0.5 to 50 parts by weight of an inorganic pigment having
a particle diameter of 10 to 200 nm;
a dispersant; and
water or a solvent miscible with water, characterized in
that:
said dispersant comprises a mixture of a sodium salt
dispersant and an ammonium salt dispersant, or a mixture of

an ammonium salt dispersant and nonionic dispersant,
said sodium salt dispersant is selected from the group
consisting of a sodium salt of an acrylic resin, a sodium

salt of an acrylic copolymer resin, a sodium salt of a
polycarboxylic acid, and a sodium salt of a condensation

product of aromatic sulfonate and formalin, and
said ammonium salt dispersant is selected from the group
consisting of an ammonium salt of an acrylic resin, an

ammonium salt of an acrylic copolymer resin, an ammonium salt
of a 
polycarboxylic acid, and an ammonium salt of a
condensation product of aromatic sulfonate and formalin.
A pigment dispersion composition according to claim 1,
characterized in that a content of said dispersant is 0.5 to

20 wt%.
A pigment dispersion composition according to claim 1,
characterized in that a content of said dispersant with

respect to said inorganic pigment is 2 to 30 wt%.
A pigment dispersion composition according to claim 1,
characterized in that said solvent miscible with water is at

least one kind selected from the group consisting of methyl 
alcohol, ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, polyhydric

alcohols, glycolethers, 2-pyrrolidone, N-methylpyrrolidone
and N,N-dimethylformamide.
A pigment dispersion composition according to claim 1,
characterized in that said nonionic dispersant is selected

from the group consisting of polyoxyethylene laurylether,
polyoxyethylene derivatives, polyoxyalkylene alkylether,

polyoxyethylene nonylphenylether, and polyoxyethylene
sorbitanmonolaurate.
A pigment dispersion composition according to claim 1,
characterized in that said dispersant is a mixture of a

sodium salt of an acrylic resin and an ammonium salt of an
acrylic resin.
A pigment dispersion composition according to claim 1,
characterized in that a content of said inorganic pigment is

3 to 35 wt%.
A display apparatus (60) characterized by comprising:

a face plate (64); and
a phosphor screen (67) comprising a pigment layer (4B,
4G, 4R), and
a phosphor layer (5B, 5G, 5R), formed on the pigment
layer (4B, 4G, 4R), emitting light of the same color as the

color of the pigment itself, characterized in that said
pigment layer (4B, 4G, 4R) is formed by applying a pigment

dispersion composition according to claim 1 on the inner
surface of the face plate (64).
A display apparatus (60) according to claim 8,
characterized in that a content of said dispersant is 0.5 to

20 wt%. 
A display apparatus (60) according to claim 8,
characterized in that a content of said dispersant with

respect to said inorganic pigment is 2 to 30 wt%.
A display apparatus (60) according to claim 8,
characterized in that said solvent miscible with water is at

least one type selected from the group consisting of methyl
alcohol, ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, polyhydric

alcohols, glycolethers,
N-methylpyrrolidone, 2-pyrrolidone and

N,N-dimethylformamide.
A display apparatus (60) according to claim 8,
characterized in that said nonionic dispersant is selected

from the group consisting of polyoxyethylene laurylether,
polyoxyethylene derivatives, polyoxyalkylene alkylether,

polyoxyethylene nonylphenylether, and polyoxyethylene
sorbitanmonolaurate.
A display apparatus (60) according to claim 8,
characterized in that said dispersant is a mixture of a

sodium salt of an acrylic resin and an ammonium salt of an
acrylic resin.
A display apparatus (60) according to claim 8,
characterized in that a content of said inorganic pigment is

3 to 35 wt%.
A method of manufacturing a display apparatus (60), said
method comprising a process for forming a phosphor screen,

characterized by comprising the steps of:

coating a pigment dispersion composition according to
claim 1 on the inner surface of the face plate (64), and

drying, thereby forming a coating film (4B, 4G, 4R) of a
pigment dispersion composition;
coating a solution containing a photoresist on the
coating film of the pigment dispersion composition, thereby 

forming another coating film (5B, 5G, 5R) of the photoresist
solution; and
exposing and developing the coating film (5B, 5G, 5R) of
the photoresist solution via a mask pattern, thereby

patterning the coating film (4B, 4G, 4R) of the pigment
dispersion and the coating film (5B, 5G, 5R) of the

photoresist solution at the same time.
A method according to claim 15, characterized in that
said solution containing said photoresist further contains a

phosphor.
A method according to claim 15, characterized in that a
content of said dispersant is 0.5 to 20 wt%.
A method according to claim 15, characterized in that a
content of said dispersant with respect to said inorganic

pigment is 2 to 30 wt%.
A method according to claim 15, characterized in that
said solvent miscible with water is at least one type

selected from the group consisting of methyl alcohol, ethyl
alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, polyhydric alcohols,

glycolethers, 2-pyrrolidone, N-methylpyrrolidone and N,N-dimethylformamide.
A method according to claim 15, characterized in that
said nonionic dispersant is selected from the group

consisting of polyoxyethylene laurylether, polyoxyethylene
derivatives, polyoxyalkylene alkylether, polyoxyethylene

nonylphenylether, and polyoxyethylene sorbitanmonolaurate.
A method according to claim 15, characterized in that
said dispersant is a mixture of a sodium salt of an acrylic

resin and an ammonium salt of an acrylic resin. 
A method according to claim 15, characterized in that a
content of said inorganic pigment is 3 to 35 wt%.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
