<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612420</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROGRAMMABLE MEDICATION DISPENSING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61J300	A61J300	A61J700	A61J700	A61J704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61J	A61J	A61J	A61J	A61J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61J3	A61J3	A61J7	A61J7	A61J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A medication-dispensing system includes a prescribing data entry station for use by a physician to store prescription information in a portable prescribing module (12), a dispensing data entry station for use by a pharmacist to store dispensing information in a portable dispensing data storage unit (18), and a medication dispenser (13) responsive to information stored in the portable prescribing module (12) to describe use of medication in the dispenser in accordance with a regimen prescribed by the physician and to the dispensing data storage unit (18) to control dispensing of the medication. One embodiment has two medication drawers (20, 21), each having a plurality of compartments (32) with indicating lights (33) selectively indicating the compartment from which medication is to be taken, a screen (29) for displaying instructions regarding loading of the medication compartments and taking of the medication, and a keyboard (25) including a confirming entry key (34) for actuation by the user to confirm compliance with the instructions. Another embodiment has a series of medication-containing compartments, each covered by a separate sliding or folding cover.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYPHARM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYPHARM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINBERGER EDWARD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINBERGER EDWARD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionProgrammable Medication Dispensing SystemTechnical FieldThis invention relates to medicine-dispensing devic- es and, more particularly, to a programmable medicine- dispensing system.Background ArtHeretofore, a variety of medicine-dispensing devices have been proposed. In the patent to Rose et al.. No. 4,695,954, for example, a medication-dispensing system is provided in which prescription information is encoded into a memory card by a programming device located at a pharmacy in accordance with a physician's instructions. The memory card is inserted by the patient into a dis- penser which automatically releases the appropriate medi¬ cation at the required times and provides a corresponding alarm and visual indication on a screen. The dispenser includes sensors which detect the removal of medication from a delivery compartment to record compliance by the patient, but failure of the patient to remove the medica¬ tion will not prevent the dispenser from continuing its programmed operation but instead may send an alarm to a remote location. This system is intended for use by a patient at a facility where supervising personnel can observe monitors and take corrective action promptly, but is not portable or useful in an environment where the patient must follow a regimen without close supervision by others.The patent to Urquhart et al. No. 4,725,997 discloε- es a dispensing device for pharmaceutical preparations which is programmed with information concerning a dosing regimen and permits the user to deviate within limits from the regimen and monitors the deviations while pre- 

venting dispensing outside the predetermined limits. The dispensing device has a data communication interface for communicating with a physician or pharmacist and includes a display screen on which instructions and inquiries may be displayed.The Mclntosh et al. Patent No. 4,088,056 discloses a programmed medication clock having a plurality of sepa¬ rate compartments for different types of medication along with a separate indicator and acknowledgment switch adja- cent to each compartment to indicate the compartment from which medication is to be taken and to acknowledge taking of the medication by the user. The Lloyd et al. Patent No. 5,099,463 shows a medication alarm device with sepa¬ rate holders for removable medication containers and cor- responding indicator lights to designate a container from which medication is to be taken.In the Schollmeyer et al. Patent No. 4,504,153, a cap for a medication container includes a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Clai s
1. A medication-dispensing system comprising pre¬ scribing data storage means having a memory for storing prescription information, prescribing data entry means for encoding prescription information on the prescribing data storage means, and medication- dispensing means responsive to information stored in the prescribing data storage means including display means for displaying instructions regarding medica- tion referred to in the information stored in the prescribing data storage means, medication container means for storing and dispensing medication in re¬ sponse to medication regimen information received by the dispensing means and confirming entry means re- quiring actuation by a user to indicate compliance with medication instructions.
2. A medication-dispensing system according to Claim 1 wherein the container means comprises a normally closed container which is released to permit access to medication and wherein the dispenser will not permit closing of the container in the absence of actuation of the confirming entry means.
3. A medication dispenser according to Claim 2 includ¬ ing alarm means actuated in response to an attempt to close the container in the absence of actuation of the confirming entry means.
4. A medication dispenser according to Claim 2 includ¬ ing means for preventing further operation of the dispenser in the absence of a confirming entry after the container has been released and means for re¬ cording confirming entries. 


5. A medication-dispensing system according to Claim 2 wherein the container is a drawer which includes a plurality of compartments for storing medication and including indicator means for indicating one of the plurality of compartments for use by a user in ac¬ cordance with instructions displayed on the display means.
6. A medication-dispensing system according to Claim 2 wherein the storage and dispensing means includes a second container and wherein one container contains medication to be taken on a prescribed schedule and the second container contains medication to be taken on demand.
7. A medication-dispensing system according to Claim 1 wherein the medication storage and dispensing means comprises at least one container with a plurality of compartments and load means responsive to actuation by a user to display instructions regarding loading of medication into selected compartments in the storage and dispensing means.
8. A medication dispenser according to Claim 1 includ¬ ing alarm means for indicating the time for taking of medication and release means for releasing a storage and dispensing means to permit dispensing of medication in response to the alarm.
9. A medication-dispensing system according to Claim 1 wherein the medication-dispensing means includes internal memory means for storing information and keyboard means permitting a user to enter informa- tion into the memory means.
10. A medication-dispensing system according to Claim l wherein the prescribing data entry means is respon- 


 sive to information contained in a medication infor¬ mation storage means and in a patient information storage means and includes display means for dis¬ playing medication information and patient informa- tion and keyboard means for entering and displaying prescription information and for storing pre¬ scription information on the prescribing data stor¬ age means.
11. A medication-dispensing system according to Claim 1 including dispensing data storage means having a memory for storing dispensing data and dispensing data encoding means for encoding dispensing data into the dispensing data storage means and wherein the medication-dispensing means is responsive to information stored in the dispensing data storage means.
12. A medication-dispensing system according to Claim 1 wherein the storage and dispensing means has a plu¬ rality of compartments for different medications and each compartment has a separate cover.
13. A medication dispenser according to Claim 1 wherein the container means comprises a plurality of com¬ partments, each having a slidable cover to permit access to medication contained therein.
14. A medication dispenser according to Claim 1 wherein the container means comprises a plurality of com¬ partments, each having a hinged cover to permit ac¬ cess to medication contained therein.
15. A medication dispenser according to Claim 14 wherein the hinged cover has a first hinge permitting the entire cover to be opened and a second hinge permit¬ ting only an end portion of the cover to be opened 


 to permit medication to be removed from the compart¬ ment.
16. A medication dispenser according to Claim 14 includ¬ ing detector means for detecting the cover in the closed position.
17. A medication dispenser according to Claim 14 wherein the cover is normally retained in the closed posi¬ tion and including release means for releasing the cover to permit access to medication in the compart- ment.
18. A medication dispenser according to Claim 1 wherein the medication container means comprises a plurality of compartments, each having a bottom surface which slopes upwardly toward one end to facilitate removal of medication therefrom.
19. A medication dispenser comprising medication con¬ tainer means, data storage means removably connected to the dispenser for providing medication informa¬ tion to the dispenser, display means for displaying medication information including instructions re¬ garding medication, control means responsive to the data storage means for controlling the medication container means to permit access by a user at se¬ lected times, and confirming entry means for actua- tion by a user to indicate compliance with instruc¬ tions presented on the display means.
20. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 wherein the removably connected data storage means comprises prescribing data storage means arranged to receive prescribing data at a remote location. 


21. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 wherein the removably connected data storage means comprises dispensing data storage means arranged to receive dispensing data at a remote location.
22. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 includ¬ ing alarm means responsive to the control means at the selected times when medication is made accessi¬ ble to the user.
23. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 includ- ing internal memory means for storing information in the dispenser and keyboard means permitting a user to enter information into the internal memory means.
24. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 wherein the medication container means includes a slidable drawer having a plurality of compartments which may be released at the selected times to permit access to one or more of the compartments and indicator means for indicating the compartment containing med¬ ication for use at the selected time.
25. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 wherein the medication container means comprises at least two drawers which are selectively releasable and wherein one of the drawers may be released at se¬ lected times in accordance with a medication regimen and another drawer is selectively releasable by the user to permit access to medication to be taken on demand.
26. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 includ¬ ing remote communication means permitting communica- tion with the dispenser from a remote information source. 


27. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 includ¬ ing remote locator means for causing the dispenser to produce a locating signal.
28. A medication dispenser according to Claim 21 wherein the dispensing data storage means includes means for limiting the number of times the dispensing data stored in the storage means may be reused.
29. A medication dispenser according to Claim 19 wherein the container means comprises a plurality of com- part ents, each having a hinged cover to permit ac¬ cess to medication contained therein.
30. A medication dispenser according to Claim 29 wherein the hinged cover has a first hinge permitting the entire cover to be opened and a second hinge permit- ting only an end portion of the cover to be opened to permit medication to be removed from the compart¬ ment.
31. A portable data storage unit for use with a medica¬ tion dispenser comprising prescribing data storage means for storing prescribing data for medication to be dispensed by the dispenser and user response data storage means for storing information provided by a user of the dispenser.
32. A portable data storage unit for use with a program- mable medication-dispensing system comprising data storage means for storing dispensing data to be uti¬ lized by a medication dispenser and reuse-limit in¬ formation storage means for storing information pro¬ viding a limit on the number of times the dispens- ing data storage unit may be utilized by a medica¬ tion dispenser. 


33. A medication dispenser comprising medication con¬ tainer means including a plurality of compartments, each having a hinged cover with a first hinge per¬ mitting the entire cover to be opened, and a second hinge permitting only an end portion of the cover to be opened.
34. A medication container according to Claim 33 wherein each compartment has a bottom surface which is sloped upwardly toward the end portion of the cover. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
