<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648351</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONCENTRATION DETECTOR FOR COLORED TONER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1501	G03G1511	G03G1511	G01N2153	G03G1510	G01N2147	G03G1501	G01N2147	G03G1510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G01N	G03G	G01N	G03G	G01N	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G01N21	G03G15	G01N21	G03G15	G01N21	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for detecting concentrations of colored toner particles in the presence of black or other absorbing toner particles including a light source (10), a light detector (18) having a field of view of less than about +- 10 degrees and preferably less than +- 5 degrees, apparatus for supplying a dispersion of colored toner particles (14) optionally containing undesirable contamination by black toner particles between the light source (10) and the detector (18) and computing circuitry (24) operative for determining the concentration of the colored toner particles utilizing output from the light detector (18).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of concentration 
detection and more particularly to the detection of 
toner concentration in color liquid developer compositions 
especially in the presence of contaminants. In liquid developer systems the liquid developer is 
generally comprised of a carrier liquid and toner particles 
in a generally constant ratio. During imaging operations the 
concentration of toner particles is reduced and concentrated 
toner is added to return the concentration to its desired 
value. It is important that the concentration of particles 
should be kept within a given range in order to realize 
consistent copy quality. This requirement is especially 
important in color printers or copiers, where the quality of 
the images is especially dependent on the color balance and 
on its stability. In general, concentration of toner particles in liquid 
developers is determined by measuring the attenuation of 
light passing through a given path filled with the liquid 
developer. Since the particles absorb and scatter light, the 
attenuation of the light is related to the concentration of 
the particles. U.S. Patent 4,579,253 describes a system in which the 
beam of light is split into two components only one of which 
is attenuated by the liquid developer. The concentration is 
determined from the ratio of the attenuated and unattenuated 
beams. Such systems work fairly well in single color systems 
or in multicolor systems in which there is no cross contamination 
between the colors. In general, the most troublesome 
cross-contamination is black toner particles in a relatively 
low attenuation color such as yellow. Since black has an 
attenuation several times that of yellow, visually 
negligible black contamination can effect the determination 
of the color concentration in a way which seriously disturbs  
 
the color balance of the system. Japanese Patent Publication Kokai 1-148943 describes a 
system in which the attenuation of beams of light having two 
different colors are sequentially measured. Using these 
attenuation values, the publication describes a method for 
determining the concentration of both the black and the 
color particles. Generally speaking, measurement of attenuation caused 
by toner particles is most effective when a large cross-section 
is viewed, since this increases the signal level for 
the brightness of light source. This preferred operation 
requires a detector with a wide field of view. The present invention is based on an analysis of the 
different
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for detecting the concentration of colored 
toner particles in a dispersion undesirably contaminated by 

black toner particles, the method comprising the steps of: 

providing a quantity of the dispersion of colored 
toner particles optionally contaminated with black toner 

particles; 
illuminating the dispersion; 
detecting an amount of light passed through the 
dispersion with a viewing angle of less than ±10 degrees; 

and 
determining the concentration of the colored toner 
particles utilizing the detected amount of light. 
A method according to claim 1 and including, as a 
preparatory step, the step of determining the sensitivities 

of the detected light to known concentrations of colored 
toner particles. 
A method according claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the 
viewing angle is less than about ±5 degrees. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims and 
including the step of correcting for the black toner 

particle contamination in the dispersion. 
A method according to any of the preceding claims 
wherein the method includes the steps of: 


further detecting an amount of light passed through 
the dispersion with a high viewing angle; and 
determining the concentration of the black toner 
particles utilizing the detected amount of light. 
Apparatus for detecting concentrations of colored 
toner particles in the presence of black or other absorbing 

toner particles comprising:  
 


a light source; 
a light detector having a field of view of less than 
about ±10 degrees; 
means for supplying a dispersion of colored toner 
particles optionally containing undesirable contamination by 

black toner particles between the light source and the 
detector; and 
computing circuitry operative for determining the 
concentration of the colored toner particles utilizing 

output from the light detector. 
Apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the light 
source comprises: 


a laser diode; and 
a collimator. 
Apparatus according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the 
light detector comprises a focusing lens. 
Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the field of 
view is limited by the size of the detector. 
Apparatus according to claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the 
field of view is limited by the size of the lens. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 6-10 wherein the 
light detector comprises an iris for limiting the field of 

view. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 6-11 and 
including means for determining the sensitivities of the 

detected light to known concentrations of colored toner 
particles. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 6-12 wherein the 
viewing angle is less than about ±5 degrees. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 6-13 and  
 

including means for determining the concentration of black 
toner particles contaminating the dispersion. 
Apparatus according to any of claims 6-13 and 
including: 


a second light detector having a large field of view; 
and 
computing circuitry operative for determining the 
concentration of the black toner particles utilizing output 

from the second light detector. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
