<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644510</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Telecommunications system monitoring
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M322	H04M336	H04M350	G07C110	H04M351	H04M342	G07C100	H04M322	H04M336	H04M342	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	G07C	H04M	H04M	G07C	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	G07C1	H04M3	H04M3	G07C1	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system permit monitoring the 
performance of a call center agent or similar service 

representative in servicing calls in a call center by 
determining an interval within which to monitor the 

service representative's performance in responding to 
calls, as well as by determining a number of calls or 

length of time for monitoring the representative within 
the interval. The invention automatically and randomly 

determines the precise time within the interval for 
monitoring the agent for a pre-determined period of time 

or for a pre-determined number of calls and records the 
performance of the service representative at the 

automatically and randomly determined time with or 
without notification to the agent. The recorded 

performance may then be listened to and annotated by a 
call center supervisor. This provides the call center 

supervisor with an automated method and system for 
scheduling and monitoring the performance of call center 

agents or service representatives that is consistent and 
equitable among all monitored agents. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKNEKRON INFOSWITCH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKNEKRON INFOSWITCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALONEY MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCALMONT DAVID T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALONEY, MICHAEL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCALMONT, DAVID T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to
telecommunications systems (apparatus) and methods and
systems for operating telecommunications systems.More particularly the invention relates to aspects of
the operation of a telecommunications call center.Call centers provide a wide array of services for
customers of the companies that use them. Through a call
center, a company can service customers around the world,
around the clock. The essence of call center effectiveness
and efficiency, however, is the performance of the call
center service representatives or agents that serve the
calling customers. Call center supervisors manage call
service representatives and are responsible for monitoring
their performance. Call center supervisors monitor service
representatives' telephone calls for three reasons: (1) to
provide training to the customer service representatives,
(2) to assure the quality of customer service, and (3) to
maintain security within the company.For a call center that uses an automatic call
distributor (ACD) or PBX/ACD, there typically exist
features that are integral to the ACD telephone system and
that enable monitoring service representative performance.
These capabilities, however, are generally manual and have
significant limitations. For example, when a supervisor
must schedule time periods to monitor their representatives
manually the supervisor must remember when and for how long
to monitor each representative. With other demands on
their time and attention, supervisors may not be consistent
or equitable in the ways that they monitor each agent.
These inconsistencies and inequities may result in a
supervisor monitoring an agent either for too little time
or too much time, or too infrequently or too frequently.
This may cause an imbalance in the supervisor's perception
of an agent relative to other agents in the call center.Another problem that manual scheduling and monitoring
of agents causes is increased time pressure on the
supervisors themselves. For example, they must remember 
who has been monitored, for how long they have monitored or
intend to monitor an agent, and when to monitor the agent.
If a call center has numerous service representatives, the
requirement to monitor the performance of these agents may
seriously and adversely affect the productivity of the call
center supervisor. This is because the task of monitoring
agents is only one of the many tasks that the supervisor
must perform.A document from Aspect Telecommunications Corporation
entitled "Aspect CallCenter
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for monitoring the performance of a service
representative in handling calls on a telecommunications

system, said method comprising the steps of:

determining (402) a time interval within which to monitor
the performance of a service representative in responding

to calls;
automatically and randomly determining (406) a precise time
for monitoring the service representative within said time

interval;
monitoring (462, 474) the telecommunications system for
monitoring the performance of the service representative at

said automatically and randomly determined precise time;
and
recording (466) the performance of the service
representative.
A method according to claim 1, further comprising the
step of determining (402) a number of calls for monitoring

the performance of the service representative within said
time interval.
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 comprising
the step of determining (402) a length of time for

monitoring the performance of the service representative
within said interval.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,
further comprising the step of recording (466) said

performance in a digital format that is stored in a central
database (330) .
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,
further comprising the step of playing back (360) said

recorded performance at variable playback rates.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
further comprising the step (498) of annotating said

recorded performance by calling said recorded performance
from a central database and adding additional voice data to

said recorded performance.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,
further comprising the step of automatically generating

periodic reports of a plurality of said recorded
performances.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the performance of a plurality of service

representatives in servicing calls is monitored during a
length of time and/or for a number of calls within a time

interval and the individual performance of each of said
plurality of service representatives is recorded.
A method according to claim 8, further comprising the
step of generating a plurality of periodic reports of said

recorded individual performances.
Control logic for monitoring the performance of a
service representative in handling calls on a

telecommunications system, said control logic comprising:

means (402) for determining an interval within which to
monitor the performance of a service representative in

responding to calls;
means (406) for automatically and randomly determining a
precise time for monitoring the service representative

within said interval;
means (462, 474) for monitoring the telecommunications
system for monitoring the performance of the service

representative at said automatically and randomly
determined precise time; and
means (466) for recording the performance of the service
representative.
Control logic according to claim 10, further 
comprising means (402) for determining a number of calls

for monitoring the performance of the service
representative within said interval.
Control logic according to claim 10 or claim 11,
further comprising means (402) for determining a length of

time for monitoring the performance of the service
representative within said interval.
Control logic according to any one of claims 10 to 12,
comprising:


means (402) for determining an interval within which to
monitor the performance of a plurality of service

representatives in responding to received calls;
means (406) for automatically and randomly determining a
precise time for monitoring each of said plurality of

service representatives within said interval;
means (462, 474) for monitoring the performance of each of
said plurality of service representatives at said

automatically and randomly determined time; and
means (466) for recording the individual performance of
each of said plurality of service representatives.
A telecommunications system comprising:

a supervisor workstation (30) comprising means (402) for
determining an interval within which to monitor the

performance of a service representative in responding to
calls
; and
a service monitoring control processor (16), comprising:
means (18, 406) for automatically and randomly determining

a precise time for monitoring the service representative
within said interval;
means (462, 474) for monitoring the performance of the
service representative at said automatically and randomly

determined precise time; and
means (466) for recording the performance of the service
representative.
A telecommunications system according to claim 14,
wherein said service monitoring control processor further

comprises means (114, 116, 122) for notifying a call center
agent that said monitoring and recording will occur.
A telecommunications system according to claim 14 or
claim 15, wherein said service monitoring control processor

further comprises means (402) for determining a number of
calls for monitoring the performance of the service

representative within said interval.
A telecommunications system according to any one of
claims 14 to 16, wherein said service monitoring control

processor further comprises means (402) for determining a
length of time for monitoring the performance of the

service representative within said interval.
A telecommunications system according to any one of
claims 14 to 17, wherein said service monitoring control

processor further comprises a central database (330) and
means (466) for recording said performance in a digital

format in said central database.
A telecommunications system according to any one of
claims 14 to 17, wherein said service monitoring control

processor further comprises a central database (330) and
means (498) for annotating said recorded performance by

permitting a user to call said recorded performance from
said central database and to add additional voice data to

said recorded performance.
A telecommunications system according to any one of
claims 14 to 19, wherein said service monitoring control

processor further comprises means (114, 116, 122) of
reporting said recorded performance to said supervisor

workstation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
