<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620940</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INFUSION PUMP CONFIGURATION SCHEME USING EEPROMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M500	A61M500	A61M5168	A61M5172	F04B4906	F04B4906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	F04B49	F04B49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A programmable infusion pump (10) can be configured to operate in one of several operational modes (i.e. BASAL, PCA, BASAL and PCA, etc.). The pump (10) is provided with an erasable, preferably non-volatile memory (34) for holding information designating one of the modes. The end user can set up the pump (10) easily and expeditiously for the designated mode, since the other, non-designated modes are made invisible.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILLESPIE JOHN JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILLESPIE, JOHN, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INFUSION PUMP CONFIGURATION SCHEME USING EEPROMSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION a. Field of InventionThis invention pertains to a microprocessor- controlled infusion pump which is field programmable to a desired configuration, said configuration being stored in a non-volatile memory. The user can configure or customize the infusion pump to conform to his standard usage protocol. Microprocessor-controlled infusion pumps have become widely accepted and used in hospitals for the delivery of a variety of medications. These types of devices are particularly useful for post¬ operative pain management wherein a pain relieving medication is administered to the patient at a small infusion rate. These types of devices are especially useful for Patient Controlled Analgesia (PCA) procedures wherein within certain time constraints, a patient may request and receive an additional pain relieving dose. b. Description of the Prior ArtTo adequately describe the scheme some background is necessary. As the technology involved in designing drug infusion pumps has become more advanced, such pumps have become more complex. The earliest electronic drug infusion devices simply delivered fluid at a fixed rate. Later devices allowed a selection of rates using a mechanical means, such as a clutch and a transmission. Eventually the pumps advanced to the point where rates could be selected using thumb-wheel switches 

or rotary knobs and dials. Electronic circuitry inside the pumps interpreted these switches and dials and automatically ran the motor at the proper rate. With the advent of microprocessor technology, the pumps developed to the point where their activities over time could be varied. The Bard PCA made by the assignee of the present invention is an example of such a device. A user can select a constant infusion rate, as well as parameters to define a patient requestable dose. Based on the information programmed into the pump by the doctor, the pump can automatically administer pain medication at the patient's push-button request. The patient is only permitted to receive a dose after a certain amount of time has passed since the last dose.With the sophisticated microprocessor technology available today however, the number of choices in programming an infusion pump has increased. With this increase in choices comes an increased risk of programming errors. The increase in choices also contributes to the user's dissatisfaction with the complexity of the device. Programming a pump for operation in many cases has become complex,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A programmable infusion pump assembly for administering a drug to a patient, said assembly comprising: a pump; microprocessor means for controlling said pump; first memory means coupled to said microprocessor means and including programming defining several configurations for said pump; selection means for selecting one of said configurations; and second memory means coupled to said microprocessor for holding said configuration; said microprocessor means being arranged and constructed to operate said pump in said configuration.
2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said first memory means is a non-erasable memory.
3. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said second memory means is an erasable memory.
4. The assembly of claim 3 wherein said second memory means is non-volatile memory.
5. The assembly of claim 3 wherein said second memory means an EEPROM.
6. The assembly of claim 1 wherein each said configuration defines an operational mode. 


 7. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said selecting means includes parameter means for selecting a set of limiting operational parameters for said pump.
8. A programmable infusion pump assembly for administering a drug to a patient, said assembly comprising: a pump; microprocessor means for controlling said pump; first memory means coupled to said microprocessor means and including programming defining several operational modes for said pump; selection means for selecting one of said operational modes, said mode selection means being responsive to a request to designate an operational mode; and second memory means coupled to said microprocessor for holding said one operational mode; said microprocessor means being arranged and constructed to operate said pump in said one operational mode.
9. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said selecting means includes parameter means for selecting a set of limiting operational parameters for said pump.
10. The assembly of claim 9 wherein said selecting means includes unit selecting means for selecting the units defining a specific drug administration by said pump. 


 11. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said first and second memory means are non-volatile.
12. The assembly of claim 8 wherein said first memory means is non-erasable and said second memory means is erasable.
13. The assembly of claim 6 wherein said second memory means is an EEPROM.
14. An infusion pump assembly comprising: a pump for administering a drug; microprocessor for controlling said pump; a keypad for entering commands to said microprocessor means; display means for displaying prompts and information from said microprocessor; first memory means for storing a program defining several modes of operation for said pump, including a BASAL ONLY mode, a PCA ONLY mode, and a BASAL and PCA mode; and second memory means; wherein said microprocessor means includes sensing means for sensing a mode designating command from said keypad, mode selecting means for designating one of said modes of operation in response to said mode designating command, and storing means for storing information designating said one mode of operation into said second memory; said microprocessor means operating said pump in accordance with information stored in said second memory means. 


 15. The assembly of claim 14 wherein said second memory means is a non-volatile memory.
16. The assembly of claim 14 wherein said second memory means is an erasable memory.
17. The assembly of claim 14 wherein said second memory mear is an EEPROM.
18. The assembly of claim 14 wherein said sensing means includes parameter means for sensing a set of limiting operational parameters from said keypad for said pump.
19. A method of administering a drug to a patient comprising the steps of: providing a programmable infusion pump assembly including a pump, a microprocessor for controlling said pump, a first memory for operating said pump in several modes of operation, and a second memory; selecting one of said modes of operation; storing information defining said one mode of operation in said second memory; setting said microprocessor up for administering drug to a particular patient in accordance with said one mode of operation; coupling a drug container to said pump; and starting said pump.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of selecting a unit of measurement for said drug and storing said unit into said second memory prior to the step of setting said microprocessor. 


 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of selecting limiting parameters for said one mode of operation and storing said limiting parameters in said second memory, wherein said microprocessor cannot be set during said setting step to operate said pumps beyond said limiting parameters.
22. The method of claim 19 wherein said modes of operation include a BASAL ONLY, PCA ONLY and BASAL and PCA mode. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
