<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627030</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODIFIED DIGESTION OF PAPER PULP FOLLOWED BY OZONE BLEACHING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21C300	D21C302	D21C9147	D21C9147	D21C9153	D21C916	D21C916	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21C	D21C	D21C	D21C	D21C	D21C	D21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21C3	D21C3	D21C9	D21C9	D21C9	D21C9	D21C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Kraft pulp (33) is bleached to a brightness of about 90 CPPA or greater, without the use of chlorinated organic compounds that has commercially acceptable strength properties. During production of the kraft pulp it is subjected to extended delignification, by adding kraft white liquor (141) to a first recirculation loop in the digester (45), and/or a second, wash, recirculation loop in the digester (46); or by conventional pulping followed by two oxygen stages (67, 69), with washing between the stages. The extended delignification pulp is then subjected to ozone bleaching (60), with an ozone dosage of less than 1.0 % (preferably less than about 0.5 %). The ozone bleaching sequence may be a (ZE)P(ZE)P sequence (60, 61, 62, 63).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KAMYR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KAMYR, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENWOOD BRIAN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JIANG JIAN ER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS JOSEPH R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENWOOD, BRIAN F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JIANG, JIAN ER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS, JOSEPH R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MODIFIED DIGESTION OF PAPER PULP FOLLOWED BY OZONE BLEACHINGBACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn the production of bleached kraft pulp there have been increasing regulatory and market demands to reduce or eliminate the presence of chlorinated organic compounds in pulp products and bleaching effluents. In order to properly react to such demands, it is necessary to eliminate the use of chlorine gas or any other chlorine containing compound. However the removal of the chlorine based bleaching agents makes it extremely difficult -- in fact impossible under present technology -- to achieve desired brightness levels, especially if the pulp produced is to have acceptable strength properties. For example oxygen delignification must- be utilized, and multiple stage oxygen delignification -- especially with chelating treatment to control deleterious metal ions -- has been shown to offer advantages in delignification and selectivity, especially when there is between stage washing (see U.S. patent 4,946,556). However there are practical limits governing both the extent of delignification and the quality of pulp obtainable using oxygen delignification alone.Of other available bleaching agents, perhaps the most promising is ozone. It has been demonstrated that ozone is a highly effective delignifying agent, however ozone has seen only marginal commercial acceptance to date in the pulp industry. The main obstacles to commercial 

utilization of ozone have been the chemical cost of ozone when large doses are needed, and the degradation of pulp strength that typically occurs relative to conventionally bleached pulps.Thus, there has long been a need for bleached kraft pulp with commercially acceptable strength properties without the use of chlorine based bleaching agents. According to the present invention, it is possible to finally achieve that goal. This is accomplished according to the present invention by utilization of ozone in order to take advantage of its powerful delignifying effect, while limiting the amount of ozone applied to the pulp to less than 1%, and while holding pulp degradation to a minimum.According to the present invention, the basic approach that is taken is to have a pulp with minimum Kappa Number and maximum strength before it is subjected to ozone bleaching sequence. This is accomplished according to the present invention by utilizing kraft pulp produced from extended delignification processes. Continuous digesters sold by Kamyr, Inc. of Glens Falls, New York under the trademark "MCC"
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of continuously kraft pulping and then bleaching comminuted cellulosic fibrous material using an upright digester having top, bottom, and central portions, comprising the steps of:
(a) passing comminuted cellulosic fibrous material entrained in kraft white liquor into the top of the digester;
(b) extracting black liquor from at least one screen between the top and bottom of the digester;
(c) at a first portion of the digester withdrawing and recirculating liquid in a first recirculation loop;
(d) adding kraft white liquor to said first recirculation loop;
(e) adjacent the bottom of the digester withdrawing and recirculating liquid in a second, wash, recirculation loop;
(f) withdrawing kraft pulp from the bottom of the digester, steps (a)-(e) being practiced to produce pulp having a Kappa Number comparable to about 25 or below for softwood; and
(g) ozone bleaching the kraft pulp with an ozone dosage of less than 1.0% on pulp by weight, to produce a chlorine-free bleached pulp with brightness of about 90 CPPA or greater.
2. A method as recited in claim 1 comprising the further step (h) of adding kraft white liquor to the second recirculation loop, the liquor recirculated into the digester in part passing upwardly therein countercurrent to the material flow, 


the amount of white liquor added in the second recirculation loop being sufficient to increase the viscosity and strength properties of the pulp produced compared to the practice of the same method with the same material, Kappa Number, and other parameters only without step (h) .
3. A method as recited in claim 2 wherein step (g) is practiced by the bleaching sequence (ZE)P(ZE)P.
4. A method as recited in claim 3 comprising the further step (i), between steps (h) and (g), of oxygen delignifying the kraft pulp.
5. A method as recited in claim 4 wherein step (i) is practiced by two oxygen stages with between stage washing.
6. A method as recited in claim 5 comprising the further step (j), just prior to step (i), of pretreating the pulp to remove deleterious metal ions.
7. A method as recited in claim 2 wherein step (h) is practiced so that about 5-20% of the total amount of kraft white liquor utilized to effect kraft pulping is added during the practice of step (h) .
8. A method as recited in claim 2 further utilizing an impregnation vessel, and a conduit connected between the impregnation vessel and the digester; and wherein step (a) is practiced by adding kraft white liquor to the conduit and impregnation vessel, and so that the majority of the kraft white 



liquor added is added in the conduit and the impregnation vessel, about 5-20% of the kraft white liquor utilized to effect kraft cooking is added in step (h), and about 10-20% of the kraft white liquor utilized is added in step (d) .
9. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (g) is practiced by the bleaching sequence (ZE)P(ZE)P.
10. A method as recited in claim 1 comprising the further step (i), between steps (h) and (g), of oxygen delignifying the kraft pulp.
11. A method as recited in claim 10 wherein step (i) is practiced by two oxygen stages with between stage washing.
12. A method as recited in claim 10 comprising the further step (j), just prior to step (i), of pretreating the pulp to remove deleterious metal ions.
13. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (g) is practiced with an ozone dosage of less than about .75% on pulp by weight.
14. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (g) is practiced with an ozone dosage of less than about .5% on pulp by weight.
15. A method of producing bleached kraft pulp, comprising the steps of:
(a) subjecting kraft pulp to two stage oxygen delignification with between stage washing to produce 


pulp having a Kappa Number comparable to about 12 or less for softwood; and
(b) ozone bleaching the oxygen delignified kraft pulp with an ozone dosage of less than 1.0% on pulp by weight, to produce a chlorine-free bleached pulp with brightness of about 90 CPPA or greater.
16. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein step (b) is practiced with an ozone dosage of less than about .5% on pulp by weight.
17. A method as recited in claim 16 wherein step (b) is practiced by the bleaching sequence (ZE)P(ZE)P.
18. A method as recited in claim 15 comprising the further step (c), just prior to step (a), of pretreating the pulp to remove deleterious metal ions.
19. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein step (b) is practiced by the bleaching sequence (ZE)P(ZE)P.
20. A method as recited in claim 19 comprising the further step (c), just prior to step (a), of pretreating the pulp to remove deleterious metal ions. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 29 June 1993 (29.06.93); original claims 2,4-6,10-12 and 15-20 cancelled; original claims 1,3,7-9,13 and 14 amended; new claims 21-25 added; (5 pages)]
1. A method of continuously kraft pulping and then bleaching comminuted cellulosic fibrous material using an upright digester having top, bottom, and central portions, consisting essentially of the steps of:
(a) passing comminuted cellulosic fibrous material entrained in kraft white liquor into the top of the digester;
(b) extracting black liquor from at least one screen between the top and bottom of the digester;
(c) at a first portion of the digester withdrawing and recirculating liquid in a first recirculation loop;
(d) adding kraft white liquor to said first recirculation loop;
(e) adjacent the bottom of the digester withdrawing and recirculating liquid in a second, wash, recirculation loop;
(f) withdrawing kraft pulp from the bottom of the digester, steps (a)-(e) being practiced to produce pulp having a Kappa Number of about 20 or below;
(g) adding kraft white liquor to the second recirculation loop, the liquor recirculated into the digester in part passing upwardly therein countercυrrent to the material flow, the amount of white liquor added in the second recirculation loop being sufficient to increase the viscosity and strength properties of the pulp prodυτ*»H compared to the practice of the same method with the same material, Kappa Number, and other parameters only without step (g); and
(h) without prior oxygen delignification ozone bleaching the kraft pulp from step (f) with an ozone dosage of less than 1.0% on pulp by weight, to produce a chlorine-free bleached pulp with brightness of about 90 CPPA or greater.
2. Cancelled. 


 o
3. A method as recited in claim 7 wherein step (h) is practiced by the bleaching sequence (ZE)P(ZE)P.
4. Cancelled.
5. Cancelled.
6. Cancelled.
7. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (g) is practiced so that about 5-20% of the total amount of kraft white liquor utilized to effect kraft pulping is added during the practice of step (g).
8. A method as recited in claim 1 further utilizing an impregnation vessel, and a conduit connected between the impregnation vessel and the digester; and wherein step (a) is practiced by adding kraft white liquor to the conduit and impregnation vessel, and so that the majority of the kraft white liquor added is added in the conduit and the impregnation vessel, about 5-20% of the kraft white liquor utilized to effect kraft cooking is added in step (g), and about 10-20% of the kraft white liquor utilized is added in step (d). 

9. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (h) is practiced by the bleaching sequence (ZE)P(ZE)P.
10. Cancelled.
11. Cancelled.
12. Cancelled.
13. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein Ftep (h) is practiced with an ozone dosage of less than about .75% on pulp by weight
14. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein step (h) is practiced by an ozone dosage of less than about .5% on pulp by weight. 

15. Cancelled.
16. Cancelled.
17. Cancelled.
18. Cancelled.
19. Cancelled.
20. Cancelled. 

21. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the kraft pulp has a Kappa Number prior to the practice of step (h) of about 12.
22. A method as recited in claim 7 wherein the kraft pulp has a Kappa Number prior to the practice of step (h) of about 12.
23. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein the kraft pulp has a Kappa Number prior to the practice of step (h) of about 12.
24. A method as recited in claim 9 wherein the kraft pulp has a Kappa Number prior to the practice of step (h) of about 12.
25. A method as recited in claim 14 wherein the kraft pulp has a Kappa Number prior to the practice of step (h) of about 12. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
