<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619930</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
UNIVERSAL PERSONAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND TRACING SYSTEM THEREFOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W802	H04W808	H04W6000	H04W6000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W8	H04W8	H04W60	H04W60	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG ZHONGHE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, ZHONGHE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 UNIVERSAL PERSONAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND TRACING SYSTEM THEREFORTechnical FieldThis invention relates generally to universal personal communication systems.Background A universal personal communication system is a system enabling anyone to communicate instantly with anyone else anywhere in the world. One of the crucial problems of such a system would be locating millions of moving customers in an efficient manner. The existing techniques for locating moving customers in the system are paging and registration using a central database. Considering the large number of customers in a global system, the first technique, if applied without knowledge of the location of the customers is impractical. The registration technique, which records all the movements of customers in a central database, is also impractical because the task of keeping track of such a huge number of users would be immense. Thus, a need exists for a system for efficiently tracking customers in a universal personal communication system.Summary of the InventionBriefly, according to the invention, a communication system includes a plurality of organizational layers, a plurality of portable communication units, and a plurality of base stations. Each layer comprises a plurality of nodes. The plurality of nodes comprises a plurality of base stations in the first layer, and a plurality of communication services nodes in the higher layers. Each communication services node includes a database possibly containing information on the locations of one or more portable communication units. The databases constitute a distributed database containing information on the locations of the portable communication units within the system. 

 In another aspect of the invention, a method for establishing a connection between a calling and a called communication unit in the above-mentioned communication system is provided. An active portable communication unit in one of its service areas will be located by the system when a calling communication unit initiates a connection request.In still another aspect of the invention, a method for updating the databases in the communication services node by transmission of some control messages.Brief Description of the DrawingsFIG. 1 is a hierarchical structure for a communication system in accordance with the invention.FIG. 2 is a flow chart of a process carried out at a node for locating a portable communication unit in accordance with the invention.FIG. 3 is a possible address structure in accordance with the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Cla im s :
"I. A communication system comprising: a plurality of portable and stationary communication units; a plurality of nodes including: a plurality of base stations organized into a f i rst layer; and a plurality of communication service nodes organized into a plurality of higher layers; each portable communication unit including a home address and a physical address associated therewith; each physical address comprising a current address and a new address; and each communication service node having a database associated therewith, each base station and each communication service node having a unique parent node at each higher level.
2. In a communication system comprising a plurality of portable communication units, a plurality of base stations organized into a first layer, and a plurality of communication service nodes organized into a plurality of higher layers, each portable communication unit including a home address and a physical address associated therewith, each physical address comprising a current address and a new address, and each communication service node in a layer, other than the first, having a database associated therewith, each base station and each lower layer communication service node having a unique parent node in each of the higher levels, a process for establishing a connection between a calling communication unit and a called communication unit comprising the steps of: (a) receiving a connection request, at a base station or communication service node in layer /, the connection request requesting the establishment of a communication link between the calling communication unit and the called communication unit; 


 (b) determining whether layer is in the first layer, and whether the connection request was received from a portable communication unit;
(c) calling the called communication unit when the connection request was received by a communication service node in the first layer, and the connection request was not received directly from a portable communication unit;
(d) determining whether a connection confirmation has been received from the called communication unit within a predetermined period;
(e) establishing the communication link when connection confirmation has been received from the called communication unit within a predetermined period and stopping the process for the first layer node; and (f) reporting a communication failure to the communication system, when the determination of step (d) is negative and stopping the process for the first layer node.
3. The process of claim 2, further comprising the steps of: (g) determining whether layer /
'
 is the first layer, when it is determined in step (b) that the connection request was received directly from a portable communication unit, or that i is greater than one; and
(h) passing the connection request to its second layer parent communication service node, when the determination of step (g) is affirmative and stopping the process for the first layer node.
4. The process of claim 3, further comprising the step of: (i) determining whether there is an entry relating to the called communication unit in the database of the communication service node receiving the connection request, if it is determined in step (g) that layer / is not the first layer.
5. The process of claim 3, further comprising the steps of: 


 (I) passing the connection request to the communication service node or the base station whose address is indicated in the address field of the associated item in the database, when the the determination of step (i) is affirmative and stopping the process for the layer i node; and
(k) passing the connection request to the next layer node along the path leading to the called communication unit's home address, when the the determination of step (i) is negative and stopping the process for the layer i node.
6. In a communication system comprising a plurality of portable and stationary communication units each operating in a service area defined by a user of a communication unit, a plurality of nodes including a plurality of base stations which form a first layer for the communication system, and a plurality of communication service nodes organized into a plurality of higher layers, each portable communication unit including a home address and a physical address associated therewith, each physical address comprising a current address and a new address, each communication service node comprises a database of portable communication unit addresses, and each base station and lower layer communication service node having a unique parent node in each of the higher levels, a process for maintaining each database comprising the steps of: (a) transmitting a first message with a portable communication unit to a base station in a second cell as the portable communication unit moves out of a first cell and into the second cell and when: the current address and the new address of the portable communication unit are within the service area of the portable communication unit; the new address and the home address of the portable communication unit are not the same at the first layer; the first message including the current address, the new address and the home address for informing the base station in 



the second cell, that the portable communication unit is going to lock to the base station;
(b) transmitting a second message with a portable communication unit to a base station in the first cell when the portable communication unit moves out of the first cell and into the second cell, and when the current address and the new address of the portable communication unit are within the service area of the portable communication unit, and the current address and the home address of the portable communication unit are not the same at the first layer; the second message including the current address, the new address, and the home address of the portable communication unit for informing the base station in the first cell that the portable is leaving the first cell.
7. The process of claim 6, further comprising the step of:
(c) transmitting a third message with a portable communication unit to a base station that the portable communication unit is locked on to, when the portable is not in its home address and any one of the following conditions occurs: there is an unsuitable usage of the portable communication unit; the portable is turned off inside its service area; and the portable communication unit is moving out of its service area; the third message including the current address, and the home address of the portable communication unit, and the third message informing the system that the portable communication unit is leaving the communication system.
8. The communication system of claim 6, further comprising the step of:
(d) transmitting a fourth message with a portable communication unit to a selected base station within its service area when: 


 the portable's home address is not within the selected cell; and the portable is moving into the selected cell from an area that is not in a service area for the portable, or the portable communication unit is activated inside its service area; the fourth message including the new address, and the home address of the portable communication unit, and the fourth message informing the system that the portable communication unit is entering the communication system.
9. The process of claim 6, wherein the first message is received in a node in layer /, and step (a) further comprises the steps of:
(a1) determining whether i is less than or equal to the number of the highest layer where the new and current addresses of the portable communication unit are different;
(a2) sending the first message to its layer / +1 parent communication service node when the determination of step (a1) is affirmative; (a3) determining whether / is greater than one;
(a4) determining whether there is an entry for the portable communication unit in the database of the layer / node, when the determination of step (a3) is affirmative;
(a5) determining whether the new address and the home address of the portable communication unit are the same at the /- 1 layer, when the determination of step (a4) is affirmative;
(a6) removing an entry relating to the portable communication unit at the database of the layer /
'
 node when the determination of step (a5) is affirmative, and stopping the process for the communication service node in layer /; and
(a7) stopping the process for the communication service node in layer t
"
, when the determination of step (a3) is negative.
10. The process of claim 9, further comprising the steps of (a8) determining whether / is equal to the sum of one and the number of the highest layer where the new address and the 


current address of the portable communication unit are different, when the determination of step (a1) is negative;
(a9) proceeding to step (a3) when the determination of step (a8) is affirmative; and (a10) determining that an error exists when the determination of step (a8) is negative.
11. The process of claim 10 further comprising the following step, after step (a5): (a11 ) updating the -1 layer address relating to the portable communication unit when the determination of step (a5) is negative, and the process stops for the layer i node.
12. The process of claim 11 , further comprising the following steps:
(a12) adding a new entry with the address indicating the layer i-1 new address of the portable communication unit, and stopping the process for the layer i communication services node, when the determination of step (a4) is negative.
13. The process of claim 6, wherein the second message is received in a base station or a communication service node in layer /, and step (b) further comprises the steps of:
(b1 ) determining whether i is less than the number of the highest layer where the new address and the current address of the the portable communication unit are different;
(b2) sending the second message to its layer / +1 parent node, when the determination of step (b1 ) is affirmative; (b3) determining whether / is greater than 1 ; (b4) determining whether the current address and the home address of the portable communication unit are the same at layer /, when the determination of step (b3) is affirmative; and
(b5) adding a new entry relating to the portable communication unit with an out mark in the database at the layer / node, the out mark indicating that the portable communication unit is not at its home address, when the determination of step 


 (b4) is affirmative, and stopping the process for the layer i communication services node.
14. The process of claim 13, further comprising the following step, after step (b1 ):
(b6) proceeding to step (b3) when the determination of step (b1) is negative.
15. The process of claim 14, further comprising the following steps, after step (b4):
(b7) determining whether the first layer is the highest layer where the current address and the new address of the portable communication unit are different, when the determination of step (b-4) is negative; and (b8) removing an entry relating to the portable communication unit in the database of the layer i node, and stopping the process for the layer i communication services node when the determination of step (b7) is negative;
(b9) stopping the process for the layer i communication services node when the determination of step (b7) is affirmative; and
(b10) stopping the process for the layer i communication services node when the determination of step (b3) is negative.
16. The process of claim 7, wherein the third message is received in a node in layer /, and step (c) further comprises the steps of:
(d) determining whether i is greater than one;
(c2) determining whether the current address and the address of the node, at which the third message was received, are the same at layer i, and whether i is less than or equal to the number of the highest layer where the current address and the home address of the portable communication unit are different, when the determination of step (d) is affirmative; 


 (c3) sending the third message to its parent communication services node at the i+1 layer, when the determination of step (c2) is affirmative; and
(c4) removing an entry relating to the portable communication unit from the database of the node in which the third message was received, and stopping the process for the layer i communication services node.
17. The process of claim 16 further comprising the following steps, after step (c2):
(c5) determining whether the home address of the portable communication unit and the address of the node in which the third message was received are the same at layer i, and whether i is greater than two, when the determination of step (c2) is negative; and
(c6) sending the third message to its layer i-1 child node along the path leading to the home address of the portable communication unit, and proceeding to step (c4) when the determination of step (c5) is affirmative.
18. The process of claim 17 further comprising the following step, after step (d):
(c7) sending the third message to its second layer parent node, and stopping the process for the node in the first layer when the determination of step (d) is negative.
19. The process of claim 8, wherein the node is in layer i, and step (d) further comprises the following steps:
(d1 ) determining whether i is greater than one; (d2) determining whether i equals two, and whether the new address of the portable communication unit and the address of the node at which the fourth message was received, are the same at layer i when the determination of step (d1 ) is affirmative;
(d3) determining whether the portable communication unit is authentic when the determination of step (d2) is affirmative; 


 (d4) determining whether the new address of the portable communication unit and the address of the node at which the fourth message was received, are the same at layer i, when the determination of step (d3) is affirmative; (d5) determining whether i is less than or equal to the number of the highest layer where the new address and the home address of the portable communication unit are different, when the determination of step (d4) is affirmative;
(d6) sending the fourth message to its layer i+1 parent node, when the determination of step (d5) is affirmative;
(d7) adding an entry with the layer i-1 address of the portable communication unit, and stopping the process for the layer i communication services node; and
(d8) determining whether i is greater than two when the determination of step (d5) is negative; and
(d9) proceeding to step (d7) when step (d8) is negative.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the following steps, after step (d8): (d10) sending the fourth message to the layer i-1 child communication services node along a path leading to the home address of the portable communication unit, and proceeding to step (d7), when the determination of step (d8) is affirmative.
21. The process of claim 20, further comprising the following step, after step ( d1):
(d11) sending the fourth message to its second layer parent communication services node, and stopping the process for the first layer communication services node, when the determination of step (d1) is negative.
22. The process of claim 21 further comprising the following step, after steps (d4):
(d12) determining whether the home address of the portable communication unit and the address of the node at which the 


fourth message was received, are the same at layer i, when the determination of step (d4) is negative;
(d13) determining whether i is greater than two when the determination of step (d12) is affirmative; (d14) sending the fourth message to the the layer i-1 child communication services node along a path leading to home address of the portable communication unit, when the determination of step (d13) is affirmative; and
(d15) adding a new entry relating to the portable communication unit with an out mark in the database at the layer i node, and stopping the process for the layer i node, the out mark indicating that the portable communication unit is not at its home address.
23. The process of claim 22 further comprising the following step, after step (d2):
(d16) proceeding to step (d4) when the determination of step (d2) is negative.
24. The process of claim 23 further comprising the following step, after step (d12):
(d17) determining that an error has occurred when the determination of step (d12) is negative.
25. The process of claim 24 further comprising the following step, after step (d13):
(d18) proceeding to step (d15) when the determination of step (d13) is negative.
26. The process of claim 27 further comprising the following step, after step (d3):
(d19) stopping the process for layer i, when the determination of step (d3) is negative. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
