<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621911</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS STABLE NONWOVEN FABRIC.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D01G2500	D01G2500	D04H146	D04H146	D04H148	D04H148	D04H170	D04H170	D04H1300	D04H1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D01G	D01G	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D01G25	D01G25	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H1	D04H13	D04H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides elastic fabrics which are substantially non-extensible in the machine direction and have substantial elastic properties in the cross-machine direction. The process stable fabrics of the invention include a net and a fibrous layer which are secured together. The net is composed of a plurality of continuous machine direction strands and a plurality of cross-direction strands. The machine direction strands are substantially non-extensible and the cross-direction strands are substantially elastic. The fabrics of the invention can be manufactured and processed more readily than fabrics which are elastic in both the machine direction and the cross-machine direction.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIBERWEB NORTH AMERICA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIBERWEB NORTH AMERICA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUSTIN JARED A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GESSNER SCOTT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUANTRILLE THOMAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUSTIN, JARED, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GESSNER, SCOTT, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUANTRILLE, THOMAS, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS STABLE NONWOVEN FABRICField of the Invention The invention relates to process stable composite elastic nonwoven fabrics and to processes for producing them. More specifically, the invention relates to process stable composite nonwoven elastic fabrics having desirable strength, conformability, and stretch and recovery properties, and which can be more readily manufactured and processed using existing textile equipment as compared to prior nonwoven fabrics.Background of the Invention Nonwoven elastic fabrics have been the subject of considerable attention and effort. Elastic fabrics are desirable for use in bandaging materials, garments, diapers, supportive clothing and personal hygiene products because of their ability to conform to irregular shapes and to allow more freedom of body movement than fabrics with limited extensibility.Elastomeric materials have been incorporated into various fabric structures to provide stretchable fabrics. In many instances, such as where the fabrics are made by knitting or weaving, there can be a relatively high cost associated with the fabric. In cases where the fabrics are made using nonwoven technologies, the fabric can suffer from insufficient 

strength and only limited stretch and recovery properties.Elastomers used to fabricate elastic fabrics often have an undesirable rubbery feel. This is particularly true with thermoplastic elastomers rather than cross-linked elastomers. When these materials are used in composite nonwoven fabrics, the hand and texture of the fabric can be perceived by the user as sticky or rubbery and therefore undesirable. Nonwoven fabrics having thermoplastic elastomers incorporated into the fabric structure can be extremely difficult to process and to manufacture. For example, tension control during fabric manufacture and/or during downstream processing can be extremely critical. A small change in tension can result in stretching or recovery of the fabric which can lead to a non-uniformly manufactured product. Tension control is even more aggravated when heating is required, for example, during fabric drying, adhesive application, lamination, thermal bonding or other thermal treatment. When subjected to heat and tension, the fabric can stretch and otherwise undergo greater distortion than when the fabric is at room temperature. In addition, thermoplastic elastomers can lose elastic properties when stressed at elevated temperatures and allowed to cool fully or partially while stressed, and/or the thermoplastic fibers and filaments are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A process stable composite elastic fabric of predetermined width and having a length substantially greater than said width, said width defining the cross-machine direction of said fabric and said length defining the machine direction of said fabric, said composite fabric comprising: at least one fibrous layer; and a net combined with said fibrous layer, said net comprising a plurality of continuous machine direction strands oriented in substantially the machine direction of said fabric and a plurality of cross- machine direction strands oriented in substantially the cross-machine direction of said fabric, said machine direction strands being substantially non-extensible and said cross-machine direction strands being elastic.
2. The process stable composite elastic fabric of Claim 1 wherein said machine direction strands have an extensibility of less than about 5% under an applied stress of 5 mg/den at temperatures of up to about 70°C.
3. The process stable fabric of Claim 1 wherein said cross-machine direction strands comprise at least about 20 wt. % of a thermoplastic elastomer.
4. The process stable fabric of Claim 3 wherein said net is combined with said fibrous web by hydroentangling.
5. The process stable elastic fabric of Claim 1 wherein said fibrous web comprises staple fibers. 


 6. The process stable fabric of Claim 5 wherein said staple fibers are selected from the group consisting of polyolefins, polyesters, nylon, cotton, wood pulp and wool fibers.
7. The process stable fabric of Claim 6 wherein said staple fibers comprise binder fibers in an amount of at least 5 wt. %.
8. The process stable fabric of Claim 1 wherein said fibrous web is combined with said elastic net by adhesive lamination.
9. The process stable fabric of Claim 8 wherein said fibrous web includes binder fibers.
10. The process stable fabric of Claim 9 wherein at least a portion of said binder fibers are thermally activated to bond said hydroentangled fabric into a coherent, substantially unitary structure.
11. A process stable composite elastic fabric of predetermined width and having a length substantially greater than said width, said width defining the cross-machine direction of said fabric and said length defining the machine direction of said fabric, said composite fabric comprising: at least one fibrous layer comprising staple fibers; and a net combined with said fibrous layer, said net comprising a plurality of continuous machine direction strands oriented in substantially the machine direction of said fabric and plurality of cross-machine direction strands oriented in substantially the cross- machine direction of said fabric, said machine direction strands being non-elastic and said cross- 


machine direction strands comprising at least about 20 wt. % of a thermoplastic elastomer; whereby said fabric is elastic in the cross- machine direction and is substantially non-extensible in the machine direction.
12. The process stable fabric of Claim 11 wherein said fibrous layer comprises staple fibers and wherein said net is combined with said fibrous layer by hydroentanglement.
13. The process stable composite elastic fabric of Claim 12 wherein said net comprises polyolefin strands oriented in the machine direction.
14. The process stable composite elastic fabric of Claim 13 wherein said cross-direction strands of said net comprise a styrene-based thermoplastic elastomer in an amount of at least about 50 wt. %.
15. The process stable composite elastic fabric of Claim 14 wherein said fibrous layer comprises at least about 5 wt. % binder fibers having been thermally activated to bond said hydroentangled fabric into a coherent, substantially unitary structure.
16. The process stable fabric of Claim 15 wherein said staple fibers in said fibrous web are selected from the group consisting of polyolefins, polyesters, nylon, cotton, wood pulp and wool fibers.
17. The process stable fabric of Claim 11 additionally comprising at least one spunbonded web combined with said fibrous layer and to said net. 


 18. The process stable fabric of Claim 11 additionally comprising at least one meltblown web combined with said fibrous layer and said net.
19. The process stable fabric of Claim 11 wherein said machine direction strands of said net comprise linear low density polyethylene.
20. The process stable fabric of Claim 11 wherein said machine-direction strands of said net comprise an adhesive promoting additive.
21. The process for forming a process stable fabric comprising: providing a fibrous nonwoven web; providing a net comprising a plurality of continuous machine direction strands oriented in substantially the machine direction of said net and a plurality of cross-machine direction strands oriented substantially in the cross-machine direction of said net, said machine direction strands being substantially non-extensible and said cross-machine direction filaments being elastic; and combining said fibrous web with said net to thereby form a non-woven fabric which is elastic in the cross-machine direction and which is substantially non- extensible in the machine direction.
22. The process of Claim 21 wherein said fibrous web is combined with said net by hydroentangling.
23. The process of Claim 22 wherein said fibrous web comprises staple fibers. 


 24. The process of Claim 23 wherein said fibrous layer comprises a carded layer of staple fibers.
25. The process of Claim 21 additionally comprising the step prior to said combining step, of providing a second fibrous web, and wherein said combining step is conducted to combine both of said fibrous webs with said net.
26. The process of Claim 22 wherein said fibrous web additionally comprises binder fibers.
27. The process of Claim 26 additionally comprising the step of thermally activating said binder fibers to thereby bond said web and said net into a coherent, substantially unitary structure.
28. The process of Claim 27 wherein said thermal activation step is conducted by contacting said fibrous layer with a heated surface.
29. The process of Claim 28 wherein said binder fibers comprise bicomponent fibers.
30. The process of Claim 21 additionally comprising the step, prior to said combining step of providing a nonwoven web selected from the group consisting spunbonded webs and meltblown webs and wherein said combining step is conducted to combine said fibrous web and said net with said additionally provided web. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
