<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647840</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for feedbackcontrol of an asymmetric differential pressure transducer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L114	G01R2726	G01L1100	G01L912	G01L1100	G01L114	G01L912	G01R2726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	G01R	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L1	G01R27	G01L11	G01L9	G01L11	G01L1	G01L9	G01R27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is related to a feedback method and apparatus 
for a capacitive differential pressure transducer. According to 

the method, a pressure-transducing conducting diaphragm (1) 
forming a first, moving electrode of the transducer capacitances 

is kept in a force balance state by means of a pulse 
train signal applied to a fixed electrode (2, 3). According to 

the invention, the diaphragm (1) is kept stationary in a geometrically 
constant state and a desired electric potential is 

applied to said diaphragm (1), said pulse train signal is applied 
to at least two of said fixed electrodes (2, 3), or alternatively, 

sets of fixed subelectrodes so that the signals applied to said 
separate electrodes (2, 3) or sets of subelectrodes are at 

opposite polarities referenced to the electric potential of the 
pressure-transducing diaphragm (1) for at least a portion of the 

measurement duration, and the signals applied to said separate 
electrodes (2, 3) or sets of subelectrodes are of equal 

amplitude at least for each pair of electrodes (2, 3), and the 
same pulse train signal is simultaneously used for both 

establishing the force balance and performing the capacitance 
measurement. According to a preferred embodiment of the 

invention, changes in the dielectric coefficient of the 
transducer fill medium are compensated for by altering the 

pulse amplitude, pulse width or pulse rate depending on the 
primary modulation method used in the feedback control. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAISALA OYJ
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAISALA OYJ
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYHANEN TAPANI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYHANEN, TAPANI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is related to a feedback-control method according to the preamble of
claim 1 for an asymmetric differential pressure transducer.The invention also concerns an apparatus for the feedback-control of an
asymmetric differential pressure transducer.The following publications are cited as reference to the prior art:
   US patents:
[p1] U.S. Pat. No. 5,095,750 (Suzuki et al.)[p2] U.S. Pat. No. 4,831,492 (Kuisma).
   Scientific papers:
[a1] S. Suzuki, S. Tuchitani, K. Sato, S. Ueno, Y. Yokota,
M. Sato, M. Esashi, Semiconductor Capacitance-Type Accelerometer
with PWM Electrostatic Servo Technique, Sensors and Actuators
A21-A23, pp. 316-319, 1990.[a2] Y. de Coulon, T. Smith, J. Hermann, M. Chevroulet,
F. Rudolf, Design and Test of a Precision Servoaccelerometer
with Digital Output, The Proceedings of the 7th International
Conference on Solid-State Sensors and Actuators, Yokohama,
Japan, 1993, pp. 832-835.A micromechanical element kept at a given electric potential can be controlled by
an electrostatic force which is generated by means of potential differences applied
to the electrodes surrounding the element and the element itself. As known, the
electrostatic force generated between two electrodes is expressed as:

where U is the potential difference between planar electrodes, εr dielectric
coefficient of the medium, dA elementary area element and d distance between the
planar electrodes. The integration is carried out over the electrode surface. On the
basis of Eq. (1), the electrostatic force between the electrodes can be interpreted as
an electrostatic pressure acting on the electrode surface:
pelectric =
dFelectricdA
= ε0εrU22d2Next, a differential pressure transducer structure is examined comprising a body
structure supporting a fixed electrode and a diaphragm attached at its edges to said
body structure and adapted to deflect under an imposed differential pressure. If the
deflection of the diaphragm remains extremely small, each surface element of the
diaphragm will be subjected to an equally large force effect by both the electrostatic
pressure expressed by Eq. (2) and the externally applied physical pressure,
which is thus cancelled by the electrostatic pressure at any point of the diaphragm
surface, that is, pext = pelectric. This means that a differential pressure transducer can
be operated as a servotransducer in an electrically feedback-connected mode.
When the diaphragm is controlled to the nondeflected state, the external pressure
can be expressed as: 
pext =
Q22ε0εrA2
where Q is the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A feedback-control method for an asymmetric
capacitive differential pressure transducer in which

method a pressure-transducing conducting diaphragm (1)
forming a first, moving eiectrode of the transducer

capacitances is kept in a force balance state by means
of a pulse train signal applied to an even number of fixed

electrodes (2, 3), the method being characterised by

keeping the diaphragm (1) stationary in a
geometrically constant state and applying a

desired electric potential to said diaphragm (1),
applying said pulse train signal to at least
two of said fixed electrodes (2,3), or

alternatively, sets of fixed subelectrodes so that

the signals applied to said fixed
electrodes (2,3) or sets of subeiectrodes are

at opposite polarities with respect to the
electric potential of the pressure-transducing

diaphragm (1) for at least a
portion of the measurement duration, and
the signals applied to said fixed
electrodes (2,3) or sets of subel
ectrodes are
of equal amplitude at least for each pair of

electrodes (2,3), and
the same pulse train signal being
simultaneously used for both establishing the 

force balance and performing measurement of the capacitance
of the transducer.
A method as defined in claim 1, characterised
in that the capacitance between the pressure-transducing

electrode (1) and the fixed electrodes
(2,3) or subelectrodes is measured in two cyclically

alternating phases comprising

measuring the difference of two transducing
capacitances (C
1
 - C
2
) in the first phase and
measuring the sum of two transducing
capacitances (C
1
 + C
2
) in the second phase.
A method as defined in claim 2, characterised
in that the difference between said two transducing

capacitances (C
1
 - C
2
) is kept constant by means of a
feedback arrangement, whereby the geometrical state of

the transducing diaphragm (1) of the transducer is
kept unchanged and the sum of the two transducing

capacitances (C
1
 + C
2
) can be used for computing
changes in the dielectric coefficient of the

transducer fill medium.
A method as defined in claim 1,2 or 3,
characterised in that the fixed electrodes (2,3) or

subelectrodes are fed with signals (+V
0
,-V
0
) of
opposite polarity with regard to the ground potential. 
A method as defined in any preceding claim,
in which method the feedback arrangement utilizes a

puise-rate modulated signal, characterised in that the
measured change of the dielectric coefficient of the

transducer fill medium is compensated for by altering
the puise amplitude or pulse rate.
A method as defined in any preceding claim,
in which method the feedback arrangement utilizes a pulse-width

modulated signal, characterised in that the
measured change of the dielectric coefficient is

compensated for by altering the pulse amplitude or
pulse rate.
A method as defined in any preceding claim,
in which method the feedback arrangement utilizes a pulse-amplitude

moduiated signal, characterised in that the
measured change of the dielectric coefficient is

compensated for by altering the pulse width or pulse
rate.
A method as defined in any preceding claim,
characterised in that the pulse train signal is

applied to the conducting transducing diaphragm (1)
via a reference capacitor (11) with the help of a

switch (12) so that the pulse train signal is taken to 
the two fixed electrodes (2,3) of the transducer at

the same polarity, and to the reference capacitor
(11), at an opposite polarity with regard to the

electric potential of the transducing diaphragm (1) of
the transducer.
An apparatus for feedback-control of an
asymmetric capacitive differential pressure transducer

(1,2,3) by means of an electrically controlled force
balance principle, said apparatus comprising


a pressure-transducing conducting diaphragm
(1) forming a first moving electrode of a transducing

capacitor to be measured
at least one fixed electrode (2,3) facing said pressure-transducing
diaphragm (1), the facing surfaces being adapted so that

the or each fixed electrode (2,3) acts as the second electrode
of the transducing capacitor to be measured.
capacitance measurement means (5) for
determining the capacitance of the transducing

capacitor to be measured, and
a feedback apparatus (9,4,22,19) suitable for
feedback-control of the transducing capacitor

with the help of an electric pulse train signal
employed to implement the force balance principle,

characterised in that

each of said at least one fixed electrodes (2,3) comprises at least
one set of two subelectrodes (2,3) the subelectrodes being located concentrically to each other, 
said feedback apparatus (9,4,22,19) includes
means (7) for generating at least two

pulse train signals (+V
0
,-V
0
) of opposite polarity
with regard to the electric potential of the

pressure-transducing diaphragm (1), said pulse
train signals being arranged to feed an even number

of the fixed electrodes (2,3).
An apparatus as defined in claim 9,
characterised in that said feedback apparatus (9,4,22,

19) includes a switch means (13) suitable for
alternately switching at least one of the fixed

electrodes (2) to respectively an inverted and a noninverted
pulse train signal.
An apparatus as defined in claim 9,
characterised in that said apparatus includes, besides

the transducing capacitances (C
1
 - C
2
), a reference
capacitor (11) connected to the conducting transducing

diaphragm (1) of the transducer and a switch (12)
suited for switching the reference capacitor (11) on

and off in the measurement circuit.
An apparatus as defined in claim 9,10, or 11,
characterised in that said fixed electrodes (2,3) have

substantially equal effective areas. 
An apparatus as defined in claim 9,10,11 or
12, characterised in that the capacitance C
ref
 of the
reference capacitor (11) and the sum capacitance

(C
1
 + C
2
) formed between the transducer fixed
electrodes (2,3) and the transducing diaphragm (1),

respectively, are substantially equal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
