<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619761</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A NEBULISER AND NEBULISER CONTROL SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1100	A61M1500	B06B102	B05B1704	A61M1500	B05B1706	B06B102	A61M1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	B06B	B05B	A61M	B05B	B06B	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M11	A61M15	B06B1	B05B17	A61M15	B05B17	B06B1	A61M11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDIX LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDIX LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOPKINS ANDREW DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STIMPSON PHILIP GEORGE SULBY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOPKINS, ANDREW, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STIMPSON, PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a nebuliser such as an ultrasonic device 
used to generate a fine mist of therapeutic fluid which can be 
inhaled by a patient undergoing treatment. The invention further 
relates to a control system for optimising preset characteristics 
of the nebuliser. It is known to produce a nebulised medicament using an ultrasonic 
transducer which may be an electrically driven piezo-electric 
crystal. The transducer produces a mechanical vibration which is 
transferred to a liquid body of medicament. Typically, the 
vibration may be in the ultrasonic range of the order of 1-2 
megahertz. This vibration can cause cavitation, or violent 
motion, at the liquid surface and thereby generates a mist. It 
is known that an optimum mist particle size for efficient transfer 
of the drug to a patients lungs is of the order of 1 to 6 
micrometers. It is also known that such nebulisers, or mist 
creators, have a variety of applications such as distributing 
cleaning agents in otherwise inaccessible locations and for facial 
massage or similar cosmetic/dermatological treatments. Also, 
whilst the words medicament and therapeutic drug are used it is 
to be understood that water can be inhaled in treatment of health 
disorders and is therefore included in the meaning of these words. Several known techniques of nebulising a liquid are disclosed in 
US 3387607 (Gauthier) which uses a transfer fluid to relay the 
ultrasonic vibration from the transducer to the drug. Gauthier 
teaches of a technique of focusing the ultrasonic compressional 
wave to optimise the density of mist created above the liquid body 
of drug. Density of nebulised fluid is also optimised by Gauthier 
by setting the transducer drive frequency near, but preferably 
slightly above its resonant frequency. A nebuliser control system is disclosed in US 4319155 (Omron) 
which controls the ultrasonic transducer output level using a  
 
variable pulse oscillating circuit. Omron varies the 
output level between two states, effectively 
"nebulisation on" and "nebulisation off" states, the 
mark/space ratio of the power signal thereby determines 
the quantity of nebulised fluid and therefore enables 
control of the rate of treatment. A further known nebuliser is disclosed in European patent 
174862 (Varian) which uses a method of sweeping through 
the third harmonic resonant frequency of about 3MHz 
compared to the fundamental resonant frequency of about 
1MHz of a piezo-electric crystal. Additionally, the 
voltage across the crystal is pulsed on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A nebuliser (10) comprising an electrically-energisable 
ultrasonic transducer (60) in the form of a 

piezo-electric crystal (62), and a transducer drive 
system (12) for generating a high-frequency drive signal 

for energising the transducer, the transducer being 
connected to receive said drive signal and, when 

energised thereby, being operative to cause physical 
vibrations in a fluid to be nebulised, characterised by 

the transducer having a frequency-dependent impedance 
characteristic exhibiting a region of elevated impedance 

and the drive system serving to energise the transducer 
in said region, the region of elevated impedance 

exhibiting a maximum impedance at an anti-resonance 
frequency (AR) corresponding to an anti-resonance 

condition of the crystal, the drive system further 
comprising frequency control means (A) operable to 

maintain the frequency of the drive signal substantially 
equal to the anti-resonance frequency. 
A nebuliser as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
frequency control means comprises: 


pulse-width modulation means (M) for generating 
a binary pulse sequence of variable mark/space ratio; 
converter means (B) for converting the binary 
pulse sequence into a voltage the magnitude of which is 

dependent on said mark/space ratio; and 
a voltage controlled oscillator (C) connected 
to receive the voltage produced by the converter means 

and operable to produce an output signal of a frequency 
dependent on said voltage; the drive system further 

comprising drive circuit means (D) connected to receive 
said output voltage and operable to produce said drive 

signal in dependence thereon; and the mark/space ratio of 
said binary pulse sequence being controlled by said pulse 

width modulation means to thereby control the frequency  
 

of the drive signal to be substantially equal to the 
anti-resonance frequency. 
A nebuliser according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said drive system comprises power control means 

(A) for controlling the power supplied by the drive 
signal to the transducer in dependence on a user input. 
A nebuliser as claimed in claim 3 wherein the 
power control means includes means forming part of said 

drive system for periodically turning on and off the 
drive signal and controlling the on and off periods 

during which the drive signal is turned on and off so as 
to control the rate of nebulisation of fluid. 
A nebuliser as claimed in any preceding claim, 
wherein the frequency control means further comprises 

current sensing means operable to provide a measured 
value of the transducer drive current and wherein the 

frequency-control means is operable to adjust the 
frequency of the drive signal such as to minimise said 

measured value of drive current. 
A nebuliser as claimed in claim 5 wherein the 
frequency control means is operable to search for the 

minimum drive current by periodically modifying the 
frequency of the drive signal and determining whether a 

resultant measured value of drive current is greater or 
less than a previous measured value of drive current. 
A nebuliser as claimed in any of claims 5 and 6 
comprising comparator means operable to compare said 

measured value of transducer drive current with a 
predetermined threshold value and to generate a 

termination signal indicative of said fluid having been 
completely nebulised when said measured value falls below  

 
said threshold value, the drive system being turned off 

in response to the termination signal. 
A nebuliser according to claim 7, wherein said 
threshold value comprises the sum of a variable usage 

reference value and a predetermined difference value, the 
comparator means being operative to derive an operational 

difference value by determining the difference between 
said usage reference value and said measured value, and 

thereafter comparing said operational difference value 
with said predetermined difference value whereby to 

provide said termination signal when said measured value 
falls below said threshold value and when said 

operational difference value exceeds said predetermined 
difference value. 
A nebuliser according to claim 8 wherein said 
usage reference value is determined by said drive system 

in dependence on the measured value of drive current 
during a previous session of use, the drive system 

including means for updating said usage reference value 
at the end of each usage session. 
A nebuliser according to claim 8 or claim 9 
wherein said predetermined reference value is fixed. 
A nebuliser as claimed in any preceding claim 
which comprises a nebulising chamber (50c) for holding 

the fluid in physical contact with the transducer and an 
air flow passage (70) which passes through said 

nebulising chamber to draw off nebulised fluid to an 
outlet, the air flow passage passing through an outlet 

baffle (48) and an outlet tube (24). 
A nebuliser as claimed in claim 11 wherein said 
outlet tube is adapted to fit directly into the mouth or 

nasal orifice of a user and where said outlet tube  
 

comprises an exhaust outlet (82) which outlet directs 
exhaled gases away from the user. 
A nebuliser as claimed in claim 12 wherein said 
exhaust outlet directs the exhaled gases in a direction 

generally opposite to the direction of gases passing 
through the outlet tube to the user. 
A nebuliser as claimed in any of claims 11 to 
13 wherein the transducer is placed in a recess (51) in 

the bottom of the nebulising chamber and held in position 
using a seal (61) and a clamp means (63) which are placed 

in contact with said transducer. 
A nebuliser as claimed in claim 14 wherein said 
clamp means is thermally conductive and acts as a heat 

sink (63) to said transducer. 
A nebuliser as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the piezo-electric crystal comprises two 

electrical contacts (94) for opposite electrical 
polarities which crystal also has a shim layer attached 

to its upper surface and which shim layer (96, 97) is 
placed in direct contact with the fluid in use. 
A nebuliser as claimed in any preceding claim 
wherein the transducer drive system has a step-up 

transformer comprising primary and secondary coils 
wherein the secondary coil of which is connected to said 

transducer. 
A nebuliser according to claim 17 wherein the 
transformer inductance and the capacitance of the 

transducer form a matching circuit at a frequency 
corresponding substantially to the anti-resonance 

frequency of the transducer when there is no fluid in the 
chamber.  

 
A nebuliser according to any of claims 17 and 
18 wherein said transformer is a toroidal type. 
A nebuliser as claimed in claim 19 wherein said 
toroidal type transformer comprises a ferrous core made 

from carbonyl iron. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
