<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632480</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for manufacturing needle-like material and method for manufacturing a microemitter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J1304	H01J130	H01J902	H01J902	H01J300	H01J302	H01J130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J1	H01J1	H01J9	H01J9	H01J3	H01J3	H01J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
When needle-like materials are formed on a 
substrate, a light beam output from a light source is 

splitted into a plurality of beams. Then these light 
beams are focused by an optical system and directed into 

a chamber having a gas containing electroconductive 
molecules. The electroconductive molecules are degraded 

through excitation by the beams directed into the 
chamber to enable needle-like materials to be deposited 

on the substrate. By so doing, a plurality of needle-like 
materials are produced at a time on the substrate 

in accordance with a corresponding number of beams 
obtained through splitting. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and 
apparatus for manufacturing emitter electrodes, as 
needle-like materials, to be mounted on a microemitter 
(electric field emitting element) constituting, for 
example, one kind of vacuum element and further to a 
method for manufacturing a microemitter as set out 
above. Conventionally, research has been made into a 
vacuum element with a vacuum used as a carrier transportation 
medium. A microemitter is known as one such 
vacuum element. As a method for manufacturing such a 
micro-emitter, use is made of a method for performing a 
fine working on it using an etching process or a method 
for effecting an oblique-incident type deposition of a 
film forming material by virtue of sputtering. A Spint- or wedge-type is known as a typical 
microemitter. In the case of the Spint-type, the emitter 
electrode assumes a square-pyramidal or conical 
configuration. In the manufacture of the Spint-type 
microemitter, a Si substrate is anisotropically or 
isotropically etched using a square or circular resist 
mask. In the Spint-type microemitter, on the other hand, 
individual emitter electrodes have sharper forward ends 
than in the wedge-type microemitter, but it is not easy  
 
to sharpen the individual emitter electrodes uniformly 
because it is difficult to set the etching conditions 
under which a plurality of emitter electrodes are 
uniformly etched. Further, the smaller the apex angle of the emitter 
electrode, the more effectively an emission current is 
emitted. In the case where the emitter electrode is 
manufactured using the anisotropic etching, it is not 
possible to freely sharpen the emitter electrode because 
the apex angle is determined in its face-orientation 
position. It is also difficult to control the apex 
angle when the emitter electrode is manufactured using 
the isotropic etching. In the wedge-type microemitter, on the other hand, 
the sharpening of the apex depends upon the accuracy 
with which patterning is performed with an etching mask 
(for example, a resist mask). Therefore, the sharpening 
of the apex is restricted by the resolution of a patterning 
device. WO-A-93/05530 discloses a method for manufacturing an 
electric field emission element comprising a plurality 
of needle-like emitter electrodes provided on a substrate. 
The method comprises the steps of: focusing an 
excitation beam and directing it into a hermetically 
sealed atmosphere containing electroconductive molecules, 
and degrading the electroconductive molecules 
throug
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for manufacturing needle-like materials on a 
substrate (15) located in a hermetically sealed 

atmosphere, comprising the steps of: 

dividing or splitting an excitation beam (7a), whose 
energy distribution is substantially uniformed, 

into a plurality of excitation beams (7b); 
focusing the respective beams and directing 
these beams (7c) into that hermetically sealed 

atmosphere where electroconductive molecules are 
present; and 
degrading the electroconductive molecules 
through excitation by the respective beams directed 

into the hermetically sealed atmosphere to enable 
needle-like materials to be deposited on the 

substrate. 
Method according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the beams obtained through dividing or splitting 

have their energy distribution converted to the 
Gaussian distribution. 
Method according to claim 1, characterized in that 
the excitation beam consists of an ion beam (32). 
Apparatus for manufacturing needle-like materials, 
as deposited materials, on a substrate (15) by 

degrading electroconductive molecules in a gas  

 
atmosphere through excitation by an excitation 

beam, comprising: 

a source (2) for outputting that excitation 
beam; 
energy distribution uniforming means (3) for 
substantially uniforming the excitation beam output 

by the source (2); 
splitting means (4) for splitting the excitation 
beam, whose energy distribution is uniformed by the 

energy distribution uniforming means (3), into a 
plurality of beams; 
focusing means (5) for focusing these beams 
obtained through splitting; and 
a chamber (6) in which the electroconductive 
molecules and substrate (15) can be held therein 

and where the beams focused by the focusing means 
(5) are directed onto the substrate (15) to allow 

needle-like materials to be deposited on the 
substrate (15). 
Apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in 
that the excitation beam consists of a light beam 

(7), and the energy distribution uniforming means 
(3) is arranged between the source (2) and the 

splitting means (4) . 
Apparatus according to claim 5, characterized in 
that the splitting means (4) comprises a plate (10) 

made of a light beam transmissive material and a 
light shielding film (12) provided on the plate 

(10) with the light beam passing areas (11) left 
there.  

 
Apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in 
that the excitation beam consists of an ion beam 

(32) and the splitting means (34) has a beam 
splitting plate (36) with a plurality of through 

holes (36a) through which the ion beam (32) output 
from the source (43) passes. 
Apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in 
that the excitation beam is an ion beam (32), and 

the energy distribution uniform means (3) doubles 
as the source (33) for outputting the ion beam. 
Method for manufacturing an electric field emission 
element having a plurality of needle-like emitter 

electrodes (21) on an array substrate (15), 
comprising the steps of: 


dividing or splitting an excitation beam (7a), whose 
energy distribution is made uniform, into a 

plurality of excitation beams (7b); 
focusing these beams obtained through dividing 
or splitting and directing the beams (7c) into a 

hermetically sealed atmosphere containing 
electroconductive molecules; and 
degrading the electroconductive molecules 
through excitation by the respective beams directed 

into the hermetically sealed atmosphere and forming 
needle-like materials, as deposited materials, on 

the array substrate (15) to provide emitter 
electrodes (21). 
Method according to claim 9, characterized in that 
the array substrate (13) comprises a silicon 

substrate (15), insulating film (16) provided on  
 

the silicon substrate and electroconductive film 
(17) covering the insulating film (16), the 

insulating film (16) and electroconductive film 
(17) being partly removed by etching to provide 

cavities (18) where electroconductive molecules are 
deposited, as emitter electrodes (21), in one-to-one-correspondence 

to each cavity (18). 
Method according to claim 10, characterized by 
further comprising applying voltage to the 

electroconductive film and depositing the 
electroconductive molecules via the cavity (18) on 

the array substrate (15) to provide emitter 
electrodes (21). 
Method according to claim 9, characterized in that 
the array substrate (13) comprises a substrate 

(15), an insulating film (16) provided on the 
substrate (15), and an electroconductive film (17) 

covering the insulating film (16), cavities (18) 
being provided by partly removing the insulating 

film (16) and the electroconductive film (17) by 
etching to form emitter electrodes (21) therein. 
Method according to claim 9, characterized in that 
the array substrate (13) comprises a silicon 

substrate (15) and an alternate layer structure of 
insulating films (16) and electroconductive films 

(17) which is formed on the silicon substrate (15) 
with cavities (18) provided by partly removing the 

insulating films (16) and the electroconductive 
films (17) by etching so that emitter electrodes 

(21) are formed in the cavities.  
 
Method according to claim 12 or 13, characterized 
in that a focusing pattern of an electron 

beam (42) or an ion beam (32) is 
formed by applying a voltage to the 

electroconductive film (17). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
