<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613170</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for fabrication of thin film semiconductor devices using non-planar, exposure beam lithography
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01J37317	H05K300	H05K100	H05K100	G03F724	G03F720	G03F724	H01J37317	H01L21308	G03F720	H05K300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01J	H05K	H05K	H05K	G03F	G03F	G03F	H01J	H01L	G03F	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01J37	H05K3	H05K1	H05K1	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	H01J37	H01L21	G03F7	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for the nonplanar treatment 
of a volumetric workpiece or substrate utilizing 

exposure beam lithography are disclosed. The method 
includes supplying one or more layers of one or more 

semiconductor materials to surfaces of the substrate, 
applying a resist over the semiconductor layers, setting 

the resist, and then directing an exposure beam, such as 
an electron beam, toward the substrate. The substrate 

is then moved in at least two degrees freedom of 
movement, relative to the beam, with one degree of 

freedom of movement being the rotating of the substrate 
about an axis generally perpendicular to the beam. The 

other degree of freedom of movement could be moving the 
substrate linearly in a direction generally parallel to 

the axis. By such movement, the resist is exposed to 
the beam in a predetermined pattern. The exposed resist 

is then developed and a layer or layers under the 
exposed resist are etched. The remaining resist is then 

removed yielding the desired semiconductor device. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SARCOS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SARCOS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBSEN STEPHEN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBSEN, STEPHEN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for fabricating 
semiconductor devices utilizing exposure beam 
lithography over non-planar surfaces of the devices. Exposure beam treatment of now planar surfaces 
is known from US-A-5 106 455. 
Lithographic techniques, for instance for fabrication of a thin 
film transistor according to US-A-4 514 253 have been utilized for some 
time in the manufacture especially of integrated circuit 
boards, semiconductor devices and related products. The 
products manufactured, of course, have typically 
included planar surface areas to which the lithographic 
techniques were applied. Such techniques have proven 
extremely effective in the precise manufacturing and 
formation of very small details in the product. 
However, attempts to apply such techniques to other than 
planar surfaces have proven difficult, if not 
unachievable, to the present time. As a result, the 
versatility available in semiconductor devices and  
 
constructs has been limited to use of essentially planar 
components. It is an object of the invention to provide a 
method for fabricating thin film 
semiconductor devices utilizing lithographic techniques 
applied over nonplanar devices. This object is solved according to the 
invention with a method according to claim 1. An apparatus for executing the invention 
includes a chamber, a beam generator 
disposed in the chamber for producing and directing an 
exposure beam towards a work location, a chuck disposed 
in the chamber for holding and positioning a workpiece 
or volumetric substrate at the work location, and a 
first element, to which the chuck is attached, 
responsive to first control signals for selectively  
 
moving the chuck, and thus the substrate, in a first 
degree of freedom of movement, to thereby expose 
different areas of the substrate to the beam. Also 
included are a second element, to which the first 
element is attached, responsive to second control 
signals for selectively moving the first element, and 
thus the chuck and substrate, in a second degree of 
freedom of movement to thereby expose still other areas 
of the substrate to the beam, and a controller for 
developing and supplying the first control signals to 
the first element and the second control signals to the 
second element. Advantageously, the chamber is a vacuum chamber and 
the exposure beam is an electron beam. With this 
apparatus, a substrate may be covered with one or more 
layers of one or more semiconductor materials such as 
silicon and an insulator layer. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for etching a semiconductor device pattern (80) 
on a generally convex surface of a workpiece (40,76) 

comprising: 

(a) applying a semiconductor material (84) to the 
surface of the workpiece (40, 76), 
(b) applying a resist (88), 
(c) setting the resist, 
(d) directing an exposure beam (12) toward the workpiece 
(40, 76), 
(e) moving the workpiece (40, 76) in at least two 
degrees of freedom of movement relative to the beam 

to expose said semiconductor device pattern (80) in 
the resist to the beam (12), 
(f) developing the exposed resist, 
(g) etching the pattern on the material over which the 
exposed resist was located, and 
(h) removing the remaining resist. 
The method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of
  
 

(i) applying an insulator material (88) over the 
semiconductor material (84).
 
after step (a) and before step (b). 
A method as in claim 1 or 2 further including the steps 
of 


(j) doping selected portions of the pattern with a 
selected electrical charge type, and 
(k) applying conductive material to the workpiece (40, 
76) to contact selected portions of the pattern. 
A method as in claim 3 wherein step (k) comprises 

(l) applying the conductive material over the insulator 
material (88) and the pattern, 
(m) applying a resist over the conductive material , 
(n) setting the resist, 
(o) directing an exposure beam toward the workpiece (40, 
76), 
(p) moving the workpiece (40, 76) in at least two 
degrees of freedom of movement relative to the beam 

to expose a predetermined conductor pattern (100, 
104, 108) in the resist to the beam, 
(q) developing the exposed resist on the conductive 
material, 
(r) etching the conductor pattern on the conductive 
material over which the exposed resist was located, 

and  
 
(s) removing the remaining resist from the conductive 
material. 
A method as in claim 4 further including the step of
 
(t) bonding electrical leads to selected locations on 

the conductive material of the conductor pattern 
(100, 104, 108). 
A method as in claim 2, wherein said workpiece (40, 76) 
is made of electrically insulative material. 
A method as in claim 6 wherein said workpiece (40, 76) 
is material selected from the group consisting of 

quartz, silica, and sapphire. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein said material applying 
steps (a), (i) and (1) comprise sputtering the material 

to coat the workpiece (40, 76). 
A method as in claim 4, wherein said applying steps (a), 
(i), (b), (1) and (m) comprise dipping the workpiece in 

solutions of the material being applied. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein said material applying 
steps (a), (i) and (1) comprise vapor deposition of the 

material onto the workpiece. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein step (a) comprises 
applying silicon to the workpiece. 
A method as in claim 11, wherein step (i) comprises 
applying a material selected from the group consisting 

of silicon nitride and silicon dioxide.  
 
A method as in claim 2, wherein the exposure beam (12) 
is an electron beam. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein the exposure beam (12) 
is an ion beam. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein the exposure beam (12) 
is a laser beam. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein the exposure beam (12) 
is an x-ray beam. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein said moving steps 
comprise the steps of rotating the workpiece about an 

axis generally perpendicular to the beam (12), and 
moving the workpiece linearly in a direction parallel to 

the axis. 
A method as in claim 1, wherein said semiconductor 
device is a thin film semiconductor device and wherein 

step (a) comprises applying one or more layers of one or 
more semiconductor material to surfaces of the 

workpiece. 
A method as in claim 18 further including the steps of 
applying conductive material over the layers at 

preselected locations. 
A method as in claim 19, wherein step (e) comprises 
moving the workpiece linearly in a direction generally 

parallel to said axis. 
A method as of one of claims 1-20, wherein in step (e) 
said substrate is moved in the pathway of said exposure 

beam, to thereby expose a predetermined microcircuit 
pattern in the resist. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
