<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645631</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR AND METHOD OF AUTOMATIC SAMPLE TESTING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3510	G01N3504	G01N3500	G01N138	G01N1514	G01N3510	G01N100	G01N100	G01N3504	G01N1514	G01N3500	G01N138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N1	G01N15	G01N35	G01N1	G01N1	G01N35	G01N15	G01N35	G01N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automated system for preparing samples, and then loading the samples to an 
analyzer includes a sample carousel which mixes and indexes a plurality of sample 

tubes to a sample aspiration station. A sample is aspirated from the tube, and directed 
along with a test reagent into an incubation tube. A plurality of incubation tubes are 

included on an incubation tube carousel, and a reagent probe aspirates a reagent and 
disp
enses that reagent along with the sample into the incubation tube. An incubation 
tube is continuously indexed to an injection probe which removes a portion of the 

sample and reagent after the sample has had time to incubate. The injection probe 
delivers that removed sample to an injection port for an analysis system. The analysis 

system utilizes is a known testing techniques to test the sample. The system may 
include a station to dispense a lysing agent or a buffering agent into the incubation tube 

after the reagent probe has dispensed the reagent and sample into the incubation tube, 
and prior to the injection probe removing the sample. Wash stations are disposed for 

washing the various probes. In addition, wash probes are included to wash the 
incubation tubes after the sample has been removed by the test probe. Thus, the system 

may operate automatically and continuously to remove samples from said sample tubes, 
prepare samples in the incubation tube, and load those samples to an analyzer. The 

sample incubation tubes are then cleaned for reuse. In another feature of this invention, 
a pump for driving the reagent and the sample into the incubation tube includes a 

connection to air which facilitates the movement of the fluids into the incubation tubes. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON, DICKINSON AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UFFENHEIMER KENNETH F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UFFENHEIMER, KENNETH F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application in general relates to an automatic system for and to a method of testing
blood samples.Various types of sample testing systems are known in the prior art.
Typically, the known systems receive a single sample vial containing a body fluid
specimen such as blood, and are utilized to take a portion of that sample and dispense
it into a reaction tube with a reagent. The fluid within the reaction tube is then removed
for testing at a subsequent location.While systems have been proposed which automatically remove a sample from
a tube and send that sample for testing, such systems have typically not proven
practical. Problems are associated with moving and properly metering the equired
sample fluid, the reagent, and a diluent, which is typically necessary for moving the
sample. The required flow logics incorporated into these systems have beer unduly
complicated, and thus not practically utilized in production testing equipment.In other systems a reagent and the sample are aspirated separately into a probe
with an intermediate wash. The intermediate wash is necessary to eliminate cross-contamination
between the samples and reagent.EP-A-0 360 487 discloses a system for testing samples, comprising a plurality of
sample vials and a plurality of reagent bottles, as well as a coresponding testing method.
The sample and the reaqent are
delivered by two separate probes into a reaction tube for mixing the sample and
the reagent. With a third probe, the sample and the reagent are moved to a flow
cell for subsequent testing.  Further, the field of flow cytometry involves the use of a flow cell to test a fluid
sample. The test parameters and logics used with flow cytometry are known in the art.
Flow cytometry has not been typically utilized on an automatic basis, or with
production testing equipment. Rather, flow cytometry has been utilized in lab situations
on a more experimental basis. It would be desirable to develop a system which
incorporates flow cytometry into an automatic unit.The invention provides a method of testing a sample fluid, comprising the following
steps:
a. providing a plurality of samples on a sample carousel,b. providing at least one reagent to form a mixture of one of said samples and said
reagent,c. removing at least a portion of one of said samples and said reagent,d. dispensing said sample and said reagent into an incubation tube using a diluent
mixed with air bubbles,e. incubating said mixture for a predetermined period of time,f. removing at least a portion of said mixture from
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of testing a sample fluid comprising the steps of:

a. providing a plurality of samples on a sample carousel (22),
b. providing at least one reagent to form a mixture of
said reagent and one of said samples,
c. removing at least a portion of said reagent and one
of said samples,
d. dispensing said sample and said reagent into an incubation tube (48)
using a diluent mixed with air bubbles,
e. incubating said mixture for a predetermined period of time,
f. removing at least a portion of said mixture from said incubation tube
(48) after said predetermined period of time has elapsed and injecting

said removed portion of said mixture into a flow cell (162), and
g. testing said removed portion of said mixture.
A method as recited in claim 1, including the step of utilizing a single probe
(38) to simultaneously dispense said sample and said reagent into said incubation

tube (48) wherein said probe aspirates said reagent into a tip (40)
of said probe (38) by removing said reagent from a reagent carousel (32),

and said sample is delivered to said probe tip (40) from a location upstream
of said probe tip (40) and said diluent drives said sample and said reagent

outwardly of said probe (38) and into said incubation tube (48), and including
the step of mixing air bubbles with said diluent such that said diluent

and air drives said sample and said reagent outwardly of said probe tip (40)
into said incubation tube (48). 
A method as recited in claim 2, wherein said sample carousel (22) includes
a plurality of closed sample vials (24), and the step of removing at least a

portion of said sample from said sample carousel (22) includes removing
said portion from one of said sample vials (24) and includes the step of

piercing a closure (72) for said sample vial (24) with a needle (68), said
needle (68) being communicated to a vent to atmosphere such that upon

piercing said closed sample vial (24), the interior pressure is substantially
equalized to atmospheric pressure.
A method as recited in any one of claims 1-3 including the steps of:

a. providing a diluent container (96) and a diluent pump (94), said diluent
pump (94) being operable to 
flush a removed sample outwardly of a
probe (38),
b. injecting a quantity of air into a flow passage (92) communicating with
said diluent pump (94) such that said air and diluent act to flush said

sample outwardly of said probe (38), and
c. flushing said sample outwardly of said probe (38) by said diluent and
said air.
A method as recited in claim 4, wherein said probe tip (40) aspirates a
quantity of reagent into said probe tip (40) prior to the flushing step and

wherein a compressor (99) is connected to said passage (92) which receives
said quantity of air, a valve (98) being operable to selectively communicate

an output of said compressor (99) to said passage (92), and said valve (98)
communicating said compressor (99) to said passage (92) to deliver a

quantity of air.
The method of claim 5, wherein the valve (98) is cyclically operated to deliver
a plurality of air bubbles into said passage (92) and a pair of serial

valves are operated sequentially to control the quantity of said air bubbles, 
whereby the last air bubble is timed such that it is downstream from the end

of the diluent flow.
A system for testing a plurality of samples comprising:

a. a sample carousel (22) for holding a plurality of sampe vials (24),
b. a sample aspiration system for removing a sample from each of said
sample vials (24),
c. a reagent container (32) containing a quantity of reagent,
d. an incubation tube carousel (46) holding a plurality of incubation tubes
(48),
e. a flow cell (162) for performing flow cytometry on removed samples,
f. a first probe (38) operable to deliver a quantity of sample removed
from one of said sample vials (24) and a quantity of reagent into one

of said incubation tubes (48) on said incubation carousel (46),
g. a diluent reservoir (96) and an air compressor (99) to deliver diluent mixed
with air bubbles into said first probe (38), and
h. a second probe (50) operable to remove a quantity of said sample and
reagent from an incubation tube (48) and deliver said removed sample and reagent

to said flow cell (162).
A system as recited in claim 7, wherein said flow cell (162) further communicates
with a source (158) of sheath fluid and wherein said reagent container

(34) includes a reagent carousel (32) having a plurality of reagents 
mounted thereon, said first probe (38) being operable to aspirate any one of

said plurality of reagents into said first probe (38).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
