<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636210</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INJECTOR VALVE SEAT WITH RECIRCULATION TRAP
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B130	F02M6118	F02M6100	B05B130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	F02M	F02M	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B1	F02M61	F02M61	B05B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improvement in fuel flow through orifices (30) of a thin disc orifice member (22) is obtained by incorporating a radially inwardly open undercut (44) in the seat member (20) below the frustoconical seating surface (26) and above the thin disc orifice member. The undercut provides a space that allows a fuel recirculation zone to be displaced further radially outwardly so that it poses less of an obstruction to flow toward the orifice.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AUTOMOTIVE CORP LP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AUTOMOTIVE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAKEMAN RUSSELL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAKEMAN, RUSSELL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to electromechanical actuated fuel 
injector valves for internal combustion engines. More specifically, it 
relates to means for improving the flow through a thin disc orifice member 
in consequence of the unexpected discovery of the existence of a certain 
recirculation of fuel in the injector's sack volume during certain conditions 
of injector operation. This recirculation causes the flow through the disc's 
orifice(s) to exhibit significantly different velocity vectors at different 
locations within each orifice. While the ideal flow through an orifice is 
perfectly axial, some of these velocity vectors show a significant radial 
velocity component that not only detracts from the axial flow but also 
laterally disperses the injected fuel. A sufficiently large amount of 
dispersion may wet an adjacent wall of a manifold runner downstream 
from the fuel injector's nozzle in a manner that is detrimental to exhaust 
emissions from the engine. The nozzle end of one type of electromechanical actuated fuel 
injector comprises a frustoconical valve seat that funnels to a central 
circular hole that is covered by a thin disc orifice member having one or 
more orifices. An internal actuating mechanism comprises a needle 
having a spherically contoured tip that is seated on and unseated from the 
valve seat to open and close the flow through the fuel injector. When the 
fuel injector is open to flow, fuel passes through the lift opening that is 
created between the needle tip and the valve seat by the lifting of the tip 
from the seat. From there the fuel flow converges toward and enters the 
central circular hole. The orifices in the thin disc member are at the 
bottom of this central circular hole, but out of the direction of the 
converging flow that enters the hole, and as a result, the fuel flow must 
bend in order to pass to the orifices, and bend fairly sharply at that. WO 91/01444 discloses an example of such a fuel injector, and the 
features of the known fuel injector are described in the preamble of claim 
1.  
 The purpose of each orifice in the thin disc orifice member is to 
inject a stream of fuel that is perpendicular to the plane of the orifice in 
accordance with a pressure vs. flow characteristic of the orifice. Such  
 
orifice members have heretofore been constructed as a flat disc that is 
disposed perpendicular to the main axis of the injector so that fuel is 
injected from each orifice as a stream that is parallel to that axis, or as a 
disc that has a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fuel injector (10) comprising a body having an inlet (14) at 
which pressurized liquid fuel is delivered to the fuel injector, a nozzle (12) 

from which the fuel injector injects fuel, passage means for conveying fuel 
from said inlet to said nozzle, said nozzle comprising an orifice (30) 

through which fuel is injected from the nozzle, said passage means 
comprising a seating surface (26) that is disposed upstream of said orifice 

proximate said orifice and that converges in the downstream direction 
toward a central circular hole (28) between said seating surface and said 

orifice, an electromechanically actuated mechanism (17) comprising a 
valve member (16) that is operated to selectively seat on and unseat from 

said seating surface and thereby allow and disallow fuel to be injected 
through said orifice, said seating surface and said valve member being 

constructed to have a coaction that, when said valve member is unseated 
from said seating surface to define a lift opening between them, directs 

the fuel in the direction of the convergence of said seating surface, said 
orifice being disposed out of the direction of the convergence of said 

seating surface such that fuel that has already passed through said lift 
opening and is flowing in the direction of convergence of said seating 

surface is required to execute a bend that diverges from the direction of 
the convergence of said seating surface before it passes through said 

orifice resulting in the creation of a fuel recirculation zone (40) wherein 
some of the fuel approaching said orifice is recirculated as an eddy before 

it reaches said orifice thereby tending to reduce fuel flow through one 
portion of said orifice in comparison to fuel flow through another portion of 

said orifice, characterized by a solution for ameliorating such tendency 
toward reduced flow through said one portion of said orifice on account of 

such recirculation zone comprising an undercut (44) in said central circular 
hole (28) that is disposed in said passage means between said seating 

surface and said orifice and that has a size and shape that provides for a 
substantial portion of the recirculation zone to occupy said undercut and 

effectively displace the recirculation zone in a direction out of the path of 
said bend so as to cause the flow through said one portion of said orifice  

 
to more closely approach the flow through said another portion of said 

orifice. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 1 characterized further in 
that said seating surface and said undercut are embodied in a common 

part (20) that is assembled into the fuel injector. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 2 characterized further in 
that said orifice is in a thin disc orifice member (22) that is assembled into 

the fuel injector and is disposed against said part (20). 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 3 characterized further in 
that said fuel injector has a main longitudinal axis (35) and said orifice lies 

in a plane that is perpendicular to that axis. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 3 characterized further in 
that said fuel injector has a main longitudinal axis (35) and said orifice lies 

in a plane that is non-perpendicular to that axis. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 3 characterized further in 
that said fuel injector has a main longitudinal axis (35) and said thin disc 

orifice member comprises plural such orifices (30) arranged 
circumferentially spaced apart from each other about that axis. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 1 characterized further in 
that said seating surface (26) is frustoconical and said undercut (44) 

comprises a circular groove that is coaxial with the axis of said 
frustoconical seating surface, that is radially inwardly open, and that is 

disposed radially outwardly of said orifice (30) and axially between said 
seating surface (26) and said orifice (30). 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 7 characterized further in 
that said frustoconical seating surface and said groove are embodied in a 

common part (20) that is assembled into the fuel injector.  
 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 8 characterized further in 
that said orifice is in a thin disc orifice member (22) that is assembled into 

the fuel injector and is disposed against said part (20). 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 9 characterized further in 
that said orifice lies in a plane that is perpendicular to the axis (35) of said 

frustoconical seating surface. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 9 characterized further in 
that said orifice lies in a plane that is non-perpendicular to the axis (35) of 

said frustoconical seating surface. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 9 characterized further in 
that said thin disc orifice member comprises plural such orifices (30) 

arranged circumferentially spaced apart from each other. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 7 characterized further in 
that the upstream terminus of said groove is spaced axially of the 

downstream terminus of said frustoconical seating surface. 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 13 characterized further in 
that the upstream terminus of said groove is spaced axially of the 

downstream surface of said frustoconical seating surface (26) by a section 
of said hole (28) that adjoins said surface (26). 
A fuel injector as set forth in claim 14 characterized further in 
that the groove comprises an outwardly tapered frustoconical surface 

extending downstream from said section of said hole (28) and a straight 
circular surface extending downstream from said outwardly tapered 

frustoconical surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
