<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644131</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Waste disposal system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F116	B65F116	B65F300	B65F300	B65F900	B65F900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B65F	B65F	B65F	B65F	B65F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F1	B65F1	B65F3	B65F3	B65F9	B65F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
As shown in Figure 1, the invention provides a cost-effective system for 
the transport and disposal of potentially hazardous waste. Waste is 

loaded into tough, durable re-usable containers (11) at a waste 
production 

site such as a hospital ward (10). These are transported locally on 
wheeled trolleys (14) to a pick-up site where they are loaded on to 

special 
purpose vehicles (15) fitted with special purpose hoist devices. The 

vehicles (15) transport the containers to a waste disposal site where the 
containers are emptied into an incinerator feed hopper. The containers 

are then cleaned and sanitized before being returned on the vehicles to 
the waste production sites for re-use. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEARFERN LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEARFERN LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLIFFORD JOHN EVANS C O BEARFE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLIFFORD JOHN EVANS C O BEARFE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of and apparatus for use in the 
transport and disposal of potentially hazardous waste such as the waste 
from hospitals. Conventionally, each ward in a hospital has a number of waste stations 
where waste matter is inserted into polythene or other bags formed of 
thin synthetic film material. These bags are sealed and tagged when full 
and taken to a local collection point, where they are placed in a 
transportable container, which may itself be lined with a large size bag 
of thin plastic film. These containers are usually taken at set times (or 
when they are full) to a main collection station when they are removed 
for disposal by a collection service. The use of thin plastic film bags is, however, unsatisfactory as sharp 
objects, such as scalpels or hypodermic needles, placed in them in 
without being enclosed in a protective container, can cause injury to 
anybody handling the bags and can also damage the bags so that the 
contents leak out. Each successive person handling damaged bags will 
be at risk from any contaminated articles contained in the bags. It is an object of the present invention to provide a cost-effective system 
in which handling of the thin plastic film bags is reduced to a minimum, 
so as to reduce risks to persons involved in the transport and disposal of 
the waste. In accordance with the invention there is provided a system for the  
 
transport and disposal of potentially hazardous waste, in which the waste 
is loaded at the waste production site into durable re-usable containers 
formed of material which is substantially impenetrable by the waste, and 
transported to a disposal site, where the containers are sanitized before 
return to the waste production site for re-use. Preferably the containers are in the form of substantially rigid boxes with 
fastenable hinged lids which are stackable. Preferably the boxes are 
formed of a synthetic resin material such as polyethylene. The invention also resides in a vehicle mounted hoist device for 
transporting the containers. The hoist device includes an overhead track 
extending longitudinally of the vehicle above a load platform thereof, a 
main carriage movable along such overhead track, a cross-track mounted 
on said main carriage and extending transversely to said overhead track, 
a hoist carriage movable along said cross-track, a cable hoist on said 
hoist carriage, a lifting device suspended on the hoist cable, and a 
linkage connecting the lifting device to the hoist carriage to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for the transport and disposal of potentially hazardous 
waste in which the waste is loaded at a waste production site (10) into 

durable re-usable containers (11) formed of a material which is 
substantially impenetrable by the waste, and transported to a disposal site 

(16), where the containers are emptied and sanitized before return to the 
waste production site for re-use. 
A system as claimed in Claim 1, in which the containers are in 
the form of substantially rigid boxes (11) with fastenable hinged lids (12). 
A system as claimed in Claim 2, in which the lid of each box 
has a raised central area (12a) and the base of the box has a 

correspondingly shaped recess so that the boxes can be stacked stably. 
A system as claimed in Claim 2 or Claim 3, in which the boxes 
are formed of a synthetic resin material. 
A system as claimed in any of Claims 2 to 4, further comprising 
wheeled trolleys used at the two sites (10 and 16) for local transportation 

of the boxes. 
A system as claimed in any of Claims 2 to 6, further comprising 
special purpose vehicles for transporting the boxes between the two sites 

(10 and 16) such vehicles having a load space and a hoist device 
mounted above said load space for loading and unloading the boxes. 
A system as claimed in Claim 6, in which said hoist device 
comprises an overhead track extending longitudinally of the vehicle 

above a load platform thereof, a main carriage movable along such 
overhead track, a cross-track mounted on said main carriage and 

extending transversely to said overhead track, a hoist carriage movable 
along said cross-track, a cable hoist on said hoist carriage, a lifting device 

suspended on the hoist cable, and a linkage connecting the lifting device 
to the hoist carriage to constrain the lifting device to move up and down 

under the influence of the hoist. 
A system as claimed in Claim 7, in which said linkage 
comprises a "lazy tongs" linkage comprising a plurality of pairs of main 

links (38) pivotally connected to one another and two pairs of connecting 
links (39, 40) connecting the end-most main links to the hoist carriage 

(26) and the lifting device (36) respectively. 
A system as claimed in Claim 8, in which a gear arrangement 
(41) is provided to interconnect the ends of at least one of said pairs of 

connecting links, such that these links are constrained to remain 
symmetrically disposed relative to the part they are connected to. 
A system as claimed in any of Claims 7 to 9, in which said 
cross track includes a support means fixed to the main carriage, and an 

intermediate track supported by said support means and movable 
longitudinally so as to be positionable in either of two extreme positions 

projecting from opposite sides of the vehicle, the hoist carriage being 
longitudinally movable on said intermediate track. 
A system as claimed in any of Claims 7 to 10, in which said 
 

lifting device comprises a frame having a plurality of vacuum pads 
thereon, the frame also carrying an exhaust pump and controlling means 

therefor, for applying a lifting force to a box lid. 
A hoist device for use in a vehicle comprising a track supporting 
a hoist carriage for movement longitudinally of the track, said track 

including an intermediate track movable longitudinally relative to the 
track to project from the track, said hoist carriage being mounted on the 

intermediate track for longitudinal movement. 
A hoist device as claimed in Claim 12, in which said track has a 
plurality of pairs of support rollers mounted on it at spaced positions 

along its length, the intermediate track having a pair of mutually 
outwardly facing channels which receive said rollers. 
A hoist device as claimed in Claim 13, in which the 
intermediate track also has a pair of mutually inwardly facing channels 

for receiving rollers on the hoist carriage. 
A hoist device for use in a vehicle comprising a track, a hoist 
carriage movable along said track, a hoist drum mounted on said hoist 

carriage, a lifting device suspended on a cable wound on said hoist 
drum, and a stabilising linkage inter-connecting the hoist carriage and the 

lifting device. 
A hoist device as claimed in Claim 15, in which said linkage 
comprises a "lazy tongs" linkage comprising a plurality of pair of 

interconnected links and two pairs of connecting links connecting the 
end-most links of said "lazy tongs" linkage to the hoist carriage and the 

 
lifting device respectively. 
A hoist device as claimed in Claim 16, in which each of at least 
one of said pairs of connecting links has a toothed gear at its ends, the 

two toothed gears being interconnected by a pair of meshed idler gears. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
