<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633811</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOLECULAR IMAGING METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J2022	B01J2022	B01J20281	B01J20285	B01J2030	B01J2030	B01J2032	G01N3000	G01N3088	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33544	G01N33545	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	B01J20	G01N30	G01N30	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are chemically-produced specific binding, "molecular imaged" sorbents which reversibly bind a preselected macromolecule by spacially matched multipoint interactions between functional groups synthesized on the surface of the sorbent and functional groups on the surface of the macromolecule. Also disclosed are methods of producing such sorbents. The sorbents typically are high surface area solids comprising surface binding regions which have charged groups, metal coordinating groups, hydrophobic moieties, or various combinations thereof anchored thereto and spaced in the mirror image of complementary interactive groups on a surface of the macromolecule.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERSEPTIVE BIOSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERSEPTIVE BIOSYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AFEYAN NOUBAR B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REGNIER FRED E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VARADY LASZLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AFEYAN, NOUBAR, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REGNIER, FRED, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VARADY, LASZLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MOLECULAR IMAGING METHODBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to solid sorbents having surface defining sites capable of selectively binding a preselected macromolecule, useful in the separation of a target solute from a complex mixture and in various types of analyses. The invention also relates to a family of synthetic techniques useful in fabricating such surfaces.Adsorption of macromolecules such as proteins to surfaces involves attraction at multiple sites through hydrophobic, electrostatic, and hydrogen bonding. Surfaces used in chromatographic packing materials therefore have a high density of ionic, hydrophobic or hydroxyl containing groups available for this adsorption process. The interface between the surface and adsorbed proteins may cover between about 10-100 surface groups on the sorbent, depending on the surface density of the charged or other groups and on the size of the protein. Adsorption typically occurs through 5 to 10 groups on the surface of the protein, so there is a large excess of surface functional groups. As the surface density of functional groups on a sorbent decreases, the strength of protein adsorption typically decreases rapidly. Although the number of groups on the sorbent surface is more than adequate for binding, the groups are not distributed properly in space.The effect is illustrated schematically in Figures 1A and IB. In Figure 1A, the accessible surface area of a protein, depicted at 10, has five dispersed anion groups, all of which lie close to one or more cation groups 

disposed at high density in a field on the surface 12 of the adsorbent. As shown in Figure IB, at lower surface density, the protein will be less avidly bound, as the spatial distribution of the anions on the protein surface do not match up well with the positioning of the cations on the sorbent.Of course, real behavior differs in several respects from the oversimplified situation depicted, as, for example, 1) charged groups are randomly positioned on the sorbent, 2) adsorption occurs in three dimensions, e.g., the charge pair in the square shown in Figure IB may be spaced apart in a direction normal to the plane of the paper, 3) the protein may have cation groups on its surface which will be repelled by the cation surface and 4) there are other physical interactions at work in addition to electrostatic attraction.This complimentary adsorption phenomenon is used most widely in chromatographic processes involving purification and analysis of analytes exploiting differential sorption
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A solid material defining a binding surface comprising a multiplicity of regions which selectively bind a preselected organic molecule having a plurality of ionizable groups spaced about a molecular surface thereof, each said region comprising a plurality of charged moieties bonded to said binding surface and dispose in spaced-apart relation within said region in a mirror image and charge inverse of at least a subset of said ionizable groups whereby said regions bind by spatially matched electrostatic attraction to the molecular surface of said preselected molecule preferentially to other molecules.
2. A composition of matter comprising: a solid material defining a binding surface comprising a multiplicity of binding regions; and a multiplicity of organic molecules bound by spatially matched multipoint electrostatic attractions to said binding regions, each said organic molecule defining a plurality of ionizable groups spaced about a molecular surface thereof, said binding regions comprising a plurality of charged moieties bonded to said binding surface and disposed in spaced-apart relation within said region in a mirror image and charge inverse of at least a subset of said ionizable groups.
3. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said binding surface comprises a coating adhered to the surface of said solid material. 


 4. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said solid material comprises organic polymeric particulate material.
5. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said solid material comprises a perfusive matrix.
6. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said binding surface is substantially free of bound charged moieties in excess of those which bind to the ionizable groups of said organic molecule.
7. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said charged moieties comprise negatively charged moieties selected from the group consisting of carboxylate, sulfonate, phosphate and phosphonate moieties.
8. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said charged moieties comprise carboxyl groups.
9. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said charged moieties comprise positively charged moieties selected from the group consisting of primary amines, secondary amines, tertiary amines, and quaternary ammonium.
10. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said charged moieties are bonded to said binding surface through flexible moieties and said spaced-apart charged moieties define a conformationally compliant charged surface.
11. The invention of claim 10 wherein said flexible moieties comprise oligomers varying in length whereby individual said charged moieties are disposed varying distances apart from said binding surface. 


 12. The material of claim 1 wherein said preselected organic molecule defines a hydrophobic patch on said molecular surface, at least a subset of said regions further comprising: a hydrophobic moiety within said region at a location disposed to interface with said patch when said preselected molecule is bound to said region by multipoint electrostatic attraction.
13. The composition of claim 2 wherein said organic molecule further comprises a hydrophobic patch within said molecular surface and said binding regions comprise a hydrophobic moiety which interfaces with said patch.
14. The material of claim 1 or 12 wherein said preselected organic molecule comprises an imidazole residue on said molecular surface and wherein at least a subset of said regions further comprise a metal coordinating moiety bonded to said binding surface at a location in said region disposed to form, in the presence of coordinating metal ions, a metal coordinating bond between said imidazole residue and said coordinating moiety.
15. The material of claim 14 wherein said coordinating moiety comprises an iminodiacetic acid moiety.
16. The composition of claim 2 or 13 wherein said organic molecule comprises an imidazole residue on said molecular surface complexed through a metal ion to a metal coordinating compound bonded to the surface of said regions. 


 17. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein a subset of said binding regions comprise spatial patterns of charged moieties in a mirror image and charge inverse of at least a subset of ionizable groups spaced about a second molecular surface of said organic molecule.
18. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said organic molecule comprises a peptide bonded amino acid polymer.
19. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said molecular surface and said regions have an interfacing area of at least about 50 square angstroms.
20. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said molecular surface and said regions have an interfacing area of at least about 500 square angstroms.
21. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said organic molecule comprises an analog of an intermediate in an organic reaction or a polypeptide analog of a surface region of a macromolecule.
22. The invention of claim 1 or 2 wherein said binding surface is an oxygen rich polymeric hydrophilic surface.
23. A solid material defining a binding surface comprising a multiplicity of regions which selectively bind a preselected organic molecule having an imidazole residue on a molecular surface thereof, each said region comprising a metal coordinating moiety bonded to said binding surface and disposed in said region in a mirror image position of said residue, whereby 


in the presence of coordinating metal ions, said region binds by multipoint spatially matched attractions including at least one metal coordination bond between said imidazole residues and said coordinating moieties, to the molecular surface of said preselected molecule preferentially to other compounds.
24. The material of claim 23 wherein said binding surface is substantially free of bound metal coordinating moieties in excess of those which bind to the residues of said molecules.
25. The material of claim 23 wherein said metal coordinating moiety is an iminodiacetic acid moiety.
26. The material of claim 23 wherein said organic molecule defines a hydrophobic patch on said molecular surface, said region further comprising: a hydrophobic moiety within said region at a location disposed to interface with said patch when said preselected polymer is bound to said region of said solid material.
27. The material of claim 23 or 26 wherein said preselected organic molecule comprises an ionizable group on said molecular surface and said regions comprise a charged moiety bound to said binding surface at a location opposite said ionizable group when said preselected molecule is bound to regions of said solid material.
28. The material of claim 23 or 26 wherein said regions bind an analog of an intermediate in an organic reaction or a polypeptide analog of a surface region of a macromolecule. 


 29. The material of claim 23 wherein said organic molecule has plural imidazole residues and each said region comprises a plurality of said metal coordinating moieties.
30. A solid material defining a binding surface comprising a multiplicity of regions which selectively bind a preselected organic molecule having a hydrophobic patch on a molecular surface thereof, each said region comprising at least one hydrophobic moiety, surrounded by hydrophilic surface, bonded to said binding surface, and disposed within said region in a mirror image position to said hydrophobic patch, whereby said regions bind by spatially matched attractions including at least one hydrophobic-hydrophobic interaction, to the molecular surface of said preselected compound preferentially to other compounds.
31. The material of claim 30 wherein said preselected organic molecule comprises an imidazole residue on said molecular surface and wherein at least a subset of said regions further comprise a metal coordinating moiety bonded to said binding surface at a location in said region disposed to form, in the presence of coordinating metal ions and when said preselected molecule is bound to said regions, a metal coordinating bond between said imidazole residue and said coordinating moiety.
32. The material of claim 30 or 31 wherein said preselected organic molecule comprises an ionizable group on said molecular surface and said regions comprise a charged moiety bound to said binding surface at a location 


opposite said ionizable group when said preselected molecule is bound to regions of said solid material.
33. The material of claim 30 wherein said organic molecule has plural hydrophobic patches spaced about the molecular surface thereof and at least a subset of said regions comprise plural said hydrophobic moieties in mirror image position to bind with said patches.
34. The material of claim 30 wherein said region binds an analog of an intermediate in an organic reaction or a polypeptide analog of a surface region of a macromolecule.
35. A solid material defining a binding surface comprising a multiplicity of regions which selectively bind a preselected macromolecule having one or more of at least two surface features, spaced about a molecular surface thereof, selected from the group consisting of ionizable moieties, hydrophobic patches, and imidazole residues, each said region comprising, in a hydrophilic field, a plurality of moieties selected from the group consisting of charged moieties, hydrophobic moieties, metal coordinating moieties, and combinations thereof, bonded to said binding surface and disposed in spaced- apart relation within said region in a mirror image of at least a subset of said at least two surface features, whereby said regions bind, by at least two of a) spatially matching electrostatic attraction between said ionizable moieties and said charged moieties, b) metal coordination in the presence of coordinating metal ions between said imidazole residues and said metal coordination moieties, 


and c) hydrophobic-hydrophobic interaction between said hydrophobic patches and said hydrophobic moieties, to the molecular surface of said preselected macromolecule preferentially to other polymers.
36. In the method of separating solutes in a mixture comprising passing the mixture through a matrix which differentially binds individual solutes in said mixture and then desorbing solutes bound to said matrix, the improvement comprising: providing a matrix comprising the material of claim 1, 23, 30, or 36 wherein said preselected organic molecule is a target solute in said mixture; and passing said mixture through said matrix into contact with said surface to preferentially bind said target solute to said binding regions.
37. The method of claim 36 wherein said matrix comprises a perfusive matrix.
38. In a specific binding assay wherein the presence or concentration of an analyte is determined by binding analyte in a sample to the surface of an insoluble support, the improvement wherein said solid support comprises the material of claim 1, 23, 30, or 36 and said analyte comprises said preselected molecule.
39. A method of producing a solid material defining a surface which preferentially binds a preselected macromolecule having a plurality of ionizable groups spaced about a molecular surface thereof, the method comprising the steps of: 


 A. providing a solid material having a surface layer of moieties covalently reactive with said ionizable groups; B. contacting said surface layer with said preselected macromolecule under conditions sufficient to react the ionizable groups of said macromolecule to said surface by multipoint formation of covalent bonds between at least a subset of said ionizable groups on said molecular surface and said reactive moieties; C. converting remaining reactive moieties in said surface material to an uncharged state not spontaneously reactive with said ionizable groups, D. cleaving each of the covalent bonds produced in step B to release said preselected macromolecule from said surface; and E. producing a charge opposite in sign and in space to the charge of said ionizable groups at each point of cleavage thereby to produce on said surface spatially distributed charged groups in a mirror image and charge inverse of the subset of said ionizable groups on said molecular surface.
40. A method of producing a solid material defining a surface which preferentially binds a preselected macromolecule having a plurality of ionizable groups spaced about a molecular surface thereof, the method comprising the steps of: A. providing a solid material having a surface layer of moieties covalently reactive with said ionizable groups; B. contacting said surface layer with said preselected macromolecule under conditions sufficient to react the ionizable groups of said macromolecule to said surface by multipoint formation of covalent bonds between 



at least a subset of said ionizable groups on said molecular surface and said reactive moieties; C. digesting the amino acid polymer by hydrolyzing peptide bonds to leave an amino acid residue at each covalent bond produced in step B; and D. removing or derivatizing the amino group or the carboxylic acid group of said amino acid residues to leave a charge opposite in sign and space to the charge of said ionizable groups thereby to produce on said surface spatially distributed charged groups in a mirror image and charge inverse of the subset of said ionizable groups on said molecular surfaces.
41. The method of claim 39 or 40 wherein said surface layer comprises charged groups opposite in sign to said subset of ionizable groups and said contacting step B occurs after a molecular surface of said preselected polymer is attracted electrostatically to said surface layer.
42. The method of claim 39 or 40 wherein step B is conducted in the presence of an anti-chaotropic salt.
43. The method of claim 40 wherein said surface layer of covalently reactive moieties comprise epoxy or aldehyde groups and said ionizable groups comprise amino side chains.
44. The method of claim 39 wherein said surface layer of covalently reactive moieties comprise carboxylic or amine residues.
45. The method of claim 40 wherein said preselected macromolecule has an imidazole residue on said molecular surface, the method comprising the additional step of: 


 reacting said preselected macromolecule with a metal ion and a metal coordinating compound comprising a covalently reactive group prior to step C, and removing the metal ion to leave a metal coordinating moiety covalently bonded to said surface layer.
46. The method of claim 40 wherein said preselected macromolecule has a hydrophobic patch on said molecular surface, the method comprising the additional step of: reacting said preselected macromolecule with an amphipathic molecule, comprising a hydrophobic molecular moiety and a covalently reactive group, prior to step C, whereby a hydrophobic moiety is covalently bonded to said surface layer.
47. A method of producing a solid material defining a surface which preferentially binds a preselected macromolecule having an imidazole residues on a molecular surface thereof, the method comprising the steps of: A. providing a solid material having a surface layer of moieties covalently reactive with an organic, nitrogen- containing, polycarboxylic acid metal coordinating compound; B. reacting a said coordinating compound with said preselected macromolecule, a metal ion, and said surface under conditions to form a coordinated metal ion link between the imidazole residue on said preselected macromolecule and said coordination compound and a covalent bond between and said coordination compound and one of said covalently reactive moieties; and 


 C. removing the metal ion from the product of step B to produce on said surface a covalently bonded metal coordination compound molecule within said regions located to form a metal coordination complex with said imidazole residues on a said molecular surface of said preselected macromolecule when the molecular surface thereof reversibly adsorbs to the surface of said solid material.
48. The method of claim 47 or 45 wherein said coordinating compound is iminodiacetic acid.
49. The method of claim 47 wherein said preselected macromolecule has a plurality of said imidazole residues on its molecular surface and, during steps B and C, a plurality of said covalently bonded metal coordinating molecules is produced.
50. A method of producing a solid material defining a hydrophilic surface having hydrophobic moieties spaced thereabout which define regions which selectively bind with a molecular surface of a preselected macromolecule defining a hydrophobic patch, the method comprising the steps of: A. providing a solid material having a hydrophilic surface layer of covalently reactive moieties; B. reacting said surface, said macromolecule, and an amphipathic molecule, comprising a linked hydrophobic molecular moiety and a covalently reactive group, under conditions to produce formation of hydrophobic-hydrophobic bonding interactions between the hydrophobic patch on the surface of said preselected macromolecule and the hydrophobic moiety of said amphipathic molecule and 


 a covalent bond between the covalently reactive group of said amphipathic molecule and said covalently reactive moiety on said surface; and C. desorbing the macromolecule from the surface by breaking the hydrophobic-hydrophobic attractions produced in step B to produce on said surface a multiplicity of regions comprising hydrophobic moieties within a hydrophilic field located to interface with the hydrophobic patch on said molecular surface of said polymer when said molecular surface reversibly adsorbs to the surface of said solid material.
51. The method of claim 50 wherein said preselected macromolecule has a plurality of said hydrophobic patches on its molecular surface and, during steps B and C, a plurality of said hydrophobic moieties located to interfere is produced.
52. The method of claim 39, 40, 47, or 50 wherein said regions binds an analog of an intermediate in an organic reaction or a polypeptie analog of a surface region of a said macromolecule.
53. A method of producing a specific binding surface on a solid material which noncovalently binds a preselected molecule by spacially matched electrostatic attraction, metal coordinating bond formation, hydrophobic-hydrophobic interaction, or a combination thereof, the method comprising the steps of: identifying a polypeptide mimicking a surface region of said preselected molecule; and using said polypeptide in the method of claim 39, 40, 47, or 50. 


 54. The method of claim 53 wherein said identifying step is conducted by screening a mixture of peptides synthesized randomly or produced by partial digestion of a protein.
55. The method of claim 53 wherein said identifying step is conducted by analyzing surface features of said molecule through computer modeling based on structural data measured by physiochemical examination of said molecule. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
