<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655800</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical connector with terminal position assurance device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1342	H01R1342	H01R13422	H01R13436	H01R13436	H01R13422	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical connector (10) is provided with a 
housing (12) having a plurality of terminal-receiving 

passages (14) extending between a forward end (16) of the 
housing and a rear end (18) thereof. A plurality of 

terminals (28) are received in the passages. A plurality 
of primary locks (76,78) are operatively associated between 

the housing and the terminals and are provided for locking 
the terminals in the passages. A terminal position 

assurance device (44) is mounted on the housing for 
movement between first and second positions only when all 

of the terminals are properly positioned in their 
respective passages. The device is mounted on the housing 

for movement to a third position whereat it engages the 
primary locks (76,78) to move the locks to an unlocking 

condition in response to moving the terminal position 
assurance device to the third position, thereby allowing 

removal of the terminals (28). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLEX INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEIB LAWRENCE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEIB, LAWRENCE E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to the art of 
electrical connectors and, particularly, to an electrical 
connector which includes a terminal position assurance 
device. Terminal position assurance devices are known for 
use in electrical connectors to assure that all of the 
terminals in the connector are properly positioned within 
the connector housing. Basically, a terminal position 
assurance device is movable between a first position and a 
second position. The device can move to the second 
position only when all of the terminals are properly 
positioned in their respective passages. If even a single 
terminal is not properly positioned, the terminal position 
assurance device cannot move away from its first position. Such a device is disclosed in EP-A-0 484 700. 
Such a device often is used to prevent mating of a 
connector with a complementary connector unless the 
terminal position assurance device is moved to its second 
or enabling position. An area where such electrical connectors with 
terminal position assurance devices are extensively used is 
in automotive applications, where safety and security are 
dominant. Electrical connectors incorporated into the 
circuitry of an automotive vehicle are subject to extreme 
environmental conditions, including broad ranges of 
temperature, exposure to moisture, subjection to almost 
continuous vibration during use and frequent subjection to  
 
direct physical shock. These environmental conditions may 
cause a terminal to shift in the connector housing. 
Terminals of electrical connectors that are not properly 
inserted in their associated housing or that shift during 
such use may not provide a high quality electrical 
connection. In an effort to ensure that electrical 
connectors perform properly, automotive manufacturers often 
require connectors to have terminal position assurance 
(TPA) components. In addition, electrical connectors used in such 
environments as described above must meet other 
requirements, such as being compact in construction, sealed 
against the outside environment and provided with means for 
locking the terminals in the connector housing to prevent 
the terminals from shifting or backing out of the housing. As can be understood in relation to automotive 
applications, although equally problematic in other 
applications, repairs of electrical connectors must be 
anticipated, including instances when one or more terminals 
must be removed from the connector housing. This causes 
problems because, as stated above, it often
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical connector (10) which 
includes housing means (12) having a plurality of terminal-receiving 

passages (14) extending between a forward mating 
end (16) of the housing means and a rear end (18) thereof, 


a plurality of terminals (28) received in the 
passages, 
primary lock means (76,78) operatively associated 
between the housing means and the terminals for locking the 

terminals in the passages, and 
a terminal position assurance device (44) mounted 
on the housing means for movement between first and second 

positions only when all of the terminals are properly 
positioned in their respective passages, 
 
   characterised by:
 
   said terminal position assurance device (44) 

being mounted on the housing means (12) for movement to a 
third position and including means (46) for moving said 

primary lock means (76,78) to an unlocking condition in 
response to moving the terminal position assurance device 

(44) to the third position thereby allowing removal of the 
terminals (28). 
The electrical connector as set forth in 
claim 1, wherein said terminal position assurance device 

(44) is movable in opening means (54) in the housing means 
(12), the opening means intersecting the terminal-receiving 

passages (14), and the primary lock means (76,78) 
projecting into the opening means in the path of movement 

of the terminal position assurance device.  
 
The electrical connector as set forth in 
claim 1, wherein said terminal position assurance device 

(44) includes secondary latch means (48) for engaging and 
locking the terminals in the passages (14) when the 

terminal position assurance device is in its second 
position. 
The electrical connector as set forth in 
claim 3, wherein each of said terminals (28) includes a 

locking shoulder (80) behind which the secondary latch 
means (48) of the terminal position assurance device (44) 

engages when in its second position and when the terminals 
are properly positioned in their respective passages (14). 
The electrical connector as set forth in 
claim 4, wherein said primary lock means include flexible 

locking arms (76) on the housing means (12) and having lock 

portions (78) for lockingly engaging the locking shoulders 
(80) of the terminals (28). 
The electrical connector as set forth in 
claim 4, wherein said terminal position assurance device 

(44) includes a plurality of enlarged apertures (52) sized 
and located for allowing removal of the terminals (28) 

therethrough when the terminal position assurance device is 
in its third position.  

 
An electrical connector (10), comprising: 

a housing (12) having a plurality of terminal-receiving 
passages (14) extending between a forward mating 

end (16) of the housing and a rear end (18) thereof, the 
housing having a slot (54) intersecting the terminal-receiving 

passages; 
a plurality of terminals (28) received in the 
passages, the terminals each including a locking shoulder 

(80); 
primary lock means (76,78) operatively associated 
between the housing and the terminals for locking the 

terminals in the passages, the primary lock means 
projecting into the slot in the housing; 
a terminal position assurance device (44) movably 
mounted in the slot (54) in the housing for movement 

between first, second and third positions, the device being 
movable from the first to the second position only when all 

of the terminals are properly positioned in their 
respective passages, the device including secondary latch 

means (48) for engagement behind the locking shoulders (80) 
of the terminals when the device is in its second position 

and when the terminals are properly positioned in their 
respective passages; and 
complementary interengaging means (46,79) between 
the terminal position assurance device and the primary lock 

means for moving the primary lock means to an unlocking 
condition in response to moving the terminal position 

assurance device to the third position thereby allowing 
removal of the terminals (28). 
The electrical connector of claim 7 wherein 
said primary lock means include flexible locking arms (76) 

on the housing and having lock portions (78) for lockingly 
engaging the locking shoulders (80) of the terminals (28), 

the lock portions projecting into the slot (54) in the 
housing in the path of movement of the terminal position 

assurance device (44). 
The electrical connector of claim 7 wherein 
said terminal position assurance device (44) includes a 

plurality of enlarged apertures (52) sized and located for 
allowing removal of the terminals (28) therethrough when 

the terminal position assurance device is in its third 
position. 
The electrical connector of claim 6 wherein 
said terminals (28) have reduced-dimensioned necked-down 

portions (82), and said terminal position assurance device 
(44) includes a plurality of slots (48) extending between 

an edge (50) thereof to said enlarged apertures (52), the 
slots being of a width slightly larger than the necked-down 

portions (82) of the terminals and being in registry 
therewith when the device is in its second position to 

define said secondary latch means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
