<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610190</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMBUSTION ENHANCEMENT SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B100	F02B104	F02B4100	F02B4100	F02B4300	F02B4300	F02B4304	F02B4700	F02B4704	F02D1900	F02D1912	F02M2700	F02M2702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02D	F02D	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B1	F02B1	F02B41	F02B41	F02B43	F02B43	F02B43	F02B47	F02B47	F02D19	F02D19	F02M27	F02M27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNAT MARKETING AFFILIATES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL MARKETING AFFILIATES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRAUS GREG A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONS WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELLS MARK R J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRAUS, GREG, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONS, WILLIAM, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELLS, MARK, R., J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMBUSTION ENHANCEMENT SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention;The present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for increasing the efficiency of hydrocarbon combustion processes to thereby reduce the production of undesirable emissions. More particularly, the invention provides an apparatus and method for conveying, at a precisely controllable rate, minute quantities of a combustion enhancing substance directly to the site of combustion.Description of the Prior Art:A wide variety of methods and devices have been disclosed that are intended to enhance the combustion of hydrocarbon fuels by introducing various substances into the combustion process.The intent is to improve efficiency, i.e. to increase the amount of the fuel's inherent chemical energy that is converted into thermal energy, and simultaneously to decrease undesirable emissions including unburned or incompletely burned hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen oxides. Bringing about a more complete oxidation of the hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide has the simultaneous effect of increasing efficiency and decreasing the undesirable emissions. 

 A wide variety of substances have been relied upon to perform a variety of functions in the interests of enhancing combustion processes. Coreactants, catalysts, as well as compounds subject to operating mechanisms not fully understood have been introduced into combustion processes via the fuel supply, the oxidant supply or into the fuel and oxidant commixture just prior to or during actual combustion.The viability of a particular system depends not only on the efficacy of the substance utilized, but also on how easily the substance can be handled as well as how easily the substance can accurately be delivered into the combustion process in a highly dispersed form at the proper levels. Substances have been identified that are effective at ppb-range concentrations but systems attempting to deliver such small concentrations in highly dispersed form have suffered from complexity and fail to maintain proper concentration levels. Maintaining the proper concentration level is important not only in terms of the economic considerations involved, but also because the presence in the combustion process of too little as well as too much active substance may diminish its combustion enhancing effect.Platinum is an example of a substance known to promote combustion reactions at concentrations as low as 30 ppb of fuel. The extremely low concentration requirement precludes simply
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A device for enhancing the efficiency of a combustion process in which a hydrocarbon fuel is consumed in a combustion zone in order to diminish the emission therefrom of undesirable compounds including carbon monoxide and incompletely oxidized hydrocarbons, comprising:
means for storing a preselected combustion enhancing substance in its solid state selected for its ability to significantly enhance said combustion process at ppb-range concentrations and for its convertibility into a highly dispersed, gas-transportable state;
means for variably converting at a controllable rate said combustion enhancing substance directly from its solid state into its highly dispersed, gas-transportable state; and
means for transporting said converted substance, substantially immediately upon its conversion, to said combustion zone.
2. The device of claim 1, further comprising means for determining the fuel's consumption rate and means for controlling the conversion rate of the combustion enhancing substance from its solid state to its highly dispersed, gas-transportable state as a function of said determined consumption rate. 


 3. The device of claim 1, further comprising means for determining the emission rate of selected compounds from the combustion process and means for controlling the conversion rate of the combustion enhancing substance from its solid state to its highly dispersed, gas- transportable state as a function of said determined emission rate.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein said transporting means comprises a gas flow passing through said converted substance in its highly dispersed, gas-transportable state and into said combustion zone.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein said gas flow comprises combustion air for said combustion process.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein said converting means serves to subject said solid combustion enhancing substance to heat.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein said subjecting of said solid combustion enhancing material causes it to sublime.
8. A method for enhancing the efficiency of a combustion process in which a hydrocarbon fuel is consumed in a combustion zone in order to diminish emission therefrom of undesirable compounds including carbon monoxide and incompletely oxidized hydrocarbons, comprising the steps of: 


 selecting a combustion enhancing substance that is in its solid phase at ambient conditions said substance having the ability to significantly enhance said combustion process at ppb-range concentrations and further being convertible into a highly dispersed, gas- transportable state;
storing said substance in its solid state;
variably converting said solid substance at a controllable rate into its highly dispersed, gas-transportable state; and
transporting said converted substance, substantially immediately upon its conversion, to said combustion zone.
9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of determining the fuel consumption rate of said combustion process and controlling the rate of converting said solid substance into its highly dispersed, gas- transportable state as a function of the determined fuel consumption rate.
10. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of determining the emission rate of selected compounds from said combustion process and controlling the rate of converting said solid substance into its highly dispersed, gas-transportable state as a function of the determined emission rate. 


 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the converting step comprises the step of heating said solid substance.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of employing combustion air drawn into said combustion process for transporting combustion enhancing substance in its highly dispersed, gas-transportable state to the combustion zone.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the converting step comprises subliming said solid substance.
14. A device for enhancing the efficiency of a combustion process in which a hydrocarbon fuel is consumed in a combustion zone in order to diminish the emission therefrom of undesirable compounds such as carbon monoxide and incompletely oxidized hydrocarbons, comprising:
means for positioning a material, convertible into a highly dispersed, gas transportable, combustion enhancing substance, within a flow of combustion air being inducted into said combustion process; and
means for oscillating the temperature of said metal between a first and second, relatively higher, range of temperature. 


 15. The device of claim 14, wherein said material is in the form of a metallic foil applied directly to the surface of a heating element.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein said heating element is electrically heated.
17. The device of claim 14, wherein platinum foil is applied to the surface of an electric heating element.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein said first temperature range comprises 300" to 700°F and said second temperature range comprises 900* to 1500*F.
19. The device of claim 14, wherein said temperature oscillating means comprises means for periodically heating said material so as to attain said second relatively higher temperature range while said flow of combustion air is subsequently relied upon to cool said material down to said first range of temperature.
20. The device of claim 19, wherein said material is applied to the surface of an electric heating element and current is supplied thereto for a preselected period of time at preselected intervals.
21. The device of claim 20, wherein said preselected periods of time are increased as a function of the rate of combustion airflow. 


 22. The device of claim 19, wherein said material is applied to the surface of an electric heating element and further comprising means or supplying current to said element until said second range of temperature is achieved after which current is discontinued until the first range of temperature is achieved whereby the flow of combustion air is relied upon to cool said element.
23. A method for enhancing the efficiency of a combustion process in which a hydrocarbon fuel is consumed in a combustion zone in order to diminish emission therefrom of undesirable compounds such as carbon monoxide and incompletely oxidized hydrocarbons, comprising the steps of:
selecting a material that exists as a stable metal at ambient conditions while having the ability to significantly enhance the combustion process at ppb range concentrations upon conversion into a highly dispersed, gas transportable substance;
positioning said material in the flow of combustion air inducted into said combustion process; and
oscillating the temperature of said material between a first and a second, relatively higher, temperature range. 


 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said temperature oscillation is achieved by periodically heating said material to said second temperature range followed by intervals in which the combustion air flow is relied upon to cool said material to said first temperature range.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein an electric heating element to which said material is applied is energized for preselected periods of time at preselected intervals.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein said preselected periods are extended as airflow is increased.
27. The method of claim 24, wherein said heating element is energized until said second temperature range is achieved and deenergized until said first temperature range is achieved.
28. The method of claim 24, wherein platinum foil is applied to an electric heating element and said first temperature range comprises 300" - 700"F while said second temperature range comprises 900" - 1500"F. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 21 May 1992 (21.05.92); original claims 14 and 23 amended; other claims unchanged (2 pages)]
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the converting step comprises the step of heating said solid substance.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of employing combustion air drawn into said combustion process for transporting combustion enhancing substance in its highly dispersed, gas- transportable state to the combustion zone.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the converting step comprises subliming said solid substance.
14. A device for enhancing the efficiency of a combustion process in which a hydrocarbon fuel is consumed in a combustion zone, and for thereby diminishing the emission therefrom of undesirable compounds such as carbon monoxide and incompletely oxidized hydrocarbons, comprising:
means for positioning a solid material, convertible into a highly dispersed, gas transportable, combustion enhancing substance, within a flow of combustion air being inducted into said combustion process; and
means for oscillating the temperature of said solid material between a first and second, relatively higher, range of temperature in order to convert said material into its gas transportable state. 


 22. The device of claim 19, wherein said material is applied to the surface of an electric heating element and further comprising means or supplying current to said element until said second range of temperature is achieved after which current is discontinued until the first range of temperature is achieved whereby the flow of combustion air is relied upon to cool said element.
23. A method for enhancing the efficiency of a combustion process in which a hydrocarbon fuel is consumed in a combustion zone, and for thereby diminishing emission therefrom of -undesirable compounds such as carbon monoxide and incompletely oxidized hydrocarbons, comprising the steps of:
selecting a material that exists as a solid stable metal at ambient conditions while having the ability to significantly enhance the combustion process at ppb range concentrations upon conversion into a highly dispersed, gas transportable substance;
positioning said material in the flow of combustion air inducted into said combustion process; and
oscillating the temperature of said material between a first and a second, relatively higher, temperature range in order to convert said material into its gas-transportable state. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
