<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645150</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Medical devices subject to triggered disintegration
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L2900	A61L2700	A61L2904	A61L3100	A61L3100	A61L2914	A61L3114	A61L3104	A61L3104	A61L2900	A61L3114	A61L2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L29	A61L27	A61L29	A61L31	A61L31	A61L29	A61L31	A61L31	A61L31	A61L29	A61L31	A61L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides medical devices comprised of ionically 
crosslinked polymer, especially, stents, catheter or cannula components, plugs, 

and constrictors. The medical devices of the present invention are prepared by 
treatment of ionically crosslinkable polymer compositions with crosslinking ion 

compositions to provide ionically crosslinked materials. 
An important aspect of the present invention is that these medical devices 
can be disintegrated in-vivo at a desired time through the exposure of the medical 

device to a chemical trigger which generally is described as an agent that acts to 
displace the crosslinking ion in the ionically crosslinked material through binding 

or simple replacement with a non-crosslinking ion. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOSTON SCIENT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUZIO GARY ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON SAMUEL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUZIO, GARY ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON, SAMUEL ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to medical devices which can be caused to be
disintegrated in-vivo. More specifically the present invention relates to novel
medical device systems designed for triggered disintegration comprising one or
more ionically crosslinkable polymers, one or more crosslinking ions, and one or
more agents which displace the crosslinking ion. Medical devices are often used
to facilitate the flow of material as in a ureteral stent used for drainage of urine
from the kidney to the bladder, or in a vascular graft used to maintain blood flow.
Typically these medical devices have been made from durable, non-biodegradable
materials such as metals, polyurethanes, and polyacrylates.
These non-biodegradable, non-dissolvable medical devices typically must be
removed via an invasive procedure after they have served their purpose, or they
remain in the body indefinitely. When those devices which remain in-vivo, there
are often medical complications such as inflammation and other foreign body
responses.Devices have also more recently been prepared from biodegradable
materials such as polyesters, polyanhydrides, and polyorthoesters. In U. S.
Patent No. 5,085,629, the use of a biodegradable polyester terpolymer of lactide,
glycolide, and epsilon-caprolactone in a ureteral stent is disclosed. In that patent,
biodegradable has been defined to include hydrolytic instability. These polymers
undergo hydrolytic chain cleavage in the presence of water to form low molecular
weight water soluble species. The polyesters have been reported to undergo
hydrolysis throughout the thickness of the device simultaneously (homogeneous 
hydrolysis) while the polyanhydrides and polyorthoesters have been reported to
hydrolyse from the surface (heterogeneous hydrolysis). There are several
problems inherent to devices manufactured with these biodegradable materials.
There is a significant loss of strength in the device prior to any significant weight
loss. These devices may undergo failure into large pieces which may occlude
the vessel in which they have been deployed. Biodegradable devices which
undergo surface hydrolysis may eventually reach a thin skin configuration that
may also lead to vessel occlusion. Semicrystalline biodegradable materials have
also been shown to leave insoluble crystalline residuals in the body for very long
periods of time.Polysaccharide - metal salt systems have been used for many years in
biomedical applications. In European Patent Application 0 507 604 A2, an
ionically crosslinked carboxyl-containing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tubular shaped medical device comprising at least one ionically crosslinked
polymer, the polymer being disintegratable by a pharmaceutically acceptable

trigger.
A medical device comprising at least one ionically crosslinked polymer, the
polymer being disintegratable by a pharmaceutically acceptable trigger, wherein

said medical device is selected from stents, catheter or cannula components, plugs
and constrictors.
A medical device comprising at least one ionically crosslinked polymer, the
polymer being disintegratable by a pharmaceutically acceptable trigger, wherein

said medical device is selected from the group consisting of a drainage device, a
release device, a temporary scaffold for bone, an osteophilic coating, a neural

growth guide, a stent for anastomosis, a shaped delivery device, a hemostat, a
surgical sponge, a hydrocephalus shunt, dialysis tubing, an instrument coating, a

patch for a delivery system, an ostomy bag, a syringe deliverable temporary fill for
aneurysm repair, artificial skin, a dental socket filler, a vena cava filter device, a

capsule for delivery of a vena cava filter device, a deep vein thrombosis filter, an
enteral feeding tube, an enteral plug, and a hiatal hernia stent.
The medical device of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said ionically crosslinked polymer
comprises at least one polymer made from at least one ionically crosslinkable

polymer selected from the group consisting of carboxylic, sulfate and amine
functionalized polymers.
The medical device of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein said ionically crosslinked
polymer comprises at least one polymer, made from at least one polysaccharide.
The medical device of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein said ionically crosslinked
polymer comprises at least one polymer made from at least one ionically

crosslinkable anionic polymer. 
The medical device of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein said ionically crosslinked
polymer comprises at least one polymer made from at least one ionically

crosslinkable cationic polymer.
The medical device of claim 6 wherein said ionically crosslinked anionic polymer
comprises at least one polymer made from at least one ionically crosslinkable

polymer selected from the group consisting of polyacrylic acid, polymethacrylic
acid, alginic acid, pectinic acid, carboxyl methyl cellulose, hyaluronic acid,

heparin, carboxymethyl starch, carboxymethyl dextran, heparin sulfate, and
chondroitin sulfate, and salts thereof.
The medical device of claim 7 wherein said ionically crosslinked cationic polymer
comprises at least one polymer made from at least one ionically crosslinkable

polymer selected from the group consisting of chitosan, cationic guar, cationic
starch and polyethylene amine.
The medical device of any one of claims 1 to 6 and 8 wherein said ionically
crosslinked polymer is crosslinked by a crosslinking ion which comprises one or

more cations.
The medical device of claim 10 wherein said one or more cations are selected from
the group consisting of calcium, magnesium, barium, strontium, boron, berylium,

aluminum, iron, copper, cobalt, lead, and silver ions.
The medical device of any one of claims 1 to 5, 7, and 9 wherein said ionically
crosslinked polymer is crosslinked by a crosslinking ion which comprises one ore

more anions.
The medical device of claim 12 wherein said one or more anions are selected from
the group consisting of phosphate, citrate, borate, succinate, maleate, adipate and

oxalate ions.
The medical device according to any one of the preceding claims which is
sterilizable at a temperature of at least 121°C.
A medical device according to claims 1, 2 or 3 comprised of ionically crosslinked
polymer hydrogel having a water content of less than 90%. 
A combination of a medical device as defined in any one of the preceding claims
and at least one body fluid selected from the group consisting of urine, bile, feces

and intestinal fluids.
A method for dissolving an 
in vivo
 medical device as defined in any of claims 1 -
15 which comprises an ionically crosslinked polymer said method comprising

treating said 
in vivo
 medical device with at least one chemical trigger.
The method of claim 17 wherein the chemical trigger comprises at least one agent
that binds with the crosslinking ion.
The method of claim 17 wherein said chemical trigger comprises at least one agent
that displaces a crosslinking io
n.
The method of claim 19 wherein said agent that displaces a crosslinking ion
comprises one or more members selected from the group consisting of

ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid, ethylene diamine tetraacetate, citrate, organic
phosphates, inorganic phosphates, trisodium carboxymethyloxysuccinate,

nitrilotriacetic acid, maleic acid, oxalate, polyacrylic acid, sodium, potassium,
calcium, and magnesium.
The method of claim 20 wherein said inorganic phosphate is selected from the
group consisting of pentasodium tripolyphosphate, mono and dibasic potassium

phosphate, sodium pyrophosphate and phosphoric acid.
A method of modifying a medical device as defined in any of claims 1 - 15
comprising ionically crosslinked polymer, said method comprising heating said

medical device at a temperature above about 40°C.
A method of making a tubular shaped article comprising introducing an ionically
crosslinkable polymer through a die to form a tube, simultaneously pumping a

solution comprising crosslinking ions through said formed tube, and extruding said
formed tube from said die into a solution comprising crosslinking ions, optionally

followed by heat treating said formed tube. 
The use of an ionically crosslinked polymer in the manufacture of a medical device
as defined in any of claims 1 - 15.
The use according to claim 24, wherein the device is a stent, a catheter or cannula,
a plug or a constrictor.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
