<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656731</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for testing the performance of at least one electro-optical test device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01M1100	G01M1100	G01M1102	G01M1102	H04N1700	H04N1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01M11	G01M11	G01M11	G01M11	H04N17	H04N17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for testing the performance of at least one 
electro-optical test device, comprising constructing an electro-optical system 

(10) having a light source (15), a test target (14), a lens (13) and an imaging 
device (12) as required in combination with the test devices. A respective 

identity code of a plurality of pre-calibrated devices together with 
corresponding electro-optical performances are stored in a database and the 

imaging device is aligned to the test target so as to produce a focused image 
thereof. Pre-calibrated devices are selected from the database and the 

focussed image is digitized and stored so as to produce a digitized image 
which is analyzed so as to determine an electro-optical performance 

representative of the performance of the electro-optical system which is 
equal to the product of component electro-optical performances of each of 

the electro-optical test devices and each of the additional pre-calibrated 
devices. This permits determination of the product of component electro-optical 

performances of each of the electro-optical test devices. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENOP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENOP LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARMELI RAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARMELI, RAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a system for examining electro-optical 
components and systems. Notwithstanding the ever increasing use of electro-optical 
components, there is no simple way in which the performance of each of the 
components in an electro-optical system, as well the performance of the 
complete system, can be tested. Thus, to the extent that it is required to test 
the performance of a complete electro-optical system or of particular sub-components 
thereof, such testing is often highly subjective as well as time-consuming.  Various prior art systems relate to the setup and calibration of 
specific optical components within a pre-calibrated optical system. For 
example, U.S. Patent No. 4,316,211 (Mackey et al.) discloses a convergence 
measuring apparatus for use with a color television kinescope and deflection 
yoke comprising means for activating two of the electron beams of the 
kinescope to generate a convergence test pattern on the kinescope display 
screen. The convergence test pattern is a set of alternating color patches. 
The degree of overlap and gap between patches is indicative of the degree 
of beam misconvergence. A monogram television camera observes the test 
pattern and provides a signal to a signal processor which controls the 
electron beam activating means to move one color patch with respect to the 
other color patch so as to reduce the gap and overlap between patches. A 
measurement of the amount of patch movement necessary to minimize the 
overlap and gap between patches is an indication of electron beam 
misconvergence in the vicinity of the test pattern. Whilst such a system permits the electron beam misconvergence 
to be minimized, the resulting optical performance of the system is not 
susceptible to measurement. U.S. Patent No. 4,513,319 (Breimer et al.) shows in Figure 1 a 
lens system 4 and a pick-up arrangement or camera 5. Two test patterns are 
used, a flip-up internal test pattern 18 and an external test pattern 1. 
Information associated with the internal test pattern is subtracted from 
correction information associated with the external test pattern, and the 
resulting correction difference is stored in a lens memory. The camera 
memory and lens memory together produce a correction, which is related to 
a measure of aberration. An auxiliary memory is provided for storing data 
associated with the external test pattern. A lens memory which stores data 
corresponding to particular lenses is also disclosed.  In use, a test chart is imaged by the television
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for testing the performance of at least one electro-optical 
test device (12, 13, 14, 15), characterised by the steps of: 


(a) coupling to said at least one electro-optical test device additional 
pre-calibrated devices as required so as to construct an electro-optical 

system (11) having a light source (15), a test target (14), 
a lens (13) and an imaging means (12), 
(b) storing a respective identity code of a plurality of pre-calibrated 
devices together with corresponding electro-optical performances, 
(c) aligning the imaging means to the test target so as to produce a 
focused image thereof, 
(d) specifying which devices, if any, in said electro-optical system 
are pre-calibrated, 
(e) digitizing and storing the focussed image so as to produce a 
digitized image, 
(f) analyzing the digitized image so as to determine [an electro-optical 
performance representative of the performance of the 

electro-optical system and being equal to the product of component 
electro-optical performances of each of said at least one 

electro-optical test device and each of said additional pre-calibrated 
devices, and 
(g) determining the product of component electro-optical performances 
of each of said at least one electro-optical test device. 
The method according to Claim 1, wherein: 
   said at least one electro-optical test device is selected from a group 

comprising light source (15), lens (13), target (14), camera (12), and 
   the target includes at least one test area constructed to permit 

measurement of said electro-optical performance. 
The method according to Claim 1, wherein: 
   said at least one electro-optical test device is a display device (18), and 

   the light source and target are an electronically generated test signal 
(19) constructed to permit measurement of said electro-optical performance. 
The method according to any of Claims 1 to 3, wherein said electro-optical 
performance is representative of: 


(a) Modular Transfer Function, 
(b) Contrast Transfer Function, 
(c) Grey Level Linearity, 
(d) Illumination Uniformity, 
(e) Geometrical Distortion, 
(f) Signal to Noise Ratio, 
(g) Transient Response, 
(h) Blemishes, 
(i) Blooming, and 
(j) Chromaticity. 
A system (10) for testing the performance of at least one electro-optical 
test device, the system comprising: 

   an electro-optical system (11) including said at least one electro-optical 
test device coupled to additional pre-calibrated devices as required, 

said electro-optical system comprising a light source (15), a target (14), a 
lens (13
) and an imaging means (12), 
   a computer (17) coupled to the electro-optical system and including a 

memory for storing therein a database of pre-calibrated device identity 
codes and corresponding electro-optical performances thereof, 

   optical alignment means coupled to the electro-optical system and to 
the computer for permitting alignment of the electro-optical system and 

producing an indication signal when the electro-optical system is correctly 
aligned,

 
   a setup means for specifying the identity codes of each of the pre-calibrated 

devices in said electro-optical system, 
   a digitizing means (16) coupled to the electro-optical system for 

digitizing an image produced by the electro-optical system and being 
coupled to said memory for storing therein a corresponding digitized image, 

   an analysis means coupled to the memory for determining an electro-optical 
performance representative of the performance of the electro-optical 

system and being equal to the product of component electro-optical 
performances of each of said at least one electro-optical test device and each 

of said additional pre-calibrated devices, said analysis means further for 
determining the product of component electro-optical performances of each 

of said at least one electro-optical test device. 
The system according to Claim 5, wherein: 
   said at least one electro-optical test device is selected from a group 

comprising light source (15), lens (13), target (14), camera (12), and 
   the target includes at least one test area constructed to permit 

measurement of said electro-optical performance. 
The system according to Claim 5, wherein: 
   said at least one electro-optical test device is a display device (18), and 

   the light source and target are an electronically generated test signal 
(19) constructed to permit measurement of said electro-optical performance. 
The system according to any of Claims 5 to 7, wherein said electro-optical 
performance is representative of: 


(a) Modular Transfer Function, 
(b) Contrast Transfer Function, 
(c) Grey Level Linearity, 
(d) Illumination Uniformity, 
(e) Geometrical Distortion, 
(f) Signal to Noise Ratio, 
(g) Transient Response, 
(h) Blemishes, 
(i) Blooming, and 
(j) Chromaticity. 
The system according to any of Claims 5 to 8, wherein: 
   the target includes a high accuracy pre-calibrated reticle (20, 21, 22, 

50, 53, 55) for forming an image by said at least one electro-optical test 
device, and 

   the analysis unit analyzes said image so as to determine the combined 
optical performance of the at least one test device. 
The system according to Claim 9, wherein the reticle (22) is 
provided with at least two discrete patterns (20, 30, 31) thereon each for 

producing respective test images whereby corresponding functions of the 
electro-optical device can be tested simultaneously. 
The system according to Claim 9, wherein the reticle (22) is 
provided with a shaping edge pattern (35) for determining the Modular 

Transfer Function of the electro-optical device. 
The system according to Claim 9, wherein each pattern (20) on 
the reticle is repeated in different areas of the reticle in order to permit 

spatial variation in the performance of the optical component to be 
determined. 
For use in the system according to any of Claims 5 to 12, a high accuracy pre-calibrated 
reticle for forming an image of at least one test pattern by an 

optical device whose optical performance is to be determined. 
The reticle according to Claim 13, wherein there are provided 
thereon at least two discrete test patterns (28, 29) each for producing 

respective test images, whereby corresponding functions of the optical 
components can be tested simultaneously. 
The reticle according to Claim 13, wherein there is provided a 
shaping edge pattern (35) for determining the Modular Transfer Function of 

the optical component. 
The reticle according to Claim 13, wherein each said at least one 
test pattern (20) is repeated in different areas of the reticle in order to permit 

spatial variation in the performance of the optical component to be 
determined. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
