<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641161</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DRY, WATER-SOLUBLE, SUBSTITUTED PHENOXY AND/OR BENZOIC ACID HERBICIDES AND METHOD OF PREPARING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N2512	A01N3900	A01N2508	A01N3736	A01N3904	A01N2512	A01N2508	A01N3744	A01N3702	A01N3702	A01N3744	A01N3710	A01N3710	A01N3740	A01N3902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	A01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N25	A01N39	A01N25	A01N37	A01N39	A01N25	A01N25	A01N37	A01N37	A01N37	A01N37	A01N37	A01N37	A01N37	A01N39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dry, water-soluble, substituted phenoxy and/or benzoic acid herbicide is prepared by dry blending the herbicide in acid form with a dry solid solubilization medium selected from the group consisting of diammonium phosphate, dipotassium phosphate, disodium phosphate, trisodium phosphate and tripotassium phosphate. At least about 0.6 to about 1.15 moles of the medium are provided for each mole of active herbicidal agent in the initially dry blended mixture.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PBI GORDON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PBI/GORDON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAHOY ROGER P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN HAFTEN JOHN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAHOY, ROGER, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN HAFTEN, JOHN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to water-soluble herbicidal 
compositions in dry powdered form which include 
herbicidally active substituted phenoxy and/or benzoic 
acids that alone are not readily soluble in water. Those herbicidal agents registered for use by 
commercial applicators are generally sold in concentrated 
form for economy of transport, and then diluted by the 
applicator either at a central distribution center, or 
less frequently at the point of use. The majority of 
effective herbicides and plant growth regulators are 
foliarly absorbed and therefore, to be effective, must be 
applied to the foliage of the target pest species. Other 
herbicides are root absorbed and the product must be 
applied in a manner as to be available to the roots of the 
target. This is commonly accomplished by spraying a 
dilute water solution, or dispersion of the desired 
pesticide on the vegetation to be treated. Most herbicides 
are therefore marketed as either (1) liquid or dry 
water-soluble formulations, (2) liquid, water emulsifiable 
formulations, or (3) solid or liquid water dispersible 
formulations. The concentrated formulations are diluted 
to the required effective concentration by the person 
doing the spray application. Thus, in order to obtain 
optimum effectiveness and to minimize agitation and other 
mechanical suspension requirements, water-soluble formulations 
are normally preferred. Because of the difficulties of manufacturing a 
dry, soluble form of herbicide, most dry formulations are  
 
simply dispersible forms of essentially insoluble active 
ingredients. Typical examples of formulations are (1) 
wettable powders, (2) water dispersible granules, or (3) 
dry flowables. Formulations of these types depend heavily 
on surfactants and grinding techniques to provide a dry 
formulation of active ingredients that can be temporarily 
dispersed or suspended in water for spray application. 
Even when a dispersion can initially be obtained in water, 
the time of full dispersion is usually limited, thus 
requiring stirring, agitation with air, or other mechanical 
mixing. Dispersions of this type present additional 
problems in that the material tends to clog spray nozzles 
and other distribution components, and require the user to 
prepare smaller than desired batches in order to minimize 
application problems. Because of the problems associated with attempting 
to prepare the dry powdered herbicide, suppliers 
have resorted in some instances to dissolution of the 
active ingredient in an organic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A stable water-soluble substituted phenoxy 
and/or benzoic acid herbicide powder composition which 

contains a quantity of a substantially solid herbicidal 
agent selected from the group consisting of substituted 

herbicidally active phenoxy acids or substituted herbicidally 
active benzoic acids, which alone are not readily 

soluble in water, characterized in that there is provided 

a dry blended admixture of 
a first quantity of dry, powder particles of the 
solid herbicidal agent with 
a second quantity of dry, solid, powder 
particles selected from the group consisting 

of at least about 1 mole for each mole 
of herbicidal agent of one of diammonium 

phosphate, dipotassium phosphate, and 
disodium phosphate, or at least about 0.6 

mole for each mole of herbicidal agent of 
one of trisodium phosphate and tripotassium 

phosphate as a solubilization medium for 
the herbicidal agent, 
said first and second quantities of the herbicidal 
agent and the solubilization medium 

being the predominate constituents of the 
composition,  

 
said herbicidal agent and the solubilization 
medium having been dry blended in powdered 

form without changing the physical state of 
the particles to retain the discrete particulate 

character of each of said first 
and second quantities of said particles, 

and in the absence of chemical reaction 
between said herbicidal agent and said 

solubilization medium to form a relatively 

uniform dry mixture thereof, 
there being a sufficient quantity of the phosphate 
medium in the dry blended mixture in 

relationship to the quantity of herbicidal 
agent combined therewith such that the dry 

blended powder mixture will dissolve in 
water during preparation of a herbicidal 

solution therefrom that contains an adequate 
proportion of the herbicidal agent to 

provide from about 0.1 to about 2.5% by 
weight of the active herbicidal agent in 

the herbicidal solution. 
A herbicide as set forth in claim 1 wherein 
said dry solubilization medium is diammonium phosphate. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said dry solubilization medium is dipotassium phosphate. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 
wherein said dry solubilization medium is disodium phosphate. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 
wherein said dry solubilization medium is trisodium 

phosphate. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said dry solubilization medium is tripotassium phosphate. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
the dry blended admixture includes a mixture of substituted 

phenoxy acid and substituted benzoic acid herbicides. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said active substituted phenoxy acid herbicidal agent is 

2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid..  
 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said active substituted phenoxy acid herbicidal agent is 

4-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)butanoic acid. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said active substituted phenoxy acid herbicidal agent is 

(±)-2-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)propanoic acid. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said active substituted benzoic acid herbicidal agent is 

(4-chloro-2-methylphenoxy)acetic acid. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said active substituted phenoxy acid herbicidal agent is 

(±)-2-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)propanoic acid. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said active substituted benzoic acid herbicidal agent is 

3,6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid. 
A herbicide as set forth in Claim 1 wherein 
said active substituted benzoic acid herbicidal agent is 

3-amino-2,5-dichlorobenzoic acid.  
 
A method of preparing a stable water-soluble 
substituted phenoxy and/or benzoic acid herbicide 

powder composition containing a quantity of a substantially 
solid herbicidal agent selected from the group consisting 

of herbicidally active phenoxy acids and substituted 
herbicidally active benzoic acids, which are not readily 

soluble in water, characterized by the steps of 

providing a first quantity of dry, powder 
particles of the solid herbicidal agent, 
providing a second quantity of dry, solid, 
powder particles selected from the group 

consisting of at least about 1 mole for 
each mole of herbicidal agent of one of 

diammonium phosphate, dipotassium phosphate, 
and disodium phosphate, or at least 

about 0.6 mole for each mole of herbicidal 
agent of one of trisodium phosphate and 

tripotassium phosphate as a solubilization 
medium for the herbicidal agent, 
said first and second quantities of the herbicidal 
agent and the solubilization medium 

being the predominate constituents of the 
composition, 
dry blending the herbicidal agent and the solubilization 
medium in powdered form without 

changing the physical state of the particles 
to retain the discrete particulate  

 
character of each of said first and second 

quantities of said particles, and in the 
absence of chemical reaction between said 

herbicidal agent and said solubilization 
medium to produce a relatively uniform dry 

mixture thereof, 
a sufficient quantity of the phosphate solubilization 
medium being provided in the dry 

blended mixture in relationship to the 
quantity of herbicidal agent combined 

therewith to cause the powdered dry blended 
mixture to substantially dissolve in water 

during preparation by the applicator of a 
herbicidal solution which contains an 

adequate proportion of the herbicidal agent 
to provide from about 0.1% to about 2.5% by 

weight of the active herbicidal agent in 
the herbicidal solution. 
A method as set forth in Claim 15 wherein 
said solubilization medium is selected from the group 

consisting of diammonium phosphate, dipotassium phosphate, 
and disodium phosphate, and a sufficient amount of the 

phosphate medium is present in the dry blended mixture to 
provide at least about 1 mole of the medium for each mole 

of active herbicidal agent in the initially dry blended 
mixture. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
