<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633941</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYNTHETIC EUKARYOTIC PROMOTERS CONTAINING TWO INDUCIBLE ELEMENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12R191	C12P2100	C12N510	C12P2100	C12N1511	C12N1511	C12N1563	C12N1585	C12N1509	C12N1563	C12N1585	C12N1509	C12N510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12R	C12P	C12N	C12P	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12R1	C12P21	C12N5	C12P21	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Synthetic inducible eukaryotic promoters for the regulation of transcription of a gene achieve improved levels of protein expression and lower basal levels of gene expression. Such promoters contain at least two different classes of inducible elements, usually by modification of a native promoter containing one of the inducible elements by inserting the other of the inducible elements. In embodiments, additional metal responsive elements (MREs) and/or glucocorticoid responsive elements (GREs) are provided to native promoters, particularly the hMT-IIA and MMTV-LTR promoters. One or more constitutive elements may be functionally disabled to provide the lower basal levels of gene expression.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVENTIS PASTEUR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVENTIS PASTEUR LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FILMUS JORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN MICHEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FILMUS, JORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN, MICHEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the generation of
improved inducible mammalian expression systems.Mammalian expression systems are being widely used
in the production, by recombinant techniques, of proteins
that are extensively modified after translation. These
systems can be either constitutive or inducible. It is
advisable to use inducible systems for the expression of
potentially cytotoxic proteins.A key element in determining whether an expression
system is constitutive or inducible is the promoter.
Several mammalian promoters that can be induced in
experimental systems have been characterized and
promoters present in the metallothionein (MT) genes and
in the mouse mammary tumour virus/long terminal repeat
(MMTV-LTR) have been used extensively.The best inducers for the MT promoter are heavy
metal ions, such as cadmium (Cd) and zinc (Zn). The
induction of the promoter is mediated by transcription
factors which, after activation by metals, bind to the
inducible metal responsive elements (MREs) that are
present in the MT promoter. This promoter also contains
several constitutive (non-inducible) elements that bind
transcription factors which do not need to be activated
and that are responsible for a basal level of gene
expression. As a result of the presence of these
constitutive elements, the non-induced level of
expression of the MT promoter is significant and the
induction ratio (the ratio between the inducible
expression and the basal level of expression) is usually
no greater than 5- to 10-fold. Attempts have been made
to reduce the basal level of expression by removing some
of the constitutive elements of the MT promoter. The 
removal of these elements, however, also reduces the
inducible level of expression.The native human MT-IIA promoter, besides having the
MREs and the constitutive elements, contains a single
inducible glucocorticoid responsive element (GRE) and
glucocorticoids, such as dexamethasone (dex), induce low
levels of expression from the MT-IIA promoter in its native
context.The native MMTV-LTR promoter contains four inducible
GREs and can be strongly induced by glucocorticoids. The
basal level of expression is lower than that obtained with
the human MT-IIA promoter but the absolute level of
inducible expression is not as high.Nucleic acid sequences, such as inducible elements,
involved in the regulation of gene expression, may be
located 5' to, 3' to, or within the regulated gene.J. Filmas et al. Nucleic Acids Research, Vol. 20, No.
11, pp 2755-2760, 1992, discloses an MT promoter
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A synthetic inducible eukaryotic promoter for the
regulation of transcription of a gene, comprising at least two

different classes of inducible elements, wherein said
different classes of inducible elements are selected to

provide a synergistic level of expression of a gene product
in a eukaryotic expression system, 
characterised in that
 said
classes of inducible elements are selected from the group

consisting of hormone-responsive elements (HREs), metal-responsive
elements (MREs), heat shock-responsive elements

(HSREs) and interferon-responsive elements (IREs).
The promoter claimed in Claim 1 which is derived from a
native promoter and 
characterised in that
 one of said
different classes of inducible elements is a native inducible

element and another of said different classes of inducible
elements is a different inducible element inserted into said

native promoter or created in the native promoter by
activation of a normally inactive element in the native

promoter.
The promoter claimed in Claim 2, 
characterised in that

said at least one native inducible element is a metal-responsive
element (MRE) and at least one said different

inducible element is a hormone-responsive element (HRE).
The promoter claimed in Claim 3, 
characterised in that

said at least one hormone-responsive element is at least one
glucocorticoid-responsive element (GRE) and is provided in

said native promoter by insertion.
The promoter claimed in Claim 4, 
characterised in that

multiple linked GREs are inserted into the native promoter. 
The promoter claimed in Claim 5, 
characterised in that

said multiple linked GREs is inserted in said native promoter
in the form of a multimeric head-to-tail element self-ligated

in the presence of BamHI and Bg1II.
The promoter claimed in any one of Claims 4 to 6,

characterised in that
 said inserted GRE is a synthetic
molecule containing the GRE consensus sequence and having a

positive strand having the nucleotide sequence:

The promoter claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 7,

characterised in that
 said native promoter is the hMT-IIA
promoter.
The promoter claimed in Claim 2, 
characterised in that

said at least one native inducible element is a hormone-responsive
element (HRE) and said at least one different

inducible element is a metal-responsive element (MRE).
The promoter claimed in Claim 9, 
characterised in that

said at least one hormone-responsive element is a
glucocorticoid responsive element (GRE) and said MRE is

provided in said native promoter by insertion.
The promoter claimed in Claim 10, 
characterised in that

at least two linked MREs are inserted into the native
promoter.
The promoter claimed in any one of Claims 9 to 11,

characterised in that
 said native promoter is the MMTV-LTR
promoter.
The promoter claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 12 which
is derived from a native promoter containing at least one 

constitutive element and 
characterised in that
 said at least
one constitutive element is functionally disabled.
The promoter claimed in Claim 13, 
characterised in that

said at least one constitutive element is functionally
disabled sufficient to provide a decreased level of basal gene

expression and an increased ratio of induced gene expression
to basal gene expression when compared to the native promoter.
The promoter claimed in Claim 13 or 14, 
characterised in
that
 said at least one constitutive element is disabled by
deletion from the native promoter and/or insertion of an

inducible element therein.
The promoter claimed in Claim 15, 
characterised in that

said constitutive element is disabled by deletion and/or
insertion of at least one GRE therein.
The promoter claimed in Claim 15, 
characterised in that

native constitutive elements AP1 and AP2 located between bases
-79 to -129 of the native hMT-IIA promoter are deleted.
The promoter claimed in Claim 14, 
characterised in that

at least one GRE sequence is inserted at the SacII site (base
-175) of the native hMT-IIA promoter thereby disabling the AP2

constitutive element at that location.
The promoter claimed in Claim 14, 
characterised in that

said at least one GRE is inserted in at least one of the SacII
site (base -175) and the XmaIII site (base -129) of the native

hMT-IIA promoter.
The promoter claimed in Claim 18 or 19, 
characterised in
that
 two linked GRE sequences are inserted at the XmaIII site. 
The promoter claimed in Claim 18 or 19, 
characterised in
that
 three linked GRE sequences are inserted at the SacII
site.
A vector for eukaryotic expression of a gene product,

characterised by
 a synthetic inducible eukaryotic promoter as
claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 21.
The vector claimed in Claim 22, 
characterised in that

said promoter is operatively connected to a gene.
A eukaryotic expression system, 
characterised by

eukaryotic cells containing a vector as claimed in Claim 22
or 23 for effecting induced gene expression.
The expression system claimed in Claim 24, 
characterised
in that
 said eukaryotic cells are mammalian cells selected
from Vero, CHO, HeLa, RatII and epithelial cells.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
