<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0995231</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTENNA DEVICE FOR A HAND-PORTABLE RADIO COMMUNICATION UNIT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q124	H01Q124	H01Q136	H01Q136	H01Q138	H01Q138	H01Q500	H01Q500	H01Q501	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q5	H01Q5	H01Q5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An antenna device for a hand-portable radio communication unit including a casing with a ground plane means cooperating with the antenna device. The antenna device comprises first and second radiating elements (1a, 1b) being tuned to different resonant frequencies and having a common feed point (1c). The radiating elements (1a, 1b) are disposed in a compact arrangement on a support means (3) so as to be confined entirely in the casing (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLGON AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLGON AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAMALIELSSON JONAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWELL CORBETT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRAND JOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAMALIELSSON, JONAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWELL, CORBETT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRAND, JOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Antenna device for a hand-portable radio communication unitFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to an antenna device for a hand- portable radio communication unit, in particular a mobile telephone, including a casing, in which a ground plane means having at least one edge is disposed. The antenna device comprises first and second radiating elements carried by support means, and said first and second radiating elements being tuned to different resonant frequencies.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONSuch an antenna device is disclosed in the international patent application PCT/SE97/01046 (Allgon AB) , wherein an embodiment shown in figure 3A includes first and second radiating elements in the form of flat meander-configured elements disposed on a flexible film carrier which is bent into a cylindrical shape. The cylindrical support means with the first and second meander elements are arranged as a cylindrical or somewhat conical element projecting upwards from a top portion of the telephone casing adjacent to a corner thereof. As is also generally known per se, the known antenna device includes a whip or rod antenna element, which is mechanically supported centrally in the projecting element and is movable between an operative extended position and a non-operative retracted position.Thus, the previously known antenna device is basically located outside the casing as indicated above.With this background, a main object of the present invention is to provide a compact antenna device which can be disposed substantially inside the casing so as to avoid any outwardly 

projecting sleeve or conical member, except for a possible extendable whip or rod antenna element. It is also desirable to make the whole radio communication unit or mobile telephone compact by such a measure.Another object is to provide an antenna device having a low weight.Still another object is to provide an antenna element having a satisfactory efficiency and bandwidth for each frequency in spite of a low volume of the device. The performance should be at least as good as for a conventional, stationary helix antenna.Still another object is to provide a built-in antenna device, which can be manufactured in large series at low costs.Still another object is to provide an antenna element also provided with a rod having a reduced total length (for a given radiating length) .SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAccording to a first aspect of the invention the main object stated above is achieved for an antenna device having the features stated in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 C l aims :
1. Antenna device for a hand-portable radio communication unit including a casing (2) , in which a ground plane means
(6) having at least one edge is disposed, said antenna device comprising: - first and second radiating elements (la, lb) carried by a support means (3) , said first and second radiating elements being tuned for different resonant frequencies, c h a r a c t e r i z e d b y - said first and second radiating elements (la, lb) being disposed in a compact arrangement on said support means (3) and extending from at least one feed point along a longitudinal axis to a first and a second free end (laa, lbb) , respectively, and - said support means being adapted to be mounted with said first and second radiating elements located adjacent to said at least one edge of said ground plane means (6) so as to be confined entirely in said casing (2).
2. Antenna device as defined in claim 1, wherein said casing (2) is shaped substantially as an elongated box with the antenna device (1) located adjacent to an end portion thereof and wherein said support means (3), together with said first and second radiating elements (la, lb), is dimensioned so as to extend transversely between opposite longer sides (2a, 2b) of the elongated box constituting the casing (2) .
3. Antenna device as defined in claim 1 or 2, wherein each of said first and second radiating elements is adapted to extend with its longitudinal axis substantially in parallel to an associated one of said at least one edge. 

4. Antenna device as defined in any of claims 1-3, wherein said first and second radiating elements are fed with RF signals from a common feed point (lc) .
5. Antenna device as defined in any of claims 1-3, wherein said first and second radiating elements are fed with RF signals from a first and second feed point (1705, 1707), respectively.
6. Antenna device as defined in any of claims 1-5, wherein said support means (3) comprises a first and a second side being mutually perpendicular, and said first and second radiating elements being arranged on said first and said second side, respectively.
7. Antenna device as defined in claim 6, wherein said support means (1601) further comprises a third side being perpendicular to said first and second sides, a first conductive part (1607) being arranged on said third side in conductive contact with one end of said first or second radiating element, and said first conductive part extending towards said ground plane means (6) so as to construe a capacitance.
8. Antenna device as defined in any of claims 1-7, wherein each of said first and second radiating element extends in a pattern with multiple turns along a longitudinal axis to a first and a second free end (laa, lbb) .
9. Antenna device as defined in any of claims 1-8, wherein at least one of said first or second radiating elements comprises a first patch, an adjoining a meander shaped portion (1605) and an adjoining second patch (1606) . 

10. Antenna device as defined in any of claims 1-9, wherein one of said first or second radiating elements is a straight elongated conductive element.
11. Antenna device as defined in any of claims 1-10, wherein a third radiating element (11) comprising a rod is connectable to said common feed point (lc) so as to be coupled electrically in parallel to said first and second radiating elements (la, lb).
12. Antenna device as defined in claim 11, wherein said rod (11) is movable between an operative extended position, located at least partially outside said casing, and a retracted position, located substantially inside said casing.
13. Antenna device as defined in any one of claims 1-12, where- in at least one of said first or second radiating elements is constituted by a flat meander-configured element (la, lb) .
14. Antenna device as defined in any one of claims 1-12, wherein at least one of said first or second radiating elements are constituted by helical elements (21a, 21b) .
15. Antenna device as defined in claim 13 or 14, wherein said first and second radiating elements (la, lb; 21a, 21b) are oriented in line with each other along one and the same edge of said ground plane means (6) .
16. Antenna device as defined in claim 13 or 14, wherein said first radiating element (la; 21a) is oriented in parallel to a first edge of said ground plane means (6), whereas said second radiating element (lb; 21b) is oriented substantially at right angle to said first element and in 


 parallel to a second, adjoining edge of said ground plane means ( 6) .
17. Antenna device as defined in claim 13, wherein said flat meander-configured elements (la, lb) are located in a plane being substantially parallel to said ground plane means.
18. Antenna device as defined in claim 13, wherein said flat meander-configured elements (la, lb) are located in a plane being substantially perpendicular to said ground plane means .
19. Antenna device as defined in in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said support means is shaped like a bar.
20. Antenna device as defined in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said support means is constituted by a molded body (3) of plastic material.
21. Antenna device as defined in claim 20, wherein said molded body is hollow.
22. Antenna device as defined in in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said first and second radiating elements are mounted on a plastic foil (4) which is securable onto said support means (3) by means of an adhesive agent.
23. Antenna device as defined in claim 22, wherein said plastic foil (4) includes at least one flap portion (4a) along at least one of its edges.
24. Antenna device as defined in claim 23, wherein matching circuitry (5) is disposed on said at least one flap portion (4a) . 

25. Antenna device as defined in any of the preceeding claims, wherein at least one of said first and second radiating elements is molded directly onto said support.
26. Antenna device as defined in in any one of the preceding claims, wherein matching circuitry (5) is disposed on said support means .
27. Antenna device as defined in in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said support means is securely fixed by means of using a two-side adhesive material.
28. Antenna device as defined in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said ground plane means (6) is an electrically conductive layer on a printed circuit board.
29. Antenna device, as defined in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said ground plane means is a metal layer serving as a shielding means on the inside of said casing.
30. Antenna device as defined in any one of the preceding claims, wherein an electrically resistive layer (7) is disposed in said casing (2) between a part of said casing being designed to be located adjacent to a body portion of a human being, on the one hand, and said first and second radiating elements, on the other hand, said electrically resistant layer serving as a protective device for absorbing electromagnetic radiation which is transmitted from said first and second radiating elements towards said part of the casing.
31. Antenna device for a hand-portable radio communication unit including a casing, in which a ground plane means (6) having at least one edge is disposed, said antenna device comprising at least one radiating element (la; 21a) carried 


 by a support means (3) and extending along a longitudinal axis from a feed point (lc) to a free end (laa), and a radiating rod element (11), which is connectable to said feed point (lc) so as to be coupled electrically in parallel to said at least one radiating element (la; 21a) , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said at least one radiating element (la; 21a) carried by said support means is internal element located entirely in said casing (2) with its longitudinal axis oriented substantially in parallel to said one edge of said ground plane means (6), said longitudinal axis being perpendicular to said rod element (11) .
32. Antenna device as defined in claim 31, wherein internal radiating element is constituted by a flat meander- configured element (la) .
33. Antenna device as defined in claim 31, wherein said internal radiating element is constituted by a helical element (21a) .
34. Antenna device as defined in any of claims 30-32, wherein said internal element is extending in a pattern with multiple turns along an longitudinal axis from said feed point (lc) .
35. A radio communication unit comprising an antenna device as defined in any one of the preceding claims. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
