<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654160</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THREE-COLOR FLOW CYTOMETRY WITH AUTOMATIC GATING FUNCTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N1514	G01N1514	G01N33569	G01N33569	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N15	G01N15	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flow cytometry based system (100) is provided which uses a three color reagent panel (an isotypic control, a helper/T-cytotoxic suppressor/total T-cell reagent, and a NK/B/T-cell reagent) in conjunction with a cytometer which permits direct absolute cell counts. Additionally, a system for automatic accurate selection of subpopulations is provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORTHO DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORTHO DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DECHIRICO GIOACCHINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFIS MARK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERCOLINO THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEYER ERIC J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETROU GEORGE V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DECHIRICO, GIOACCHINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFIS, MARK, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERCOLINO, THOMAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEYER, ERIC, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETROU, GEORGE, V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
THREE-COLOR FLOW CYTOMET Y WITH AUTOMATIC GATING FUNCTIONThis application is a continuation-in-part of pending applications Nos. 074,065 and 207,302, filed June 8, 1993 and March 7, 1994 respectively for "Three-Color Flow Cytometry with Automatic Gating Function."BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONWorldwide, the number of individuals infected with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) continues to rise. The World Health Organization estimates over 30-40 million HIV+ cases by the year 2000. Progression of HIV disease to Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) now takes, on average, a half-time of approximately 10 years in developed countries. These two factors combined result in an ever increasing need for better tools to monitor HIV disease progression.Understanding of the clinically important factors for monitoring HIV infection has increased significantly in the past few years. This increased understanding has lead the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to re-evaluate how the stages of HIV disease progression are to be classified. The CDC report concludes that absolute CD4"1" T-Lymphocyte count (absolute CD4"" coxint) is the most important marker available to clinicians for staging purposes. Further, the report proposes that AIDS may be defined solely on the basis of absolute CD4"*" count when it falls below 200. Thus, the CDC has expanded the previous definition of AIDS beyond clinical presentation 

of "indicator diseases".Finally, the CDC report recommended that physicians use a patient's absolute CD4"1" count to decide when to begin anti-retroviral and prophylactic therapies. Conflicting reports have been published concerning the benefits to be gained from prophylactic azidothymidine (AZT) therapy in individuals with CD4"" T-lγmphocyte counts less than 500/uL. However, in clinical practice, initiation of AZT and other therapies is typically based upon absolute CD4"4" count. Perhaps the most successful of the prophylactic therapies has been against Pneumocystis carini pneumonia (PCP) , the most common opportunistic infection in AIDS. PCP prophylaxis is usually begun at an absolute CD4"" count below 200. Proper timing of prophylactic therapy is a major reason people infected with HIV are living longer, healthier lives than in the early days of the pandemic. Thus, resulting from both the CDC recommendation and accepted clinical practice, the absolute CD4"" count has become the most important criterion in the laboratory determination of AIDS.HIV has been strongly implicated as the causative agent of AIDS.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A method of selecting a subset of data from a matrix representing a data list comprising:
(a) defining within the matrix a search region containing the sxibset;
(b) locating a maximxim density of data points within the search region;
(c) locating a series of minimxim densities of data points which define a boundary surrounding the maximum; and
(d) isolating the data points within the region surrounded by the boundary points.
2. A method of selecting from a matrix of data points representing cells, a set of data points representing a population of cells comprising:
(a) specifying within the matrix, a search region which contains the population;
(b) locating within the search region, a peak point which represents a maximxim density of data points within the population;
(c) locating a series of boundary points surrounding the peak point which represent minimxim densities of data points surrounding the peak point; 


 (d) generating a polygon defined by the boundary points surrounding the data points representing the population.
3. The method of Claim 2, wherein the peak point is located by dividing the search region into discrete sxbregions and determining which sxibregion includes a maximxim density of data points.
4. The method of Claim 3, wherein the sxibregions are grouped in 3 X 3 blocks and the peak point is located by determining which block includes the sxibregion with the maximxim density of data points.
5. The method of Claim 2, wherein the boxindary points are located by sequentially determining the minimxim density of data points on successive radial projections from the peak point.
6. The method of Claim 5 wherein the radial projections are at radial intervals of 10°.
7. A method of isolating from a flow cytometry cytogram matrix, a set of population data points corresponding to a specific population of cells for further analysis, comprising:
(a) defining a search region, within the cytogram matrix, which includes the population data;
(b) dividing the search region into discrete sxibregions; 


 (c) determining the density of population data points within each sxibregion;
(d) locating a peak point in the center of a sxibregion having the highest density of data points;
(e) determining a point of minimxim density along each of a series of radial projections from the peak point;
(f) locating a boundary point at each of the minimxim density points;
(g) defining a polygon which connects the boundary points and surrounds the population data points; and
(h) subtracting the population data within the polygon from the cytogram matrix data.
8. In a flow cytometry system for optically analyzing a sample in which data points representing cells in the sample are aggregated in a matrix based on selected optical parameters, a method of isolating a group of data points representing cells in an identified population, comprising:
(a) specifying within the matrix, a search region which contains the identified population;
(b) locating within the search region, a peak point which represents a maximxim density of data points 


within the population;
(c) locating a series of boundary points surrounding the peak point which represent minimxim densities of data points surrounding the peak point;
(d) generating a polygon defined by the boundary points; and
(e) subtracting from the matrix the data points within the polygon.
9. A method of identifying cells of a given type in a group of cells, comprising the steps of:
plotting the group of cells on a graph;
identifying the plot on the graph of one cell of the given type;
defining a boundary on the graph for the plots of the cells of the given type and extending around said one cell of the given type; and
identifying the cells plotted on the graph inside said boundary.
10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the step of defining the boxindary for the plots of the cells of the given type includes the step of identifying a multitude of points on said boundary. 


 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein:
the step of defining the boundary for the plots of the cells of the given type further includes the step of defining a multitude of line segments on the graph extending outward from the plot on the graph of said one cell of the given type; and
the step of identifying the multitude of points on said boundary includes the step of identifying a respective one point on each of the multitude of line segments and said boundary.
12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the step of identifying a respective one point on each of the line segments includes the steps of:
separating each line segment into a multitude of sections;
assigning a density value to each section of each line segment; and
searching outward along each line segment, from the plot of said one cell of the given type, for one of the sections of the line segment having a relative minimxim density value.
13. A method according to claim 12, further including the step of identifying a search region on the graph, and wherein: 


 the step of identifying the plot on the graph of said one cell of the given type includes the step of searching only in the search region for the plot of said one cell; and
the step of searching outward along each line segment includes the step of limiting the search outward along each line segment to the search region.
14. A method according to claim 9, further including the step of determining the nximber of cells plotted on the graph inside said boundary.
15. A method according to claim 9, wherein the plotting step includes the steps of:
measuring values for first and second parameters associated with each of the group of cells; and
for each of the group of cells, plotting the measured value for the first parameter associated with the cell versus the measured value for the second parameter associated with the cell.
16. A method according to claim 9, wherein the step of identifying the plot on the graph of said one cell includes the steps of:
separating at least a portion of the graph into a multitude of zones;
assigning each of the zones a density value 


based on the density of the number of cells plotted in the zone; and
searching for the zone having the largest density value.
17. A method of analyzing a fluid solution containing cells, comprising the steps of:
measuring values for first and second parameters associated with each of a set of cells in the fluid solution;
assigning a cell address to each cell in said set of cells based on the measured values for the first and second parameters associated with the cell; and
analyzing the cell addresses according to a predetermined program to determine a population of at least one type of cell in the fluid solution.
18. A method according to claim 17, wherein each cell address corresponds to a respective one matrix address in a matrix, and the analyzing step includes the steps of:
identifying the matrix addresses corresponding to the cell addresses assigned to the cells of said one type; and
determining the number of cells having cell addresses corresponding to the identified matrix 


addresses.
19. A method according to claim 18, wherein the matrix includes a multitude of locations, each of said locations having a respective one matrix address, and the matrix locations having addresses corresponding to the cell addresses assigned to the cells of said one type form a cluster, and wherein the step of identifying the matrix addresses corresponding to the cell addresses assigned to the cells of said one type includes the steps of:
identifying a border of the cluster; and
identifyingmatrix locations inside said border.
20. A method according to claim 19, wherein the step of identifying a border of the cluster includes the step of identifying matrix locations on said border.
21. A method according to claim 20, wherein the step of identifying matrix locations on said border includes the steps of:
defining a multitude of line segments intersecting with said border; and
for each of said line segments, identifying one matrix location on said each line segment and the border of the cluster.
22. A method according to claim 21, wherein the step of identifying one matrix location on said each line 


segment includes the steps of:
assigning a density value to each matrix location on said each line segment; and
identifying the matrix location on said each line segment having a relative minimum density value.
23. A method of identifying a population of a given type of cell in a group of cells, comprising the steps of:
plotting the group of cells on a graph;
defining boundaries for each of a multitude of clusters of the cells plotted on the graph; and
identifying one of the clusters of cells as a cell population of the given type.
24. A method according to claim 23, wherein the step of identifying one of the clusters of cells as a cell population of the given type includes the steps of:
determining the number of cells in each cluster of cells;
assigning a value to each cluster of cells base on (i) the number of cells in the cluster, and (ii) the location of the cluster on the graph; and
identifying the cluster of cells having the largest of said values as the cell population of the given 


type .
25. A method according to claim 24, wherein the step of assigning a value to each cluster of cells includes the steps of:
identifying a predetermined point on the graph;
identifying the location of one point in the cluster of cells;
determining the distance between said predetermined point and said one point in the cluster of cells; and
assigning the value to the cluster of cells based on (i) the number of cells in the cluster, and (ii) said distance.
26. A method according to claim 25, wherein:
the step of identifying one of the clusters of cells as a cell population of the given type further includes the step of identifying a search region on the graph; and
the step of identifying a predetermined point on the graph includes the step of identifying the location of a mid point of the search region.
27. A method according to claim 26, wherein the step of defining boxindaries for the clusters of cells includes 


the step of maintaining said boundaries in the search region.
28. A method according to claim 23, wherein the plotting step includes the steps of:
measuring values for first and second parameters associated with each of the group of cells; and
plotting on the graph, the measured value for the first parameter versus the measured value for the second parameter for each of the group of cells.
29. A system for analyzing a fluid solution having cells, comprising:
a flow cytometer including
i) a flow cell to conduct the cells of the solution along a predetermined path,
ii) means to illuminate the cells in the flow cell, and
iii) means to measure values for at least first and second optical parameters of the cells, and to generate signals representing said first and second optical parameters; and
processing means to receive the signals from the flow cytometer, and including 


 i) means to use the measured values for the first and second optical parameters to plot the cells on a graph,
ii) means to define a boundary on the graph for the plots of the cells of a given type, and
iii) means to determine the number of cells plotted inside the boundary on the graph.
30. A system according to claim 21, wherein the graph has first and second axes, and the means to plot the cells on the graph includes:
means to locate the plot of each cell along the first axis on the basis of the measured value for the first optical parameters of the cell; and
means to locate the plot of each cell along the second axis on the basis of the measxired value for the second optical parameter of the cell.
31. A system according to claim 29, wherein the means to define the boundary on the graph includes means to define a multitude of boundary points on the graph for the plots of the cells of the given type.
32. A system according to claim 31, wherein the means to define the boxindary points includes:
means to define a multitude of line segments extending through the plots of the cells of the given 


type ; and
means to define a respective one boundary point on each of said line segments.
33. A system according to claim 29, wherein the means to define the boundary on the graph for the plots of the cells of the given type includes:
means to define boundaries for each of a multitude of clusters of cells plotted on the graph; and
means to identify one of the clusters as a cluster of cells of the given type.
34. A system according to claim 29, wherein the means to define the boxindary on the graph for the plots of the cells of the given type includes:
means to identify on the graph the plot of one of the cells of the given type; and
means to define a boundary around the plot of said one of the cells of the given type.
35. A system according to claim 34, wherein the means to identify the plot of one of the cells of the given type includes:
means to separate at least a portion of the graph into a multitude of zones; 


 means to assign to each zone a value based on the number of cells plotted in the zone; and
means to identify the zone having the largest of said values.
36. Apparatus for analyzing a fluid solution containing cells, comprising:
a flow cytometer to measure values for first and second parameters associated with the cells, and to generate signals representing said measured values; and
a processing system connected to the flow cytometer to receive the signals therefrom, to process said signals according to a predetermined program to determine a population of at least one type of cell in the fluid solution, and to generate an output signal representing said population.
37. Apparatus according to claim 36, wherein the processing system includes:
means to assign a cell address to each of a multitude of cells based on the measured values for the first and second parameters associated with the cell; and
means to analyze the cell addresses according to a predetermined program to determine the population of said at least one type of cell.
38. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein each 


cell address corresponds to a respective one matrix address in a matrix, and the means to analyze includes:
means to identify the matrix addresses corresponding to the cell addresses assigned to the cells of said one type; and
means to determine the nximber of cells having cell addresses corresponding to the identified matrix addresses.
39. Apparatus according to claim 38, wherein the matrix includes a multitude of locations, each of said locations has a respective one matrix address, and the matrix locations having addresses corresponding to the cell addresses assigned to the cells of said one type form a clxister on the matrix, and the means to identify the matrix addresses corresponding to the cell addresses assigned to the cells of said one type includes:
means to identify a border of the cluster; and
means to identify the matrix locations inside said border.
40. Apparatus according to claim 36, wherein the processing system includes:
means to plot the cells on a graph using the measured values for the first and second parameters associated with the cells; 


 means to define boundaries for each of a multitude of clusters of the cells plotted on the graph; and
means to identify one of the cluster of cells as the cell population of said at least one type.
41. Apparatus according to claim 40, wherein the means to identify one of the clusters of cells as the cell population of said at least one type includes:
means to determine the number of cells in each cluster of cells;
means to assign a value to each cluster of cells based on (i) the number of cells in the cluster, and (ii) the location of the clxister on the graph; and
means to identify the cluster of cells having the largest of said values as the cell population of said at least one type.
42. Apparatus according to claim 41, wherein the means to define boundaries for the clusters of cells includes:
means to define, for each cluster, a multitude of line segments extending through the cluster; and
means to define, for each line segment of each cluster, a point on the line segment and the border of the cluster. 


 43. A method of obtaining a count of the number of lymphocytes in a solution, comprising:
obtaining values for at least two parameters of each cell in the solution;
identifying a cluster of values for the two parameters associated with lymphocytes; and
determining the number of cells having values for the two parameters in said cluster of values.
44. A method according to claim 43, wherein the obtaining step includes the steps of:
conducting the solution through a cytometer;
directing a light beam onto the solution conducted through the cytometer; and
measuring values for at least two parameters of the light beam after the beam is incident on the solution.
45. A method according to claim 43, wherein:
the identifying step includes the steps of plotting the values for the two parameters of each cell on a graph, and identifying a cluster of cells on the graph that are associated with lymphocytes; and
the determining step includes the step of determining the nximber of cells plotted in the cluster. 


 46. A system for obtaining a count of the number of lymphocytes in a solution, comprising:
means to obtain values for at least two parameters of each cell in the solution;
means to identify a cluster of values for the two parameters associated with lymphocytes; and
means to determine the nximber of cells having values for the two parameters in said cluster of values.
47. A system according to claim 46, wherein the means to obtain values includes:
a flow cytometer;
means to conduct the solution through the flow cytometer;
means to direct a laser beam onto the solution conducted through the cytometer; and
means to measure values for at least two parameters of the light beam after the beam is incident on the solution.
48. A system according to Claim 46, wherein:
the means to identify the cluster of values includes means to plot the values for the two parameters of each cell on a graph, and to identify a cluster of 


cells on the graph that are associated with lymphocytes, and
the means to determine includes means to determine the nximber of cells plotted in the clxister. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
