<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655861</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image composition method and imaging apparatus for performing said method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N532	A61B600	H04N532	A61B600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	A61B	H04N	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	A61B6	H04N5	A61B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Sub-images are merged in order to form an assembled image representing 
an elongate scene. In order to counteract artifacts in the assembled image such as 

disturbing transitions at the boundaries of adjacent sub-images in the image assembly 
method in accordance with the invention, pixel-values of overlapping portions of 

consecutive sub-images are interpolated so as to form pixel-values of the assembled 
image. The relative shift between consecutive sub-images with respect to the elongate 

scene is calculated from image information contained in the sub-images themselves. 
Correlations of pixel-values in overlapping portions of consecutive sub-images are 

determined as a function of the shift-value of the shift between consecutive sub-images 
with respect to the elongate scene. The actual shift between consecutive sub-images is 

found as the shift-value for which the correlation attains its maximum-value. 
The image assembly method in accordance with the invention is 
particularly suitable for use in peripheral x-ray angiography. Consecutive sub-images 

are made by x-irradiations of e.g. a patient's leg with an x-ray imaging system 
comprising an x-ray source, an x-ray detector, in various positions relative to the 

patient. 
In order to induce a sufficient amount of contrast in the sub-images to 
enable the determination of the relative shift between consecutive sub-images the
 
invention proposes to image a contrasting object together with the elongate scene itself. 

Preferably the contrasting object has the form of a ruler with a binary pattern which 
may be incorporated in the patient table. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOBREGT STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN EEUWIJK ALEXANDER HENRICUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOBREGT, STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN EEUWIJK, ALEXANDER HENRICUS WALTHERUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an image composition method comprising the steps of
making a series of consecutive sub-images each representing a portion of an elongate scene,
which sub-images overlap along the elongate scene, and of merging the sub-images into an
assembled image. The invention also relates to x-ray examination apparatus comprising an image
processor for performing said method.An image composition method of said kind and a device for performing this
method are described in the European Patent Application EP 0 576 066 which is comprised in
the state of the art pursuant to Art. 54(3)EPC. An image composition method and a device for
performing such a method are also known from the United States Patent US 5 123 056.
Further the United States Patent US 4 644 575 discloses that an image is composed from
successive x-ray shadow images of a slit. Further, the Japanese patent application no.
JP 05-130 984 discloses an X-ray CT device which overlap scans the boundaries of images
and an interpolation processing is executed to the data obtained by this overlap scan.The United States Patent US 5 123 056 in particular discloses an image
composition method for use in peripheral angiography by means of x-ray radiography. The x-ray
examination apparatus described in the cited reference comprises an x-ray source, an x-ray
detector facing the x-ray source and a patient table. The patient table on the one hand and the
x-ray source and the x-ray detector on the other hand are displaceable with respect to one
another. Consecutive sub-images of adjacent portions of a patient's limb are made by
successive irradiations while the patient is translated vis-à-vis the x-ray source over some
distance between successive irradiations. X-ray imaging is performed on the patient's limb in
peripheral angiography. Because of the size of the limb of interest, an x-ray examination
apparatus is unable to image the entire limb at once during a single irradiation step. Instead, a
number of x-ray sub-images are made of a patient's limb that is to be examined. These x-ray
sub-images are converted into electronic sub--images by means of an x-ray image detector in
the form of an image intensifier television chain that is included in the x-ray examination
apparatus. In order to form a single image of entire limb the electronic sub-images 
are processed in such a way that overlapping portions of said electronic sub-images
are deleted. Subsequently from said processed electronic sub-images an assembled image is
formed by adjoining together
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image composition method comprising the steps of:

making a series of consecutive sub-images (41
1-n
) each representing a portion of an elongate
scene,

which sub-images overlap along the elongate scene,
selecting respective overlapping lengthened portions (71-74) of said sub-images,
having respective longitudinal axes substantially transverse to the longitudinal axis of the

elongate scene,
merging the overlapping lengthened portions into an assembled image (42),
interpolating pixel-values of pixels of mutually overlapping lengthened portions of
consecutive sub-images which relate to a same position in the elongate scene so as to form

pixel-values of the pixels of the assembled image (42) therefrom,
determining a correlation between pixel-values of pixels of overlapping portions of the
lengthened portions (71-74) as a function of a shift-value between consecutive sub-images,
computing the maximum value of said correlation in order to determine a shift with respect to
the elongate scene between consecutive sub-images (41
1-n
) through comparison of pixel-values
of corresponding pixels of overlapping lengthened portions (71-74)

of said consecutive sub-images
(41
1-n
), and
merging the lengthened portions into an assembled image according to said shift.
An image composition method as claimed in Claim 1, wherein
a contrasting object (110,130) having the form of a ruler comprising a binary pattern is added

to the elongate scene, which object intentionally induces correlations in said overlapping
portions of said consecutive sub-images.
An image composition method as claimed in Claim 2, wherein
the ruler (130) has a planar shape and comprises

an elongate central feature (131),
first protrusions (132
1-3
)
extending from the central feature in a first direction and

second protrusions (133
1-3
)
extending extending from the central feature in a second direction, 

the pitch (134) between adjacent first protrusions being substantially equal to the pitch (135)
between adjacent second protrusions and

the spacing between adjacent first protrusions being offset with respect to the spacing between
adjacent second protrusions.
An x-ray examination apparatus comprising:

an x-ray source (1) for emitting an x-ray beam (15),
an x-ray detector (2) facing the x-ray source (1),
a patient-support (8),

the x-ray source, the x-ray detector and the patient-support being moveable with respect to one
another so as to enable the formation of a series of consecutive sub-images of an elongate

portion of the patient by x-irradiation of successive portions of the patient,
x-ray absorption means which can be arranged between the x-ray source and the x-ray detector
in order to attenuate the x-ray beam and to shape the cross-section of the x-ray beam

transverse to a central ray of the x-ray beam,
an image processor (20) for processing the series of consecutive sub-images (41
1-n
) each of them
representing a portion of an elongate scene, which sub-images(41
1-n
) overlap along the
elongate scene, and for merging the sub-images(41
1-n
) into an assembled image (42),
the image processor comprising :
an interpolation device (91-96,81-83)
for interpolating pixel-values of pixels of overlapping portions of consecutive sub-images so

as to form pixel-values of the assembled image therefrom,
a correlator for
determining correlations of pixel-values of pixels of overlapping portions of said consecutive sub-images

as a function of a shift-value between consecutive sub-images, and
for forming the maximum value of said correlations of pairs of successive sub-images, and
a field-selector for selecting fields in the form of respective overlapping lengthened portions
(71-74) of each of the sub-images having respective longitudinal axes substantially

perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the elongate scene, wherein

said lengthened portions replace the sub-images (41
1-n
), said merging is performed with the
lengthened portions so as to form an assembled image, and the x-ray absorption means

are positionable relative to the x-ray beam-path and controlled by the field-selector for
selecting the overlapping lengthened portions.
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, wherein
the patient-support (8) incorporates a ruler (110,130) comprising a binary pattern of x-ray

absorbing portions and x-ray transmitting portions.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
