<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Temperature detector and control for an igniter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02C726	F02C7266	F23N508	F23N508	F23N524	F23N524	F23N526	F23N526	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02C	F02C	F23N	F23N	F23N	F23N	F23N	F23N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02C7	F02C7	F23N5	F23N5	F23N5	F23N5	F23N5	F23N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A temperature sensor (30) for detecting temperature of a 
heating element (20) of an igniter such as a glow plug 

includes optic means (32) disposable near the igniter for 
receiving at least a portion of electromagnetic energy 

emitted by the heating element (20). The received 
electromagnetic energy is coupled to circuit means (36) 

for producing an output related to the temperature of the 
igniter in relation to a characteristic of the received 

electromagnetic energy. In one embodiment, the optic 
means (32) comprises optic fibers that receive 

electromagnetic energy emitted by the heating element and 
couple that energy to a photosensitive detector. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION ENGINE SYST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION ENGINE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFREITAS DENNIS MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFREITAS, DENNIS MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to ignition systems such 
as used with gas turbine engines. More particularly, the 
invention relates to temperature sensing and control for 
heated igniters used in such ignition systems. Known ignition systems use many different types of 
igniter devices. Some ignition systems use spark type 
igniters, as are commonly used in the automotive industry. 
Spark igniters are also commonly used in aerospace 
applications. However, another type of igniter that is 
gaining more widespread use in many ignition systems is a glow 
plug, such as is described, for example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 
4,345,555, 4,582,981 and 4,825,658, the entire disclosures of 
which are fully incorporated herein by reference. Such 
devices are heated, such as, for example, by applying 
electrical energy to electrodes of the plug, to a temperature 
sufficient to initiate and/or to sustain combustion of a 
fuel/air mixture exposed to the plug. In some applications, 
a catalyst is applied to the outer surface of the heated 
element to further promote the combustion process. In unthrottled combustion applications, such as, for 
example, combustion in a gas turbine engine, thermal runaway 
can occur at the glow plug. Thermal runaway may occur due to 
the net heat energy dissipated in and around the glow plug 
during operation. The glow plug is typically heated via 
electrical energy (existing systems rely on DC or AC currents 
to attain I²R heating within the glowing element of the plug). 
In flow through type combustors prior to the occurrence of 
ignition the primary mode of heat dissipation for the glow 
plug is conductive cooling in a turbulent combustible flow. 
The volume, rate, and dynamic characteristics of this flow 
mandate that the power required to heat the glow plug to 
ignition temperatures (i.e. 800 °F - 1500 °F) is in excess of 
the power required to destroy the element during no flow 
conditions, flow perturbations resulting in the development of  
 
catastrophic hot spots or sustained heating once ignition has 
occurred. If any of the aforementioned conditions occur, 
failure of the glow plug is eminent unless the heat source for 
the glow plug can be controlled via a fast stable temperature 
sensing/control system. A critical portion of this system is the temperature 
sensor and signal conditioning system. Typically, the 
temperature of a glow plug is determined by either welding a 
thermocouple directly to a portion of the plug surface which 
will be representative of the plug's maximum
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In combination with an igniter of the type 
that has a heating element that is heated to cause 

combustion: a temperature sensor that produces an output 
related to temperature of the igniter, said sensor 

comprising optic means disposable with respect to the 
igniter such that electromagnetic energy radiated from the 

igniter enters said optic means; and circuit means for 
producing said output based on said electromagnetic 

energy. 
The combination of claim 1 wherein the 
igniter comprises a catalytic igniter. 
The combination of claim 1 wherein the 
igniter comprises an igniter used for initiating 

combustion in a gas turbine engine. 
The combination of claim 3 wherein said 
engine is a jet engine for aircraft. 
The combination of claim 1 wherein said 
circuit means comprises control means for changing energy 

delivered to the igniter as a function of said output. 
The combination of claim 5 wherein said 
control means adjusts power to the igniter when said 

output indicates the igniter has reached a predetermined 
temperature. 
The combination of claim 1 wherein said 
optic means comprises optic fiber means disposed with one 

end near the heating element of the igniter such that said 
portion of radiated electromagnetic energy from the 

heating element enters said optic fiber means. 
The combination of claim 7 wherein said 
optic fiber means comprises a rod that transmits 

electromagnetic energy, a first end of said rod being 
disposed near the igniter to collect radiation from the 

heating element, and a second end of said rod being 
optically coupled to an optic fiber bundle. 
The combination of claim 8 wherein said 
optic fiber bundle transmits radiation collected by said 

rod and couples it to a transducer means for converting 
said radiation to a transducer output that corresponds to 

the intensity of the radiation. 
The combination of claim 9 wherein said 
control means interrupts power to the igniter when said 

transducer output reaches a predetermined threshold level. 
The combination of claim 1 wherein said 
output is used as an igniter temperature control for an 

ignition system in a gas turbine engine. 
The temperature control apparatus of claim 
9 wherein said rod comprises a sapphire rod. 
The temperature control apparatus of claim 
12 wherein said rod also functions to focus said radiation 

into said optic fiber. 
A method for detecting temperature of an 
igniter of the type having a heating element used for 

combustion, comprising the steps of: 

a. supplying energy to the igniter to heat 
the element such that the element emits electromagnetic 

energy; 
b. detecting at least a portion of the 
emitted electromagnetic energy; and 
c. producing a signal related to 
temperature of the heating element based on a 

characteristic of the detected electromagnetic energy. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the step of 
detecting at least a portion of the emitted 

electromagnetic energy comprises the steps of using an 
optic fiber to transmit electromagnetic energy emitted by 

the heating element to a photosensitive detector. 
The method of claim 14 further comprising 
the step of using said electrical signal to control the 

temperature of the heating element. 
The method of claim 16 wherein the step of 
controlling the temperature of the heating element is 

performed by changing the power applied to the igniter 
when the detected heating element temperature exceeds a 

predetermined threshold. 
The method of claim 17 as used to detect 
the temperature of an igniter in a gas turbine engine. 
A temperature sensor for detecting 
temperature of an igniter, characterized by means for 

detecting at least a portion of electromagnetic energy 
emitted by the igniter, and circuit means for producing an 

output related to the temperature of the igniter based on 
a characteristic of the electromagnetic energy. 
The temperature sensor according to claim 
19 wherein said circuit means comprises a device that 

converts said received electromagnetic energy into a 
control signal as a function of the intensity of the 

electromagnetic energy incident on the device. 
The temperature sensor according to claim 
20 in combination with an igniter in a gas turbine engine 

ignition system. 
The combination according to claim 21 
wherein said detecting means comprises a light rod and 

said igniter comprises a heat element having a central 
bore adapted to receive one end of said rod. 
The combination of claim 22 wherein said 
heat element comprises electrical resistance means for 

heating said element to a temperature sufficient to 
initiate combustion, said electrical resistance means 

being connectable to an electrical energy means. 
The combination of claim 23 wherein said 
electrical resistance means is integrally disposed on a 

surface of said element. 
The combination of claim 24 wherein said 
control signal controls said energy means to control 

temperature of said igniter heat element. 
The temperature sensor according to claim 
21 wherein said electromagnetic energy is produced in a 

spectral band of 570 nanometers to 20,000 nanometers. 
The temperature sensor according to claim 
19 in combination with a temperature control means for 

adjusting power to the igniter in response to said circuit 
means output; said circuit means comprises a signal 

conditioning circuit for interfacing the temperature 
sensor to said temperature control means. 
The combination of claim 27 wherein said 
temperature control means comprises means for detecting 

current flow to the igniter and adjusting current to the 
igniter in response to said circuit means output and said 

detected current. 
The combination of claim 27 wherein said 
temperature control means comprises a digital processing 

circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
