<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612011</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Digital integrator with reduced circuit area and analog-to-digital converter using same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F748	G06F750	G06F7509	G06F760	G06F766	H03M302	H03M302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F7	G06F7	G06F7	G06F7	G06F7	H03M3	H03M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital integrator (22) reduces circuit area and power 
consumption by implementing a two-stage integration for a 

decimator with only one adder (51). In the z-domain, he transfer 
function of a two-stage integrator can be expressed as 


H(z) = 
(1/(1-z
-1
))
²
 
. Expanded, the transfer function is expressed as 


H(z) = (1/(1 -2z
-1
 + z
-2
)) 
 
. The inverse z-transform yields the 

expression 

y[n] = x[n]
 + 2y[n - 1] - y[n-2]
 
 
, which can be 

implemented with a single adder (51) and two delay portions (52, 
55 and 53, 54). In one embodiment, a three-stage integrator (22) 

can further be implemented within a single adder circuit (91) by 
time-multiplexing an addition required for the two-stage 

integration with an addition required for a one-stage integration 
inside the adder circuit (91). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENE RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENE, RICHARD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to signal processors, and more 
particularly, to digital integrators. Sigma-delta data converters have enjoyed popularity 
because they rely on precise timing rather than precisely-matched 
components, and are thus easy to manufacture in 
integrated circuit form. The sigma-delta technique is commonly 
used for both analog-to-digital converters (ADCs) and digital-to-analog 
converters (DACs). A first-order sigma-delta modulator 
for an ADC subtracts a feedback signal from a received analog 
input signal to provide an error signal. The error signal is 
integrated, and the integrated error signal is input to a quantizer. 
The quantizer resolves the integrated error signal into one of a 
finite number of states to provide the output of the sigma-delta 
modulator portion of the ADC. This modulator output is provided 
to an input of a feedback DAC, the output of which provides the 
feedback signal. The digital output of the quantizer has a density 
proportional to the analog level of the signal. However, a 
decimator is required to construct the digital output code from 
the output and to attenuate the quantization noise that the sigma-delta 
modulator enhances in the stopband. One-bit quantizers are commonly used, making the output of 
the sigma-delta modulator a single-bit stream. However, multi-bit 
quantizers are sometimes used. A second-order sigma-delta 
modulator is also commonly used in place of the first-order 
modulator. The second-order modulator differs from the first-order 
modulator by including two integration and feedback 
correction stages prior to the quantizer. The decimator must integrate the output of the quantizer to 
produce a multi-bit digital data stream at a lower clock rate. For  
 
example, a single-bit modulator may provide a digital pulse 
stream at 10 megahertz (MHz), but the ADC may decimate the 
digital output code by a factor of 128:1 to provide an output 
sample stream at approximately 80 kilohertz (kHz). A known rule 
of thumb in sigma-delta ADC design is for the integrator to have 
one more stage than the order of the modulator. For example, a 
three-stage integrator is desirable for a second-order modulator 
to attain good attenuation in the stopband. Practical problems arise in implementing a sigma-delta 
ADC in integrated circuit form. In known integrated circuit ADCs 
the digital integrator, rather than the modulator, consumes the 
majority of circuit area. This relationship is caused by the way 
the digital integrator is implemented.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital integrator (22) with reduced circuit area, 
comprising: 

   adder means (51) for receiving an input signal to be 
integrated once for each cycle of a clock at a 

first input, and for providing an output thereof 
in response to an addition of said input signal to 

second and third inputs thereof; 
   first delay means (52, 55) coupled to said adder means 

(51), for delaying said output of said adder 
means (51) for one cycle of said clock to provide 

a first delayed signal, and for multiplying said 
first delayed signal by two to provide said third 

input of said adder means (51); and 
   second delay means (53, 54) coupled to said first 

delay means (52, 55) and to said adder means 
(51), for delaying said first delayed signal for 

one cycle of said clock to provide a second 
delayed signal, and for multiplying said second 

delayed signal by negative one to provide said 
second input of said adder means (51). 
The digital integrator (22) of claim 1, wherein said adder 
means (51) comprises a predetermined number of full 

adders (91). 
The digital integrator (22) of claim 1 wherein said input 
signal is characterized as having three logic levels. 
A digital integrator (22) with reduced circuit area, 
comprising: 

   an adder (51) having a first input terminal for 
receiving an input bit stream to be integrated 

once for each cycle of a clock, a second input 
terminal, a third input terminal, and an output 

terminal for providing a first output signal of 
the digital integrator (22); 

   a first delay element (52) having an input terminal 
coupled to said output terminal of said adder 

(51), and an output terminal for providing a first 
delayed signal, said first delayed signal being a 

second output signal of the digital integrator 
(22); 

   a first multiplier (55) having an input terminal for 
receiving said first delayed signal, and an output 

terminal coupled to said third input terminal of 
said adder (51) for providing a product equal to 

twice a number represented at said input 
terminal thereof; 

   a second delay element (53) having an input for 
receiving said first delayed signal, and an output 

for providing a second delayed signal, said 
second delayed signal being a third output signal 

of the digital integrator (22); and 
   a second multiplier (54) having an input terminal 

coupled to said output terminal of said second 
delay element (53), and an output terminal 

coupled to said second input terminal of said 
adder (51), for providing a product equal to 

negative one times a number represented at said 
input terminal thereof. 
The digital integrator (22) of claim 1 or claim 4 further 
comprising: 

   a second adder (61) having a first input terminal for 
receiving a predetermined one of said first, 

second, and third output signals of the digital 
integrator (22), a second input terminal, and an 

output terminal; and 
   a third delay element (62) having an input terminal 

coupled to said output terminal of said second 
adder (61), and an output terminal for providing 

a fourth output signal of the digital integrator 
(22). 
The digital integrator (22) of claim 5 wherein said second 
adder (61) is time-multiplexed with said first adder (51) in 

a single adder circuit (90). 
A digital integrator (22) with reduced circuit area, 
comprising: 

   a predetermined number of integration cells (80-85) 
corresponding to a bit length of an output of the 

digital integrator (50), and ordered from a 
least-significant integration cell (81) to a most 

significant integration cell (85), each 
integration cell (81-85) comprising: 

a full adder (91) having first and second inputs, 
a carry input, a carry output, and a sum 

output; 
   first delay means (93) for delaying said sum 

output of said full adder (91) to provide a 
first signal; 

   second delay means (92) coupled to said first 
delay means (93) for delaying said first 

signal to provide a second signal; 
   an inverter (95) coupled to said second delay 

means (92) for inverting said second signal 
to provide a third signal; 

   first multiplexer means (96) for providing one of 
said first signal and said third signal 

selected in response to first and second 
clock periods, respectively, to said first 

input of said full adder (90); 
   third delay means (94) for delaying said sum 

output of said full adder (91) to provide a 
fourth signal, said fourth signal being a 

corresponding bit of the output of the 
digital integrator (22); and 

   second multiplexer means (97) for providing one 
of an input of said integration cell (81) and 

said third signal selected in response to 
first and second clock periods, 

respectively, to said second input of said 
full adder (91);

 
   said second multiplexer means (97) of said least 

significant integration cell (81) selecting one of 
said data input stream and said fourth signal; 

   said second multiplexer means (97) of each 
integration cell besides said least significant 

integration cell (81) selecting one of said first 
signal and said fourth signal; 

   said carry input of said full adder (91) of said least-significant 
integration cell (81) receiving a 

predetermined binary value; 
   said carry input of said full adder (91) of each of said 

plurality of integration cells (82-85) besides 
said least-significant integration cell (81) 

coupled to said carry output of said full adder 
(91) of a previous integration cell. 
An analog-to-digital converter (ADC) (20), comprising: 
   a sigma-delta modulator (21) having an input terminal 

for receiving an analog signal, and an output 
terminal for providing a first digital signal once 

for each cycle of a clock, said first digital 
signal having a density proportional to a sampled 

value of said analog signal; and 
   a digital integrator (22) having an input terminal for 

receiving said first digital signal, and an output 
terminal for providing a second digital signal, 

said digital integrator comprising: 
adder means (51) for receiving said first digital 

signal, and for providing an output thereof 
in response to an addition of said first 

digital signal to second and third inputs 
thereof; 

   first delay means (52, 55) coupled to said adder 
means (51), for delaying said output of 

said adder means (51) for one cycle of said 
clock to provide a first delayed signal, and 

for multiplying said first delayed signal by 
two to provide said third input of said 

adder means (51); and 
   second delay means (53, 54) coupled to said 

first delay means (52, 55) and to said 
adder means (51), for delaying said first 

delayed signal for one cycle of said clock 
to provide a second delayed signal, and for 

inverting said second delayed signal to 
provide said second input of said adder 

means (51); 
   said digital integrator providing said second 

digital signal in response to a 
predetermined one of said output of said 

adder means (51), said first delayed 
signal, and said second delayed signal. 
The analog-to-digital converter (ADC) (20) of claim 8, 
   wherein said first delay means (52, 55) comprises: 

   a first delay element (52) having a first terminal 
coupled to said output of said adder means (51), 

and an output terminal for providing said first 
delayed signal; and 

   a multiplier (55) having an input terminal coupled to 
said output terminal of said first delay element 

(52), and an output terminal coupled to said 
second input terminal of said adder means (51). 
The analog-to-digital converter (ADC) (20) of claim 8, 
   wherein said second delay means (53, 54) comprises: 

   a second delay element (53) having a first terminal 
for receiving said first delayed signal, and an 

output terminal for providing said second 
delayed signal; and 

   an inverter (54) having an input terminal coupled to 
said output terminal of said second delay 

element (53), and an output terminal coupled to 
said first input terminal of said adder means 

(51). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
