<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
New use of polymeric membranes in the dispensing of pharmaceutical solutions that contain quaternary ammonium compounds as preservatives and corresponding dose dispensor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61J300	C08L7700	C08L6900	C08L2700	C08L6900	C08L2716	C08L8100	A61J300	A61J105	C08L8104	A61J105	C08L7700	A61J114	A61J114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61J	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	A61J	A61J	C08L	A61J	C08L	A61J	A61J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61J3	C08L77	C08L69	C08L27	C08L69	C08L27	C08L81	A61J3	A61J1	C08L81	A61J1	C08L77	A61J1	A61J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Said use is characterized in that the cited membranes 
are placed adequately in the dropper of the dose 

dispensor and are used to achieve the selective flow 
of essentially all the active product and the selective 

retention of essentially all the preservative during 
pharmacological treatment. 
The membrane (5) is coupled between the cylinder 
units (6 and 7) of parts (3 and 4) of the dropper, 

remaining in a movable position (Figure 3) thanks to 
the existence of a certain play between said cylinder 

units; or else, in a fixed position (Figure 4) 
due to the lack of said play; or else, in a fixed position 

but with the membrane treated adequately, so that 
it has a small area or "stain" that permits
 the flow 
of air; (8) represents the outlet duct. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCON CUSI S A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCON CUSI, S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIMENEZ GUASCH FRANCESC XAVIER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VALLET MAS ALBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIMENEZ GUASCH, FRANCESC XAVIER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VALLET MAS, ALBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a new use of polymeric membranes in
the dispensing of
pharmaceutical solutions that include a quaternary
ammonium compound as a preservative.The invention also refers to a new
container that includes one or several membranes of
polymeric material, preferably polyvinylidene fluoride
(PVDF) or polysulfone, capable of selectively retaining,
when applied the quaternary ammonium compounds,
preferably benzalkonium chloride (BAC), or benzethonium
chloride (BTC), that pharmaceutical solutions
include as a preservative permitting the free flow
without retention of the active principles.The need to include in pharmaceutical solutions,
particularly ophthalmic solutions, that are to be applied
in successive doses elements that are capable
of preventing or limiting therein the growth of micro-organisms
that can contaminate the patient when he
uses them, preventing greater harm than that whose
alleviation is sought, is known. All the excipients
of the formulation that are used for this cited purpose
are called preservative systems. A group of
substances that are used as a preservative system
due to their broad antimicrobial spectrum are quaternary
ammonium compounds.From a chemical point of view, the quaternary
ammonium compounds used are products resulting from
the reaction of an organic halide, preferably a
chloride or a bromide, with a tertiary amine. The 
chemical structure that they have is the following:

wherein R1, R2, R3 and R4 are:
alkyl, alkylene, alkyl or aryl groups;identical or different;substituted or unsubstituted;branched or unbranched;cyclic or linear;that main contain ether, ester or amide bonds;
   and X is the corresponding halide.Within the compounds belonging to this group that
are included in pharmaceutical formulations as the
preservative system, benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium
chloride, benzodecinium bromide, cetalkonium chloride,
cetexonium bromide, cetrimide and cetylpyridine, among
others, stand out.The concentrations of quaternary ammonium compound
that are normally used in pharmaceutical solutions
vary between 0.0005% and 1.0%, depending on the rest
of the components of the formulation.Said quaternary ammonium compounds, have the
characteristic, just like other cationic surface
active agents, of interacting with different polymeric
materials (Saito and Yukawa (1969), Naidoo et al.
(1971), Richardson et al. (1979); Goddard (1986.))
Said interaction causes difficulties in the handling
and storage of preparations that contain quaternary
ammonium compounds and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Use of polymeric membranes in the dispensing of
a pharmaceutical solution containing an active product,

wherein at least one polymeric membrane is placed in a
dropper portion of a dose dispenser housing said pharmaceutical

solution,

   characterized in that

said at least one polymeric membrane is used to
permit the flow of essentially all of the active product

and to retain essentially all of a preservative comprising
a quaternary ammonium compound, during pharmacological

treatment with said pharmaceutical solution.
Use according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric
membrane is a membrane of cellulose triacetate.
Use according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric
membrane is a membrane of cellulose nitrate.
Use according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric
membrane is a membrane of regenerated cellulose.
Use according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric
membrane is a membrane of nylon.
Use according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric
membrane is a membrane of polyvinylidene flouride.
Use according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric
membrane is a membrane of silicone.
Use according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric
membrane is a membrane of polysulfone.
Use according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric
membrane is a membrane of polycarbonate.
Dose dispenser for pharmaceutical solutions
comprising:


a container (1) of a material easily deformable by
pressure;
a thread cap (2,16) with its corresponding sealing
ring; and
a dropper having a bottom part (3,10) and a top part 
(4,15) between which at least one polymeric membrane (5,18)

is housed, the bottom part including a first cylinder unit
(6) and the top part including a second cylinder unit (7)

disposed such that said cylinder units (6,7) may come in
contact with said at least one polymeric membrane (5,18);

   characterized that there is sufficient free space
between said first cylinder unit (6) and said second

cylinder unit (7), in order to allow for movement of said
at least one polymeric membrane (5,18) between an upper

position and a lower position, wherein in the lower
position air is permitted to flow around the membrane and

into the container.
Dose dispenser according to claim 10,
wherein the cylinder units (6,7) represent projections (19)

which establish ducts that permit the pharmaceutical
solution to pass from an axial hole (22) of the bottom part

(10), the bottom part (10) of the dropper including a flap
(11) for immobilization of said part on the outside of a

neck (12) of the container (1), by insertion or optionally
by thread, permitting the increase of the diameter of the

at least one polymeric membrane (18) and therefore of the
surface of the projections (19) that support said at least

one membrane (18), making the surface of the membrane
larger than the cross section area of the mouth and neck of

the container (1), the bottom part (10) further including
a sealing ring (13).
Dose dispenser according to claim 11, wherein
the projections (19) are embodied by a plurality of

cylinder-like projections disposed in a concentric annular
alignment and, in the center portion of the top part as

well as of the bottom part, small disks (24) situated over
the axial hole (22), acting as deflecting elements in order

to avoid deformation of the membrane in that area.
Dose dispenser according to claim 11, wherein
the projections (19) comprise concentric annular partitions 

establishing chambers, there being radial or diametric cuts
in said partitions in order to provide for fluid communication

between said chambers, allowing a good dispersion of
flow through the entire surface of the at least one

polymeric membrane (18), there being a small wall (24) of
cover of the innermost discontinuous annular partition, in

order to prevent the membrane from wear or from breaking.
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 11-13,
characterized in that the top part (15) includes a

thread (17) and immobilization means for the sealing ring
(25) of the cover (16).
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 10-14,
wherein the at least one polymeric membrane includes a

membrane of cellulose triacetate.
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 10-14,
wherein the at least one polymeric membrane includes a

membrane of cellulose nitrate.
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 10-14,
wherein the at least one polymeric membrane includes a

membrane of regenerated cellulose.
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 10-14,
wherein the at least one polymeric membrane includes a

membrane of nylon.
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 10-14,
wherein the at least one polymeric membrane includes a

membrane of polyvinylidene flouride.
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 10-14,
wherein the at least one polymeric membrane includes a

membrane of silicone.
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 10-14,
wherein the at least one polymeric membrane includes a

membrane of polysulfone.
Dose dispenser according to any of claims 10-14,
wherein the at least one polymeric membrane includes a

membrane of polycarbonate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
