<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0668671</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical fiber system and method for overcoming the effects of polarization gain anisotropy in a fiber amplifier.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B626	G02B626	H01S306	H01S3067	H01S323	H01S323	H04B1008	H04B1008	H04B10135	H04B10135	H04B1017	H04B1017	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical fiber system and method is disclosed that 
overcomes the effects of polarization gain anisotropy in 

rare-earth doped optical fiber amplifiers. An optical fiber 
has at least one rare-earth doped fiber portion for 

amplifying a light signal. Light signals are passed through 
the doped fiber portion in a first incident polarized state. 

This light signal is reflected back from a Faraday effect 
mirror and through the doped fiber portion in its orthogonal 

polarized state so as to overcome the effects of 
polarization gain anisotropy. The rare-earth doped 

amplifier is preferably an erbium-doped fiber amplifier. A 
signal is initially passed through one part of a Faraday 

optical circulator and out a second port into the doped 
amplifier. On its return pass, the light signal enters the 

second port and then exits a third port. The optical 
amplifier can include a wavelength division multiplexor 

coupler for merging the pump signal with the original light 
signal. Various amplifier configurations are also disclosed 

which are either co-propagating or counter-propagating and 

reflect only the signal, reflect only the pump signal, or 
reflect both the pump signal and original light signal. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILES CLINTON RANDY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILES, CLINTON RANDY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an optical fiber system and 
method for overcoming the effects of polarization gain 
anisotropy in a rare-earth doped fiber amplifier. Long distance optical communication systems, such as 
used in transoceanic fiber systems require regenerators or 
amplifiers to regenerate and amplify the information bearing 
light signal that attenuates as it moves through the optical 
fiber. Typically, a single-mode fiber system can transmit 
2.4 GBit/s of digital information over distances of 30-50 
kilometers before the signal's attenuation requires 
amplification. Prior art amplification devices include electro-optic 
regeneration-repeaters which convert an optical signal into 
electronic form for amplification. An electro-optic 
regeneration-repeater is similar to an optical receiver and 
transmitter placed back-to-back so that the receiver output 
drives the transmitter. Appropriate electronic circuits 
digitally "clean up" and regenerate the signal. Although the electro-optic regeneration-repeaters do 
amplify the signal adequately, they are complex. In a 
transoceanic fiber optic system, these regeneration-repeaters 
may be inadequate because their complexity 
requires greater maintenance than desired. The ocean depths 
where such systems require a less complex amplification 
system. For transoceanic systems, it would be more desirable to 
use an optical amplifier which is conceptually simpler than 
an electro-optic regenerator. Optical amplifiers boost the 
optical signal strength internally without converting the 
signal into electrical form. Optical amplifiers use fibers  
 
doped with rare-earths, and work on stimulated emission 
principles similar to lasers, but designed to amplify 
signals from an external source rather than generate their 
own light. The most common type of optic amplifier is an erbium-doped 
amplifier. These erbium-doped amplifiers work in the 
wavelength region of about 1530 to 1560 nm and use an 
external pump light signal to stimulate the erbium ions, 
which give off photon energy when stimulated. It has been 
found that a pump wavelength of around 530, 670, 800, 980, 
and 1480 nm is sufficient to provide amplification of as 
high as 40 dB in many of these optical amplifiers. At the 
output of the amplifier, there is an amplified signal with 
the pump power effectively converted into the signal power. One drawback of an optical amplifier system is the 
production of an amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) . Some 
of this emission (ASE) will be in the same
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical fiber system comprising 
   an optical fiber having a least one rare-earth doped fiber portion (76) for 

amplifying a light signal, 
   means (64) for passing a light signal through the doped fiber portion in a 

first incident polarized state, and 
   means (86) for reflecting the light signal back through the doped fiber 

portion in its orthogonal polarized state so as to overcome the effects of polarization 
gain anisotropy. 
The optical fiber system according to claim 1 wherein said rare-earth 
doped fiber portion comprises a silica core having an erbium dopant. 
An optical communication system comprising 
   a transmitter for generating an information bearing light signal, 

   a receiver of said information bearing light signal, 
  
 an optical fiber communication link connected between the transmitter 
and receiver, said link including 

   a series of spaced erbium-doped amplifiers interposed in said optical 
fiber communication link for amplifying the information bearing light signal as it 

advances along the series of spaced amplifiers, wherein each amplifier comprises 
   an erbium-doped fiber portion (76), 

   means (64) for passing the information bearing light signal through the 
erbium-doped fiber portion in a first incident polarized state, and 

   means (86) for reflecting the information bearing light signal back 
through the erbium-doped fiber portion in its orthogonal polarized state so as to 

overcome the effects of polarization gain anisotropy. 
The optical communication system according to claim 3 wherein said 
reflecting means comprises a Faraday effect mirror. 
The optical communication system according to claim 3 wherein at 
least one amplifier is counter-propagating, and includes means for generating a pump 

signal at a pump wavelength into the erbium-doped fiber in a direction opposite to 
the initial direction of the original information bearing light signal. 
An optical fiber system comprising 
   an optical fiber having at least one erbium-doped fiber portion (76), 

   means (64) for passing a light signal through the doped fiber portion in a 
first incident polarized state, 

   means (80,82) for generating a pump signal at a pump wavelength into 
the doped fiber portion for exciting erbium dopants and amplifying the light signal, 

and 
   means (86) for reflecting the pump signal back through the erbium-doped 

fiber portion in its orthogonal polarized state so as to overcome the effects of 
polarization gain anisotropy. 
The optical fiber system according to claim 6 wherein the amplified 
spontaneous emission generated by the erbium-doped fiber portion when in its 

saturated state is greater in its polarization state orthogonal to the incident light 
signal as the light signal passes through said doped fiber portion, and wherein said 

amplified spontaneous emission is reflected through said doped fiber portion in a 
polarization state perpendicular its original state. 
An optical amplifier for use with optical fiber comprising 
   an erbium-doped optical fiber (76), 

   light entry means (64) for passing a light signal through said doped 
optical fiber in a first incident polarized state, 

   means (80,82) for generating a pump signal at a pump wavelength into 
the doped optical fiber for exciting erbium dopants and amplifying the light signal, 

and 
   means (86) for reflecting at least one of either the light signal or the 

pump signal back through the doped fiber portion in the orthogonal polarized state of 
the signal so as to overcome the effects of polarization gain anisotropy. 
The optical amplifier according to claim 8 wherein said light and 
pump signals are reflected. 
The optical amplifier according to claim 8 including a wavelength 
division multiplexor coupler (82) for merging the pump signal with the original light 

signal. 
A method of overcoming the effects of polarization gain anisotropy 
in an optical fiber system having an optical amplifier with a rare-earth doped fiber 

portion (76) comprising the steps of 
   passing a light signal through the doped fiber portion, and 

   reflecting the light signal back through the doped fiber portion in its 
orthogonal polarized state so as to overcome the effects of the polarization gain 

anisotropy. 
A method according to claim 11 including the step of passing light 
through a first port (62) of a Faraday optical circulator (64) and into the doped fiber 

portion and then discharging the reflected light out of a second port (72) of the 
Faraday optical circulator. 
A method of overcoming the effects of polarization gain anisotropy 
in an optical communication system having an optical amplifier with an erbium-doped 

fiber portion (76) comprising the steps of 
   passing a information bearing light signal through the doped fiber 

portion in a first incident polarized state, while 
   generating a pump signal at a pump wavelength into the erbium-doped 

fiber portion for exciting erbium dopants and amplifying the information bearing 
light signal, and 

   reflecting at least one of either the information bearing light signal or the 
pump signal back through the erbium-doped fiber portion in the orthogonal polarized 

state of the original light signal so as to overcome the effects of polarization gain 
anisotropy. 
The method according to claim 13 including the step of reflecting the 
information bearing light signal and pump signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
