<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646810</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Measurement of dielectric properties of fluids in a well.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B4900	E21B4908	G01N2200	G01N2200	G01N2204	G01V318	G01V330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01V	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B49	E21B49	G01N22	G01N22	G01N22	G01V3	G01V3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for measuring dielectric 
properties of fluids in an oil well, utilize the well casing 

as a waveguide for certain electromagnetic signals. The 
system includes a mandrel (102) sheathed by a housing (106). 

Transmitting (112,114) and receiving (113,115) coils are 
contained in annular grooves defined in the mandrel (102). 

In operation, the tool is suspended by a wireline logging 
cable within the casing of a producing well. The 

transmitting coil(s) (112,114) generate(s) magnetic fields 
and azimuthal electric fields, which induce voltages in the 

receiving coils (113,115). These voltages are affected by 
the dielectric properties of fluids in the casing, and the 

voltages may be interpreted to determine dielectric 
properties such as water resistivity, dielectric 

permittivity, water hold-up, water cut, and water salinity. 
Due to specifically sized longitudinal mini-waveguides (200) 

defined in annular regions about the circumference of the 
housing, the magnetic and azimuthal electric fields 

resulting from the transmitting coil (112,114) may be sensed 
by the receiving coils (113,115), but the voltage-induced 

electric fields created by the transmitting coil (112,114) 
are prevented from interfering with the receiving coils 

(113,115). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALLIBURTON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANZERO STANLEY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINCLAIR PAUL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SU SHEY-MIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIANZERO, STANLEY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINCLAIR, PAUL L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SU, SHEY-MIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to downhole oil well 
production logging and, more particularly, to a system and 
method for measuring dielectric properties of downhole 
fluids in a cased oil well such as water hold-up, water cut, 
and water resistivity. For many reasons, most petroleum companies today 
are concerned with maximizing the volume of oil produced by 
each of their oil wells. One reason for this is that many 
known hydrocarbon reserves have already been depleted, and 
exploring for new reserves is typically expensive. 
Moreover, substantial costs are usually required to drill 
new oil wells and install the necessary production 
equipment. As a result, it is desirable to operate a 
productive oil well in a manner that produces as much oil as 
possible, for as long as possible. Many techniques are presently known for maximizing 
the volume of oil produced by an oil well. One of these, 
for example, is called "production logging". Production 
logging generally refers to the process of lowering a "tool 
string" into a producing oil well that has been cased and 
perforated. The tool string may include a number of well 
known devices for performing various functions, such as 
perforating the well casing, sealing perforations in the 
well casing, pumping  
 
petroleum from the well, measuring characteristics of fluids 
in the well, and the like. Geophysicists are often interested in measuring 
characteristics of different fluids in the well, at different 
depths, to determine which depths of the well are producing 
oil, and the rate at which they are producing. Typically, 
perforations are made in the well casing at different depths 
to permit oil to flow into the well-bore from the surrounding 
strata. Although it is advantageous to create these 
perforations at depths corresponding to oil-bearing strata, 
these perforations are sometimes made at depths where a 
mixture of oil and water is located, or where water exists 
alone. In some cases, perforations are made at depths that 
initially produce a great deal of oil but, eventually produce 
more and more, water and less and less oil, due to depletion of 
the reserves at that depth. If it is determined that a 
certain depth of the well is non-producing, or is producing 
mostly saline water ("brine"), some remedial work is performed 
upon that depth of the well. For example, the perforations in 
the casing at that depth may be plugged to stop production. 
Then, other more productive depths of the well may continue 
producing. Moreover, new production
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for measuring characteristics of 
materials contained in a cased oil well, which system 

comprises: 

(a) an elongated mandrel (102) having a 
longitudinal axis (103); 
(b) a first transmitting coil (112) mounted to 
the mandrel (102) and positioned coaxially 

with respect to the longitudinal axis (103); 
(c) a first receiving coil (113) mounted to the 
mandrel (102) and positioned coaxially with 

respect to the longitudinal axis (103); 
(d) a second receiving coil (114) mounted to the 
mandrel (102) and positioned coaxially with 

respect to the longitudinal axis (103); 
(e) an electrically conductive housing (106) of a 
selected thickness enclosing the mandrel 

(102), the first transmitting coil (112), the 
first receiving coil (113), and the second 

receiving coil (114), said housing (106) 
including three annular regions (202,203,204) 

aligned with the first transmitting coil 
(112), first receiving coil (113), and second 

receiving coil (114), respectively, wherein 
each annular region includes multiple mini-waveguides 

(200) of a selected length and 
width, wherein the length is substantially 

parallel to the longitudinal axis (103), and 
wherein the thickness, length and width are 

selected to achieve a selected maximum level 
of attenuation of voltage-induced electric 

fields of a selected frequency range while 
passing magnetic fields and azimuthal 

electric fields of the selected frequency 
range with a selected minimum level of 

 
attenuation; 
 
the system preferably also comprising a fluid mixer to 

increase uniformity of fluids proximate the housing (106). 
A system according to claim 1, wherein the first 
receiving coil (113) is interposed between the first 

transmitting coil (112) and the second receiving coil 
(114). 
A system according to claim 1 or 2, further 
comprising a second transmitting coil (115) mounted to the 

mandrel (102) and positioned coaxially with respect to the 
longitudinal axis (103), the first (113) and second (114) 

receiving coils being preferably interposed between the 
first (112) and second (115) transmitting coils. 
A system according to claim 3, wherein the housing 
(106) additionally includes a fourth annular region aligned 

with the second transmitting coil (115), wherein the fourth 
annular region includes multiple mini-waveguides (200), 

sized to achieve a selected maximum level of attenuation of 
voltage-induced electric fields of a selected frequency 

range while passing magnetic fields and azimuthal electric 
fields of the selected frequency range with a selected 

minimum level of attenuation. 
A method of measuring dielectric properties of 
materials in a cased oil well, comprising the steps of: 


(a) lowering measuring equipment into an oil well 
casing, wherein the measuring equipment 

includes a first transmitting coil (112), a 
first receiving coil (113), and a second 

receiving coil (114); 
(b) generating an excitation current in the first 
transmitting coil (112) to create a first 

electromagnetic field, wherein the first 
 

electromagnetic field has a frequency that is 
above the lower-cutoff of materials in the 

casing proximate the measuring equipment, 
and wherein the frequency is below upper-cutoff 

of the casing; and 
(c) measuring dielectric properties of the 
materials by measuring first and second 

voltage signals induced in the first (113) 
and second (114) receiving coils, 

respectively, by the first electromagnetic 
field; the method preferably comprising in 

step (c) determining phase shift between the 
first and second voltage signals. 
A method according to claim 5, further comprising 
steps of measuring phase shift and attenuation between the 

first and second voltage signals and utilizing the measured 
phase shift and attenuation to calculate water hold-up. 
A method according to claim 6, further comprising 
steps of: 


(d) generating an excitation current in a second 
transmitting coil (115) to create a second 

electromagnetic field, wherein the second 
electromagnetic field has a frequency that is 

above lower-cutoff of the materials and below 
upper-cutoff of the casing; 
(e) measuring dielectric properties of fluid in 
the casing by measuring third and fourth 

voltage signals induced in the first and 
second receiving coils, respectively, by the 

second electromagnetic field. 
A method according to claim 7, further comprising 
steps of: 


(a) comparing the first and second voltage 
 

signals to obtain a first comparison value; 
(b) comparing the third and fourth voltage 
signals to obtain a second comparison value; 

and 
(c) averaging the first and second comparison 
values. 
A method according to any of claims 5 to 8, 
further comprising steps of utilizing multiple mini-waveguides 

(200) defined in a conductive housing (106) of a 
selected thickness to minimize effects of voltage-induced 

electric fields from the first transmitting coil (112) upon 
the first (113) and second (114) receiving coils. 
A method according to claim 9, wherein the mini-waveguides 
(200) are arranged in annular regions in 

alignment with the first transmitting coil (112), the first 
receiving coil (113), and the second receiving coil (114), 

wherein each mini-waveguide (200) has a length and width and 
the thickness, length, and width are selected to achieve a 

maximum level of attenuation of voltage-induced electric 
fields of a selected frequency range while passing magnetic 

fields and azimuthal electric fields of the selected 
frequency range with a selected minimum level of 

attenuation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
