<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654640</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for generating negative ions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1502	A61M1502	F24F612	F24F616	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	F24F	F24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M15	A61M15	F24F6	F24F6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus formed of a centrifugal force and Coriolis 
force generating device (2) and a gas and liquid 

separation device (4). The centrifugal force and 
Coriolis force generating device gives high energy to 

supplied liquid by generating a turning air stream 
therein, to thereby ion-dissociate the liquid. Also, it 

provides energy necessary to micronize and activates the 
liquid drops with the centrifugal force and Coriolis 

force acted in the turning air stream. The activated 
liquid drops ionize oxygen particles at the gaseous side 

when electric doublets are oriented on the surface of 
the liquid drops, there
by causing groups of negative 
ions to be generated. The gas and liquid separation 

device separates the gas and liquid mixed fluid sent out 
from the centrifugal force and Coriolis force generating 

device and discharges air including negative ions into 
the atmosphere. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEOCHTO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEOCHTO LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE BANG WON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMIZU SHIGEKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, BANG WON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMIZU, SHIGEKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and an 
apparatus for generating negative ions with which air can 
be ionized. It has been known for a long time that air ions or ions 
in air greatly influence the health of a human body. Air 
ions are generated by electrolytic dissociation due to 
radioactive materials of the earth's crust, cosmic rays in 
the atmosphere, ultraviolet rays, gaseous oxidization due 
to heat, and electrolytic dissociation due to lightning 
discharge. They are also generated by electrification in 
air accompanied by water drop fission in air. Namely, 
electrification phenomena during precipitation and in the 
vicinity of water falls are called the "Lenard Effect" or 
"Water fall effect", and ions generated in air are 
negative ions regardless of the electric charge of water 
drops (Refer to "Atmospheric electrics", page 27, written 
by Naohisa Hatakeyama and Minoru Kawano and published by 
Iwanami Publishing Co., Ltd.).  In connection with influences upon human bodies due to 
positive and negative ions which are generated by electric 
dissociation of air, it is generally said that positive 
ions excite the nerves and negative ions tranquilize the 
nerves. For this reason, it is considered that negative 
ions generated in air at and around water falls, rivers, 
and sea shores refresh human bodies and minds. In recent researches, it has been found that negative 
ions have a dust eliminating effect, sterilization effect, 
deordorization and gaseous constituents eliminating 
effects, and electrification preventing effect, and 
furthermore have favorable influences on the growth of 
animals and plants. And attention has been unexpectedly 
paid to negative ions. Conventionally, a negative ion generating apparatus in 
which positive and negative ions are generated by 
utilizing corona discharge and the positive ions are 
caught while the negative ions are extracted, has been 
used as a device for artificially generating negative 
ions. However, it has been found that, when this kind of a 
device is used, ozone and nitride oxide which are harmful 
to human bodies are generated as byproducts. On the other hand, according to the Lenard Effect, it 
is possible to generate a comparatively large number of  
 
negative ions with a small electric power due to only the 
fission of water drops, without generating any harmful 
constituents nor further requiring electric power as 
necessary when corona discharge is utilized. Lenard found out through experiments that, in a case 
where water drops are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A negative ion generating method, comprising, 
providing energy to a liquid to cause ion dissociation 

in the liquid, 
   activating the liquid by ejecting the liquid into a 

high speed air stream to thereby split the liquid and 
form liquid drops, said liquid drops receiving 

centrifugal force and Coriolis force while being 
pneumatically transported so that a phase boundary of 

the liquid drop adjacent to air is activated, 
   generating liquid particles with negative ions in 

air while activating the liquid drops, and 
   separating the air including the liquid particles 

with negative ions from the liquid drops in order to 
discharge the air including the liquid particles with 

the negative ions to atmosphere. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in 
that the ion dissociation is carried out while 

activating the liquid. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in 
that the ion dissociation is carried out prior to 

activating the liquid, and the ion dissociated liquid is 
eject
ed in the air when activating the liquid. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, 
 

characterized in that, in the liquid activation, 
negative electric charge is generated and added into the 

ion-dissociated liquid drops to thereby generate the 
liquid particles with negative ions in air. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, 
characterized in that, in the generation of liquid 

particles with negative ions, electric doublets are 
oriented on a surface of the liquid drop so that oxygen 

particles at the phase boundary of the liquid drop are 
ionized. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, 
characterized in that, when the air is separated from 

the liquid drops, the air including the liquid particles 
with negative ions is extracted from the liquid drops 

while leaving, in the liquid, positive ions of the 
liquid generated in the ion dissociation by utilizing a 

difference of movement of positive and negative ions. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6, 
characterized in that, while the liquid drops are 

pneumatically transferred, the liquid particles with 
negative ions are formed in the air. 
A negative ion generating apparatus (1), comprising: 
   an ion dissociation device for dissociating ions 

from liquid by providing high energy to the liquid;
 

   a liquid drop activation device having a pneumatic 
feeding conduit (13) and a fan (3) connected to the 

conduit, said ion dissociation device being connected to 
the conduit for supplying ion-dissociated liquid to the 

conduit so that when the fan is actuated, air is 
spirally supplied to the conduit to micronize the 

ion-dissociated liquid to form activated liquid drops; 
   an air particle ionizing device formed in the 

conduit of the liquid drop activation device, said air 
particle ionizing device generating liquid particles 

with negative ions in air from the activated liquid 
drops; and 

   an air and liquid separation device (4) attached to 
the air particle ionizing device for separating the 

liquid particles with negative ions from the liquid 
drops by using centrifugal force. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, characterized in 
that said liquid drop activation device is integrally 

formed with the ion dissociation device. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 or 9, characterized 
in that said conduit includes a spiral screw guide 

therein to provide Coriolis force to turning air stream 
at an angular speed vector of earth's rotation. 
A negative ion generating apparatus (1), comprising: 
   a centrifugal force and Coriolis force generating 

 
device (2) including an air feeding conduit (13), a 

screw guide (14) situated in the feeding conduit for 
providing turning air stream in the feeding conduit, and 

liquid jetting nozzles (18) situated in the feeding 
conduit so that when liquid is jetted into the feeding 

conduit through the jetting nozzles while air is 
supplied into the feeding conduit, liquid drops ejected 

from the nozzles receive centrifugal force and Coriolis 
force to form liquid particles with negative ions in 

air; and 
   an air and liquid separation device (4) attached to 

the generating device (2) for separating the liquid 
particles with negative ions from the liquid. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, characterized in 
that said air feeding conduit (13) is formed of an inner 

cylinder (25) and an outer cylinder (24) situated 
outside the inner cylinder, said liquid jetting nozzles 

(18) being situated between the inner and outer 
cylinders to provide air inhaled into the outer cylinder 

with the liquid from the jetting nozzles while air is 
spirally turning, said air passing through the outer 

cylinder and entering into the inner cylinder to exit to 
the air and liquid separation device (4). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 or 12, 
characterized in that said jetting nozzle includes means 

to provide to the liquid a turning force so that the 
 

liquid is jetted with centrifugal force and Coriolis 
force. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, characterized in 
that said jetting nozzles (18) are oriented to oppose to 

an air stream direction in the feeding conduit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
