<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617741</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NUCLEATION ENHANCEMENT FOR CHEMICAL VAPOR DEPOSITION OF DIAMOND
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1602	C23C16511	C23C1626	C30B2510	C23C1626	C23C16458	C23C1627	C30B2904	C23C1650	C23C1650	C23C16458	C23C1602	C30B2904	C30B2510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C30B	C23C	C23C	C23C	C30B	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C30B	C30B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C30B25	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C30B29	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C30B29	C30B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for enhancing the nucleation of diamond by pretreating a substrate by electrically biasing a diamond film adjacent the substrate while exposing the substrate and the thus biased diamond film to a carbon-containing plasma. The bias pretreatment may be maintained for a time period in the range of about 1 hour to 2 hours to achieve a high diamond nucleation density. Alternatively, the biasing may be continued until diamond film formation is indicated by a change in reflectivity of the surface of the substrate. The biasing pretreating may be used to nucleate diamond heteroepitaxially on a substrate having a surface film formed of a material having a relatively close lattice match to diamond, such as  beta -silicon carbide. The apparatus includes a laser reflection interferometer to monitor the surface of the substrate. The laser reflection interferometer is used to monitor growth of the diamond film and cooperates with a controller to control the processing parameters during the diamond growing process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV NORTH CAROLINA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASS JEFFREY T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOOKE WILLIAM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STONER BRIAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS BRADLEY EARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASS, JEFFREY T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOOKE, WILLIAM M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STONER, BRIAN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS, BRADLEY EARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of 
chemical vapor deposition (CVD), and more particularly, 
to a method and apparatus for nucleation enhancement 
for growing a diamond film by plasma CVD. With its large energy band gap and other 
unique physical properties, diamond is regarded as a 
desirable material for many engineering applications 
including wear-resistant tool coatings, optical windows 
for visible and infrared transmission, abrasives, and 
particularly high temperature electronic devices. 
Diamond can be used as a high-grade, radiation 
resistant, high-temperature semiconductor with 
potential application in many commercial, military, and 
aerospace technologies. Thus, there is considerable 
interest in finding and improving techniques for 
synthesizing diamond films for these and other 
applications.  
 Various techniques for forming diamond films 
have been proposed. For example, U.S. Patent No. 
4,915,977 to Okamoto et al. proposes forming a diamond 
film by evaporating carbon onto the substrate by arc 
discharge at a carbon cathode and applying a negative 
bias voltage to the substrate so as to form a plasma 
glow discharge around the substrate. U.S. Patent No. 
4,830,702 to Singh et al. proposes a hollow cathode 
plasma assisted method and apparatus for forming 
diamond films. Unfortunately, such electrical 
discharge methods for forming diamond films often fail 
to produce high quality diamond films, or layers. Microwave plasma enhanced CVD has also been 
used to form diamond films. In addition, techniques 
have been developed for enhancing the nucleation of 
diamond onto a silicon substrate, or other substrate, 
for the subsequent growth of a diamond film by a 
conventional growth process. For example, it is well 
known that the diamond nucleation density on a 
substrate may be increased several orders of magnitude 
by simply scratching or abrading the substrate prior to 
placing it into the conventional CVD growth chamber. 
Although the size and density of grown diamond 
particles can be controlled to some extent by the size 
and density of the scratches, each diamond particle 
still grows in a random orientation. In addition, the 
maximum density of diamond nuclei is also typically 
limited to less than about 10⁹/cm². Other attempts have been made to more 
effectively seed the nucleation process, such as by 
spraying the substrate with diamond powder through an 
air brush, or by ultrasonically abrading the substrate 
surface. U.S. Patent No. 4,925,701 to Jansen et al. 
proposes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for pretreating a substrate for 
the growth of a diamond film thereon, the method 

comprising the steps of: 

providing a diamond film adjacent the 
substrate; and 
electrically biasing the diamond film while 
exposing both the substrate and the thus biased diamond 

film to a carbon-containing plasma to thereby produce a 
high diamond nucleation density on the substrate. 
A method according to Claim 1 further 
comprising the step of electrically biasing the 

substrate while exposing both the thus biased substrate 
and the thus biased diamond film to the carbon-containing 

plasma. 
A method according to Claim 1 wherein the 
substrate is positioned on a substrate holder, and 

wherein the step of providing the diamond film adjacent 
the substrate comprises the step of forming the diamond 

film on a predetermined portion of the substrate 
holder. 
A method according to Claim 3 wherein the 
step of electrically biasing the diamond film comprises 

electrically biasing the substrate holder. 
A method according to Claim 4 wherein the 
step of electrically biasing the substrate holder 

comprises biasing same at a peak absolute value of not 
less than about 250 volts negative with respect to 

ground. 
A method according to Claim 5 wherein the 
step of exposing both the substrate and the diamond  

 
film to the carbon-containing plasma gas comprises 

exposing both the substrate and the diamond film to the 
carbon-containing plasma gas for a period of time in 

the range of about 1 hour to 2 hours. 
A method according to Claim 1 wherein the 
step of exposing both the substrate and the diamond 

film to the carbon-containing plasma comprises exposing 
both the substrate and the diamond film to the carbon-containing 

plasma having an atomic percentage of carbon 
of not more than about 0.3 atomic percent. 
A method according to Claim 7 wherein the 
step of exposing both the substrate and the diamond 

film to the carbon-containing plasma gas comprises 
exposing both the substrate and the diamond film to a 

methane gas plasma mixture having a percentage of 
methane of not more than about 5 percent by weight. 
A method according to Claim 1 further 
comprising the steps of monitoring the reflectivity of 

the substrate, and discontinuing the electrical biasing 
responsive to a change in reflectivity of the substrate 

indicative of the start of growth of a diamond film on 
the substrate. 
A method according to Claim 1 further 
comprising the step of maintaining the pressure of the 

carbon-containing plasma in the range of about 133,33 Pa (1 torr) 
to 1,33 x 10⁴ Pa (100 torr). 
A method according to Claim 1 further 
comprising the step of maintaining the temperature of 

the substrate and the diamond film in the range of 
about 350°C to 1000°C.  

 
A method for pretreating a substrate for 
the growth of heteroepitaxial diamond film thereon, the 

method comprising the steps of: 

forming a surface film on a substrate of a 
non-diamond material having a relatively close lattice 

match to diamond; 
providing a diamond film adjacent the 
substrate surface film; and 
pretreating the substrate surface film by 
electrically biasing the diamond film while exposing 

both the substrate surface film and the thus biased 
diamond film to a carbon-containing plasma. 
A method according to Claim 12 wherein 
the non-diamond material of the substrate is selected 

from the group consisting of refractory metals and 
their carbides, cubic-boron nitride, α-silicon carbide, 

β-silicon carbide, copper, and nickel. 
A method according to Claim 13 further 
comprising the step of electrically biasing the 

substrate surface film while exposing both the thus 
biased substrate surface film and the thus biased 

diamond film to the carbon-containing plasma. 
A method according to Claim 12 wherein 
the substrate is positioned on a substrate holder, and 

wherein the step of providing the diamond film adjacent 
the substrate surface film comprises the step of 

forming the diamond film on a predetermined portion of 
the substrate holder. 
A method according to Claim 15 wherein 
the step of electrically biasing the diamond film 

comprises electrically biasing the substrate holder.  
 
A method according to Claim 16 wherein 
the step of electrically biasing the substrate holder 

comprises biasing same at a peak absolute value of not 
less than about 250 volts negative with respect to 

ground. 
A method according to Claim 17 wherein 
the step of exposing the substrate surface film and the 

diamond film to the carbon-containing plasma comprises 
exposing the substrate surface film and the diamond 

film to the carbon-containing plasma for a period of 
time of not more than about 0.5 hours. 
A method according to Claim 12 wherein 
the step of pretreating the substrate surface film is 

performed in an evacuable chamber, and wherein the step 
of forming the substrate surface film comprises 

depositing the substrate surface film in situ in the 
evacuable chamber. 
A method according to Claim 12 wherein 
the step of exposing both the substrate surface film 

and the diamond film to the carbon-containing plasma 
comprises exposing both the substrate surface film and 

the diamond film to the carbon-containing plasma having 
an atomic percentage of carbon of not more than about 

0.3 atomic percent. 
A method according to Claim 20 wherein 
the step of exposing both the substrate surface film 

and the diamond film to the carbon-containing plasma 
gas comprises exposing both the substrate surface film 

and the diamond film to a methane gas plasma mixture 
having a percentage of methane of not more than about 5 

percent by weight.  
 
A method according to Claim 12 further 
comprising the steps of monitoring the reflectivity of 

the substrate surface film, and discontinuing the 
electrical biasing responsive to a change in 

reflectivity of the substrate surface film indicative 
of the start of growth of a diamond film on the 

substrate surface film. 
A method according to Claim 12 further 
comprising the step of maintaining the pressure of the 

carbon-containing plasma in the range of about 133,33 Pa (1 torr) 
to 1,33 x 10⁴ Pa (100 torr). 
A method according to Claim 12 further 
comprising the step of maintaining the temperature of 

the substrate surface film and the diamond film in the 
range of about 350°C to 1000°C. 
A method according to Claim 12 further 
comprising the steps of polishing the substrate surface 

film, oxidizing the thus polished film to remove 
polishing damage, and stripping the oxide from the film 

to prepare same for the pretreating step. 
A method for forming a diamond film on a 
mirror finish substrate, said method comprising the 

steps of: 

providing a first diamond film adjacent the 
mirror finish substrate; 
pretreating the mirror finish substrate by 
electrically biasing the first diamond film while 

exposing both the mirror finish substrate and the thus 

biased first diamond film to a carbon-containing 
plasma; and 
growing a second diamond film on the thus 
pretreated mirror finish substrate while monitoring a  

 
relatively smooth growth surface of the second diamond 

film by laser reflection interferometry. 
A method according to Claim 26 further 
comprising the step of electrically biasing the mirror 

finish substrate while exposing both the thus biased 
mirror finish substrate and the thus biased first 

diamond film to the carbon-containing plasma. 
A method according to Claim 26 wherein 
the mirror finish substrate is positioned on a 

substrate holder, and wherein the step of providing the 
first diamond film adjacent the mirror finish substrate 

comprises the step of forming the first diamond film on 
a predetermined portion of the substrate holder. 
A method according to Claim 28 wherein 
the step of electrically biasing the first diamond film 

comprises electrically biasing the substrate holder. 
A method according to Claim 29 wherein 
the step of electrically biasing the substrate holder 

comprises biasing same at a peak absolute value of not 
less than about 250 volts negative with respect to 

ground. 
A method according to Claim 26 wherein 
the step of exposing both the mirror finish substrate 

and the first diamond film to the carbon-containing 
plasma comprises exposing both the mirror finish 

substrate and the first diamond film to a carbon-containing 
plasma having an atomic percentage of carbon 

of not more than about 0.3 atomic percent. 
A method according to Claim 31 wherein 
the step of exposing both the mirror finish substrate 

and the first diamond film to the carbon-containing  
 

plasma comprises exposing both the mirror finish 
substrate and the first diamond film to a methane gas 

plasma mixture having a percentage of methane of not 
more than about 5 percent by weight. 
A method according to Claim 26 wherein 
the step of growing the second diamond film on the 

pretreated mirror finish substrate comprises growing 
the second diamond film by chemical vapor deposition, 

and further comprising the step of controlling the 
chemical vapor deposition responsive to monitoring the 

relatively smooth growth surface of the second diamond 
film by laster reflection interferometry to achieve at 

least one of a desired growth rate and a desired 
quality of the second diamond film. 
A method according to Claim 26 further 
comprising the steps of monitoring the surface of the 

substrate by laser reflection interferometry during the 
pretreating step, and discontinuing the electrical 

biasing responsive to a change in the reflectivity of 
the substrate indicative of the start of growth of the 

second diamond film. 
A method according to Claim 26 further 
comprising the step of maintaining the presssure of the 

carbon-containing plasma in the range of about 133,33 Pa (1 torr) 
to 1,33 x 10⁴ Pa (100 torr). 
A method according to Claim 26 further 
comprising the step of maintaining the temperature of 

the mirror finish substrate and the first diamond film 
in the range of about 350°C to 1000°C. 
An apparatus for pretreating a substrate 
for the growing of a diamond film thereon, said 

apparatus comprising:  
 


an evacuable chamber; 
a substrate holder positioned within said 
evacuable chamber; 
a diamond film on a predetermined portion of 
said substrate holder; 
bias means electrically connected to said 
substrate holder for electrically biasing same; and 
means for generating a carbon-containing 
plasma adjacent the substrate holder. 
An apparatus according to Claim 37 
further comprising a laser reflection interferometer 

positioned opposite said substrate holder for directing 
a laser beam to the substrate and receiving a beam 

reflected therefrom. 
An apparatus according to Claim 38 
further comprising a controller operatively connected 

to said means for generating a plasma and said 
reflection laser interferometer for controlling said 

means for generating a plasma responsive to said laser 
reflection interferometer. 
An apparatus according to Claim 39 
wherein said controller includes means operatively 

connected to said bias means for discontinuing 
electrical biasing responsive to a change in 

reflectivity of the substrate. 
A substrate holder for facilitating 
pretreatment of a substrate positioned said substrate 

holder to create a high diamond nucleation density for 
the growth of a diamond film on the substrate, said 

substrate holder comprising: 

a substrate platform comprising an 
electrically conductive material; and  

 
a diamond film on a predetermined portion of 
said substrate platform. 
A substrate holder according to Claim 41 
wherein said diamond film comprises polycrystalline 

diamond. 
A substrate holder according to Claim 41 
wherein said diamond film includes an opening extending 

vertically therethrough, and wherein said opening has a 
predetermined cross-sectional shape for receipt therein 

of a substrate having a corresponding cross-sectional 
shape. 
A substrate holder according to Claim 41 
wherein said substrate platform comprises molybdenum. 
A substrate holder according to Claim 41 
further comprising an electrical heater positioned 

adjacent said substrate platform. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
