<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0289200</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for particle analysis
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N1502	G01N1514	G01N1514	G01N1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N15	G01N15	G01N15	G01N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for analyzing particles contained in a fluent medium (12). The 
apparatus includes a body (20) having a window (30), an optical source preferably 

comprising a laser diode (100) having a small light emitting area (140), and an 
optical system (102) for focusing the light from the laser diode at a focal spot (84) 

such that the size of the focal spot is approximately equal to the size of the light 
emitting area of the laser diode. A photodetector (106) is mounted in the body 

and detects light backscattered from the focal spot by particles in the fluent 
medi
um, and produces an electrical signal that comprises a series of pulses 
associated with the particles. The electrical signal is input to a detector that 

counts the pulses and indicates the number of particles in the fluent medium. The 
detector includes discrimination means for preventing the counting of a pulse that 

has a rise or fall time above a predetermined threshold, thereby discriminating 
against particles that are not at the focal spot. Means are provided for measuring 

the integrated amplitude of the electrical signal, and for varying the distance 
between the focal spot and the window to maximize such integrated amplitude. 

An intrinsically safe embodiment is also disclosed in which the probe positioned at 
the measuring site does not include any electrical components. This embodiment 

may be implemented using light of multiple wavelengths for characterizing 
individual particles. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PREIKSCHAT EKHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PREIKSCHAT F K
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PREIKSCHAT, EKHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PREIKSCHAT, FRITZ K.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREIKSCHAT EKHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREIKSCHAT FRITZ K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREIKSCHAT, EKHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREIKSCHAT, FRITZ K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S.
Serial No. 043,223, filed August 27, 1987, which is in
turn a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No.821,781,
filed January 23, 1986.The present invention relates to an apparatus
and method for analyzing the size and number of particles
in a fluent medium.There exist many applications in industry and science
in which it is required to determine the size and
number of particles suspended in a fluent (i.e., liquid
or gaseous) medium. These determinations can be
very important in many manufacturing processes
such as pharmaceuticals, plastics, chemicals, and
paper, to name a few examples. Processes such as
crystal growth, precipitation, polymerization, gravimetric
separation, grinding, etc., must be monitored
to control the quality of the product.The particles in a slurry can range from submicron
to millimeters in size, and the relative quantities
of the different sizes may be very critical to the quality
and performance of the product. For example, a pulp
slurry may contain fibers which are about 10-40 microns
in size as well as brightener and filler particles
(clay) which are mostly less than 4 microns in diameter.
The size of coal dust will influence the rate at
which it burns. The powders in pills and capsules
must be ground to specific sizes to dispense drugs at
optimum rates in the human body.Ideally, the particle measurements should be
made on-line to provide real-time information for
process control, and also avoid distortion of the particle
size information by removing samples from the
process.In the past, a number of different technologies
have been developed for the analysis of particle size,
using conventional or laser light sources, ultrasonic
beams, cathode ray tubes, and Stoke's law of sedimentation
rates. The optical devices which exist today
utilize transmission geometries and use various
methods to determine size. The method used in most
commercially available instruments measures the
light intensity scattered at various small forward angles
(e.g., Fraunhoffer diffraction patterns) to determine
particle size. Another method uses a beam of
light scanned across a small chamber through which
the fluent medium is forced to flow. A detector is positioned
on the opposite side of the flow such that particles
cause interruptions of the light received by the
detector (Staffin, U.S. Patent No. 3,676,647, and
Ogle, U.S. Patent No. 3,858,851). The time that the
beam is interrupted is used as a measure of the size
of the particle. A variation on this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for analyzing particles contained in
a fluid medium, the apparatus comprising:


illumination means compising an optical
source (100) and an optical system (104) arranged

to receive light from the optical source
and focus a beam (82) of the light to the focal spot

(84) in the fluid medium;
photodetector means (106) arranged to
detect light pulses due to the interception of said

light beam by said particles and to produce a corresponding
electrical signal, and
detection means connected to receive the
electrical signal, the detection means including

size measurement means (204,A1-A4,234-238,244-247)
arranged to measure the periods of

time that individual particles are illuminated by
said light beam to derive from said periods and

the velocity of the fluid medium relative to the focal
spot an indication corresponding to the size of

the particles;
characterized in that
 said photodetector means
(106) is arranged to detect backscattered light

pulses from said particles, at particle concentrations
from 0.01% to greater than 20% by volume

of the fluid medium, through a single optical access
window (30), and through which window

both the light from the illumination means and the
backscattered light pulses to the photodetector

pass and in that the illumination means includes means (76,80) for adjusting the distance between the focal spot and window.
An apparatus according to claim 1 further characterised
in that said photodetector means and

detection means are responsive to backscattered
light from particles which intercept the light beam

(82) at the focal spot (84) and discriminate
against backscattered light from particles which

intercept the beam in front of or behind the focal
spot and partially occlude said light beam.
An apparatus according to claim 2 further characterised
in that said detection means includes

discrimination means (206) which is arranged to
discriminate against pulses in said electrical signal

having a rise time or fall time above a predetermined
threshold, such electrical signal pulses

corresponding to backscattered light pulses from
particles in front of or behind said focal spot.
An apparatus according to claim 2 or claim 3 further
characterised in that said photodetector

means (106) is focused on said focal spot.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein said optical source is a laser diode (100)

and said optical system is arranged to form an image
of the radiating area of the laser diode at said

focal spot (84), the focal spot having dimensions
comparable to those of said radiating area.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
in the form of a housing (20) having a window (30)

in its outer wall, further characterised in that said
illumination means is arranged to direct said

beam (82) through said window to a focal spot
(84) located outside said window.
An apparatus according to claim 6 further characterised
in that the detection means includes

means (360-368) for producing an integrated amplitude
signal having a magnitude corresponding

to the average amplitude of the electrical signal,
and wherein said

means (76,80) for adjusting the distance between
the focal spot (84) and the window (30) is such as to

enable the integrated signal amplitude to be
maximised.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
further comprising scanning means (112) for

scanning the focal spot (84) through the fluid medium.
An apparatus according to claim 8 as dependent
on claim 6 or claim 7 wherein said scanning

means (112) is arranged to scan the focal spot in
a direction parallel to said window (30).
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
optical source (380) and said photodetector

means (406) are arranged to scan the fluid medium
so that light from the optical source and light

pulses detected by the photodetector means respectively
travel to and from the scanned focal

spot (400) along a common optical path.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim
wherein backscattered light from said focal spot 

(84) is collected by said optical system (450) and
directed to said photodetector means (466) by a

beamsplitter (500) located in the optical path of
said light beam.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein the detection means includes means for

separately counting electrical pulses corresponding
to the pulses of backscattered light, the

electrical pulses being distributed in a plurality of
ranges of pulse length, whereby the numbers of

particles in a plurality of size ranges are determined.
An apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein the
detection means comprises a plurality of first

counters (250-253), each first counter being associated
with a particular range of pulse lengths,

means responsive to each electrical pulse (230-238)
for determining the pulse length and providing

a signal to a selected first counter in whose
range the pulse length falls, and enable means

(206,210) for providing an enable signal operative
to enable the selected first counter to increment

its count, the enable means providing the
enable signal if the rise or fall time of a pulse is

below a predetermined threshold.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein the illumination means comprises a

monomode fiber optic cable (470) and a laser diode
(464) including means for coupling light from

the laser diode into a first end of the monomode
fiber optic cable, the optical system (458) being

positioned to receive light from a second end of
the monomode fiber optic cable.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein the photodetector means comprises a

photodetector and a return fiber optic cable (472)
having a first end positioned to receive light backscattered

by particles at the focal spot (462) from
the optical system, and a second end coupled to

the photodetector, and wherein the apparatus is
physically divided into (i) intrinsically safe probe

(45) comprising the optical system (458) and having
no electrical components and (ii) a controller

(452) comprising the laser diode (464), the photodetector
(466) and the detection means.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim
wherein said illumination means is arranged to

emit at two different wavelengths and said photodetector
means (574,576) is arranged to detect

backscattered light pulses of said two wavelengths,
said detection means being arranged to

compare the backscattered intensities at said
wavelengths so as to characterise individual particles.
A method of analysing particles contained in a fluid
medium, using an apparatus as defined in

claims 1-16 or 19-25.
A method according to claim 17, further characterised
in that the widths of those electrical signal

pulses corresponding to backscattered light pulses
originating at said focal spot (84) are selected

for measurement.
An apparatus according of claims 1-16, further
characterised in that said detection means includes

discrimination means (206) which is arranged
to discriminate against pulses in said

electrical signal having a rise time or fall time
above a predetermined threshold.
An apparatus according to claim 19, further characterised
in that said photodetector means (106)

and detection means are responsive to backscattered
light from particles which intercept the light

beam (82) at the focal spot (84) and discriminate
against backscattered light from particles which

intercept the beam in front of or behind the focal
spot and partially occlude said light beam.
An apparatus according to claim 19 or claim 20,
in the form of a housing (20) having a window (30)

in its outer wall, further characterised in that said
illumination means is arranged to direct said

beam (82) through said window to a focal spot
(84) located outside said window.
An apparatus according to claim 21 further characterised
in that the detection means includes

means (360 - 368) for producing an integrated
amplitude signal having a magnitude corresponding

to the average amplitude of the electrical
signal, and wherein the illumination means includes

means (76,80) for adjusting the distance
between the focal spot (84) and the window (30)

to enable the integrated signal amplitude to be
maximised.
An apparatus according to any of claims 19 to 22,
further comprising scanning means (112) for

scanning the focal spot (84) through the fluid medium.
An apparatus according to any of claims 19 to 23,
wherein the photodetector means comprises a

photodetector and a return fibre optic cable (472)
having a first end positioned to receive light backscattered

by particles at the focal spot (462) from
the optical system and a second end coupled to

the photodetector, and wherein the apparatus is 
divided into (i) an intrinsically safe probe (45)

comprising the optical system (458) and having
no electrical components and (ii) a controller

(452) comprising the laser diode (464), the photodetector
(466) and the detection means.
An apparatus according to any of claims 19 to 24
wherein said illumination means is arranged to

emit at two different wavelengths and said photodetector
means (574,576) is arranged to detect

backscattered light pulses of said two wavelengths,
said detection means being arranged to

compare the backscattered intensities at said
wavelengths so as to characterise individual particles.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
