<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653250</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for cleaning a chandelier in situ by ultrasonic cavitation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B312	B08B312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B3	B08B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for cleaning a chandelier in situ by 
ultrasonic cavitation. The chandelier is made up of a 

plurality of spaced-apart elongated pendants each 
extending vertically downwardly and being arranged in a 

plurality of parallel rows and columns of pendants in a 
rectangular pattern. The apparatus comprises an elongated 

base member (12), a top member (42) detachably connected 
to the base member, and a jacket (24) surrounding the base 

member for containment of cleaning liquid overflow. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMPBELL KEITH S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMPBELL, KEITH S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMPBELL KEITH S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMPBELL, KEITH S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to the ultrasonic
cleaning in situ of chandeliers comprising a plurality of
downwardly extending elongated crystal pendants.Over the last several years, it has become
somewhat customary to provide chandeliers in restaurants,
motels, bars and other public places which comprise a
plurality of downwardly extending, spaced-apart, elongated
crystals or pendants. The pendants are, in general,
provided in a rectangular-shaped pattern of a plurality of
rows of pendants, the rows being provided parallel to one
another.The elongated pendants making up such a
chandelier are attached by "S" hooks to the ceiling of a
room or other area in which the chandelier is located.
The ceiling or other horizontal surface from which the
pendants are suspended is generally provided with a
horizontally disposed planar mirror, ie. a reflective
surface, which may be of glass or metal. Located somewhat
below the reflective surface are a plurality of spaced-apart
light fixtures in which are located light bulbs of
suitable size.The pendants are of conventional lead containing
glass. Thus, the pendants, particularly when provided 
with multiple surfaces along the length thereof, are
reflective to light. Thus, the pendants reflect light
from the light bulbs and that reflected from the mirror,
providing an attractive chandelier, and enhancement of the
appearance of the surroundings.The surfaces of the pendants over time become
covered with dust and other contaminants from the
environment. Thus, the reflectiveness of the pendants is
continually reduced. And, the attractiveness of the
chandelier is greatly diminished. It becomes necessary
eventually that the pendants be cleaned, to restore the
sparkling appearance to the pendants and to regain the
initial sparkle and reflectiveness thereof, and to restore
the overall attractiveness of the chandelier.The cleaning of such chandeliers heretofore has
involved a variety of methods. One such method has
involved the spraying of the pendants in place with an
acid containing water solution. This manner of cleaning
has been found a ruinous practice over time not only to
the glass pendants but also to the mirror and light
fixtures, as well as any metal element.Another method for cleaning such chandeliers has
required a number of laborious and time-consuming
operations. First, the pendants must each be taken down
from the ceiling. The pendants are then immersed in a
cleaning solution provided in an appropriate tank and
allowed to remain therein for a suitable time to remove
t
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for the ultrasonic cleaning of a
chandelier in situ having downwardly extending pendants

characterised by:

(a) a base member (12) defining an internal
cavity (40) of predetermined size, said

base member (12) being further defined by
an open top end (36) and a bottom end (38);
(b) a top member (42) being detachably
connected to the open top end (36) of the

base member (12) defining an internal
cavity of predetermined size terminating in

an open top end and an open bottom end
(44), said cavity in the top member (42)

communicating with the cavity (40) in the
base member (12);
(c) means (14) for supporting the base and top
members (12, 42); and
(d) an ultrasonic transducer (96) being
provided in the cavity (40) in the base

member (12) and being fixedly connected at
the bottom end (82) of the cavity.
Apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised
in that the base member (12) is elongated and is defined

by vertically upright, spaced-apart, parallel side walls
(28, 30) and vertically upright, parallel, end walls (32,

34) intersecting perpendicularly therewith whereby to
define said internal cavity (40) and said detachable top

member is defined by vertically upright, spaced-apart,
parallel side walls (52, 56) and vertically upright,

spaced-apart, parallel end walls (54).
Apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised in
that an elongated jacket member (24) is provided defined

by vertically upright side and end walls (86, 88, 90, 92)
spaced apart from respective side and end walls (28, 30, 

32, 34) of the base member (12) a predetermined distance
and parallel thereto, said jacket member (24) surrounding

the base member (12) at and adjacent the base member at
the bottom end (38) and being defined by an open top and a

closed bottom end (84), said base member (12) being
centrally disposed in the jacket member (24) so as to

provide an overflow channel (26) of predetermined width
around the bottom of the base member (12) for containment

of cleaning liquid overflow.
Apparatus according to Claim 2 characterised in
that the side walls (52, 56) of the top member (42) are

defined by the arcs of concentric circles whereby a
chandelier (112) having festoons of spaced apart beads and

downwardly extending pendants (112) arranged in concentric
circles can be cleaned.
Apparatus according to Claim 2 characterised in
that the end and side walls (52, 54, 56) of the bottom end

(44) of the top member (42) each terminate in horizontally
disposed bottom edges (46, 48, 50) lying in the same

horizontally disposed plane, and the end and side walls
(28, 30, 32, 34) of the base member (12) each terminate in

top edges at the top end of the base member, these top
edges all lying in the same plane, and means (58, 60, 62)

is provided at the top end of the base member (12) for
supporting the bottom edges of the top member (42).
Apparatus according to Claim 5 characterised in
that said means (58, 60, 62) providing support to the

bottom edges (46, 48, 50) of the top member (42) comprises
a U-shaped member (58, 60, 62) fixedly connected to the

top edges of the base member.
Apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised in
that the apparatus further comprises fastening means for

detachably connecting the top member (42) to said base
member (12) and providing such in sealed engagement.
Apparatus according to Claim 2 characterised in 
that the top edges (74, 76) of the side walls (52, 56) of

the top member (42) are spaced apart a lesser distance
than the bottom edges (46, 50) of the side walls (52, 56)

and such distance is sufficient to accommodate a plurality
of elongated pendants (112) in spaced-apart linear

alignment.
Apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised in
that the ultrasonic transducer (96) is centrally disposed

between the side and end walls (52, 54, 56) of the base
member (12) at the bottom end (38) thereof.
Apparatus according to Claim 9 characterised in
that the ultrasonic transducer (96) comprises a plurality

of piezoelectric transducer elements sufficient in number
to provide cavitation to a cleaning liquid to be provided

in the two cavities (40).
Apparatus according to Claim 1 characterised in
that the base member (12) further comprises downwardly

inclined floor members (138, 140) and said floor members
are defined by horizontally disposed top planar surfaces

(142, 144) terminating in linear parallel side edges (146,
148) spaced apart from one another a predetermined

distance.
Apparatus according to Claim 11 characterised in
that the inclined floor members (138, 140) extend

downwardly and inwardly from each of the side walls at
equal predetermined angles.
Apparatus according to Claim 12 characterised in
that the floor members (138, 140) each terminate in inner

side edges in the same horizontal plane.
Apparatus according to Claim 13 characterised in
that vertically disposed walls depend downwardly from each

said inner side edges (146, 148) and such walls are spaced
equidistantly from the side walls of the transducer (96).
A method of cleaning a chandelier (114) having a
plurality of downwardly extending pendants (112) in situ 

characterised by providing ultrasonic cleaning apparatus
(10) according to Claim 1, locating the cleaning apparatus

below the chandelier, raising the cleaning apparatus so
that the pendants are located in the cavity (40) of the

cleaning apparatus, filling the cavity (40) of the
cleaning apparatus with cleaning liquid so that the top

ends of the pendants (112) are below the level of the
cleaning liquid, energizing the ultrasonic cleaning

apparatus (10) to provide cavitation to the cleaning
liquid, and providing cavitation by the ultrasonic

cleaning apparatus for a sufficient time to clean the
pendants of the chandelier.
The method according to Claim 15 characterised
in that the plurality of pendants are arranged in a

plurality of parallel rows and columns of pendants, the
pendants in each of said plurality of rows and columns

being arranged in linear manner, and a predetermined
lesser plurality of pendants are selected for cleaning in

stages until all the plurality of pendants are cleaned.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
