<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625771</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dynamic control of visual and/or audio presentation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F906	G11B2710	H04N574	G06T1180	G09B506	G06F906	G09B502	G06T1180	G09G500	G11B27034	G09B500	G11B2710	G09G500	G11B27031	H04N574	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G11B	H04N	G06T	G09B	G06F	G09B	G06T	G09G	G11B	G09B	G11B	G09G	G11B	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G11B27	H04N5	G06T11	G09B5	G06F9	G09B5	G06T11	G09G5	G11B27	G09B5	G11B27	G09G5	G11B27	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system provides dynamic control of a visual and/or 
audio presentation. The system comprises a storage such as 

DASD for data defining "stories" i.e. a multiplicity of still 
images or video segments and/or respective audio clips. A 

program file defines a list of the stories for the 
presentation, a sequence for presenting the stories in the 

list, and a time interval for presenting each story or between 
successive stories in the sequence. A control program directs 

display of the stories in the list in the sequence according 
to the time interval. The time interval can be dynamically 

changed during the presentation by a user via a system 
console. Pursuant to such a change, the subsequent stories 

are presented according to the changed time interval. This 
permits the user to tailor the speed of the presentation to 

the audience. One or more of the stories is divided into 
elements providing different levels of information, and the 

control program directs display of most or all of the elements 
if the interval is relatively long and directs display of 

fewer elements or a single element if the interval is 
relatively short. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUTTLE MATHEW PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TUTTLE, MATHEW PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to visual and/or audio
presentation systems, and deals more particularly with dynamic
control of the presentation.For many types of presentations, it is necessary to employ
visual and/or audio aids. The visual aids may take the form
of slides, images generated on a video display monitor, images
generated by a video projector, or transparencies or LCD
images which are displayed with an overhead projector. Audio
"clips" can be stored on disk and synchronized with the
slides, transparencies or images. There are several
previously known systems for controlling the visual and/or
audio presentations. A well known slide carousel can be
filled with slides, displayed on a screen with a projector,
and incrementally advanced or regressed at any time with a
manual switch. An IBM Storyboard program can define a list
and sequence of video images and display them. The Storyboard
program can automatically advance from image to image in the
sequence according to time intervals written in the program or
can wait for a manual cue from the operator to advance. The
Storyboard program also permits manually controlled
incremental advances in the sequence or regress back to the
last full image in the sequence. An IBM AVC program is
similar to the Storyboard program except cannot be regressed
dynamically.EP-A-0 355 627 discloses an electronic transparency device
which is provided with a memory in which a plurality of frames
of video data ("slides") can be stored. The apparatus includes
a control microprocessor which can cause predefined sequences
of slides to be presented on the LCD panel automatically. These slide "shows" are defined by the user using a hand held
remote control unit in conjunction with menus displayed onthe
LCD panel in window fashion by the microprocessor. The user
can specify the duration that each slide in a sequence is to
be shown, the video transition by which it is to be
introduced, the degree of "windowshading" with which it is to
be displayed, etc. Once a show is defined, it can be
instituted and controlled from the remote control unit. Among
other numerous features, the transparency also includes a
pointer that can be superimposed on the display and controlled
by the remote control unit. This pointer can be used to define
certain portions of the screen that are to be displayed in
highlighted fashion.While these prior art systems provide some dynamic control on
the presentation by permitting incremental advances or
regressions, the operator may require additional

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system (10) for dynamically controlling a visual
presentation, said system comprising:


means (16) for storing data defining a multiplicity of
still images or video segments;
means (50, 51) for defining a list of said still images
or video segments for the presentation, a sequence for

displaying said still images or video segments in said
list, and a time interval for displaying each still image

or video segment or between successive still images or
video segments in the sequence;
means (52) for directing display of said still images or
video segments in said list in said sequence according to

said time interval; and
means (40), responsive to user input (13), for
dynamically changing said time interval during the

presentation; and wherein
said directing means displays subsequent still images or
video segments in the presentation according to the

changed time interval.
A system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising

means (40), responsive to user input during the
presentation, for selecting any subsequent still image or

video segment in said list for presentation; and wherein
said directing means skips to and directs display of said
any subsequent still image or video segment during the

presentation.
A system as set forth in claim 1 or 2, wherein the
directing means, after directing display of said any

still image or video segment, directs display of a next
still image or video segment in the sequence after said

any still image or video segment.
A system as set forth in claim 1, 2 or 3 further
comprising


means (40), responsive to user input during the
presentation, for selecting any previously displayed

still image or video segment in said list for
presentation; and wherein
the directing means (52) jumps back (62) to and directs
display of said any previously displayed still image or

video segment during the presentation.
A system as set forth in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the
directing means (52), after directing display of said any

still image or video segment, directs display of a next
still image or video segment in the sequence 
after said
any still image or video segment.
A system as set forth in any one of the claims 1 to 5
further comprising means (40, 62), responsive to user

input, for dynamically adding a still image or video
segment to the sequence during the presentation.
A system as set forth in any one of the claims 1 to 6
further comprising a console and wherein the dynamically

changing means (62) responds to user input via said
console.
A system as set forth in any one of the claims 1 to 7,
wherein:
 
the directing means (52) directs display of only a

portion or all of a still image or video segment in the
presentation if the interval is relatively long and

directs display of a smaller portion of said still image
or video segment if the interval is relatively short.
A system for dynamically controlling an audio
presentation, said system comprising:


means (16) for storing data defining a multiplicity of
audio segments;
means (50, 51) for defining a list of said audio segments
for the presentation, a sequence for playing said audio

segments in said list, and a time interval for playing
each audio segment or between successive audio segments

in the sequence;
means (52) for directing play of said audio segments in
said list in said sequence according to said time

interval; and
means, responsive to user input, for dynamically changing
said time interval during the presentation; and wherein
the directing means plays subsequent audio segments in
the presentation according to the changed time interval.
A system as set forth in claim 9, wherein:

one or more of said audio segments are divided into
elements of different classes; and
the directing means directs play of elements of a
plurality of different classes if the interval is

relatively long and directs play of elements of fewer 
classes or a single class if the interval is relatively short.
A system as set forth in claim 9 or 10, wherein the
directing means compares the interval to a threshold and

if the interval is greater than the threshold directs
play of elements of said plurality of classes and if the

interval is less than the threshold directs play of
elements of said fewer classes or single class.
A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein
said means (52) for directing display of said still

images or video segments in said list in said sequence
according to said time interval is characterized that

only a portion or all of a still image or video segment
in said list is displayed if the interval is relatively

long and a smaller portion of said still image or video
segment in said list is displayed if the interval is

relatively short.
A system as set forth in claim 12, wherein said smaller
portion or said still image or video segment has higher

level information than another portion of said still
image or video segment.
A system as set forth in claim 12 or 13, wherein said
still image or video segment is divided into elements and

a respective parameter is stored in conjunction with each
element, said parameter indicating a minimum for the

interval at which the element should be presented when
the still image or video segment is included in said

presentation, and the directing means compares said
parameter for each element to said interval to determine

if the element should be displayed when the still image
or video segment is included in the presentation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
