<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633740</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARRANGEMENT IN A STRUCTURAL ELEMENT, FOR EXAMPLE FOR USE IN A FURNITURE, MORE SPECIFICALLY A SITTING FURNITURE OR RELIEF FURNITURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47B1300	A47B1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47B	A47B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47B13	A47B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an arrangement in a structural element, for example in connection with furniture, especially sitting furniture or relief furniture, comprising at least a first and a second supporting means (1, 2), each of which comprising an area (3a, 3b) having a recess (4a, 4), said recesses (4a, 4b) being adapted such that said supporting means (1, 2) can be detachably engaged for mutual assemblage, and for the object of providing an improved arrangement as regards stability and versatility, there is according to the invention suggested that each supporting element (1, 2) comprises: a first lower leg element pair (5a, 5b; 6a, 6b) extending in substantially pair-like mutually opposite directions, one or more intermediate supporting elements (7a, 8a; 612) extending either from any individual supporting element, for example as arms (7a, 8a) or being attached at arbitrary level (612) along at least two different supporting elements (601a, 602a), and possibly one or more upper supporting elements (7b, 8b; 612) extending either from any individual supporting element, for example as arms (7b, 8b) or being threaded onto (612) at least two different supporting elements.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MENGSHOEL HANS CHR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RYKKEN ODDVIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MENGSHOEL, HANS CHRISTIAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RYKKEN, ODDVIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENGSHOEL HANS CHRISTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYKKEN ODDVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENGSHOEL, HANS CHRISTIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYKKEN, ODDVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
ARRANGEMENT IN A STRUCTURAL ELEMENT, FOR EXAMPLE FOR USE IN A FURNITURE, MORE SPECIFICALLY A SITTING FURNITURE OR RELIEF FURNITUREBackground of the inventionThe present invention relates to an arrangement in a structural element, for example in connection with furni¬ ture, especially sitting furniture or relief furniture, comprising at least a first and a second supporting means, each of which comprising an area having a recess, said recess being adapted such that said supporting means can be detachably engaged for mutual assemblage.Prior ArtFrom SE, 258 286 (Ward) there is known a supporting means comprising at least four leg elements, provided with recesses and tracks, such that the leg elements can be assembled into at least two units, two and two leg elements being arranged in a cross and the crosses as such being assembled to a multi-leg supporting means.Such a supporting means requires specific recesses in order to enabling mounting of pairs of legs in a cross, and furthermore it is in the area of the recesses required to provide tracks constituting a weakening of the material strength in the area of the crossing legs. Further, the prior art supporting means is limited to supporting one single horizontal use surface.From GB 1 365 103 (Andrews) there is known a demountable structure for furniture, comprising first and second supporting members each being provided with channel- or rib- shaped grooved portions extending along an uninterrupted surface of each supporting member, the other half of each supporting member being equipped with a track, such that the supporting members can be detachably engaged, said channel/- 

rib-shaped portions mutually engaging each other for further interconnection of the finished assembled elements. Neither does such a structure give any instructions for supporting more that one single horizontal use surface, even if it is suggested that the finished assembled structure can be assembled by three different supporting elements, but then with a central rod as a further stabilizing element.From GB 1 421 535 (Finlator) there are known furniture frames assembled by two preferably H-shaped frame elements. A first embodiment includes the assembly of two similar H- shaped frame elements which in an assembled position renders support for one single horizontal use surface. This publication also instructs about H-shaped frame elements of different sizes, which means that there can be provided an assembled frame having upper portions of the largest H- shape constituting a holder
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
P a t e n t c l a i m s
1. Arrangement in a structural element, for example in connection with furniture, especially sitting furniture or relief furniture, comprising at least a first and a second supporting means (1, 2), each of which comprising an area (3a, 3b) having a recess (4a, 4), said recesses (4a, 4b) being adapted such that said supporting means (1 , 2) can be detachably engaged for mutual assemblage, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that each supporting means (1 , 2) comprises
- a first lower leg element pair (5a, 5b; 6a, 6b) extending in substantially pair-like mutually opposite directions,
- one or more intermediate supporting elements (7a, -8a; 612) extending either from any individual supporting element, for example as arms (7a, 8a) or being attached at arbitrary level (612) along at least two different supporting elements (601a, 602a), and
- possibly one or more upper supporting elements (7b, 8b; 612) extending either from any individual supporting element, for example as arms (7b, 8b) or being threaded onto (612) at least two different supporting elements.
2. Arrangement as claimed in claim 1 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that each supporting means (401, 402) is composed of pairs of supporting means elements (401a, 401b; respectively 402a, 402b) by means of appropri¬ ate affixing means (403aa, 403bb, respectively), all of which being adapted such that said supporting means (401, 402) can detachably be engaged in pairs for mutual assem¬ blage.
3. Arrangement as claimed in claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that said affixing means (404aa, 404bb) comprise guiding plugs or similar which are assembled on the building site, or which in advance hold together pairs of supporting means elements for defining recesses (404a, 404b) for detachable engagement of support- 


 ing means (401, 402).
4. Arrangement as claimed in any of the claims 1-3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that each supporting means
5 element is provided with inclined surfaces (401x, 402x) which in mounted position contact corresponding inclined surfaces of adjacent supporting means.
5. Arrangement as claimed in any of the claims 1-4, 10 c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that it comprises two supporting means (1, 2), each of which comprising a pair of supporting means elements (1b, 1a; 2a, 2b), said supporting means forming a cross in assembled condition.
15 6. Arrangement as claimed in any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that one of more inter¬ mediate supporting elements are shaped as intermediate arms (7a, 8a) protruding in a first direction, and that one or
20 more upper supporting elements are shaped as upper arm elements (7b, 8b) protruding in substantially opposite direction of the intermediate arm element (7a, 8a), such that the supporting means (1 , 2 in mutually assembled
*
 position will have four lower leg elements (5a, 5b; 6a, 6b)
25 arranged in a cross, and two intermediately positioned arm elements (7a, 8a) extending outwardly for supporting a first used surface (12), as well as two upper arm elements (7b, 8b) extending outwardly for supporting a second use surface (11).
30
7. Arrangement as claimed in claim 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the two intermediate arm elements (7a, 8a) protrude from the area of the recesses (3a, 3b) in a substantially horizontal manner, or with an
35 arbitrary inclination for supporting substantially horizon¬ tal use surfaces or inclined use surfaces (11, 12) or a combination thereof. 


8. Arrangement as claimed in claim 6 or 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the upper use surface (11) which is supported by the upper pair of arm elements (7b, 8b) is constituted by a monitor supporting surface, whereas the lower use surface (12) being supported by the lower pair of arm elements (7a, 8a), carries a keyboard, especially if said use surfaces are substantially horizon¬ tal.
9. Arrangement as claimed in any of the claims 6-8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the upper use surface (11) which is supported by the upper pair of arm elements (7b, 8b) is constituted by a supporting surface for an inclined seat portion, whereas the lower use surface (12) which is supported by the lower pair of arm elements (7a, 8a) is constituted by an inclined calf portion, especially for a sitting furniture structure for kneeling-like sitting position, possibly that the arrangement in addition comprises a back support.
10. Arrangement as claimed in any of the claims 1-9, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the supporting means are made of wood, and that -the areas (103) in the vicinity of the respective recesses are made laminated for reinforc- ing the area of the recesses, possibly that said supporting means are made of mouldable material having appropriate strength and surface treatment.
11. Arrangement as claimed in any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the individual upper and intermediate arm elements are provided with attachment means (13, 14) for preferably detachable attachment of respective use surfaces (11, 12), for example attachment means comprising plugs (13) or holes (14) fitting corres¬ ponding holes or plugs at the bottom side of the use surface (11), possibly comprising velcro locks (15, 16) and/or plastic locks, possibly in combination with previously 


mentioned attachment means or screw means.
12. Arrangement as claimed in any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the respective lower leg elements for each supporting means have substantially the same extension of length, that the respective intermedi¬ ate arm elements for each supporting element have a somewhat shorter extension than the lower leg elements, but substan- tially the same extension of length as said upper arm elements.
13. Arrangement as claimed in any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the recesses of the supporting elements are so adapted that two supporting elements in engaged assembled position can make a substanti¬ ally right angle in relation to each other, but that said elements can also deviate from the right angle position, for example by a deviation of approximately 5-10°.
14. Arrangement as claimed in any of the claims 1-5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that it comprises three or more supporting means (501, 502, 503), each supporting means comprising a pair of supporting pair elements (501a, 501b;
502a, 502b; 503a, 503b), said supporting means making 60° or less in relation to each other.
15. Arrangement as claimed in any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the intermediate arm elements extend outwardly as close as possible to the area of the recesses, for thereby in mounted position of the furniture structure to bind the assemblage with the lower use surface by means of shortest possible torque arms.
16. Arrangement as claimed in any of the claims 1-5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that it carries one or 


more use surfaces (612, 611), the individual use surfaces (612) being steplessly threaded onto different pairs of supporting means elements (601a, 602a) and being constituted by a plate-shaped element (612) having appropriate cut-outs (612a) fitting the outer profile of said supporting means element (601a, 602a).
17. Arrangement as claimed in claim 16, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that said supporting surface (612) is attached to the different pairs of supporting means elements (601a, 602a) by means of a wedge¬ like means (613).
18. Arrangement as claimed in any of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that said two pairs of intermediate and upper arm element pairs are tied together with a use surface having two different levels, or with use surfaces having mutually substantially merging level. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
