<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641610</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Paper object sorting method and apparatus comprising means for erasing printed bar codes
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07C300	B07C300	B07C318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07C	B07C	B07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07C3	B07C3	B07C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Information indicating whether or not the current 
sorting operation is the final one is preset in a control 

section. Then, a bar code reader recognizes sorting 
information of paper objects by reading respective bar 

codes printed on the paper objects that are supplied one 
by one from a paper object supply section. A bar code 

erasing section erases the bar codes after the bar codes 
have been read, if the information indicating the current 

sorting operation is the final one is preset in the control 
section. If the current sorting operation is not the 

final one, the bar codes are not erased. The paper objects 
are sorted based on the sorting information recognized by 

the bar code reader, and stacked in stores. Being capable 
of erasing the bar codes printed on the paper objects 

before they are distributed to users, a paper object 
sorting apparatus of the present invention has an advantage 

that it is free from a possibility of giving the users 
uncomfortable feeling. Further, since the bar codes can 

be printed on the paper objects with a substance that can 
be checked by the naked eye, it is possible to check the 

printing quality of the bar codes. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIROMORI KUNIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUBOTA TOSHIHARU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIJIMA YASUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIROMORI, KUNIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUBOTA, TOSHIHARU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIJIMA, YASUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a paper object sorting
apparatus according to the preamble of claims 1 and 11, and a
paper object sorting method according to the preamble of claim
17 (see US-A-4992649).A paper object
sorting apparatus according to the invention converts address information
written on paper objects or like objects (hereinafter
referred to as "paper objects") to, for instance, bar
codes, prints the bar codes on the respective paper
objects, and then reads the bar code to thereby sort-and-stack
paper objects in accordance with the address
information indicated by the bar codes.Conventional paper object sorting apparatuses print
bar codes corresponding to address information written
on paper objects, recognize the address information by
reading the respective bar codes, and sort-and-stack the
paper objects in accordance with the recognized address
information. These paper object sorting apparatuses
have greatly improved the operation efficiency because
the conversion from address information to bar codes
eliminates the need of performing optical character 
recognition on address information etc. in every paper
object sorting operation. A paper object sorting apparatus
of the above prior art is disclosed in the Gazette of
Patent Disclosure No. 1982-110379 (disclosed on July 9,
1982).The paper object sorting apparatus disclosed in the
Gazette will be described below with reference to Fig. 1.Paper objects 108 which have not been sorted-and-stacked
before are set in a paper object supply section 101.
The paper objects 108 are supplied to a conveying path 109.
While the paper objects 108 are transported on the conveying
path 109, an optical character recognizing section 102
recognizes postal codes, addresses and other information
(hereinafter referred to as "address information") written
on the paper objects 108 based on image data obtained by
scanning the surfaces of the paper objects 108. A bar
code printing section 103 converts the address information
recognized by the optical character recognizing section 102
to bar codes, and prints the bar codes onto the respective
paper objects 108. Only in the first sorting operation,
a gate controller 105 is controlled in accordance with
the address information recognized by the optical character
recognizing section 102. The conveying direction of the
paper objects 108 is branched by gates 106 that are driven
by the gate controller 105. Thus, the paper objects 108
are sorted-and-stacked in stores 107 in accordance with
the address information. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A paper object sorting apparatus comprising:

a paper object supply section (101) for supplying,
one by one, a plurality of paper objects (108) on each

of which a bar code corresponding to information added
to the paper objects to be used for sorting the paper

objects is printed;
a bar code reader (104) for reading the bar codes
printed on the respective paper objects supplied from

the paper objects supply section;
a sorting section (201) for sorting the paper objects
based on reading results of the bar code reader; and
stackers (107) for stacking the paper objects
sorted by the sorting section, characterized by further

comprising:

a bar code erasing section (202) for erasing the
bar codes after they have been read by the bar code

reader.
The paper object sorting apparatus according to
claim 1, wherein the bar codes are printed on the paper

objects with first ink, and the bar code erasing section
comprises means for stripping off the first ink by

pushing a viscosity substance against a bar code printed
portion on the paper objects. 
The paper object sorting apparatus according to
claim 2, wherein the bar code erasing section comprises:


a platen roller (802) for supporting the paper
objects being transported on which the bar code is printed

with the first ink; and
a pusher roller (111) for bringing a first ribbon
tape (112) bearing the viscosity substance (114) into

contact with a portion of the paper objects supported
by the platen roller.
The apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 3,

   wherein the bar codes are printed on the paper
objects (108) with second ink that can be erased by

reacting a chlorine-based solution, and the bar code
erasing section comprises means (121) for spraying the

chlorine-based solution onto a bar code printed portion
on the paper objects.
The paper object sorting apparatus according to
claim 4, wherein the bar code erasing section comprises

ink jet type jetting means.
The paper object sorting apparatus according to claim 4
or 5, wherein the bar code erasing section comprises

bubble jet type jetting means. 
The apparatus according to any of claims 4 to 6,

   wherein the second ink is one that can be used in
a fountain pen.
The paper object sorting apparatus according to any of
claims 1 to 7, wherein the bar codes are printed on the paper

objects with third ink that can be erased by heating, and
the bar code erasing section comprises means (131)

for applying heat to a bar code printed portion on the
paper objects.
The paper object sorting apparatus according to
claim 8, wherein the bar code erasing section comprises:


a platen roller for supporting the paper objects
being transported on which the bar code is printed with

the third ink that can be erased by heating; and
a pusher roller to be pushed against a portion of
the paper objects supported by the platen roller, and

being kept at a prescribed temperature.
The apparatus according to any of claims 4 to 9,

   wherein the third ink is one that reflects
light in the visible wavelength range.
A paper object sorting apparatus comprising:

a paper object supply section (101) for supplying 
a plurality of paper objects (108) one by one to a

conveying path (109);
a bar code reader (104) for detecting bar codes
printed on the respective paper objects supplied from

the paper object supply section, and for reading the
bar codes;
an optical character recognizing section (102) for
recognizing the sorting information of the paper objects

by performing optical character recognition on a character
pattern added to the paper objects when the bar code

reader has not detected any bar code;
a bar code printing section (501) for converting
the sorting information as recognized by the optical

character recognizing section to a corresponding bar
code, and for printing the bar code on the paper objects;
a sorting section (601) for sorting the paper
objects based on the sorting information recognized by

the bar code reader or the optical character recognizing
section; and
stackers (107) for stacking the paper objects sorted
by the sorting section, said apparatus characterized by;
a bar code erasing section (202) for erasing the bar
codes after they have been read by the bar code reader.
The paper object sorting apparatus according to
claim 11, wherein the bar code printing section comprises: 


a platen roller (802) for supporting the paper objects
being transported;
a printer head (801) for hitting a portion of the
paper objects supported by the platen roller through a

first ribbon tape (804) bearing a first ink (902), and
the bar code erasing section comprises:

a platen roller (802) for supporting the paper
objects on which the bar code is printed with the first

ink; and
a pusher roller (111) for pushing a second ribbon
tape (112) bearing a viscosity substance against a

portion of the paper object supported by the platen
roller.
The paper object sorting apparatus according to claim
11 or 12, wherein the bar code printing section comprises

means (121) for spraying an second ink that can be erased
by reacting a chlorine-based solution onto the paper

objects, and the bar code erasing section comprises
means (121) for spraying the chlorine-based solution onto

a bar code printed portion on the paper objects.
The paper objects sorting apparatus according to
claim 13, wherein the second ink is one that can be used

in a fountain pen. 
The apparatus according to any of claims 11 to 14,

   wherein the bar code printing section comprises
means (121) for spraying an third ink that can be erased

by heating, and the bar code erasing section comprises
means (131) for beating a bar code printed portion on the

paper objects.
The paper objects sorting apparatus according to
claim 15, wherein the third ink is one that reflects

light in the visible wavelength range.
A paper object sorting method comprising the
steps of:


supplying a plurality of paper objects one by one
to a conveying path;
reading respective bar codes printed on the supplied
paper objects;
sorting the paper objects based on the recognized
sor
ting information; and
stacking the sorted paper objects, said method
characterized by the step of:


erasing he bar codes after they have been read.
The paper objects sorting method according to
claim 17, further comprising, before the reading step,

steps:

recognizing the sorting information added to 
the paper objects based on image data obtained by scanning

the paper objects; and
printing bar codes that correspond to the sorting
information added to the paper objects.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
