<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643620</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PARTICLES, METHOD OF PREPARING SAID PARTICLES AND USES THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J1300	B01J1302	C12M100	A61K9107	B01J1300	A61K9107	A61K9127	C12M100	A61K9127	B01J1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	C12M	A61K	B01J	A61K	A61K	C12M	A61K	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J13	B01J13	C12M1	A61K9	B01J13	A61K9	A61K9	C12M1	A61K9	B01J13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Particles, especially colloidal particles, comprising an interior phase of a non-lamellar reversed cubic, intermediate or hexagonal liquid crystalline phase, or a homogeneous L3 phase, and a surface phase of a lamellar crystalline or liquid crystalline phase, or an L3 phase. A method of preparing such particles by creating a local dispersible phase, within the homogeneous phase, preferably by means of a fragmentation agent, and fragmentating the homogeneous phase so as to form said surface phase. Several medical as well as non-medical uses of the particles referred to, e.g. as an antigen-presenting system, as a delivery system for anticancer, antifungal and antimicrobial drugs, and as carriers of nucleic acids or nucleotides.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GS DEV AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GS DEVELOPMENT AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANDH TOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSSONS KARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANDH, TOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSSONS, KARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of
amphiphilic-solvent based systems and more specifically to
the fragmentation of such systems by means of a novel
method. Thus, by means of said novel method systems, which
are otherwise homogeneous and in equilibrum, can be
fragmented into small particles, especially colloidal
particles. These new particles are extremely well suited
as e.g. drug delivery particles or systems, but are also
useful for several other medical as well as non-medical
applications. Thus, the invention also encompasses said
new particles as well as valuable uses thereof.The use of reversed cubic and liquid crystalline
phases in the field of controlled release devices is
described in EPO 125 751 (Engström et al 1983). However,
there are many applications where the use of a homogeneous
phase is not manageable. By the present invention it has
become possible to prepare particles, especially colloidal
particles, of such phases or similar phases, viz by means
of a new fragmentation technique. The importance of said
new technique, and the new particles obtained thereby, can
be better understood from the following brief review of
the prior art concerning other types of particles and
homogeneous phases.Essentially, there have to date been three major particulate
colloidal lipid-water systems which have been
considered as suitable for drug delivery, namely such 
based on the lamellar mesophase as liposomes, micellar-based
phases including micelles, reversed micelles, and
mixed micelles and various kinds of emulsions including
microemulsions, as well as more novel carriers as ISCOM's
(Morein 1988) (a general text concerning these systems is
Pharmaceutical dosage forms, Disperse systems 1988). The
latter system has been utilized for intravenous nutrition
since the beginning of this century and as an adjuvant
system known as the Freunds adjuvant. These are of oil-in-water
(O/W) and water-in-oil (W/O) types, respectively.
Liposomes have since their discovery been extensively
investigated as drug delivery systems for various routes
and drugs. The development of new colloidal drug carrier
systems is a research area of intensive activity and it is
likely that new systems, especially new emulsion based
systems, will appear in the near future (cf. Weiner 1990a,
1990b). Lipid-based vehicles can take several different
morphological forms such as normal and reversed micelles,
microemulsions, liposomes including variants as unilamellar,
multilamellar, etc., emulsions including various types
as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Particles, especially colloidal particles, comprising
an interior phase of a non-lamellar lyotropic

liquid crystalline phase which is a reversed cubic liquid
crystalline phase or a reversed hexagonal liquid crystalline

phase, or a homogeneous L3 phase, or any combination
thereof, and a surface phase which is a lamellar crystalline

phase or a lamellar liquid crystalline phase, or an
L3 phase, or any combination thereof, wherein the interior

phase is a thermodynamic equilibrium phase exhibiting
Bragg peaks in a small-angle X-ray scattering assay in

the case of a reversed cubic liquid crystalline phase and
a reversed hexagonal liquid crystalline phase, or alternatively

exhibiting a bilayer structure in the case of an
L3 phase, and the surface phase is anchored to said interior

phase and is dispersible, provided that said surface
phase is not a lamellar liquid crystalline phase when

said interior phase is a reversed cubic liquid crystalline
phase.
Particles according to claim 1, wherein the interior
phase is a reversed cubic liquid crystalline phase,

a reversed hexagonal liquid crystalline phase or a mixture
of reversed cubic and hexagonal liquid crystalline

phases and the surface phase is an L3 phase.
Particles according to claim 2, wherein the interior
phase is a reversed cubic liquid crystalline phase

and the surface phase is an L3 phase.
Particles according to claim 1, wherein the interior
phase is a reversed cubic liquid crystalline phase,

a reversed hexagonal liquid crystalline phase or a mixture
of reversed cubic and hexagonal liquid crystalline

phases and the surface phase is a lamellar crystalline
phase.
Particles according to any one of claims 1-4,
which contain added bioactive agents, or precursors thereof. 
Particles according to claim 5, wherein said bioactive
agent, or precursor thereof, is selected from the

group consisting of peptides and proteins, or proteinaceous
compounds.
A method of preparing particles, especially colloidal
particles, from a homogeneous liquid crystalline

phase or L3 phase, which comprises forming a homogeneous,
non-lamellar lyotropic liquid crystalline phase consisting

of a reversed cubic liquid crystalline phase or a
reversed hexagonal liquid crystalline phase, or a homogeneous

L3 phase, or any combination thereof, creating a
local dispersible phase, by means of at least one fragmentation

agent which is an agent of such a nature that
when combined with said homogeneous phase, or those

constituents which will form said homogeneous phase, it
creates said dispersible phase, within said homogeneous

phase, of a phase consisting of a lamellar crystalline
phase or a lamellar liquid crystalline phase, or an L3

phase, or any combination thereof, in the presence of a
solvent phase, said solvent being of a nature with which

said homogeneous phase can coexist and wherein said dispersible
phase can be dispersed, and fragmentating said

homogeneous phase so as to form particles, the interior
phase of which is a thermodynamic equilibrium phase exhibiting

Bragg peaks in a small-angle X-ray scattering assay
in the case of a reversed cubic liquid crystalline

phase and a reversed hexagonal liquid crystalline phase,
or alternatively exhibiting a bilayer structure in the

case of an L3 phase, and the surface phase of which is
anchored to said interior phase and is dispersible, provided

that said surface phase is not a lamellar liquid
crystalline phase when said interior phase is a reversed

cubic liquid crystalline phase.
A method according to claim 7, wherein the fragmentation
agent is selected from the group consisting of

lipopolysaccharides, polysaccharides, glycoproteins and
proteins. 
A method according to claim 7, wherein the fragmentation
agent is selected from the group consisting of

amphiphilic macromolecules, lipids, amphiphilic lipid-like
surfactants and derivatives thereof.
A method according to claim 9, wherein the fragmentation
agent is an amphiphilic polymer, preferably an

amphiphilic block copolymer.
A method according to claim 9, wherein the fragmentation
agent is selected from the following groups of

amphiphilic lipids, lipid-like surfactants and derivatives
thereof: nonionic, preferably polyethyleneoxide surfactants;

anionic; cationic, preferably quaternary ammonium
compounds; zwitterionic, preferably phospholipids;

lipid derivatives, preferably polyethyleneglycol derivatized
(phospho)lipids; and glycolipids.
A method according to any one of claims 7-11,
wherein the local dispersible phase is created by a procedure

according to any one of the following alternatives:

a) a solution of said fragmentation agent in a polar solvent,
preferably water, is added to said homogeneous phase;
b) a dispersion of said fragmentation agent in a polar
liquid, preferably water, is added to said homogeneous

phase; or
c) said homogeneous phase is fragmentated in a solution
of said fragmentation agent in a polar solvent, preferably

water.
A method according to any one of claims 7-12,
wherein the particles formed are aftertreated by means of

one or more of the following procedures: homogenization,
sterilization, stabilization by the addition of polymers

and freeze drying.
A method according to any one of claims 7-13,
wherein at least one bioactive agent or a precursor thereof,

preferably selected from the group consisting of
peptides and proteins, or proteinaceous compounds, is added 

at any stage of the preparation of said particles.
A pharmaceutical composition comprising particles
according to any one of claims 1-6 or prepared by a

method according to any one of claims 7-14.
Particles according to any one of claims 1-6 or
as prepared by a method according to any one of claims 7-14

for use in a therapeutic treatment or a diagnostic
method including the use thereof as an adjuvant or in

biosensor applications, especially for sustained release
of active ingredient(s).
Use of particles according to any one of claims
1-6 or as prepared by a method according to any one of

claims 7-14, for the manufacture of a medical preparation
for use as an antigen-presenting system, as a colloidal

drug delivery system as carrier of nutrients for parenteral
delivery of nutrition, as a colloidal delivery system

for anticancer drugs or as a colloidal delivery system
for antifungal and antimicrobial drugs.
Use according to claim 17 of said particles for
the manufacture of a preparation for the treatment of

cancer or AIDS.
Use of particles according to any one of claims
1-6 or as prepared by a method according to any one of

claims 7-14, for non-medical technology as carriers of
nucleic acids or nucleotides.
Use of particles according to any one of claims
1-6 or as prepared by a method according to any one of

claims 7-14, for non-medical technology as carriers in
cell culture techniques, in immunoassay techniques, in

immobilization techniques or for the growth of single
crystals of proteins or inorganic substances.
Use of particles according to any one of claims
1-6 or as prepared by a method according to any one of

claims 7-14, as radiation tracers.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
