<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0809090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fluid thermal mass flow sensor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F168	G01F168	G01F1684	G01F1684	G01F1692	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fluid thermal mass flow meter including a composite 
flow tube having four tubular segments of high thermal 

conductivity formed in a length of tube made of a material 
having a relatively low thermal conductivity, a thin film 

element formed on the surface of and extending around each of 
the four tubular segments, circuitry for incorporating the 

elements into a bridge circuit, and a housing for containing 
the flow tube, elements, and circuitry. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VARIAN ASSOCIATES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VARIAN ASSOCIATES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RITCHART THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RITCHART, THOMAS R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to mass flow 
measuring systems and more particularly to a capillary tube 
mass flow measuring system using thin film sensing elements. Capillary tube thermal mass flow meters have been 
proposed and manufactured in a wide variety of configurations 
and have been applied in a wide variety of applications. These 
meters exploit the fact that heat transfer to fluid flow in 
a laminar tube from the tube walls is a function of mass flow 
rate of the fluid, the difference between the fluid 
temperature and the wall temperature and the specific heat of 
the fluid. There are different types of construction used in 
these meters. One typical construction involves a stainless 
steel flow tube with two or more wire wound elements on the 
outside of the tube. The wire is usually very fine and has a 
high temperature coefficient of resistance. The elements can 
act as heaters or detectors or both. One or more of the 
elements is energized with electrical current to supply heat 
to the fluid stream through the tube. If the heaters are 
supplied with constant current, fluid mass flow through the 
tube can be derived from temperature difference in the 
elements. Fluid mass flow can also be derived by varying the 
current through the heaters to maintain a constant temperature 
profile along the tubes. Mass flow is then derived from the 
power required to maintain this constant temperature profile. 
Although the typical wire wound construction of these thermal 
mass flow meters is adequate, it is nevertheless, difficult 
to produce these meters thereby resulting in a number of 
disadvantages. First, the wire is usually so thin that it is difficult 
to handle and breaks easily. Secondly, the characteristics of 
each element are not very repeatable, i.e., the resistance of 
the meters is affected by the variations in the wire diameter, 
the insulation and the tension. Thirdly, some of the wire  
 
leading away from the tube is not in contact with the tube, 
thereby increasing sensitivity to ambient conditions and 
increasing thermal lag. Furthermore, over time, the 
characteristics of a coil can drift. For example, the coil 
tension can relax or the wire insulator can degrade with 
thermal cycling. Moreover, the wire does not make good contact 
with the tube, and there is essentially a line of contact 
between the wire and the tube. This reduces sensitivity and 
contributes to slow speed of response. An additional 
disadvantage of this prior art technique is that the maximum 
element
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermal mass flow meter for measuring fluid flow rate 
comprising a housing, a sensor tube for conducting the fluid 

to be measured and having at least two resistive thin film 
elements formed on a surface thereof, said sensor tube being 

thermally sunk to said housing in all surface areas except 
those whereon the elements are located, the elements having 

means for allowing selection and trimming of resistance 
associated therewith during assembly of the thermal mass flow 

meter, a source for providing constant current to at least 
some of said elements; and an electrical circuit coupled to 

said elements for measuring voltage change across said 
elements while applying current thereto from said constant 

current source, the voltage change being representative of 
temperature change in the elements and proportional to the 

fluid mass flow rate. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in claim 1 wherein 
each of said elements is formed of a nickel layer deposited 

over an electrically insulated layer formed on said tube. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said tube is formed from 316 stainless steel material. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said tube is a composite including segments of nickel or other 

suitable thermally conductive material disposed under said 
elements and segments of 316 stainless steel forming the rest 

of the tube. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said electrical circuit is coupled to said elements via a 

flexible circuit. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said electrical circuit is coupled to said elements via a 

 
plurality of wire leads. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 6 wherein 
said wire leads are formed from non-electrical and 

non-thermally conductive material and are coated with a good 
conductor. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in any one of 
Claims 5 to 7 wherein said flexible circuit/wire leads is/are 

connected to said electrical circuit by electrically 
conductive epoxy. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in any one of 
Claims 5 to 7 wherein said flexible circuit/wire leads is/are 

connected to said elements by reflow solder. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said housing is thermally conductive and of a mass sufficient 

to maintain all said thermally sunk surface areas at the same 
temperature. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said housing is formed from aluminum material. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said housing is shaped to define a thin annular air filled 

volume surrounding said elements. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said electrical circuit includes a four active elements 

bridge. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said electrical circuit includes a two 2-active elements 

bridge. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
 

said tube is generally in the form of an inverted "U" shape. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said tube is an elongated, generally straight tube. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said housing includes at least two mating pieces with at least 

one of said pieces having a groove formed therein for 
receiving substantially all of the length of said tube except 

that carrying said elements. 
A thermal mass flow meter as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said thin film elements are formed using nickel layer wiring 

photolithography techniques. 
A method of measuring mass flow rate using a thermal 
mass flow meter comprising providing a housing; providing a 

sensor tube having at least two resistive thin film elements, 
said sensor tube being enclosed within said housing and being 

sunk to said housing in all areas except where said elements 
are located; providing a constant current source to at least 

one of said elements; passing a fluid through said sensor 
tube; during the application of said constant current, 

measuring voltage change representative of temperature change 

in said elements; and using the measured voltage change as an 
indication of the fluid mass flow rate. 
A method of measuring mass flow rate as claimed in Claim 
19, wherein each of said elements has multiple paths for 

allowing selection and trimming of resistance associated with 
said elements during assembly of the thermal mass flow meter. 
A method of measuring mass flow rate as claimed in Claim 
19, wherein said housing is conductive to maintain all points 

in the housing at the same temperature. 
A method of measuring mass flow rate as claimed in Claim 
 

19 wherein said thin film elements are formed by depositing 
a nickel layer over portions of the length of said tube and 

using a photo lithography technique to define the boundaries 
of said elements. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
