<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658840</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Displaying of data in a graphical user interface.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3023	G06F3023	G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3048	G06F3048	G06F314	G06F314	G06F1724	G06F1724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method is described for displaying data items in a 
panel when the panel has output fields which are insufficiently long to 

display some of the data items in full. A panel with data in a plurality 
of output fields is displayed, in one preferred embodiment, the data 

being displayed in matrix form. If a first data item is displayed in a 
truncated manner in a first output field insufficiently long to fully 

display that first data item, then upon selection of the first output 
field, a first location on the display is determined at which a first 

floating output field, sufficiently long to display the first data item 
in full, will not overlap any significant feature of the panel. The 

first floating output field is then displayed at this location. An 
indicia is preferably displayed in any output field to indicate that the 

data item is displayed therein in a truncated manner. If subsequent 
output fields are selected containing truncated data, their floating 

output fields are located so that they do not overlap any previous 
floating output field. If subsequent locations cannot be identified, the 

previous output fields can be repositioned. Alternatively, a permissible 
distance between a truncated output field and its floating output field 

can be increased. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG DAVID YU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI SHIH-GONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG, DAVID YU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI, SHIH-GONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to user interfaces for data 
processing systems. More particularly, the invention concerns the 
displaying of data in output fields within a panel of a graphical user 
interface. It is well known to provide a Graphical User Interface (GUI) to 
allow a user to control a computer system and to present the results of 
system operations on the display. The computer system will display 
information useful to the user, however the limited display space 
available may not allow the system to provide all of the useful 
information on a single display screen. The user will generally be 
forced to navigate to further user interface panels to see all of the 
pertinent information about a particular subject. One example is a user 
interface designed to cover status information for a massively large 
computer network. A matrix, in which a plurality of cells presents a 
summary of status information for a corresponding group of nodes, is a 
useful format for such a graphical user interface. The size of the cells 
in the matrix should be designed so that it is usually sufficient to 
display the status data of a major portion of the nodes in the group, yet 
allow all of the nodes to be presented on a single display panel. No matter how well the GUI panel has been designed, occasionally 
the data to be displayed in a particular output field is too long to be 
fully accommodated. One possible solution would be to reconfigure the 
matrix to allow the longer data to be fully displayed. However, the 
screen space may be insufficient for this approach. Also, it may be 
computationally expensive to continually redesign the matrix whenever the 
data becomes too long for a particular cell. Therefore it is an object of the invention to provide a system and 
method for viewing a complete data item when an output field of a static 
graphical user interface is not sufficient to display that data item in 
full. Accordingly the present invention provides a system for displaying 
data in a panel on a display device of a data processing system, the 
system comprising: display means for producing a panel on the display 
device and for displaying data items in a plurality of output fields of 
the panel, a first data item being displayed in a truncated manner in a  
 
first output field; positioning means, responsive to user selection via 
an input device of the first output field, for applying predetermined 
rules to determine a first location on the display device at which a 
first floating output field
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for displaying data in a panel on a display device (14) of 
a data processing system, the system comprising: 

   display means for producing a panel on the display device and for 
displaying data items in a plurality of output fields of the panel, a 

first data item being displayed in a truncated manner in a first output 
field; 

   positioning means, responsive to user selection via an input device 
(12, 13) of the first output field, for applying predetermined rules to 

determine a first location on the display device at which a first 
floating output field sufficiently long to display the first data item in 

untruncated form will not overlap any significant feature in the panel; 
   the display means being arranged to display the first floating 

output field at the first location. 
A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first location is 
determined so that the first floating output field will not overlap any 

other output field of the panel in which data is displayed in a truncated 
manner. 
A system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein a second data 
item is displayed by the display means in a truncated manner in a second 

output field, and the positioning means is adapted such that, in response 
to user selection of the second output field, a second location on the 

display is determined at which a second floating output field 
sufficiently long to display the second data item in untruncated form 

will not overlap any significant feature of the panel or the first 
floating output field; 

   the display means being arranged to display the second floating 
output field at the second location. 
A system as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: 
   relocation means, responsive to an indication by the positioning 

means that the second location cannot be determined, for relocating the 
first floating output field to a third location;

 
   the positioning means being adapted to reapply the predetermined 

rules to determine a fourth location on the display at which the second 
floating output field will not overlap any other selected field or the 

first floating output field; 
   the display means being arranged to display the second floating 

output field at the fourth location. 
A system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the predetermined rules 
specify that the first and second locations must be within a first 

distance from the first and second output fields respectively. 
A system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the positioning means is 
adapted such that, if the second location cannot be determined, it 

applies modified predetermined rules to determine a fourth location on 
the display at which the second floating output field will not overlap 

any other selected field or the first floating output field, the fourth 
location being located within a second distance from the second output 

field, the second distance being larger than the first distance; 
   the display means being arranged to display the second floating 

output field at the fourth location. 
A system as claimed in any of claims 3 to 6 wherein an indicia is 
displayed in the first and second output fields to indicate that the 

first and second data items are displayed in a truncated manner. 
A system as claimed in any of claims 3 to 7 further comprising 
association means for displaying a first and second guideline to indicate 

that the first and second floating output fields correspond respectively 
to the first and second output fields. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the plurality of 
output fields are displayed in a matrix form. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the data items 
displayed in the plurality of output fields represent status data for a 

set of computer nodes in a computer network. 
A method of displaying data in a panel on a display device (14) of 
a data processing system, the method comprising the steps of:

 
   displaying a panel on the display device and displaying data items 

in a plurality of output fields of the panel, a first data item being 
displayed in a truncated manner in a first output field; 

   responsive to user selection via an input device (12, 13) of the 
first output field, applying predetermined rules to determine a first 

location on the display device at which a first floating output field 
sufficiently long to display the first data item in untruncated form will 

not overlap any significant feature in the panel; and 
   displaying the first floating output field at the first location. 
A method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the first location is 
determined so that the first floating output field will not overlap any 

other output field of the panel in which data is displayed in a truncated 
manner. 
A method as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12, further comprising the 
steps of: 

   displaying in a second output field of the panel a second data item 
in a truncated manner; 

   responsive to user selection of the second output field, 
determining a second location on the di
splay at which a second floating 
output field sufficiently long to display the second data item in 

untruncated form will not overlap any significant feature of the panel or 
the first floating output field; and 

   displaying the second floating output field at the second location. 
A method as claimed in claim 13, further comprising: 
   responsive to an indication that the second location cannot be 

determined, relocating the first floating output field to a third 
location; 

   reapplying the predetermined rules to determine a fourth location 
on the display at which the second floating output field will not overlap 

any other selected field or the first floating output field; and
 

   displaying the second floating output field at the fourth location. 
A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the predetermined rules 
specify that the first and second locations must be within a first 

distance from the first and second output fields respectively. 
A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein if the second location 
cannot be determined the method comprises the further steps of: 

   applying modified predetermined rules to determine a fourth 
location on the display at which the second floating output field will 

not overlap any other selected field or the first floating output field, 
the fourth location being located within a second distance from the 

second output field, the second distance being larger than the first 
distance; and 

   displaying the second floating output field at the fourth location. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 11 to 16, further comprising 
the step of, responsive to a special selection of an output field, 

displaying a second panel containing detailed data concerning a node 
corresponding to that output field. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
