<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645810</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PACKAGE FOR SEMICONDUCTOR CHIP.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2302	H01L23057	H01L2334	H01L23367	H01L2348	H01L23495	H01L23498	H01L2350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A package for a semiconductor chip having the following features: (a) a power-supply 
layer, a ground layer, 

and a signal layer are formed in multilayer through intermediate layers including insulating layers; (b) the power-supply 
layer and ground layer each comprise an inner lead region exposed from the intermediate layers, an outer 

lead region, and a conductive region sandwiched by these two regions and covered by the intermediate layers; and 
(c) the conductive regions of the power-supply layer and ground layer consist of planar conductive members. The 

self-inductances of the power-supply and ground layers of this package are low, and the capacitance of the capacitor 
formed by these layers is low. Therefore, the noise of the power-supply system is little. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKUYAMA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKUYAMA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAHARA KENICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAHARA, KENICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a novel 
package for mounting of semiconductor device. More 
particularly, the present invention relates to a 
package for mounting of semiconductor device, which 
gives reduced simultaneous switching noise to 
semiconductor devices and which can effectively prevent 
the adverse effect of the noise generating in the 
vicinity of the package, particularly the noise 
generating in the power line and the ground line, on 
the semiconductor device. The operation of the semiconductor devices 
used in microprocessors, gate arrays, etc. has become 
increasingly fast in recent years, and the limit of the 
frequency allowing for the operation of microprocessor 
has now reached 200 MHz. This limit of the frequency 
allowing for said operation is anticipated to become 
increasingly high in the future. As the operational 
frequency becomes high, the semiconductor device is 
adversely affected more easily by the noise generating 
in the vicinity thereof, particularly the noise generating 
in the power line and the ground line. Under the above circumstance, there was 
proposed a three-layer package for mounting of 
semiconductor device. In Fig. 1a is shown a schematic 
sectional view when a semiconductor device is mounted 
in the three-layer package. The package is constituted 
by a power layer 3, a ground layer 4 and a signal layer 
5. The power layer and the ground layer are revered in 
some cases. The three layers are bonded with an 
adhesive tape 7. The adhesive tape 7 acts also as an  
 
insulating layer. In the three-layer package, a 
semiconductor device 2 is mounted; the semiconductor 
device is electrically connected with each layer of the 
package by the use of bonding wires 6; the outer leads 
8 of the signal layer are used as leads for electrical 
connection with the outside. That is, the electrical 
connection of the power layer 4 and the ground layer 3 
with the outside is conducted by their connection with 
one or more of the fine outer leads 8 of the signal 
layer. The semiconductor device and the package, 
including the above connected portions and a part of 
the outer leads 8, are sealed with a resin 9. In such a three-layer package, the power 
layer and the ground layer have many throughholes 
formed therein. In Fig. 1b is shown a schematic plane view of 
a typical example of the power layer or the ground 
layer. In Fig. 1b, the power layer or the ground layer 
has a square shape and has outer leads around the 
outside. There is an electro-conductive portion 
between
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A package for mounting of semiconductor 
device, wherein: 


(a) a power layer, a ground layer and a signal 
layer are laminated via an intermediate layer including 

an insulating layer, 
(b) the power layer and the ground layer are each 
constituted by an inner lead area, an outer lead area 

and an electro-conductive area, the inner lead area and 
the outer lead area being not covered with the 

intermediate layer to be exposed and the electro-conductive 
area being interposed between the inner lead 

area and the outer lead area and covered with the 
intermediate layer, and 
(c) substantially all of the electro-conductive 
area of each of the power layer and the ground layer is 

constituted by a planar electro-conductive member. 
The package set forth in Claim 1, wherein at 
least 90% of the electro-conductive area of each of the 

power layer and the ground layer is constituted by an 
electro-conductive member. 
The package set forth in Claim 1, wherein the 
signal layer and the power layer each have a self-inductance 

of 2 nH or less. 
The package set forth in Claim 1, wherein the 
power layer and the ground layer are laminated 

adjacently via the intermediate layer. 
The package set forth in Claim 4, wherein the 
lamination is made in the order of: 


(i) the ground layer, the power layer and the 
signal layer, 
(ii) the power layer, the ground layer and the 
signal layer, or 
(iii) the ground layer, the power layer, the 
ground layer and the signal layer. 
The package set forth in Claim 4, wherein the 
 

intermediate layer between the power layer and the 
ground layer comprises a ceramic insulating layer and 

an inorganic adhesive layer. 
The package set forth in Claim 6, wherein the 
ceramic insulating layer has a thickness of 30 µm or 

more. 
The package set forth in Claim 6, wherein the 
adhesive strengths between the power layer and the 

ceramic insulating layer and between the ground layer 
and the ceramic insulating layer are each 1 kg/cm or 

more in terms of 90° peeling strength. 
The package set forth in Claim 4, wherein the 
intermediate layer between the power layer and the 

ground layer comprises an organic adhesive layer and an 
insulating layer present therein. 
The package set forth in Claim 9, wherein the 
insulating layer is a thin ceramic plate or an 

insulating resin film. 
The package set forth in Claim 9, wherein the 
insulating layer is a metal plate whose both surfaces 

are covered with a metal oxide film or an insulating 
resin film. 
The package set forth in Claim 9, wherein the 
capacitor formed by the power layer and the ground 

layer has a capacity of 110 pF or more. 
The package set forth in Claim 9, wherein the 
adhesive strengths between the power layer and the 

intermediate layer and between the ground layer and the 
intermediate layer are each 1 kg/cm or more in terms of 

90° peeling strength. 
The package set forth in Claim 4, wherein the 
intermediate layer between the power layer and the 

ground layer is constituted substantially by an 
adhesive layer alone. 
The package set forth in Claim 14, wherein 
the capacitor formed by the power layer and the ground 

 
layer has a capacity of 110 pF or more. 
The package set forth in Claim 14, wherein 
the adhesive strengths between the power layer and the 

intermediate layer and between the ground layer and the 
intermediate layer are each 1 kg/cm or more in terms of 

90° peeling strength. 
The package set forth in Claim 4, wherein the 
intermediate layer between the power layer and the 

ground layer comprises an adhesive layer and an 
insulating layer formed on the surface of at least 

either of the electro-conductive members present in the 
electro-conductive areas of the power layer and the 

ground layer. 
The package set forth in Claim 17, wherein 
the insulating layer is a metal oxide film or an 

insulating resin film. 
The package set forth in Claim 17, wherein 
the capacitor formed by the power layer and the ground 

layer has a capacity of 110 pF or more. 
The package set forth in Claim 17, wherein 
the adhesive strengths between the power layer and the 

intermediate layer and between the ground layer and the 
intermediate layer are each 1 kg/cm or more in terms of 

90° peeling strength. 
The package set forth in Claim 1, wherein a 
substrate is provided and the power layer or the ground 

layer is laminated on at least one side of the 
substrate. 
The package set forth in Claim 1, which is 
used substantially without being subjected to resin 

sealing after mounting of semiconductor device. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
