<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654181</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED PRESSURE VESSEL FOR PRESSURIZED SECONDARY CELLS AND BATTERIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M1004	H01M202	H01M1034	H01M1034	H01M210	H01M1200	H01M1042	H01M1208	H01M202	H01M210	H01M1050	H01M1004	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M10	H01M2	H01M10	H01M10	H01M2	H01M12	H01M10	H01M12	H01M2	H01M2	H01M10	H01M10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pressure vessel for pressurized secondary cells is disclosed. The vessel includes a generally cylindrical container having both ends closed by substantially flat circular discs. The container has a diameter dimension substantially greater than its axial dimension. A mechanism is provided for supporting a plurality of substantially rectangular stacked electrode plates within the container. A pair of sealed terminal connectors pass through the container, and a terminal assembly mechanism is disposed within the container for directly interconnecting the stacked plates to each terminal connector.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALSTHOM CGE ALCATEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCATEL ALSTHOM COMPAGNIE GENERALE D'ELECTRICITE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN GLENN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN, GLENN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
pressure vessels for pressurized secondary cells and, 
more particularly, to metal gas cells such as nickel 
hydrogen aerospace secondary storage cells. 
Specifically, the present invention relates to an 
improved secondary storage battery made from secondary 
cells having improved pressure vessels for such cells. Metal gas cells, and in particular nickel 
hydrogen batteries, have generally included an 
elongated plate stack encased within a sealed metal 
vessel. The vessel is generally in the form of a 
single cylindrical vessel having dome-shaped ends and 
charged with a gas under pressure, such as hydrogen. 
Such single cells have represented an entire battery in 
order to restrict the need for manufacturing more than 
one pressurized vessel casing. An example of such 
secondary cells useful as aerospace batteries is 
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,950,564. As can be seen from the referenced patent, a 
plurality of stacked plates are mounted together within 
the single containment vessel. While this particular  
 
design has provided a secondary cell and battery which 
is quite effective, there are certain drawbacks to this 
type of structure in general. In existing designs, 
electrodeplates are circular in form to conform to the 
cylindrical enclosure. Unfortunately, the use of such 
circular shaped electrodes results in substantial scrap 
material when blanked out from larger rectangular 
materials. Moreover, the present design requires a 
multiplicity of smaller diameter positive electrodes 
utilizing multiple belleville washers to maintain 
proper stack compression for the expected long life. 
This complicated design, unfortunately, adds weight to 
the cell, and weight in aerospace applications is a 
critical factor. In addition, circular electrode 
plates require elongated plate tabs and electrical 
leads to connect the plates to their respective 
terminal connectors within the containment vessel. 
This again leads to complexity and weight for the 
cell. Therefore, there remains a need to provide a 
secondary cell and battery structure having the output 
requirements of existing designs yet having simpler 
construction and lighter weight, thereby enhancing the 
energy density capability as well as reducing the 
possible failure points. Accordingly, it is one object of the present 
invention to provide an improved pressure vessel for 
pressurized secondary cells. It is another object of the present invention 
to provide a metal gas cell of improved
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pressure vessel for pressurized secondary cells 
comprising: 


a generally cylindrical container having both ends 
closed by flat circular discs, said container 

having a diameter dimension substantially greater than its 
axial dimension; 
means for supporting a plurality of substantially 
rectangular stacked electrode plates within said container; 
a pair of sealed terminal connectors passing 
through said container; and 
terminal assembly means disposed within said 
container for directly interconnecting said stacked plates 

to each said terminal connector. 
A vessel according to claim 1, wherein said 
terminal connectors comprises a pair of terminal connectors 

which are disposed on the circumferential sidewall of said 
cylindrical container. 
A vessel according to claim 2, wherein said 
terminal connectors are spaced approximately 90° apart. 
A vessel according to claim 2, wherein said 
terminal connectors are spaced opposite each other 

approximately 180° apart. 
A vessel according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein each said flat circular disc 

comprises an outer pressure vessel disc member, a thermal 
insulating layer disposed inwardly thereof, and an 

electrolyte reservoir plate disposed inwardly of said 
insulating layer to resist positive plate extension and 

maintain positive pressure against said electrode plates. 
A vessel according to claim 5, wherein said 
electrolyte reservoir plate comprises high porosity nickel.  

 
A vessel according to claim 6, wherein said porous 
nickel is selected from the group consisting of nickel 

felt, nickel foam, and nickel sponge. 
A vessel according to any one of claims 6 or 7, 
wherein said porous nickel comprises a porosity of 

approximately 75-95% void space. 
A vessel according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said plate support means defines free void 

volume between said plates and the interior sidewall 
surface of said container necessary to establish 

equilibrium pressures within said container. 
A vessel according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said terminal assembly means directly 

interconnecting said plates providing terminal bus bars 
with the interior portion of said terminal connectors. 
A metal gas cell comprising a pressure vessel 
according to any one of the preceding claims, said cell 

comprising 

a plurality of alternating positive and negative 
stacked plates positioned between said discs, said plates 

being substantially rectangular in shape, and 
means for directly attaching said plates to said 
terminal assembly means. 
A cell according to claim 11, wherein said plate 
support means comprises a pair of internal pack support 

member supporting a pair of opposing corners of said 
stacked plates. 
A cell according to claim 11, wherein said 
stacked plates each include a pair of connection tabs.  

 
A cell according to claim 13, wherein said 
terminal assembly means comprises a pair of interior 

terminal connection members interconnected to said terminal 
connectors, and wherein one said bus bars interconnects the 

tabs of said positive plates to one said inner terminal 
connection member and the second said bus bars 

interconnects the tabs of said negative plates to the 
second inner terminal connection member. 
A cell according to claim 14, wherein said 
stacked plates are supported on a pair of opposite corners 

by a pair of plate support ledges. 
A cell according to any one of claims 11 to 15, 
wherein the remaining opposite corners of said plates 

include tab members directly connected to a pair of bus 
bars interconnected to said terminal connectors. 
A secondary battery comprising a plurality of 
secondary cells according to any one of claims 11 to 16, 

wherein said cells are disposed end to end in stacked form, 
said battery comprising 


means interposed between said stacked cells for 
electrically insulating said cells from each other; 
means for interconnecting the positive terminal 
connector of on
e said cell with a negative terminal 
connector of an adjacent cell in electrical series; and 
means disposed at either end of said stacked cells 
for maintaining pressure integrity of the end cells and 

structural integrity of said battery. 
A battery according to claim 17, wherein said 
stacked cells are aligned such that the positive and 

negative terminal connectors of each said cell are 
positionnally alternated to position the positive and 

negative terminal connectors adjacent to each other on 
adjacent cells.  

 
A battery according to claim 17, wherein said 
terminal connector interconnection means comprises 

connecting bars. 
A battery according to claim 17, wherein said 
pressure integrity means comprises a pair of restraint 

plates positionned against the outermost cells of cell 
stack, and means for adjusting and maintainingthe tension 

between said restraint plates. 
A battery according to claim 20, wherein said 
tension adjustement means comprises a plurality of tie 

bars. 
A battery according to claim 20, wherein said 
battery further includes strain gage members adapted for 

monitoring the pressure on said cells between said 
restraint plates. 
A battery according to claim 17, wherein said 
cell electrical insulation means comprises an insulating 

disc sized ans shaped to cover the end surfaces of each 
said cell. 
A battery according to claim 23, wherein said 
insulating disc comprises polyimide. 
A battery according to claim 17, wherein said 
stacked cell are mounted on a thermal radiator base plate 

member. 
A battery according to claim 25, wherein said 
battery further comprises a plurality of thermal fins 

containing heating elements, each said thermal fin 
interconnecting said cell to said radiator plate. 
A battery according to claim 17, wherein said 
battery comprises a pair of said stacked cells aligned side 

by side with all said cells being electrically 
interconnected in series.  

 
A secondary battery comprising a plurality of 
secondary cells according to any one of claims 11 to 16, 

wherein said cells are disposed side to side in 
substantially the same plane, said battery comprising 


means for electrically insulating said cells from 
each other, 
means for interconnecting the positive terminal 
connector of one cell with a negative terminal connector of 

an adjacent cell in electrical series; and 
a pair of restraint means sandwiching said aligned 
cells for maintaining pressure integrity of said cells and 

structural integrity of said battery. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
