<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612520</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PH-triggered osmotic bursting delivery devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4738	A61K4732	A61K4500	A61K4732	A61K928	A61K948	A61K928	A61K948	A61P4300	A61K922	A61P4300	A61K922	A61K950	A61K952	A61K900	A61K4738	A61K4500	A61K952	A61K900	A61K950	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61K	A61P	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K47	A61K47	A61K45	A61K47	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61P43	A61K9	A61P43	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K47	A61K45	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An osmotic bursting device for dispensing a beneficial agent to an aqueous 
environment. The device comprises a beneficial agent and osmagent surrounded at 

least in part by a semipermeable membrane. Alternatively the beneficial agent may 
also function as the osmagent. The semipermeable membrane is permeable to 

water and substantially impermeable to the beneficial agent and osmagent. A 
trigger means is attached to the semipermeable membrane (e.g., joins two capsule 

halves). The trigger means is activated by a pH of from 3 to 9 and triggers the 
eventual, but sudden, delivery of the beneficial agent. These devices enable the pH-triggered 

release of the beneficial agent core as a bolus by osmotic bursting.] 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PFIZER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PFIZER INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERBIG SCOTT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH KELLY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERBIG, SCOTT M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, KELLY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to devices useful for the delivery of a beneficial agent
to an environment of use.In an osmotic device water is imbibed into the device across a semi-permeable
membrane due to a lower concentration of water in the device core than
in the environment of use. This creates a positive hydrostatic pressure in the device
core resulting in release of the beneficial agent contained in the core. Most osmotic
delivery systems provide sustained delivery of a beneficial agent (e.g., Baker, R.W.,
1987, Contrclled Release of Biologically Active Agents John Wiley & Sons pp 132-155;
and Smith, K.L. and Herbig, S.M., 1992 "Controlled Release" in Membrane
Handbook Ho, W.S.W., and Sirkar, K. K., eds., Van Nostrand Reinhold, pp 915-935).Osmotic devices have also been developed that release the beneficial agent
as a bolus (osmotic bursting systems) (e.g. U.S. Patent Nos. 3,247,066; 3,952,741;
4,016,880; and 4,177,256). The release of the beneficial agents is initiated once the
delivery device is immersed in aqueous solutions.In an alternative method of delivery of beneficial agents, devices have been
developed that dissolve at a specific pH in order to release the agent. Release of
the beneficial agent from these formulations is caused by the dissolution of the
enteric coating and the subsequent dissolution and/or diffusion of the core
components into a receptor solution. Materials that dissolve due to specific pH are
commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry as coatings for tablets, particles and
capsules. The use of pH-sensitive materials as coatings is described in most
reference books describing pharmaceutical formulations.Typically pH-sensitive materials have been used as coatings to protect labile
beneficial agents, or to encapsulate irritating beneficial agents during transit through
the stomach, and then release the beneficial agent shortly after entering the small
intestine. These coatings have been modified to achieve longer time lags prior to
release so that the beneficial agent can be released in the lower end of the small 
intestine or in the colon. However, these coatings function similarly as common
enteric coatings. PH-sensitive coatings that achieve delivery in the colon have been
described in patents such as U.S. 4,910,021 and WO 9001329. U.S. 4,910,021
describes using pH-sensitive material to coat a capsule and WO 9001329 describes
pH-sensitive coatings on beads containing acid. The acid in the bead core prolongs
dissolution of the pH-sensitive coating.The use of pH-sensitive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An osmotic device for dispensing a beneficial agent to an aqueous
environment comprising:


a. a beneficial agent;
b. an osmagent;
c. a wall surrounding said beneficial agent and osmagent, said
wall formed at least in part of a semipermeable membrane

which is permeable to the aqueous environment and
substantially impermeable to the beneficial agent and

osmagent; and
d. pH-sensitive trigger means for triggering the bursting of the
device and release of beneficial agent core as a bolus said trigger

means attached to said semipermeable membrane and said
trigger means activated by a perdetermined pH of from 3 to 9.
The device as recited in claim 1 wherein said beneficial agent is a
pharmaceutical or veterinary agent.
The device as recited in claim 2 which includes an aqueous swellable
material.
The device as recited in claim 3 wherein said device is a capsule, said
capsule formed from capsule parts, said capsule parts bonded together with said

pH-sensitive trigger.
The device as recited in claim 4 wherein said capsule parts comprise
said semipermeable membrane and wherein said semipermeable membrane is

cellulose esters, cellulose ethers, polyacrylic acid derivatives, polyvinyl alcohols or
polyalkenes.
The device as recited in claim 5 wherein said semipermeable
membrane is ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer, cellulose acetate or ethyl cellulose.
The device as recited in claim 5 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger
means is phthalate derivatives, acrylic acid and acrylic ester copolymers, vinyl

acetate and crotonic acid copolymers or shellac.
The device as recited in claim 5 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger
means comprises a mixture comprising a polymer selected from the group

consisting of cellulose esters, cellulose ethers, polyacrylic acid derivatives, polyvinyl 
alcohols, and polyalkenes and a polymer selected from the group consisting of

phthalate derivatives, acrylic acid and acrylic ester copolymers, vinyl acetate and
crotonic acid copolymers and shellac.
The device as recited in claim 5 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger means
is 5 to 50 wt% polymethyl methacrylate and 50 to 95 wt% acrylic acid/acrylic ester

copolymer.
The device as recited in claim 7 wherein said swellable material is
cellulose esters, cellulose ethers, polyacrylic acid derivatives, ethylene oxides,

water-soluble gums or starches.
The device as recited in claim 10 wherein said swellable material is
sodium carboxymethylcellulose.
The device as recited in claim 2 wherein said device is a tablet coated
with the pH-sensitive trigger means.
The device as recited in claim 12 wherein said semipermeable
membrane is cellulose esters, cellulose ethers, polyacrylic acid derivatives, polyvinyl

alcohols or polyalkenes.
The device as recited in claim 13 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger
means is phthalate derivatives, acrylic acid and acrylic ester copolymers, vinyl

acetate and crotonic acid copolymers or shellac.
The device as recited in claim 13 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger
means comprises a mixture comprising a polymer selected from the group

consisting of cellulose esters, cellulose ethers, polyacrylic acid derivatives, polyvinyl
alcohols and polyalkenes and a polymer selected from the group consisting of

phthalate derivatives, acrylic acid and acrylic ester copolymers, vinyl acetate and
crotonic acid copolymers and shellac.
The device as recited in claim 14 wherein said semipermeable
membrane is cellulose acetate or ethyl cellulose.
The device as recited in claim 16 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger
means is 5 to 75% cellulose acetate and 25 to 95% cellulose acetate phthalate.
The device as recited in claim 16 wherein said swellable material is
cellulose esters, cellulose ethers, polyacrylic acid derivatives, ethylene oxides, water

soluble gums or starches. 
The device as recited in claim 18 wherein said swellable material is
sodium carboxymethylcellulose.
The device as recited in claim 2 wherein said device is a bead coated
with the pH-sensitive trigger means.
The device as recited in claim 20 wherein said semipermeable
membrane is cellulose esters, cellulose ethers, polyacrylic acid derivatives, polyvinyl

alcohols or polyalkenes.
The device as recited in claim 21 wherein said semipermeable
membrane is cellulose acetate or ethyl cellulose.
The device as recited in claim 21 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger
means is phthalate derivatives, acrylic acid and acrylic ester copolymers, vinyl

acetate and crotonic acid copolymers or shellac.
The device as recited in claim 21 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger
means comprises a mixture comprising a polymer selected from the group

consisting of cellulose esters, cellulose ethers, polyacrylic acid derivatives, polyvinyl
alcohols and polyalkenes and a polymer selected from the group consisting of

phthalate derivatives, acrylic acid and acrylic ester copolymers, vinyl acetate and
crotonic acid copolymers.
The device as recited in claim 23 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger is 5 to
75% cellulose acetate and 25 to 95% cellulose acetate phthalate.
The device as recited in claim 2 wherein said bursting occurs a
predetermined time after exposure to a predetermined pH.
The device as recited in claim 2 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger means
is capable of triggering the bursting of the device so that the beneficial agent is

released in the duodenum of a human.
The device as recited in claim 2 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger means
is capable of triggering the bursting of the device so that the beneficial agent is

released in the ileum of a human.
The device as recited in claim 2 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger means
is capable of triggering the bursting of the device so that the beneficial agent is

released in the colon of a human. 
The device as recited in claim 2 wherein said pH-sensitive trigger means
is capable of triggering the bursting of the device so that the beneficial agent is

released in the jejunum of a human.
An osmotic device for dispensing a beneficial agent to an aqueous
environment comprising:


a. an osmotic beneficial agent;
b. a wall surrounding said beneficial agent, said wall formed at least in part
of a semipermeable membrane which is permeable to the aqueous

environment and subtantially impermeable to the beneficial agent; and
c. pH-sensitive trigger means for triggering the bursting of the device and
release of beneficial agent core as a bolus,said trigger means attached

to said semipermeable membrane and said trigger means activated by
a predetermined pH of from 3 to 9.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
