<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH PERFORMANCE IGNITION APPARATUS AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02P700	F02P300	F02P706	F02P1510	F02P900	F02P703	F02P900	F02P308	F02P1500	F02P309	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02P	F02P	F02P	F02P	F02P	F02P	F02P	F02P	F02P	F02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02P7	F02P3	F02P7	F02P15	F02P9	F02P7	F02P9	F02P3	F02P15	F02P3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for a plasma discharge for ignition in an internal combustion engine (10). A digital electronic system controls ignition performance and can provide an ignition discharge throughout an entire power stroke of a piston in a cylinder. The discharge can be controlled by a signal from a conventional distributor, crank trigger or other source (13). Controllable discharge of a capacitor (C2) occurs through the primary winding of an ignition coil (46). In addition, the capacitor (C2) may be both discharged and recharged in as oscillatory manner through the primary of the ignition coil (46). Such oscillatory discharging and recharging of the capacitor (C2) results in energy being delivered to the spark plug (50) during both discharge and recharge cycles, thereby resulting in the delivery of discharge energy to the spark plug (50) on a substantially continuous basis.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOPER CAMERON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOPER CAMERON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICH STANLEY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICH, STANLEY, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to ignition systems for
internal combustion engines, and more particularly to a
method and apparatus for providing controllable,
continuous energy discharges to an ignition device by
oscillatory discharging and/or recharging of a
capacitor through an ignition coil primary.Conventional ignition systems have a battery, an
ignition coil, a condenser (capacitor), breaker points
and a distributor. These systems are known to have a
number of disadvantages related to durability and
performance. For example, in a typical ignition
system, the voltage available to make a spark is at a
maximum at idling speeds and decreases as engine speed
(or ignition frequency) increases. It would be
preferred to have a higher voltage available for the
spark at higher firing frequencies.With advances in solid state electronics,
transistorized electronic ignition systems have become
available, and automobile manufacturers now typically
provide either inductive or capacitive discharge
ignition systems with their products. An inductive
discharge ignition system uses a transistor to cut off
the current flowing in the primary winding of the
ignition coil. A capacitive discharge ignition system
typically uses a silicon controlled rectifier to
discharge a previously charged capacitor through the
primary winding of the ignition coil. As in the
conventional ignition system, the voltage applied to 
the spark plug in an electronic ignition system
typically decreases as engine speed increases.Because the duration of the spark in the above-described
ignition systems is typically relatively
short (between 50 and 150 microseconds), the amount of
energy that the spark plug delivers within the cylinder
is limited. Moreover, if the air-to-fuel ratio is not
ideal for combustion during this extremely short period
of spark duration, combustion will either not occur or
will be only partially complete. Spark plugs therefore
become fouled, misfire and require frequent cleaning or
replacement.Recently, there has been some development toward
the use of a high energy plasma to ignite fuel
mixtures, and toward the use of multiple sparks and
extended ignition systems. The plasma ignition
systems, however, appear to have higher cost, more
limited durability and higher energy requirements
compared to other types of ignition systems, and they
typically require a specially produced, extremely
short-lived plasma plug. These systems also do not
appear to provide ignition energy of long enough
duration in each cylinder to ensure that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for igniting fuel with a fuel igniter (50) coupled to the
secondary winding of an ignition coil (46) also having a primary

winding, comprising discharging and recharging a capacitor (C2)
through the primary winding of the ignition coil, characterized in

that the capacitor (C2) is discharged
in a resonant oscillatory

manner
and recharged in a resonant

oscillatory manner through the primary winding of the ignition
coil (46) so as to deliver energy to the fuel igniter (50) during

both discharge and recharge cycles on a substantially continuous
basis.
The method of claim 1, characterized in that the discharging of
the capacitor (C2) produces a damped sinusoidal voltage signal of

a first characteristic frequency across the primary of the ignition
coil (46).
The method of claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the recharging
of the capacitor (C2) produces a damped sinusoidal voltage signal

of a second characteristic frequency across the primary of the
ignition coil (46).
The method according to any proceeding claim, characterized in
that both the discharging and the recharging of the capacitor (C2)

produce damped sinusoidal voltage signals of first and second
characteristic frequencies respectively.
The method of claim 4, characterized in that the first characteristic
frequency is substantially the same and the second characteristic

frequency. 
The method of any proceeding claim, characterized in that the
recharging of the capacitor (C2) is performed by applying to the

capacitor (C2) a signal having an oscillatory component.
An apparatus for igniting fuel comprising:

an ignition coil (46) having primary and secondary windings;
a fuel igniter (50) coupled to the secondary winding of the
ignition coil (46) for igniting the fuel;
a capacitor (C2) coupled to the primary winding of the ignition
coil (46); and
timing and switching means (12, 13, 20, 22, SW1, SW2) for
controllably discharging and recharging the capacitor (C2) through

the primary winding of the ignition coil (46), characterized in that
the discharging and recharging of the capacitor (C2) both occur in a resonant

oscillatory manner.
The apparatus of claim 7, characterized in that the discharging of
the capacitor (C2) produces a damped sinusoidal voltage signal of

a first characteristic frequency across the primary of the ignition
coil (46).
The apparatus of either of claims 7 or 8, characterized in that the
recharging of the capacitor (C2) produces a damped sinusoidal

voltage signal of a second characteristic frequency across the
primary of the ignition coil (46).
The apparatus of any of claims 7 to 8, characterized in that both
the discharging and the recharging of the capacitor (C2) produce

damped sinusoidal voltage signals of a first and second
characteristic frequency across the primary of the ignition coil (46)

respectively. 
The apparatus of claim 10, characterized in that the first
characteristic frequency is substantially the same as the second

characteristic frequency.
The apparatus of any of claims 7 to 11, characterized in that the
charging voltage source comprises:


a direct current power supply (62) having a voltage output; and
a capacitor (C1) coupled between the voltage output of the direct
current power supply and a reference potential;
a voltage regulator (60) having an input and a regulated voltage
output, the input of the voltage regulator (60) being coupled to

the voltage output of the direct current power supply (62) and the
output of the voltage regulator (60) being coupled to the capacitor

(C2).
The apparatus of any of claims 7 to 12, characterized in that the
timing and switching means (12, 13, 20, 22 SW1, SW2)

comprises:

control circuitry (22) means for generating timing signals including
first and second timing signals;
a first switch means (22) for coupling the capacitor (C2) with the
primary winding of the ignition coil (46), the first switch means

(SW2) also being coupled to the control circuitry means (22) and
responsive to the first timing signal, w
herein discharge of the
capacitor (C2) through the primary winding of the ignition coil

(46) is initiated in response to the first timing signal; and
a second switch means (SW1) for coupling the capacitor (C2)
with the charging voltage source (62), the second switch means

(SW1) also being coupled to the control circuitry means (22) and
responsive to the second timing signal, wherein recharge of the

capacitor (C2) through the primary winding of the ignition coil
(46) is initiated in response to the second timing signal.
The apparatus of any of claims 7 to 13, characterized in that the
charging voltage source comprises:


a voltage source generating an output voltage having dc and high
frequency ac components; and
a rectifier (R1) coupled to the voltage source and to the capacitor
(C2) and the timing and switching means (12, 13, 20, 22, SW1,

SW2).
The apparatus of claim 14, characterized in that the voltage source
comprises:


an oscillator (325);
a buffer amplifier (330) coupled to the oscillator (325);
an output amplifier (335) coupled to the buffer amplifier (330),
the output amplifier (335) having an output on which is generated

an output voltage having dc and high frequency ac components;
and
a capacitor (C2) coupled to the output of the output amplifier.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
