<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640941</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A system and method for artwork design and production
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06Q1000	G06Q1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06Q	G06Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06Q10	G06Q10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for artwork design and production 
is disclosed. The system includes an artwork preparation 

administrator (100) and a plurality of operation units (102 to 
112) each of which performs at least one of a multiplicity of 

different artwork preparation tasks. The administrator (100) 
includes a workflow manager (114) and a workflow definition unit 

(116) for managing the production of a user-defined workflow 
having a multiplicity of artwork preparation tasks. The workflow 

manager (114) includes a) apparatus for initiating operation of 
selected operation units, b) apparatus for receiving and 

processing task information from the selected operation units 
when they perform one of the artwork preparation tasks and c) 

apparatus for producing a process list. The process list 
includes processed task information from at least one of the 

artwork preparation tasks and is ordered in accordance with a 
portion of the workflow which has at least one artwork 

preparation task therein. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORPORATION LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSEFI HANAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSEFI, HANAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to computerized preparation of artwork
generally.Artwork typically comprises many elements, often taken from many original
sources. Fig. 1A provides an exemplary, very simple, page of artwork to be
produced. It comprises an image area 10 and a text area 12. Image area 10 includes
an image of a person covered by the letter T surrounded by a neon effect 16 and text
area 12 contains lines of words. A neon effect is a gradual changing of color
surrounding an object within an image.Artwork typically also contains graphical elements where the term "graphical"
refers to elements which can be described as vectors or collections of vectors.The artwork of Fig. 1 can be pre-press artwork, such as an advertisement or
illustration, to be printed on a poster, in a magazine or newspaper, etc., or it can
become part of a multi-media presentation. A pre-press example will be provided
hereinbelow and utilized throughout the present application.Figs. 2A and 2B illustrate the prior art process or "workflow" by which the
simple artwork of Fig. 1 is produced and indicate the output of most of the pre-press
operations. Operations which are interactive are so noted by double boxes. Fig. 2A
illustrates the basic workflow; Fig.2B illustrates one possible correction process.An artwork designer first plans the page of the artwork. To do so, he selects
the elements, such as a photograph of the person 20 with a-cloud 22 in the
background, the lines of text and a large font T, to be placed on the page.Then, he instructs a production house to scan (step 30) and color correct (step
32) the photograph thereby to create a digital image 24. The scanning and color 
correction steps are typically performed on a scanner, such as the SMARTWO
manufactured by Scitex Corporation Ltd. of Herzlia, Israel.Finally, the designer instructs the production house to mask out (step 34)
everything but the person 20. This can be performed manually or with an interactive
software package such as the MASKCUTTER package, also manufactured by Scitex
Corporation Ltd. The result is masked image 26.The artwork designer also prepares, in step 36, a "layout" 21 which is a blank
page of a desired size. In step 38 the designer defines the areas where the artwork
elements are to be placed and their shapes. The artwork of Fig. 1A has two
rectangular areas, one for each artwork element.In step 40, the artwork designer assigns the masked image of person 20 to the
left rectangle of the layout 21. The masked image is cropped to fit the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computerised artwork design and production system comprising:

   a plurality of operation units (102-112) each of which performs at least one of
a multiplicity of different artwork preparation tasks, characterised in that the system

further comprises an artwork preparation administrator (100), the artwork preparation
administrator comprising:


a workflow definition unit (116) including a user-interface for receiving a
user-defined workflow including selected artwork preparation tasks and the order of

operation thereof,
an artwork workflow manager (114) comprising
means (114) for initiating operation of operation units performing said
selected artwork preparation tasks when selected by a user; and
means (114) for receiving and processing task information from said selected
operation units when they perform one of said artwork preparation tasks; said means

(114) for receiving task information including means for editing said task information
in accordance with editing operations of a user and means for filtering said task

information to ensure minimal redundancy of operations; and
means (114) for producing a process list (126) comprising processed task
information from at least one of said artwork preparation tasks and ordered in

accordance with a portion of said workflow which has said at least one artwork
preparation task therein.
A system according to claim 1 and wherein said task information comprises at
least the operations performed by at least one operation unit (102-112) and the

parameters of each operation.
A system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said artwork preparation
administrator (100) additionally comprises a previewer (119) which performs at least

some of said artwork preparation tasks listed in said process list on low resolution
image elements and displays the result.
A system according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said artwork preparation
administrator (100) additionally comprises an interpreter (118) which performs at

least some of said artwork preparation tasks listed in said process list on high
resolution image elements and rasterizes the result.
A system according to any one preceding claim, wherein said artwork
preparation administrator (100) also comprises a workflow database (123) storing said

user-defined workflow and said processed task information.
A system according to any one preceding claim, wherein said means for
receiving (114) includes means for storing (123) said processed task information in

groups (125) according to said artwork preparation tasks. 
A system according to any one preceding claim, wherein said artwork
preparation operation units (102-112) comprise at least one of the following group:

multi-media manipulators (105), image manipulators (104), scanners (102), plotters
(110), proofers (112), layout devices (108) and masking devices (106).
A method of designing and producing artwork using a computerized artwork
design and production system, the method comprising the steps of:


receiving a workflow comprising a multiplicity of artwork preparation tasks
selected by a user and performed by a plurality of operation units (102-112) each of

which performs at least one of said multiplicity of artwork preparation tasks;
initiating operation of said operation units (102-112) to perform selected
artwork preparation tasks in accordance with said user defined workflow;
receiving and processing task information from said selected operation units
(102-112) when they perform one of said artwork preparation tasks;
editing said task information in accordance with editing operations of a user
and filtering said task information to ensure minimal redundancy of operations;
producing a process list comprising processed task information from at least
one of said artwork preparation tas
ks and ordered in accordance with a portion of said
workflow having said at least one artwork preparation task therein.
A method according to claim 8, wherein said task information comprises at
least the operations performed by at least one of said operation units (102-112) while

performing the task and the parameters of each operation. 
A method according to claim 8 or 9 and additionally comprising the step of
performing at least some of said artwork preparation tasks listed in said process list on

low resolution image elements and previewing the result.
A method according to claim 8, 9 or 10 and additionally comprising the step
of performing at least some of said artwork preparation tasks listed in said process list

on high resolution image elements and rasterizing the result.
A method according to any one of claims 8 to 11 and also comprising the step
of storing said user-defined workflow and said processed task information in a

workflow database.
A method according to claim 12, wherein said step of processing and storing
includes the step of grouping said processed task information according to said

artwork preparation tasks.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
