<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0853001</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ink cartridge, process for forming it and liquid ink feeder
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2175	B41J2175	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ink cartridge (10) takes the form of a bag, and is
formed out of a laminate which includes films (20,22) laminated

together. Compressive stress exists in one of the films.
Therefore, when a hollow needle (16) pierces the bag, the

stress causes this film to function in such a manner as
to block the pierced hole. This brings the film into

close contact with the needle, preventing ink leakage
securely. It is also possible to prevent the cracks

developed in the laminate by external injuries from
progressing. It is possible to form the laminate by

bonding a plurality of films having different
coefficients of thermal expansion together at high

temperature, and cooling the bonded films. It is
possible to form the bag by heat-sealing the laminate.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI MAKOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKATSUGI MASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, MAKOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKATSUGI, MASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an ink cartridge, a process for forming it
and a liquid ink feeder for storing liquid ink for use
with an ink jet printer or another printer and feeding
the ink to the printer.A method of feeding liquid ink to an
ink jet printer or another printer includes storing
liquid ink in an ink tank made of resin, and mounting the
tank on the print head of the printer. The amount of the
ink remaining in the tank can be determined by the
transmittance of a light illuminated through the tank.
Otherwise, the remaining ink amount can be determined by
the electrostatic capacity between two electrodes fitted
in the tank.These methods necessitate making an ink tank
suitable for a particular mechanism for detecting the
remaining ink amount. As a result, the ink feeder is
complex in structure. In addition, because the tank is
not compatible among types of machines, the tank 
production costs are high.Fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings shows part of a
liquid ink feeder 12 for an ink jet printer.
The feeder 12 includes a tubular needle 16. Liquid ink
is stored in an ink cartridge 10 in bag form made of
synthetic resin film. The needle 16 can pierce the
bottom 11 of the cartridge 10 and protrude into the
cartridge. The ink can then be fed from the cartridge 10
through the needle 16 to the print head (not shown) of an
ink jet printer.As shown in Fig. 7 of the drawings, the cartridge 10
may be made of multilayer film 303 including an inner
synthetic resin film 300 and an outer synthetic resin
film 302, which are laminated together. The inner film
300 is a good barrier, and may be a biaxial oriented film
of polyethylene (OPP), a biaxial oriented film of high
density polyethylene (HDPE), a uniaxial oriented film of
high density polyethylene, or the like. The outer film
302 is high in mechanical strength, and may be a uniaxial
or biaxial oriented film of nylon, polyester or the like,
which is strong mechanically. EP-A-0,560,398, upon which the precharacterising
portions of appended claims 1 and 10 are based, describes
an ink container constructed as a multi laminate
structure. Various inner and outer films are described
allowing the inner material to have high chemical
resistance and the outer material to have good gas
sealing properties. Also, the inner material may have a
lower fusing point so as to facilitate the construction
of the container when the laminate is fused to itself.When the needle 16 pierces the multilayer film 303,
as shown in Fig. 7, cracks 300a are liable to develop in
certain
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ink cartridge (10) comprising ink and a
sealed bag in which the ink is stored, at least part of

the bag being formed out of a laminate (11) which
includes films (20,22) different in ductility,


characterised in that
:

the bag has been formed in such a manner that
compressive stress exists in in-plane directions in at

least one (22) of the films (20,22); and
when the bag is pierced by a needle having a larger
portion in diameter towards the front end of the needle,

the at least one (22) of the films (20,22) has the
compressive stress so that the laminate (11) can prevent

the ink from leaking from the pierced portion of the
laminate (11).
The cartridge defined in claim 1, wherein the
inmost film (20) of the laminate, which is in contact

with the ink, functions as an ink sealing layer, which is
more ductile than any other layer of the laminate.
The cartridge defined in claim 2, wherein the
film (22) in which compressive stress has developed is a

different film from the sealing layer (20), and has a
lower coefficient of thermal expansion than the sealing

layer (20).
The cartridge defined in claim 2 or 3, wherein
the sealing layer (20) is made of polyolefine resin.
The cartridge defined in any preceding claim,
wherein the films (20,22) have different coefficients of

thermal expansion, the films having been bonded together
at high temperature and thereafter cooled to form the

laminate (11). 
The cartridge defined in any preceding claim,
wherein at least one of the films (20,22) is made of non-oriented

synthetic resin.
The cartridge defined in any preceding claim,
wherein the laminate (11) further includes adhesive layer

(21) between adjacent two of the films (20,22).
The cartridge defined in any preceding claim,
wherein the laminate (11) is folded in two and adjacent

edges of the folded laminate (11) are joined by a heat-seal,
thereby forming the bag.
The cartridge defined in any preceding claim,
wherein the films (20,22) include a non-oriented nylon

film and a linear chain low-density polyethylene film
which are laminated together through an adhesive layer

(21).
The cartridge defined in any preceding claim
wherein the bag is covered with an electrically

conductive film.
A process for forming an ink cartridge in bag
form as defined in any preceeding claim which includes films (20,22) laminated together, the

process being 
characterised by
 the steps of:

forming a laminate (11) by bonding a first layer
(22) and a second layer (20) through an adhesive layer

(21) at high temperature, the first layer (22) having a
lower coefficient of thermal expansion than the second

layer (20);
cooling the laminate (11) to develop compressive
stress in the first layer (22);
folding the cooled laminate (11) in two; and
bonding adjacent edges of the folded laminate (11)
together to form an ink cartridge in bag form.
The process defined in claim 11, wherein the
second layer (20) functions as an ink sealing layer in

contact with the ink, the sealing layer being made of
material which is more ductile than the first layer (22).
The process defined in claim 11 or 12, wherein
at least one of the first (22) and second (20) layers is

a non-oriented synthetic resin film.
The process defined in claim 11, 12 or 13,
wherein the first layer (22) is made of polyolefine

resin.
The process defined in claim 14, wherein the
first layer (22) is a linear chain low-density

polyethylene film, while the second layer (20) is a non-oriented
nylon film.
The process defined in any one of claims 11 to
15, wherein the edges of the laminate (11) are bonded

together by being heat-sealed.
An ink feeder comprising:

an ink head (14) for ejecting ink;
a needle (16) having an ink passage formed therein,
the passage communicating with the head (14); and
a sealed ink cartridge (10) according to any one of
claims 1 to 9;
the needle (16) being able to pierce the cartridge
(10) in order to feed ink out of the cartridge (10) to

the head (14).
The feeder defined in claim 17 and further
comprising a box (13) for housing the cartridge (10)

therein and a sensor (18a,18b) fitted on an inner surface
of the box (13) for detecting the contact pressure

applied thereto by the cartridge (10) in order to 
determine the amount of the ink remaining in the

cartridge (10).
The feeder defined in claim 17 or 18 when
appendant on claim 10 and further comprising a box (13)

for housing the cartridge (10) therein and a sensor
(58a,58b) fitted on an inner surface of the box (13) for

detecting the resistance or the capacitance between the
sensor (58a,58b) and the cartridge (10) in order to

determine the amount of the ink remaining in the
cartridge (10).
The feeder defined in any one of claims 17 to
19, wherein the needle (16) is tapered.
The feeder defined in any one of claims 17 to
20, wherein the needle (16) is thicker toward the front

end thereof.
The feeder defined in any one of claims 17 to
21, wherein the needle (16) is tubular and includes a

protrusion formed on the periphery thereof for preventing
the needle from coming out of the cartridge (10) pierced

by the needle (16).
The feeder defined in any one of claims 17 to
22, wherein the head (14) is an ink head for use with an

ink jet printer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
