<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657190</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Webbed glove for controlling movement of a wearer's hand through a fluid.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B3100	A63B3104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B31	A63B31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A glove includes webs (50) connecting adjacent 
phalange-covering sections (16) together. Each web (50) includes 

a groove (53) for increasing the flexibility of the webs (50) 
whereby a user can close his or her hand into a 

grasping fist and the webs (50) will bow outwardly to 
permit this movement. Fins (40) are on the glove are 

located to be on the back of the wearer's hand when 
the glove is in position on that hand. Each of the 

fins (40) is formed of one or more materials and can be 
formed of one or more sections and operate to guide 

movement of the hand through a fluid, such as water. 
A closure (20) is located on a wrist-covering portion of 

the glove and secures the glove snugly about the 
wearer's wrist. The glove includes ribs (72) on the palm 

side thereof, and the ribs can be multi-sectioned 
and/or formed of several different materials to 

increase the flexibility of the glove. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKALIS KONSTANTINE G
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKALIS, KONSTANTINE G.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKALIS KONSTANTINE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKALIS, KONSTANTINE G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the general art 
of aquatics, and to the particular field of swimming. The benefits of swimming have long been 
appreciated. Modern emphasis on physical fitness has 
increased the number of swimmers, both recreational 
and competitive. These swimmers often use various aids 
to increase either their enjoyment of the sport or to 
improve their swimming skills. These aids often take 
the form of added weight or added resistance or stroke-specific 
devices. For this reason, the art includes many devices, 
such as wrist weights, kickboards, leg donuts, and the 
like, that are intended for use by swimmers to increase 
their swimming skills. However even with the wide 
variety of swimming accessories available, there is 
still room for further improvement. Any device used to improve swimming skills should 
not be too difficult or strenuous to use. If it is, it 
will not enjoy wide commercial acceptance. Still 
further, if the device is too strenuous to use, it may 
create a danger of injury due to overtaxing the user's 
body. Therefore, there is a need for a swimming skill  
 
improvement device that can be used by swimmers of all 
skill levels and which will improve the skill of the 
user without too much stress being placed on the 
swimmer's muscles or joints. Still further, a useful swimming aid should 
encourage a proper stroke. Many known swimming aides 
may assist one portion of the overall stroke, such as 
the arm movement, while changing another portion of the 
stroke, such as body position, in an adverse manner. 
Therefore, there is a need for a swimming aid that will 
assist the swimmer in developing his or her skills, yet 
will not cause other portions of the swimming stroke to 
change in an adverse manner. Still further, any swimming aid should not be 
susceptible to becoming loose or deteriorating after 
long periods of use. Some swimming aids tend to loosen 
or deteriorate after time due to the harsh effects of 
the water, especially heavily chlorinated water. 
Therefore, there is a need for a swimming aid that can 
be used for long periods of time without deterioration 
or degradation. Still further, the inventor recognizes that some 
swimming aids will be used in situations that they may 
not be designed for. An example of such misuse may 
occur when a swimmer dives into a pool with a 
kickboard, or with pull buoys on. Therefore, any 
swimming aid should not endanger a user even if  
 
misused. Therefore, there is a need for a swimming aid 
that can be misused
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A webbed glove for use in controlling hand 
movement through a fluid comprising : 


A) a main portion that includes : 

(1) a wrist-covering section, 
(2) a body section, and 
(3) a plurality of proximal phalange-covering 
sections; 
B) webs connecting adjacent phalange- covering 

sections together; 
C) a fluid flow hole defined through each web; 
D) a plurality of fins extending on said body 
and on each of said phalange-covering sections, said 

fins being raised above the outer surface of said main 
portion; 
E) a rims means on each web and extending 
adjacent to and past the flow hole in said each web for 

reinforcing each said web adjacent to the flow hole;and 
F) closure means on said wrist-covering 
section for closing said wrist-covering section. 
The glove defined in Claim 1 wherein said 
closure means includes a hook-and-loop fastener. 
The glove defined in Claim 2 wherein said 
closure means further includes a buckle. 
The glove defined in Claim 3 wherein said 
closure means includes a channel section on said hook-and-loop 

fastener corresponding to said buckle. 
The glove defined in Claim 2 wherein said 
 

closure means further includes a zipper. 
The glove defined in Claim 2 wherein said 
main portion includes two layers which include an inner 

layer and an outer layer. 
The glove defined in Claim 6 wherein said 
inner layer is neoprene rubber, and said outer layer is 

rubberized nylon. 
The glove defined in Claim 7 wherein said 
fins are aluminum and are connected to said inner layer 

and extend through said outer layer. 
The glove defined in Claim 8 wherein said 
fins are 3/16 inch in height as measured between an 

apex thereof and a foot thereof. 
The glove defined in Claim 9 wherein said 
fins are 2/16 inch thick as measured between the sides 

of each fin adjacent to the base of said fin. 
The glove defined in Claim 10 wherein each 
web is 2/16 inch thick. 
The glove defined in Claim 1 wherein each 
flow hole elongate. 
The glove defined in Claim 12 wherein each 
flow hole is 1/16 inch long. 
The glove defined in Claim 12 wherein each 
rib extends over one of said flow holes. 
The glove defined in Claim 12 wherein each 
flow hole has an enlarged central section, and each rib 

intersects each flow hole at said central section. 
The glove defined in Claim 15 wherein each 
web includes an arcuate edge. 
The glove defined in Claim 1 wherein said 
wrist-covering portion extends above a user's wrist 

joint. 
The glove defined in Claim 1 wherein said 
fins emanate from a common point located adjacent to 

said closure means. 
The glove defined in Claim 12 wherein each 
rib is raised above a surface of said web adjacent to 

said flow hole. 
The glove defined in Claim 12 wherein each of 
said flow holes includes a central section and two end 

sections that are smaller than said central section, 
and each flow hole is oriented transversely of said 

phalanges whereby each end section is located 
adjacent a phalange. 
A webbed glove for use in controlling hand 
movement through a fluid comprising : 


A) a main portion that includes : 

1) a wrist-covering section, 
2) a body section, and 
3) a plurality of proximal phalange-covering 
sections; 
B) Webs connecting adjacent phalange-covering 
sections together ; 
C) a fluid flow hole defined through each web; 
D) a plurality of fins extending on said body 
and on each of said phalange-covering sections, said 

fins being raised above the outer surface of said main 
portion; 
E) a rib means on each web for reinforcing said 
each web, each rib means extending above the surface of 

said each web and including a first portion extending 
from adjacent to a base of the web adjacent to said 

body section to adjacent to the fluid flow hole defined 
in the web, and a second portion extending from 

adjacent to the fluid flow hole defined in the web to 
adjacent to a forward edge of the web; and 
F) closure means on said wrist-covering section 
for closing said wrist-covering section. 
The glove defined in Claim 1 wherein said rib 
means is triangular in cross-sectional shape. 
A webbed glove for use in controlling hand 
movement through a fluid comprising: 


A) a main portion that includes: 

(1) a wrist-covering section, 
(2) a body section, and 
(3) a plurality of proximal phalange-covering 
sections; 
B) webs connecting adjacent phalange-covering 
sections together, each web having a front edge, a rear 

edge, side edges, atop surface, a bottom surface and a 
web thickness measured between said top surface and 

said bottom surface; 
C) a plurality of fins extending on said body 
and on each of said phalange-covering sections, said 

fins being raise above the outer surface of said main 
portion; 
D) a groove defined in each web and extending 
from said front edge to adjacent to said rear end and 

being arcuate in shape and having a thickness that is 
less than said web thickness to fold when the web is 

compressed from the side edges to fold the web; and 
E) closure means on said wrist-covering section. 
The glove defined in Claim 23 wherein said 
closure means includes a hook-and-loop fastener. 
The glove defined in Claim 24 wherein said 
closure means further includes a first strap attached 

at one end to said wrist-covering section and a second 
strip connected at one end thereof to said wrist-covering 

section at a location spaced from said first 
strap. 
The glove defined in Claim 25 wherein said 
second strap covers said first strap when said straps 

are closed and attached to said wrist-covering section 
The glove defined in Claim 24 wherein said 
closure means straps each include a proximal end 

located adjacent to each other. 
The glove defined in Claim 24 wherein said 
main portion includes two layers which include an inner 

 
layer and an outer layer. 
The glove defined in Claim 28 further 
including a pocket means on said closure means for 

releasably mounting accessories on said closure means. 
The glove defined in Claim 29 wherein said 
fins include a top edge spaced from said main portion. 
The glove defined in Claim 30 wherein said 
top edge includes an irregular surface. 
The glove defined in claim 30 wherein said 
top edge is sloped. 
The glove defined in Claim 29 wherein said 
fins include a plu
rality of sections. 
The glove defined in Claim 29 wherein said 
fins extend on a top portion of said main portion. 
The glove defined in claim 23 further 
including a flow hole in each web. 
The glove defined in Claim 23 wherein said 
front edge is arcuate. 
A webbed glove for use in controlling hand 
movement through a fluid comprising: 


A) a main portion that includes: 

1) a wrist-covering section, 
2) a body section, and 
3) a plurality of proximal phalange- covering 
sections; 
B) webs connecting adjacent phalange-covering 
sections together; 
C) a fluid flow hole defined through each web; 
D) a plurality of fins extending on said body 
and on each of said phalange-covering sections, said 

fins being raised above the outer surface of said main 
portion; 
E) a groove means on each web and extending 
adjacent to and past the flow hole in said each web for 

increasing the flexibility of said each web; and 
F) closure means on said wrist-covering section 
for closing said wrist-covering section. 
The glove defined in Claim 23 wherein said 
rib means is triangular in cross-sectional shape. 
A process for forming a webbed glove for use 
in controlling hand movement through a fluid comprising 

a main portion that includes a wrist-covering section, 
a body section, and a plurality of proximal phalange-covering 

sections; webs connecting adjacent phalange-covering 
sections together, each web having a front 

edge, a rear edge, side edges, a top surface, a bottom 
surface and a web thickness measured between said top 

surface and said bottom surface; a plurality of fins 
extending on said body and on each of said phalange-covering 

sections, said fins being raised above the 
outer surface of said main portion; a groove defined in 

 
each web and extending from said front edge to adjacent 

to said rear end and being arcuate in shape and having 
a thickness that is less than said web thickness to 

fold when the web is compressed from the side edges to 
fold the web; and closure means on said wrist-covering 

section, comprising steps of combining closed cell 
neoprene with lose fibers and compression molding said 

materials together to from a one-piece glove. 
The process defined in Claim 39 further 
including a step of etching the mold. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
