<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656241</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR LASER MACHINING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	B23K2600	B23K2606	B23K26067	B23K2606	B23K2640	G02F11343	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for machining a thin film on a substrate by use of a laser precisely at a high speed, 

and a liquid crystal panel patterned by use of the apparatus and method. This apparatus comprises a plurality of 
pulse laser oscillators, means for driving the plural laser oscillators cyclically by shifting the phase of the oscillation 

cycle of each of the laser oscillators, means for uniformalizing the quality of laser beam from each of the oscillators, 
means for producing an elliptically polarized beam from the beam from each of the oscillators, means for splitting 

each of the beams emitted from the laser oscillators into plural beams. The apparatus selectively directs the plural 
beams thus produced by the splitting means onto an object to be machined. As the splitting means, a phase grating of 

irregular surface type which is designed to produce plural beams having the same intensity can be used. In this way, 
it is possible to form electrode gaps having a uniform quality and a uniform shape. The liquid crystal panel has an 

electrode structure where electrode gaps are formed in an ITO film by use of the laser apparatus and method described 
above. Since the electrode gaps having approximately the same width of 10 µm or less are formed uniformly in 

a display area at approximately the same intervals, the contrast and visibility, the major factors for controlling the 
quality of display of a liquid crystal panel, are significantly enhanced as compared to conventional panels. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMAKO JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURAI MASAMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTA TSUTOMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SONEHARA TOMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMAKO, JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURAI, MASAMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTA, TSUTOMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SONEHARA, TOMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a laser machining apparatus and method according to the preamble
of claims 1 and 16 (see US-A-5029243).There are various types of known laser machining apparatus. These include a CO2 laser
apparatus that is a popular technique to cut or bore a metal plate, and a YAG laser apparatus
that is broadly used to perform high precision machining of a thin metal sheet. In particular, the
YAG laser apparatus is a useful tool for various kinds of high precision machining owing to its
small size, easy maintenance, and high performance that can readily provide a laser beam
focused into a spot with a diameter of a few tens microns. Another advantage of the YAG
laser is that the second harmonic wave (at a wavelength of 532 nm) is available to perform
precision machining on a thin film using the ablation effect. The "ablation" means here an
effect that when a macromolecular material is illuminated with a short-pulse laser beam with a
short wavelength such as an excimer laser or YAG harmonic laser, the illuminated portion is
instantaneously decomposed, vaporized, and scattered, whereby the very limited portion
illuminated with the laser beam is removed. In fact, Q-switched YAG lasers are used in various
applications such as correction of defects of a semiconductor production mask, patterning of
detecting portions of a thin film sensor, patterning of electrodes of a liquid crystal display
panel, etc. The Q-switched laser is preferably used in these application fields because it can
provide a laser beam with a high peak power for a short pulse duration thereby performing high
quality machining on a material to be machined without giving thermal damage. For further
detailed information on the ablation machining technique, refer to "Application of a Short-Wavelength
Short-Pulse Laser to Ablation Machining" (The Journal of the Institute of Precision
Engineering, Vol.3, pp.473-478 (1993)).One of important applications of thin film machining techniques is patterning of transparent
electrodes of a liquid crystal panel, in which high quality machining and high machining
capability are required. In general, electrodes of a liquid crystal panel are patterned by
illuminating a transparent conductive film coated on a substrate with a laser beam while
moving the substrate relative to the laser beam, thereby cutting the conductive film along lines
spaced from each other at a predetermined distance. The machining quality and thus the
electrical characteristics of the conductive film depend on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laser machining apparatus for forming grooves in a conductive film deposited on a
substrate, comprising:


a laser generator (9101);
driving means (9102) for driving said laser generator;
a transmission-type phase grating (9107) for dividing the laser beam emitted by said
laser generator into a plurality of divided laser beams (9111);
means for rotating said phase grating (9107) in a plane perpendicular to the optical
path of said laser beam impinging on said phase grating;
a condensing lens (9108) for forming from the plurality of divided laser beams a line of
beam spots having a predetermined distance from each other on said conductive film; and
a moving stage (9110) that supports said substrate and is moveable relative to said line
of beam spots so as to cut said conductive film along lines or curves;
characterized in that
said laser generator (9101) is a pulse laser generator; and
said phase grating is moveable so as to adjust said predetermined distance by adjusting
the angle of said line of beam spots with respect to the moving direction of said moving stage.
The apparatus according to Claim 1 including a plurality of pulse laser generators
(1101a, 1101b) wherein said driving means (1102a, 1102b) is adapted to drive said plurality of

pulse laser generators so that the respective laser beams are generated with a phase delay
between each other.
The apparatus according to Claim 2, further including means (1106, 1107) for
forcing laser beams emitted by said plurality of pulse laser generators (1101a, 1101b) to travel

along a common optical path.
The apparatus according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the or each pulse laser
generator (9101; 1101a, 1101b) is a Q-switched laser generator.
The apparatus according to Claim 4, wherein the or each Q-switched laser generator
(9101; 1101a, 1101b) is a solid state laser generator which emits a second harmonic wave laser

beam.
The apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein the or each solid state laser generator
(9101; 1101a, 1101b) is a lamp-pumped laser generator.
The apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein the or each solid state laser generator
(9101; 1101a, 1101b) is a diode-laser-pumped laser generator.
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 7, further including means for
converting said or each plurality of divided laser beams into elliptically polarized laser beams. 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 8, further including a spatial filter for
performing amplitude modulation or phase modulation on the or each laser beam emitted by said

or each laser beam generator (9101; 1101a, 1101b).
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 8, further including means for
introducing astigmatism in each beam of said or each plurality of divided laser beams.
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 8, wherein in addition to said phase
grating (4101; 1109; 6104) means (4101; 5101; 6102, 6103) are provided for deflecting laser

beams thereby separating said laser beams, wherein said laser beams are deflected in a direction
different from the direction in which a laser beam is divided by said phase grating (9107; 1109).
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 8, wherein in addition to said phase
grating (9107; 1109), said laser machining apparatus further includes means for deflecting laser

beams thereby separating said laser beams, wherein said laser beams are deflected in the same
direction as the direction in which a laser beam is divided by said phase grating (9107; 1109).
The apparatus according to any one of Claims 5 to 8 as dependent on claim 3,
wherein in addition to said transmission-type phase grating, said laser machining apparatus

further includes additional means for dividing a laser beam, the beam dividing direction
associated with said additional means being parallel to the beam dividing direction associated

with said transmission-type phase grating.
The apparatus according to any one of Claims 5 to 8 as dependent on claim 3,
wherein in addition to said transmission-type phase grating, said laser machining apparatus

further includes additional means for dividing a laser beam, the beam dividing direction
associated with said additional means being perpendicular to the beam dividing direction

associated with said transmission-type phase grating.
Use of the apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 14 for manufacturing a
stripe-shaped electrode formed of a transparent conductive film for a liquid crystal panel.
A method of forming stripe-shaped electrodes from a transparent conductive film
deposited on a substrate (9109) for a liquid crystal display device, the method comprising the

steps of:

dividing a laser beam emitted by a pulse laser generator (9101) into a plurality of
divided laser beams by means of a transmission-type phase grating (9107);
focusing each of said divided laser beams on said conductive film so as to obtain a line
of focused beam spots having a predetermined distance between each other;
adjusting said spacing between adjacent ones of said focused beam spots by rotating
said phase grating in a plane perpendicular to the optical path of said laser beam impinging on

said phase grating; and 
moving said substrate and said plurality of focused beam spots relative to each other
thereby forming grooves in said transparent conductive film.
The method according to Claim 16, wherein said transparent conductive film is an
ITO (Indium-Tin-Oxide) film.
The method according to Claim 16 or 17, wherein said laser generator (9101) is a
YAG laser generator which emits a second harmonic wave laser beam.
The method according to Claim 16 or 17, wherein said laser generator (9101) is a
YLF laser generator which emits a second harmonic wave laser beam.
The method according to any of Claims 16 to 19, wherein said transparent
conductive film is illuminated with said plurality of divided laser beams projected at substantially

a right angle onto said transparent conductive film.
The method according to any of Claims 16 to 19, wherein said transparent
conductive film is illuminated with said plurality of divided laser beams projected at an oblique

angle onto said transparent conductive film.
The method according to any of Claims 16 to 21, wherein said transparent
conductive film is illuminated with one line of laser beams produced by said phase grating

(1109).
The method according to any of Claims 16 to 21, wherein said transparent
conductive film is illuminated with a plurality of lines of laser beams produced by said phase

grating (1109).
The method according to any of claims 16 to 23, comprising the steps of:

sequentially driving a plurality of pulse laser generators (1101a, 1101b) such that there
is a delay in phase among laser beams generated by said plurality of pulse laser beam

generators; and
dividing each laser beam emitted by each of said plurality of pulse laser generators into
a plurality of laser beams.
The method of claim 24 wherein said plurality of pulse laser generators (1101a,
1101b) comprises two Q-switched solid state laser beam
 generators for emitting a second
harmonic wave; and the laser beams emitted by said two laser generators are forced to travel

along a common optical path.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
