<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647160</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ION EXCHANGE RESIN
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08J520	B01J3918	C08J520	B01J4700	C02F142	C02F142	B01J4700	B01J4100	B01J3900	B01J4114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08J	B01J	C08J	B01J	C02F	C02F	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08J5	B01J39	C08J5	B01J47	C02F1	C02F1	B01J47	B01J41	B01J39	B01J41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ion exchange resin comprising an ion exchange material dispersed or distributed throughout a polyurethane matrix. The ion exchange material is typically a second polymer which has been chemically modified after dispersion or distribution throughout the polyurethane matrix.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MONASH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONASH UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAY WILLIAM HAROLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWSON FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAY, WILLIAM, HAROLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWSON, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to ion exchange resins
comprising an ion exchange material dispersed or
distributed throughout a polyurethane matrix and methods
of producing the same.Various polymeric materials have been developed and
shown to be useful in ion exchange or deionising systems
for removing soluble electrolytes from an ionising
solvent (typically aqueous solutions). Commercially
available ion exchange resins are produced from polymers
such as phenol-formaldehyde, styrene-divinyl benzene,
acrylonitrile, acrylates and polyamines. These polymers
may subsequently be modified, for example, by
halomethylation, sulphonation, phosphorylation,
carboxylation, etc. Further modification of the resin so
produced may be achieved by a further chemical reaction
to attach particular ligands to the benzene ring present
in the resin or to the halomethyl, sulphonic acid,
carboxylic acid, amide, amine, nitrile, or other reactive
site. This further reaction enables the production of an
ion exchange resin with specific reactive sites thereby
exhibiting greater selectively towards particular metal
ions or other anions or cations. In conventional
practice, the ion exchange resins are produced in bead or
granular form, the bead size generally varying from 40
microns to in excess of 1 mm in diameter.Known ion exchange resins, suffer from a number of
disadvantages however. To increase the available surface
area of ion exchange resins which are produced in bead or
granular form, the polymers may be produced in a
macroporous form. It has been reported that these beads
can suffer from osmotic shock, poor regeneration 
efficiencies, often lower sorption capacities and higher
regeneration costs. In order to achieve a rapid removal
of cations or anions from solution it is necessary to
reduce the size of the beads to maximise the surface to
volume ratio.In a typical hydrometallurgical process, the ion
exchange beads may be added to a clarified lixiviant, a
process solution partly clarified by removal of the
larger ore solids, or alternatively the ion exchange
beads may be mixed with the ore solids in the form of a
pulp, the granular ion exchange resin then being
recovered by screening. Alternatively, the polymer may
be manufactured containing a magnetic material, in which
case, the ion-exchange beads may be recovered by magnetic
separation. It has been suggested that particularly high
values for absorption are obtained if the resins are
finely ground. However, fine grinding of the ion
exchange resin or the use of ion exchange resin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ion exchange resin comprising a polymer
containing ion exchanging sites which is dispersed or

distributed throughout a polyurethane matrix wherein said
ion exchanging sites are introduced subsequent to the

formation of said polyurethane matrix.
An ion exchange resin according to claim 1 which is
formed by introducing a polymer having no ion exchanging

sites into urethane raw materials; conducting a
polyurethane polymerisation reaction to form a

polyurethane matrix having said polymer dispersed or
distributed therein; and chemically modifying said

polymer to provide said ion exchanging sites.
An ion exchanging resin according to claim 1 which
is formed by providing a polyurethane matrix;

interpenetrating said matrix with one or more monomers,
at least one of which has one or more ion exchanging

ligands attached; and polymerising said one or more
monomers to provide said polymer containing ion

exchanging sites.
An ion exchange resin according to claim 1 which is
formed by providing a polyurethane matrix;

interpenetrating said polyurethane matrix with one or
more monomers none of which have ion exchange ligands

attached; polymerising said one or more monomers to
provide a polymer; and chemically modifying said polymer

to provide said ion exchanging sites.
An ion exchange resin according to claim 1 wherein
the polyurethane matrix and said polymer containing ion

exchanging sites form an interpenetrating polymer system,
said polymer containing ion exchanging sites being an

interpenetrated polymer. 
An ion exchange resin according to claim 1 wherein
the polymer containing ion exchanging sites is a polymer

formed from monomers of styrene, acrylonitrile, vinyl
chlo
ride, vinylidene chloride, divinyl benzene,
butadiene, epichlorohydrin, caprolactone, thiodiglycol,

thiodianiline, diallylamine, methylacrylonitrile,
hydrazides, dicyclopentadiene, vinyl butyral, succinic

anhydride, allyl halides, allyl malonic acid, acryloyl
chloride, polyacetal, vinyl alcohol, aminosalicylic acid,

dimethylolpropionic acid, α-methyl styrene, p-methyl
styrene, acrylates such as methylmethacrylate,

acrylamide, methylacrylamide, acrylic acid, hydroxyethyl
acrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, glycidyl methacrylate,

ethylene dimethacrylate, methylacrylic acid, hydroxyethyl
methacrylate, ethylene glycol dimethyacrylate, ethyl

acrylate, acrylimido salicylic acid, acrylimido diacetic
acid, acrylimido malonic acid, acrylimido phthalic acid,

acrylimido glycolic acid, or combinations and/or chemical
modifications thereof.
An ion exchange resin according to claim 6 wherein
the chemically modified monomers are selected from

hydroxy styrenes, vinylbenzyl chloride, hydroxyethyl
styrene, α-methyl styrene, p-methyl styrene,

dihydroxyethyl styrene, styrene sulphonic acid, acetoxy
styrene or combinations of these monomers or chemical

modifications of these monomers.
An ion exchange resin according to claim 1 wherein
the polymer containing ion exchanging sites is selected

from polystyrene, styrene-divinyl benzene, styrene-acrylonitrile,
styrene-acrylonitrile-methylmethacrylate,

acrylonitrile-methylmethacrylate, polyacrylonitrile,
polyacrylates, acrylic or methacrylic esters,

acrylonitrile-unsaturated dicarboxylic acid-styrene,
vinylidene chloride-acrylonitrile, epoxy(glycidyl

methacrylate)-acrylonitrile, poly p-methylstyrene, 
polyureas, aniline phenolformaldehyde, phenolformaldehyde,

styrene-butadiene, styrene-acrylonitrile-butadiene,
acrylonitrile-polyethylene glycol, polyamides,

polyacrylamides, polyimidazoles, allylglycidyl ether
adducts of diamines, ethylene and propylene carbonate

adducts of diamines, polybutadiene acrylates,
polydiallylamine, epoxy adducts, polycaprolactone,

caprolactone-acrylates, polydicyclopentadiene, styrene-methacrylonitrile,
methacrylonitrile-divinylbenzene,

polyvinyl chloride, glycidyl methacrylate-ethylene
dimethacrylate, acrylonitrile-methylacrylic acid,

polyvinyl alcohol-acrylonitrile, methyl methacrylate-hydroxyethyl
acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate-oligo(ethylene

glycol)dimethacrylate, hydroxystyrene-methylmethacrylate,
polyethyl acrylate-polystyrene,

crosslinked butadiene, polystyrene-polyethyleneimine,
polystyrene-arsenazo, epoxy-polystyrene, epoxy-diaza

crown ethers, polyacetal, cresol sulphonic acid-phenol-formaldehyde,
anthraquinone-formaldehyde, acryloyl

chloride-iminodiacetic acid, acryloyl chloride-aminosalicylic
acid, acryloyl chloride-methyl

nitrophenol-triethylamine, methyl nitrophenol-acetic
anhydride-acrylic acid, hydroxy acetophenone-substituted

benzoic acid-formaldehyde, or combinations thereof.
A ion exchange resin according to claim 1 wherein
said polyurethane matrix has been formed from an

isocyanate or hydroxy terminated prepolymer.
An ion exchange resin according to claim 1 wherein
said polyurethane matrix is chemically modified to

provide ion exchanging sites.
An ion exchange resin according to claim 1 wherein
active sites are incorporated into the polyurethane

matrix. 
An ion exchange resin according to claim 2 or claim
4 wherein the polymer has been chemically modified by one

or more of chloromethylation, sulphonation,
carboxylation, amination, phosphorylation, thioureation,

diazotization, amidoximation, or oximation in one or more
steps to provide said ion exchanging sites.
A resin according to claim 5 wherein melamine,
melamine formaldehyde or solvent extractants containing

phosphorus, or nitrogen or sulphur or any combination of
these have been incorporated into the interpenetrated

polymer.
A method of producing an ion exchange resin according to claim 1
comprising:


introducing a polymer having no ion exchanging sites into
urethane raw materials;
conducting a polyurethane polymerisation reaction to
form a polyurethane matrix having said polymer dispersed

or distributed therein; and
chemically modifying said polymer to provide said
ion exchanging sites.
A method according to claim 14 wherein a polyol
having a polymer dispersed therein is reacted with a

diisocyanate or a blend of diisocyanates to form said
polyurethane matrix having said polymer dispersed or

distributed therein.
A method of producing an ion exchange resin according to claim 1
comprising:


providing a polyurethane interpenetrating polymer
system which comprises a polyurethane polymer having a

second polymer dispersed or distributed therein; and
chemically modifying said second polymer to provide
ion exchanging sites.
A method of producing an ion exchange resin according to claim 1
comprising:


providing a polyurethane matrix;
interpenetrating said matrix with one or more
monomers, at least one of which has one or more ion

exchanging ligands attached; and
polymerising said one or more monomers to provide
said polymer containing ion exchanging sites.
A method of producing an ion exchange resin according to claim 1
comprising:


providing a polyurethane matrix;
interpenetrating said polyurethane matrix with one
or more monomers none of which have ion exchange ligands

attached;
polymerising said one or more monomers to provide a
polymer; and
chemically modifying said polymer to provide ion
exchanging sites.
A method according to claim 18 wherein said
polyurethane matrix is also chemically modified.
A method of producing an ion exchange resin
comprising:


providing an ion exchange resin according to
claim 1; and
chemically modifying said resin to modify the ion
exchange properties.
Use of an ion exchange resin according to claim 1
in removing soluble electrolytes in waste water treatment

processes or hydrometallurgical processes.
A method for removing soluble electrolytes from a
solvent comprising:


contacting the solvent with an ion exchange resin 
according to claim 1; and
recovering the electrolytes from the ion exchange
resin.
A method according to claim 22 wherein the ion
exchange resin is mixed with the solvent and subsequently

recovered from the solvent prior to recovering the
electrolytes from the resin.
A method according to claim 22 wherein the solvent
is passed through a bed containing the ion exchange

resin.
A method according to claim 21 for recovering soluble electrolytes in a
hydrometallurgical process including:


contacting an ion exchange resin according to
claim 1 with a solution containing a suspension of ore

solids; and
recovering the ion exchange resin.
A method according to claim 25 wherein the soluble

electrolytes are selected from ions of gold, zinc,
copper, chromium, palladium, platinum, silver, cobalt,

mercury, arsenic, molybdenum and mixtures thereof.
A method according to claim 25 wherein the ion
exchange resin is in the form of granules.
A method according to claim 25 wherein the ion
exchange resin is recovered by screening.
A method according to claim 25 wherein the ion
exchange resin contains a magnetic material and the ion

exchange resin is recovered by magnetic separation.
A method according to claim 21 of recovering soluble electrolytes from
waste water comprising: 


contacting an ion exchange resin according to
claim 1 with said waste water; and
recovering the electrolytes from the ion exchange
resin.
A method according to claim 30 wherein the waste
water is an industrial effluent or sewage effluent.
Use of an ion exchange resin according to claim 1 to
treat effluent streams to recover desired metal ions

contained therein.
Use of an ion exchange resin according to claim 1 to
remove toxic metals from a discharge of an effluent.
Use according to claim 33 wherein the toxic metal
and/or the effluent is subsequently recycled.
Use of an ion exchange resin according to claim 1 in
a hydrometallurgical process to extract or recover metal

ions from a clarified lixiviant, a process solution
partly clarified by removal of larger ore solids, or ore

solids in the form of a pulp.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
