<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646721</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Gas turbine engine and operation thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02C704	F02K306	F02C7057	F02K300	F02K3075	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02C	F02K	F02C	F02K	F02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02C7	F02K3	F02C7	F02K3	F02K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A FLADE aircraft gas turbine engine having an outer fan 
duct (3) circumscribing a preferably variable cycle inner 

gas turbine engine (10). A FLADE fan (2) is disposed in the outer fan 
duct (3) radially outward of and drivenly connected to 

a first fan (32) disposed in a first fan duct of the engine. 
The inlet of the first fan duct is sized to receive 

essentially the full mass airflow of the engine at full 
power conditions with the outer fan duct inlet (8) essentially 

closed off. The engine is further designed and operable 
to fully open the inlet of the outer fan duct (8) at 

predetermined part power flight conditions to avoid 
spillage drag and essentially close it at full power 

conditions such as take off. Another embodiment relates 
to a supersonic engine which operates the FLADE fan (2) 

fully open at supersonic cruise flight conditions and 
has an outer fan duct inlet (8) which is sized essentially 

sufficiently large enough to receive essentially only 
the engine inlet boundary layer flow and pass it though 

the outer fan duct (3) and not through the inner engine (10) where it 
would decrease the inner engine (10) efficiency. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON JAMES EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, JAMES EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to FLADE aircraft gas
turbine engine and more particularly to construction and
operating method of such an engine to reduce inlet
spillage drag.A considerable effort has been made toward
developing high performance variable cycle gas turbine
engines. These types of engines have a unique ability
to operate efficiently at various thrust settings and
flight speeds both subsonic and supersonic. An
important feature of the variable cycle gas turbine
engine which contributes to its high performance is its
capability of maintaining a substantially constant inlet
airflow as its thrust is varied. This feature leads to
important performance advantages under less than full
power engine settings or maximum thrust conditions, such
as during subsonic cruise. The effect of maintaining
inlet airflow as thrust is reduced is to decrease such
performance penalties as inlet spillage drag and
afterbody closure drag, both of which have a
considerable detrimental effect on the overall
efficiency, size, weight, and performance of the
aircraft and its engine.Certain variable cycle engines, such as those
described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,068,471 and 4,285,194, 
assigned to the same assignee as the present invention,
achieve relatively constant airflow as thrust is varied
by changing the amount of fan bypass flow with a valve
system referred to as a variable area bypass injector
(VABI). As engine thrust is decreased, the VABI
increases bypass flow to offset decreasing core engine
flow resulting in a relatively constant total engine
flow, thus exhibiting the performance benefits described
above. However, it uses very expensive multi-stage fan
air to do so. Furthermore, it is somewhat limited in
its ability to ingest the air at subsonic part power
engine settings and engine operation because it has to
be sized to match the flow conditions in the bypass duct
into which is dumped some very highly pressurized air.
This fan air is divided between the core flow and the
bypass flow and therefore is controlled by the various
bypass flow control mechanisms such as the VABI's. This
in turn limits the degree to which the bypass air can be
used to avoid spillage. Typically, conventional
variable cycle engines have a limited range of thrust
settings for a given Mach No. (particularly subsonic
levels e.g. Mach No. = .8-.9) through which essentially
constant airflow can be maintained and specific fuel
consumption can be minimized. Therefore it is desirable
to construct and operate an aircraft gas turbine engine
able to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An aircraft fan on blade (FLADE) gas turbine engine (1) comprising:

an inner gas turbine engine (10) having at least one
inner fan section with at least one row of inner fan

blades (32) disposed in an inner fan duct,
a FLADE fan duct (3) circumferentially disposed around
said inner engine,
a FLADE fan (2) disposed in said FLADE duct,
said FLADE fan having at least one row of FLADE fan
blades (5) radially outward of and drivenly connected to

said inner fan section,
said inner fan duct having an inner fan duct inlet (11)
and said FLADE fan duct having a FLADE fan duct inlet (8),
a FLADE inlet airflow modulation means (6, 7) disposed in
said FLADE fan duct to control airflow through said

FLADE fan duct, characterised in that
said inner fan duct inlet is sized to
receive essentially the full mass airflow of the engine

at a full power condition with said FLADE fan duct inlet
closed off, and
an engine inlet airflow control means (140) operable to
control said FLADE inlet airflow modulation means to

fully open said FLADE fan duct inlet (8) at a part power
flight condition of the engine and close

said FLADE fan duct inlet at a full power flight
condition of the engine.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 1 wherein said inner fan duct inlet (11) has an inner

fan duct inlet area and said FLADE fan duct inlet (8) has a
FLADE fan duct inlet area that is in a range of about

between 30%-40% of said inner fan duct inlet area. 
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 1 wherein said part power flight condition is a

cruise condition.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 2 wherein said FLADE inlet airflow modulation

means comprises a row of variable angle FLADE vanes (6)
disposed forward of said FLADE fan.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 4 wherein said inner gas turbine engine (10) is a

variable cycle engine.
A method of operating an aircraft fan on blade (FLADE) gas turbine
engine (1), said method comprising the following steps:


a) providing an aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine
having an inner gas turbine engine (10) having at least one

inner fan section with at least one row of inner fan
blades (32) disposed in an inner fan duct,
a FLADE fan duct (3) circumferentially disposed around
said inner engine,
a FLADE fan (2) disposed in said FLADE duct,
said FLADE fan having at least one row of FLADE fan
blades radially outward of and drivenly connected to

said inner fan section,
said inner fan duct having an inner fan duct inlet (11),
and said FLADE fan duct having a FLADE fan duct inlet (8),
a FLADE inlet airflow modulation means (6, 7) disposed in
said FLADE fan duct to control airflow through said

FLADE fan duct, characterised in that
said inner fan duct inlet is sized to
receive essentially the full mass airflow of the engine

at a full power condition with said FLADE fan duct inlet
closed off, and
operating said FLADE engine at takeoff with said
FLADE inlet airflow modulation means fully 

closed.
A method as claimed in Claim 6 further comprising
step:


c) operating said FLADE engine at a part power flight
condition with said FLADE inlet airflow modulation means

fully open.
A supersonic aircraft fan on blade (FLADE) gas turbine engine (1)
comprising:


an inner gas turbine engine (10) having at least one
inner fan section with at least one row of inner fan

blades (32) disposed in an inner fan duct,
a FLADE fan duct (3) circumferentially disposed around
said inner engine,
a FLADE fan (2) disposed in said FLADE duct,
said FLADE fan having at least one row of FLADE fan
blades (5) radially outward of and drivenly connected to

said inner fan section,
said inner fan duct having an inner fan duct inlet (11)
and said FLADE fan duct having a FLADE fan duct inlet (8),
a FLADE inlet airflow modulation means (6, 7) disposed in
said FLADE fan duct (3) to control airflow through said

FLADE fan duct,
a FLADE gas turbine engine inlet (13) comprising said
inner fan duct inlet (11) and said FLADE fan duct inlet (8) characterised in that
said FLADE fan duct inlet is
large enough to receive only

boundary layer air of said FLADE gas turbine engine
inlet during supersonic flight conditions, and
an engine inlet airflow control means (140) operable to
control said FLADE inlet airflow modulation means to

fully open said FLADE fan duct inlet at a supersonic
cruise flight 
condition of the engine.
An aircraft FLADE gas turbine engine as claimed in
Claim 8 wherein said inner fan duct inlet (11) has an inner

fan duct inlet area and said FLADE fan duct inlet (8) has a
FLADE fan duct inlet area that is about 5% of said inner

fan duct inlet area.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
