<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620891</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED OBSTRUCTION DETECTION SYSTEM FOR A VEHICLE WINDOW.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05F1500	E05F1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05F	E05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05F15	E05F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An obstruction detection system (10) for a vehicle window (30) includes a shade and/or a filter, and/or a dual channel monitoring system to prevent interference with the monitoring beam (18) by ambient noise; a transducer (48, 50 and 52) at either end and one at an intermediate apex monitors obstructions relative to nonlinear, rectilinear or curvilinear edges (40); a wide angle transducer, closely aligned pair of transducers, or a mechanical interrupter is used to ensure tripping the beam (18) by even small obstacles (86), and a camming surface (72) guides small obstacles into the path of the beam driven by the monitored window edge.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROSPECTS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROSPECTS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUANG CLIFF L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LU MICHAEL YUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUANG CLIFF L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LU MICHAEL YUAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED OBSTRUCTION DETECTION SYSTEM FOR A VEHICLE WINDOWFIELD OF INVENTIONA This invention relates to an improved obstruction detection■x system, and more particularly to such a system which monitors nonlinear, curvilinear or rectilinear window edges; which shades and/or filters the receiver against- noise that would mask the condition of the monitoring beam; eliminates blind spots in corners; guides small objects trapped by the advancing window to interfere with the monitoring beam; and uses a dual-channel technique to avoid disabling of the system by ambient noise.BACKGROUND OF INVENTIONAutomatic closure systems for vehicle windows are becoming more an more common wherein for example a driver can close any window in the vehicle by simple operation of an actuator button. Such automatic closure makes it essential that some safety interlock be provided to prevent obstructions such as human or animal parts; hands, arms, heads, paws, from being trapped between the edge of the closing window and the section of the frame that receives the window edge. Such safety precautions are even more imperative in more sophisticated systems which are wholly self-operating and do not even require actuation of an operating button or switch such as in systems which automatically close the windows of a parked car when rainfall is sensed.Most vehicle windows including side windows, sun roofs and the like, do not have uniformly straight edges which engage with the frame. Typically those edges are rectilinear or curvilinear and a series of monitoring beams and pairs of transmitter and receiver transducers must be used to follow the edge contour.Corner locations for transmitters and receivers present a special problem because they generally are accompanied by blind spots in which small obstructions like children's fingers can be missed so no alarm signal is delivered to stop advance of the closing windows. 

 A constant problem with obstruction detecting systems is that of ambient noise. Whether the monitoring beam be infrared, sound, ultrasound, light, or some other form of energy, ambient noise can trick the beam receiver into thinking the beam is uninterrupted and no obstacles have been detected because the . noise supplies sufficient input to the receiver even when the beam is actually blocked.SUMMARY OF INVENTION It is therefore an object of this invention to provide an improved obstruction detection system for a vehicle window.It is a further object of this invention to provide such a improved obstruction detection
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A dual channel obstruction detection system for monitoring the closure of the edge of a vehicle window with its frame, comprising: a first channel including a first transmitter and a spaced first receiver mounted with said frame proximate the section of said frame which receives the edge of said window for establishing a first energy beam propagating along said section of said frame; a second channel including a second transmitter and a spaced second receiver mounted with said frame proximate the section of said frame which receives the edge of said window for establishing a second energy beam propagating along said section of said frame; said beams propagating in opposite directions with said first transmitter and second receiver being at one end of said beams and said second transmitter and first receiver being at the other for enabling each said receiver to present an opposite field of view to incident ambient noise energy.
2. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 in which the beam of said first channel and the beam of said second channel are of different frequencies to prevent channel crossover of the beams.
3. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 further including means for monitoring only one beam at a time for preventing channel crossover of said beams.
4. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 further including shade means extending from each receiver along said beam direction towards the associated transmitter for preventing ambient noise energy from striking said receiver and masking the condition of the associated beam.
5. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 further including filter means at each receiver for preventing 


ambient noise energy from striking said receiver and masking the condition of the associated beam.
6. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 in which said energy beam is an infrared beam.
7. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 in which said energy beam is a sound beam.
8. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 in which said energy beam is an ultrasound beam.
9. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 in which said energy beam is a laser beam.
10. The dual channel obstruction detection system of claim 1 further including means for determining whether said transmitters and receivers are operating.
11. An obstruction detection system for monitoring the closure of a vehicle window with its frame in which the window has a nonlinear edge to be monitored, the edge including two terminal portions and an intermediate portion, comprising: three spaced transducers disposed on the section of the frame of the window which receives said edge, one proximate each said edge portion of the associated window for propagating a narrow energy beam between each of the terminal portions and the intermediate portion, the transducer at aid intermediate portion being one of a transmitter and a receiver an the transducer at said terminal portions being the other for closely conforming the track of the beams to the nonlinear contour of the window edge; and means, responsive to each said receiver, for indicating a blockage in the path of said window in response to an interruption of said beam. 



 12. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 in which said edge is rectilinear.
13. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 in which said edge is curvilinear.
14. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 in which said edge transducer at said intermediate portion is a transmitter and the transducer at each said terminal portion is a receiver.
15. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 in which said edge transducer at said intermediate portion is a receiver and the transducer at each said terminal portion is a transmitter.
16. The obstruction detection system of claim 15 in which said receiver has a single sensor for receiving the beams from both transmitters.
17. The obstruction detection system of claim 15 in which said sensor is a wide angle sensor.
18. The obstruction detection system of claim 16 in which said sensor is no larger than the smallest object to be detected obstructing the closure of said window.
19. The obstruction detection system of claim 16 in which said receiver includes two sensors, one for receiving the beam from each transmitter, and the separation between said sensors is smaller than the smallest object to be detected obstructing the closure of said window.
20. The obstruction detection system of claim 15 in which said receiver includes two sensors, one for receiving the beam from each transmitter, and said receiver includes an interrupter 


normally biased clear of said sensors but movable by an obstruction driven by closure of said window to overcome the bias and dispose said interrupter to block at least one of said beams.
21. The obstruction detection system of claim 14 in which . said transmitter includes two emitters, one for transmitting the beam to each receiver, and said transmitter includes an interrupter normally biased clear of said emitters but movable by an obstruction driven by closure of said window to overcome the bias and dispose said interrupter to block out least one of said beams.
22. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 in which said beams are infrared.
23. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 in which said beams are ultrasound.
24. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 in which said beams are sound.
25. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 in which said beams are light.
26. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 further including a secondary transmitter and receiver mounted with said frame for establishing a secondary beam remote from said section of said frame for monitoring progress of said edge of said window before closure of said window edge with said frame section.
27. The obstruction detection system of claim 11 further including means for determining whether said transmitters and receivers are operating.
28. An obstruction detection system for monitoring the closure of the edge of a vehicle window with its frame, 


comprising: a transmitter, mounted on the section of the frame which receives the window edge, for transmitting and a receiver, mounted on the section of the frame which receives the window edge and spaced from said transmitter, for receiving a narrow energy beam adjacent said section of said frame; means, responsive to said receiver, for indicating a blockage in the path of said window in response to an interruption of said beam; and shade means extending from said receiver along said beam direction towards said transmitter for preventing ambient noise energy from striking said receiver and masking the condition of said beam.
29. The obstruction detection system of claim 28 further including filter means at said receiver for preventing ambient noise energy from striking said receiver and masking the condition of said beam.
30. The obstruction detection system of claim 28 further including means for determining whether said transmitter and receiver are operating.
31. An obstruction detection system for monitoring the closure of on the edge of a vehicle window with its frame, comprising: a transmitter, mounted on the section of the frame which receives the window edge, for transmitting and a receiver, mounted on the section of the frame which receives the window edge and spaced from said transmitter, for receiving a narrow energy beam adjacent said section of said frame; means, responsive to said receiver, for indicating a blockage in the path of said window in response 
•
.._
•
 an interruption of said beam; and filter means at said receiver for preventing ambient noise energy from striking said receiver and masking the 


condition of said beam.
32. The obstruction detection system of claim 31 further including shade means extending from said receiver along said beam direction towards said transmitter for preventing ambient noise energy from striking said receiver and masking the condition of said beam.
33. The obstruction detection system of claim 31 further including means for determining whether said transmitter and receiver are operating.
34. An obstruction detection system for monitoring the closure of on the edge of a vehicle window with its frame, comprising: a transmitter mounted on the section of the frame which receives the window edge for transmitting and a receiver mounted on the section of the frame which receives the window edge and spaced from said transmitter for receiving a narrow energy beam adjacent said section of said frame; at least one of said transmitter and receiver being mounted proximate a corner of said frame section; a cam surface for receiving an obstructing object driven by said closing window and guiding it to block said beam; and means responsive to said receiver for including a indicating a blockage in the path of said window in response to an interruption of said beam.
35. The obstruction detection system of claim 34 further including means for determining whether said transmitter and receiver are operating.
36. An obstruction detection system for monitoring the closure of on the edge of a vehicle window with its frame, comprising: 


 a transmitter, mounted on the section of the frame which receives the window edge, for transmitting and a receiver, mounted on the section of the frame which receives the window edge and spaced from said transmitter, for receiving a narrow energy beam adjacent said section of said frame; means, responsive to said receiver, for including a indicating a blockage in the path of said window in response to an interruption of said beam; and a secondary transmitter and receiver mounted with said frame for establishing a secondary beam remote from said section of said frame for monitoring progress of said edge of said window before closure of said window edge with said frame section.
37. The obstruction detection system of claim 28 further including means for determining whether said transmitter and receiver are operating. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
