<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0989711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for transmitting an internet protocol (IP) packet within a fiber optic network
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L2906	H04L702	H04B1000	H04L2549	H04L704	H04L2549	H04Q1100	H04L2906	H04J316	H04L704	H04L2908	H04Q1100	H04L702	H04J316	H04B1000	H04L2908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04L	H04J	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04L	H04J	H04B	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L29	H04L7	H04B10	H04L25	H04L7	H04L25	H04Q11	H04L29	H04J3	H04L7	H04L29	H04Q11	H04L7	H04J3	H04B10	H04L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An embodiment includes an optical source, an optical receiver, and an
interconnecting optical fiber. A data sequence is received and encoded or formatted as

an IP packet using an encoding format capable of returning a signal representing the IP
packet to a predetermined value at the beginning of each bit period of the IP packet at

a physical layer of the network. The encoded IP packet is then transmitted directly over
an optical layer of the network without adapting the IP packet to another encoding format

or using an adaptation layer in the network (e.g., at a data link layer or higher). The
optical receiver receives the IP packet and then a clock signal is extracted without the

overhead and costs associated with additional adaptation or encoding of the IP packet.
When the optical source is in an idle state, a mark-hold state (more generally called a

filler signal) is formatted with the same encoding format and transmitted to the optical
receiver directly over the optical layer in order to maintain a synchronous clock during the

idle state.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CISCO PHOTONICS ITALY SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CISCO PHOTONICS ITALY SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUNDERS ROSS ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUNDERS, ROSS ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to systems for transmitting data over fiber optic networks, and specifically to systems for transmitting an encoded Intemet protocol (IP) packet directly over an optical or photonic layer of a fiber optic network without the overhead and expense of adapting the IP packet to another encoding format.The global Intemet has become a gateway to information for the general public. Given the online availability of this seemingly endless resource of information, a desire to quickly access this information has driven an evolution in the telecommunications industry and, in particular, in telecommunications networks. As telecommunications networks evolve, the growth in data traffic on the networks appears to outpace the growth in voice traffic. Some industry commentators have noted that the average packet size in telecommunications networks has increased from 280 bytes to 330 bytes in 1998 alone. Additionally, these commentators have noted that the average session duration has decreased down to only 13 seconds. In summary, the growth in data traffic along with changing characteristics of the data traffic itself has forced many telecommunications service providers to seek a more efficient and higher bandwidth mechanism for transporting data traffic.One efficient type of telecommunications network for transporting such data traffic is a packet-based telecommunications network. A packet-based telecommunications network is a communication network using protocols in which messages are divided into packets before they are sent. Each packet is individually transmitted and can follow different routes to its destination within the network. Once all of the packets forming the message have arrived at the destination, the message is recompiled from the packets and delivered as a whole message.An example of such a packet-based telecommunications network is an IP-based network. Essentially, an IP-based network uses Intemet protocol or IP as the protocol to handle addressing of packets. Some networks combine IP with a higher level protocol called transport control protocol (TCP), which establishes a virtual connection or link between a destination and a source. Those skilled in the art will be familiar with IP-based networks and the current version of IP called IPv4, which is promulgated by the Intemet Engineering Task Force (IETF). A newer version of IP called IPv6 or IPng (IP Next Generation) is currently under development by IETF.Many data networks generally rely upon a conventional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for transmitting an internet protocol IP, packet within an IP-based fiber optic network, comprising the steps of:

encoding bits of a data sequence into the IP packet using a predetermined signal-encoding format capable of returning to a predetermined value at the beginning of each bit period of the data sequence; and
transmitting the IP packet to a receiver directly over an optical layer of the IP-based fiber optic network without adapting the IP packet to another encoding format at a data link layer.
The method of claim 1, wherein the encoding step further comprises encoding the bits of the data sequence into the IP packet using a return-to-zero RZ, encoding format as the predetermined signal-encoding format.
The method of claim 1 further comprising receiving the IP packet and extracting a clock signal from the IP packet.
The method of claim 3, wherein the extracting step further comprises determining a repetition rate of the encoded bits as the clock signal.
The method of claim 3 further comprising transmitting a predetermined filler signal directly over the optical layer of the IP-based fiber optic network after transmitting the IP packet and before transmitting a subsequent IP packet, the predetermined filler signal being encoded using the predetermined signal-encoding format.
The method of claim 5, wherein the step of transmitting the predetermined filler signal further comprises transmitting a series of logical ones which have been encoded using the predetermined signal-encoding format.
The method of claim 6 further comprising receiving the predetermined filler signal and extracting the clock signal from the predetermined filler signal without regard to a length of the predetermined filler signal.
The method of claim 3 further comprising receiving a large pattern
 sequence of bits as the data sequence and wherein the step of encoding the bits further comprises encoding the large pattern sequence into the IP packet using the predetermined signal-encoding format without breaking up the large pattern sequence of bits within a payload of the IP packet.
A method of communication within an internet protocol, IP, based fiber optic network between an optical source and an optical receiver, comprising the steps of:

receiving a data sequence at the optical source;
formatting the data sequence into an IP packet having a first series of return-to-zero, RZ, encoded bits;
transmitting the IP packet from the optical source to the optical receiver as a plurality of optical pulses over an optical layer of the IP-based fiber optic network without using an adaptation layer in the IP-based fiber optic network;
receiving the IP packet by the optical receiver; and
extracting a clock signal from the IP packet by determining the repetition rate of the first series of RZ encoded bits in the IP packet.
The method of claim 9 further comprising the steps of:

determining if the optical source is in an idle condition;
formatting a filler signal with a predefined state as a payload in the filler signal if the optical source is in the idle condition, the predefined state having a second series of RZ encoded bits indicating the idle condition of the optical source; and
transmitting the filler signal directly over the optical layer of the IP-based fiber optic network without adapting the filler signal to another encoding format at a data link layer.
The method of claim 10, wherein the step of sending the filler signal further comprises transmitting the filler signal having a series of logical ones as the payload, the series of logical ones being encoded in the RZ encoding format.
The method of claim 10 further comprising receiving the filler signal by the optical receiver and extracting the clock signal from the second series of RZ encoded bits without regard to a length of the second series of RZ encoded bits.
The method of claim 10, wherein the determining step further comprises
 determining if a next data sequence has not yet been received at the optical source as the idle condition.
The method of claim 9 further comprising receiving a large pattern sequence of bits as the data sequence and wherein the formatting step further comprises formatting the large pattern sequence into the IP packet having a third series of RZ encoded bits without scrambling the large pattern sequence of bits within a payload of the IP packet.
A system for transmitting an internet protocol IP, packet within a fiber optic network, comprising:

an optical source having an input for receiving a data sequence and an output for transmitting the IP packet on an optical layer of the fiber optic network without adapting the IP packet to an encoding format at a data link layer, the optical source being capable of formatting the data sequence into the IP packet using a predetermined signal-encoding format capable of returning to a predetermined value at the beginning of each bit period within the IP packet;
an optical fiber having a first end connected to the output of the optical source; and
an optical receiver connected to a second end of the optical fiber, the optical receiver being operative to receive the IP packet through the optical fiber and extract a clock signal from the IP packet.
The system of claim 15, wherein the optical source is a router and is further capable of transmitting a filler signal over the optical layer of the fiber optic network without adapting the filler signal to another encoding format at the data link layer during an idle state of the router, the filler signal being formatted as a mark-hold state using the predetermined signal-encoding format; and

wherein the optical receiver is further operative to receive the filler signal and to extract the clock signal from the filler signal without regard to a length of the filler signal.
The system of claim 16, wherein the mark-hold state is a series of logical ones generated by the router during the idle state.
The system of claim 17, wherein the predetermined signal-encoding
 format is a return-to-zero, RZ, encoding format.
The system of claim 18, wherein the optical receiver is further operative to extract the clock signal by determining a repetition rate associated with a plurality of light pulses encoded in the RZ encoding format representing the IP packet and the filler signal.
The system of claim 15, wherein the optical source is further operative to format a large pattern sequence of bits as the data sequence into the IP packet without scrambling the large pattern sequence of bits within a payload of the IP packet.
The system of claim 20, wherein the optical receiver is further operative to receive the large pattern sequence of bits within the IP packet without losing the clock signal.
The system of claim 15, wherein the optical receiver includes a clock recovery device for extracting.the clock signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
