<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631151</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for spatially ordered phase encoding in magnetic resonance by using superimposed time-varying electric fields
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3334	G01R3338	A61B5055	A61B5055	G01R3334	G01R33385	G01F1704	G01F1716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	A61B	A61B	G01R	G01R	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	G01R33	A61B5	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	G01F1	G01F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An MRI apparatus of the invention comprises a magnet 
system for producing a homogeneous magnetic field along the 

z axis. A plurality of wire conductors are arranged in a 
"bird cage" or "squirrel cage" configuration and are 

supplied with a circularly rotating RF field centered near 
the Larmor frequency ω
o
. The wire conductors also receive a 
voltage source V
p
 having a frequency ω
p
, which is less than 
the Larmor frequency. The voltage source V
p
 is rotated 
about the wire conductors at a frequency of ω
s
, which is 
much less than the frequency ω
p
, to successively apply the 
voltage V
p
 to each pair of diametrically opposed wire 
conductors in a manner which is ordered as a spatial 

cylindrical harmonic rotating at a frequency ω
s
. The 
voltage source V
p
 produces electric fields in the object 
which, in turn, generate linear magnetic field gradients in 

the object. The voltage source V
p
 phase encodes the signals 
detected from the object which thereby enables a transverse 

magnetization at each point within the object to be rapidly 
mapped back by projection techniques. Alternately, the 

transverse magnetization can be mapped back by an inverse 
transformation of a complex plane extending from the 

measured region by analytic continuation or by a linear 
transformation utilizing the solutions to Sommerfeld's 

Integral. Also, the complex permittivity or ionic mobility 
may be continuously measured through its effect on the 

transverse magnetization for analysis or process control. 
With the invention, an image of the object is rapidly and 

continuously produced without requiring the use of the 
conventional gradient field coils and without any mechanical 

moving parts. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WOLLIN ERNEST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WOLLIN, ERNEST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLLIN ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLLIN, ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is generally concerned with magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) and, more particularly, to the
formation of gradient fields in an imaging volume.A prior art MRI apparatus, such as that depicted in
Fig. 1 and disclosed in U.S. patent No. 4,952,878
is comprised of a magnet
system 2 and a magnet supply source 6 for generating a
homogeneous stationary magnetic field Ho. A magnet system 4
and a supply source 8 generate magnetic gradient fields and
an RF coil 10, connected to an RF amplifier 12, generates a
radio frequency alternating magnetic field.The uniform magnetic field Ho produced by the magnet
system 2 and the magnet supply source 6 is formed within an
imaging volume along a z axis and causes the nuclei within
the object to tend to be aligned along the z axis. The
nuclei precess about the z axis at their Larmor frequencies
according to the following equation:
ωo = γHo 
where ωo is the Larmor frequency at a field strength of Ho
and γ is the gyromagnetic ratio. The gyromagnetic ratio γ
is a constant and is a property of the particular subatomic
particle. For instance, the gyromagnetic ratio γ for water
protons is 42,6 kHz/T (4.26 kHz/gauss). Thus, in a 1.5 Telsa polarizing
magnetic field Ho, the resonant or Larmor frequency of water
protons is approximately 63.9 MHz.In a typical imaging sequence, the RF coils 10 are used
to generate an RF signal centered at the Larmor frequency
ωo. In conjunction with this RF signal, a magnetic field
gradient Gz is generated with the gradient coils 4 so that
only the nuclei in a selected slice through the object along
the x-y plane, which have a resonant frequency centered at
the Larmor frequency ωo, are excited and absorb energy.
Next, the gradient coils 4 are used to produce magnetic
field gradients along the x and y axes. Generally speaking,
the x axis gradient Gx spatially encodes the precessing
nuclei continuously by frequency and the y axis gradient Gy
is used to pulse phase encode the nuclei.The RF coils 10 may be formed in the design of a "birdcage"
or a "squirrel cage" as shown in Fig. 2. Other RF
coil designs are also known, such as those disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,717,881, U.S. Patent No. 4,757,290, U.S. Patent
No. 4,833,409, U.S. Patent No. 4,916,418, U.S. Patent No.
5,017,872, U.S. Patent No. 5,041,790, U.S. Patent No.
5,057,778, and U.S. Patent No. 5,081,418. The RF coils 10
generate a circularly polarized RF field which rotates near
the Larmor frequency over the antenna wires 30 of the coil.
The RF coils 10 are also used to detect signals
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for generating magnetic field
gradients for use in magnetic resonance imaging of an

object, comprising:

a plurality of conductive wires (30) arranged in
parallel to each other and formed in a shape of a cylinder, said plurality of conductive wires (30) being tuned near a Larmor frequency of the object such that voltages near the Larmor frequency may rotate about the arrangement and other signals, such as signals oscillating with the first frequency, are prevented from rotating about this arrangement;
a first ring conductor joining said conductive
wires at one end of said conductive wires (30);
a second ring conductor joining said
conductive wires (30) at an end opposite said one end of said

conductive wires (30); 
characterised by
means for generating a time varying voltage
having a first frequency which is lower than said Larmor

frequency of said object; and
means arranged to apply said time varying
voltage across successive pairs of diametrically opposed wires

at a spatial frequency, said spatial frequency
being much less than said first frequency;

   wherein said time varying voltage produces a time varying electric field in a measurement space between said wires and
a linear magnetic field gradient in said measurement space.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein
said conductive wires (30) are arranged in a bird cage

configuration that is tuned to said Larmor frequency. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 or 2,
further comprising:


means (18, 20) for generating RF fields having a frequency
centered near said Larmor frequency; and
means (15) for applying said RF fields to said
conductive wires;

   wherein said RF fields become circularly polarized
and rotate about said conductive wires.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 1, 2, or 3,
further comprising:


a first set (Z
1
) of filters connected on said first
ring conductor between said conductive wires for tuning said

conductive wires near said Larmor frequency; and
a second set (Z
3
) of filters connected between said
applying means and said first ring conductor for passing

through said first frequency and for filtering out said
Larmor frequency.
An apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein said conductive wires (30) detect signals generated by said

object and said apparatus further comprises means for
processing the detected signals in order to produce an image

of said object. 
An MRI apparatus for detecting signals from an object,
comprising:


means (2) for producing a first magnetic field along a first axis;
means (13) for generating a second magnetic field perpendicular
to said first magnetic field having a Larmor frequency, said Larmor

frequency being specified by said first magnetic field and by said object;
means (13) for detecting signals emitted by said object,
the apparatus being 
characterized by
means (17) adapted to generate a modulating voltage having a second
frequency that is less than said Larmor frequency;
means (13) comprising at least two conductors arranged in parallel to each other and parallel to said first
magnetic field across which the modulating voltage is provided, thereby

generating an electric field having said second frequency, wherein said
electric field produces a linear magnetic field gradient

in the measurement space between said conductors;
control means (18) adapted to apply said voltage to said
conductors.
An apparatus as set forth in claim 6, wherein said
control means (18) further comprises means for processing the detected signals to generate an image. 
An MRI apparatus as set forth claim 6 or 7,
wherein said means (13) comprising at least two conductors arranged parallel to each other

comprises:

a plurality of conductive wires (30) arranged in
parallel to each other and formed in a shape of a cylinder;
a first ring conductor joining said conductive
wires at one end of said conductive wires; and
a second ring conductor joining said
conductive wires at an end opposite said one end of said

conductive wires;

   wherein said modulating voltage is provided across said wires (30)
such that

said
electric field rotates about said conductive wires (30) at

a third frequency that is much less than said second
frequency.
An MRI apparatus as set forth in claim 6, 7 or 8,
wherein said means for generating said

electric field is also said detecting means (13).
An MRI apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 7 to 9,
wherein said processing means is arranged to use a projection

reconstruction technique to produce said image of said
object.
An MRI apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 7 to 10,
wherein said processing means is arranged to employ at least one look up

table containing Bessel functions when processing said
detected signals to produce said image of said object. 
An MRI apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 7 to 11,
wherein said processing means is arranged to employ at least one look up

table containing solutions to Sommerfeld's integral when
processing said detected signals to produce said image of

said object.
An MRI apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 7 to 12,
wherein said detecting means (13) is arranged to detect said signals when said

modulating voltage has a first polarity and to detect said signals
when said modulating voltage has a polarity opposite said first

polarity and said control means (18) is arranged to add said signals detected
at opposite polarities together to thereby cancel an error

component in said signals.
An MRI apparatus as set forth in any one of claims 7 to 13,

wherein said detecting means (13) is arranged to detect said signals when said
modulating voltage has a first polarity and to detect said signals

when said modulating voltage has a polarity opposite said first
polarity and said control means (18) is arranged to subtract said signals

detected at opposite polarities to determine an error
component in said signals, said error component being used

for controlling a quality of said image. 
A method of generating magnetic field
gradients for use in magnetic resonance imaging of an

object, comprising the steps of:

arranging a plurality of conductive wires (30) in
parallel to each other in a shape of a cylinder;
joining said plurality of conductive wires (30) with a
first ring conductor at one end of said conductive wires (30);
joining said plurality of conductive wires (30) with a
second ring conductor at an end opposite said one end of

said conductive wires (30);
tuning said conductive wires (30) to a Larmor frequency of said object such that voltages near the Larmor frequency may rotate about the arrangement and other signals. Such as signals oscillating with the first frequency, are prevented from rotating about this arrangement;
generating a time varying voltage having a
first frequency which is lower than the Larmor frequency of

said object;
applying said time varying voltage
across successive pairs of diametrically opposed wires at a

second frequency, said second frequency being much less than
said first frequency;

   wherein said time varying voltage produces a time varying electric field in a measurement space between said wires and
a linear magnetic field gradient in said measurement space.
A method of generating magnetic field
gradients as set forth in claim 15, wherein

said conductive wires (30) are tuned near said Larmor
frequency. 
A method

   as set forth in claim 15 or 16, further comprising the
steps of:


generating RF fields at a frequency centered near
said Larmor frequency; and
applying said RF fields to said conductive wires (30);

   wherein said RF fields become circularly polarized
and rotate about said conductive wires (30).
A method

as set forth in claim 15, 16, or 17, further comprising the
steps of:


connecting a first set of filters on said first
ring conductor between said conductive wires (30) for tuning said

conductive wires (30) near said Larmor frequency; and
connecting a second set of filters between said
applying means and said first ring conductor for passing

through said first frequency and for filtering out said
Larmor frequency.
A method

as set forth in any one of claims 15 to 18, further comprising the
steps of:


detecting signals generated by said object with
said conductive wires (30); and
processing the detected signals in order to
produce an image of said object.
A method of detecting signals from an object with magnetic
resonance, comprising the steps of:


producing a first magnetic field along a first axis;
generating a second magnetic field perpendicular to said first
magnetic field having a Larmor frequency, said Larmor frequency being

specified by said first magnetic field and by said object;
generating a modulating voltage having a second frequency that
is less than said Larmor frequency;
providing said modulating voltage across at least two conductors arranged parallel to each other wich are parallel to said first magnetic field, thereby generating an electric field
having said second frequency, said electric field providing a linear magnetic field

gradient in the measurement space between said conductors; and.
detecting signals emitted by said object.
A method as set forth in claim 20, further comprising processing the detected signals to generate an image of said object. 
A method of generating images as set forth
in claim 20 or 21 further comprising the steps of:


arranging a plurality of conductive wires (30) in
parallel to each other in a shape of a cylinder;
joining said plurality of conductive wires (30) with a
first ring conductor at one end of said conductive wires (30);
joining said plurality of conductive wires (30) with a
second ring conductor at an end opposite said one end of

said conductive wires (30);

   wherein said
electric field rotates about said conductive wires at

a third frequency that is much less than said second
frequency.
A method as set forth in claim 20, 21 or 22,

   wherein said step of generating said
electric fields is performed by an antenna structure

that also performs said step of detecting said signals.
A method as set forth in any one of claims 21 to 23,

   wherein said step of processing uses a
projection reconstruction technique to produce said image of

said object.
A method as set forth in any one of claims 21
to 24, Wherein said step of processing employs at

least one look up table containing Bessel functions when
processing said detected signals to produce said image of

said object. 
A method as set forth in any one of claims 21
to 25, wherein said step of processing employs at

least one look up table containing solutions to Sommerfeld's
integral when processing said detected signals to produce

said image of said object.
A method as set forth in any one of claims 21
to 26, wherein said step of detecting said signals

comprises the steps of detecting said signals when said
modulating voltage has a first polarity and when said

voltage has a polarity opposite said first polarity and said
step of processing said signals and generating said image

comprises the step of adding said signals detected at
opposite polarities together in order to cancel out an error

component in said detected signals.
A method as set forth in any one of claims 21
to 27, wherein said step of detecting said signals

comprises the steps of detecting said signals when said
modulating voltage has a first polarity and when said

voltage has a polarity opposite said first polarity and said
step of processing said signals and generating said image

comprises the step of subtracting said signals detected at
opposite polarities from each other in order to determine an

error component in said detected signals, said error
component being used for controlling a quality of said

image.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
