<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638660</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dry cleaning of semiconductor processing chambers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1644	B08B700	C23C1400	H01L2100	H01L213065	C23C1400	C23C1644	H01L2100	H01L21302	H01L21306	H01L2102	B08B700	H01L21304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	B08B	C23C	H01L	H01L	C23C	C23C	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	B08B	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	B08B7	C23C14	H01L21	H01L21	C23C14	C23C16	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	B08B7	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In accordance with the disclosure, the plasma dry 
cleaning rate of the walls of semiconductor process 

chamber (102) can be improved by placing a non-gaseous 
dry cleaning enhancement material in the position which 

was occupied by the workpiece (104) during semiconductor 
processing. The non-gaseous dry cleaning enhancement 

materials is either capable of generating dry cleaning 
reactive species and/or of reducing the consumption of 

the dry cleaning reactive species generated from the 
plasma gas feed (108) to the process chamber. 
 
When process chamber non-volatile contaminant 
deposits are removed from plasma process chamber 

surfaces during plasma dry cleaning by placing a 
non-gaseous source of reactive-species-generating 

material within the plasma process chamber, the 
non-gaseous source of reactive-species-generating 

material need not be located upon or adjacent the 
workpiece support plateform: however, this location 

provides excellent cleaning results in typical process 
chamber designs. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to a method
for plasma cleaning of semiconductor
processing chambers.Semiconductor processing involves a number of
differet chemical and physical processes whereby
minute integrated circuits are created on a substrate.
The integrated circuits are constructed using
multilayers of interrelated patterns of various
materials; layers of material are created by chemical
vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, and
epitaxial growth. Some of the layers are patterned
using photoresist masks and wet and dry etching
techniques. Patterns are created within layers by the
implanting of dopants at particular locations. (The
substrate upon which the integrated circuit is created
may be silicon, gallium arsenide, glass, or any other
appropriate material). Many of the processes carried
out within semiconductor processing reactors leave
contaminant deposits on the walls of the process
chamber which accumulate and become the source of
particulate matter harmful to the creation of a
semiconductor device. As the dimension size of the
semiconductor device has become ever smaller, the
presence of particulate matter upon the surface of the
semiconductor workpiece has become ever more critical.Contaminant deposit buildup on semiconductor
process chamber walls can be particularly significant
when metal etching processes are carried out in the
chamber. In particular, the etching of an aluminum
pattern produces relatively large accumulations of
such contaminant buildup. For example, during
experimental plasma etching of aluminum upon the
surface of a semiconductor workpiece, under 
disadvantageous conditions, etching of 25 ea. 20.32 cm
(8 in.) diameter silicon wafer substrates produced an
average contaminant layer thickness of about 1 µm (micron)
built up on the walls of the etch processing chamber.
The contaminant deposit thickness was greatest on the
etch chamber walls and gas distribution plate which
were in contact with the active plasma; the etch
chamber had a diameter of about 38.1 cm (15 in.) and a
height of about 20.32 cm (8 in.). Contaminants can be removed from the walls of the processing chamber and the
gas distribution plate by dry cleaning using plasma-enhanced etching, or the processing
chamber surfaces can be opened and wet cleaned manually. This latter procedure for
removing contaminants from the processing chamber wall is very time consuming.U.S. Patent No. 5,207,836 to Chang et al., issued May 4 1993, describes a
cleaning process for removal of deposits from the susceptor of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the plasma cleaning of surfaces within a
semiconductor process chamber having involatile contaminants

deposited thereon, said process comprising the steps of:

a) placing an organic carbon-containing non-gaseous source of
reactive-species-generating material within the processing

chamber, the source being adequate to provide reactive species
generation for at least one complete plasma cleaning operation;
b) exposing said non-gaseous source of reactive-species-generating
material to a plasma generated from a gas fed into

said processing chamber, whereby volatile reactive species are
generated; and
c) contacting said semiconductor processing chamber with
a plasma comprising said volatile reactive species generated in

step b) from said non-gaseous source, whereby at least a portion
of said involatile contaminants residing on said surfaces are

converted to volatile molecules.
A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that said
source of reactive-species-generating material is in a form

which, during said plasma cleaning can occupy the space typically
occupied by a workpiece during semiconductor processing.
A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that said
source of reactive-species-generating material is a solid disk

or sheet of material having a constant composition.
A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that said
source of reactive-species-generating material is a non-species-generating

substrate having a coating of said reactive-species-generating
material deposited upon said substrate.
A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that said
source of reactive-species-generating material is a liquid

contained within a support structure. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that said
reactive-species-generating material is a carbon-comprising

polymer.
A method as claimed in Claim 6, characterised in that said
carbon-containing polymer is a photoresist material.
A method as claimed in Claim 7, characterised in that said
carbon-comprising polymer is selected from polymides, the group

of photoresists comprising a phenyl formaldehyde novalac, and
from polymers generated using CHF
3
, as a starting material.
A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that said
plasma generated from said gas fed into said process chamber also

acts upon at least a portion of said involatile contaminant
deposits to render said involatile contaminants volatile.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
