<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633860</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A DISPENSER HAVING A CUT OFF VALVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D4704	B65D4720	B65D8316	B65D8316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D47	B65D47	B65D83	B65D83	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dispenser for dispensing viscous materials from a container (12), such as a pressurized or manually pressurized container, includes a normally closed leaf spring type valve (36) secured within the discharge duct (26) of the dispenser. The dispenser can be a dispensing actuator cap (10). The leaf spring bears against an inside surface of the discharge duct. The leaf spring (52) is opened by the pressure of dispensing product during actuation and closes when the container is no longer actuated. The valve can be an insert or can be formed integrally with the cap. The dispenser has a lever portion, rotation of which actuates the container valve. The lever portion (80) is defined by a slot (62). The hinge region of the lever portion is in approximately the same horizontal plane as the top of the valve stem (24), optimizing leverage on actuation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION VALVE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION VALVE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERRARA DANIEL A JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERRARA, DANIEL, A., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A Dispenser Having a Cut Off ValveFIELD OP THE INVENTIONA dispenser for dispensing materials from a container and, more particularly, a one or two piece dispensing actuating cap for dispensing materials, such as liquid or viscous materials, from a container, such as a pressurized or manually pressurized container, the cap having a leaf spring valve in its discharge path which allows the passage of material on actuation of the container and otherwise cuts off the flow of material and seals the discharge duct of the cap.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Toothpastes and other viscous materials have long been packaged in squeezable tubes. While generally easy to use, such tubes can be difficult to completely empty, necessitating squeezing the tube from the bottom or folding the tube over to force the remainder of the material out. Despite such efforts, which can be annoying, much material can be left in the tube, wasting product and money. In addition, a crumpled toothpaste tube is aesthetically unpleasing. Another dispensing problem is in shaping the dispensed product for proper positioning. Squeeze tubes of toothpaste, for example, typically dispense the toothpaste in a cylindrical shape which causes the toothpaste to fall off the brush and provides much more toothpaste than needed. The use of a screw cap, which must be removed prior to use and reattached afterwards, can also be annoying.Many types of dispensing caps have been designed for toothpaste containers of the traditional squeeze type. One such cap, described in U.S. Patent No. 1,881,488 to Gleason, provides a resilient strip to act as a valve which closes the discharge orifice of the cap. The valve is secured to the outside top portion of a downwardly beveled tube, closing the tube by bearing against its outside edge. The 

valve yields to the pressure of the discharging toothpaste as the tube is squeezed. When the tube is no longer squeezed, the valve returns to its original position, again closing the tube. A cover presses down on the upper end of the valve and can act as a fulcrum. Such a configuration, consisting of at least 3 parts, is unduly complex, making it difficult to manufacture efficiently in high volume.Two other caps for squeezable tubes of toothpaste or other viscous materials are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 1,472,845 to Kelley and U.S. Patent No. 1,296,884 to Volk. Both show leaf spring type valves within the discharge passage of the cap which normally close the discharge orifice. Pressure of the dispensing product displaces the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim :
1. A dispenser for dispensing material stored within a container having an outlet means, the dispenser comprising: a means for engaging the container; a means for engaging the outlet means of the container; a discharge duct for allowing product to exit the dispenser, the discharge duct being defined by a stationary portion and a resilient portion having a normally closed position bearing againεt an inside surface of the stationary portion, sealing the discharge duct, the resilient portion capable of being moved from its normally closed position by the presεure of diεpenεing material during actuation of the container, allowing material to be dispensed, and returning to its normally closed position when the container is no longer actuated; and a duct means for conveying material from the outlet means of the container to the discharge duct of the dispenεer.
2. The dispenser of claim 1 wherein the resilient portion has a base portion which iε secured within the means for conveying material from the outlet meanε of the container to the discharge duct of the dispenser.
3. The dispenser of claim 2 wherein the base portion is friction fit within the means for conveying material.
4. The dispenser of claim 2 wherein the base portion has an paεεage through which product can paεε.
5. The diεpenεer of claim 4 wherein the passage is a groove in a top surface of the base portion.
6. The dispenεer of claim 5 wherein the resilient portion further comprises a leaf spring portion depending from the 


baεe portion, the leaf εpring portion having a surface which bears against the stationary portion along a εurface of engagement and the εhape of the εurface of the leaf spring matches the shape of the εtationary portion at the εurface of engagement.
7. The diεpenser of claims 4 or 5 wherein the leaf spring portion depends from a portion of the base portion below the opening.
8. The diεpenεer of claim 6 wherein the leaf εpring has side edges and a pair of εurfaceε depending perpendicularly from the εide edges, for sealing with side εurfaceε of the dispensing duct.
9. The dispenser of claim 6 wherein the base portion has εide walls and the leaf spring portion has side portions which extend beyond the side walls of the base portion, and the diεcharge duct has inside surfaces with grooves for receiving the side portions.
10. The dispenser of claim 6 wherein the surface of the leaf spring portion which bears againεt the stationary portion is a front edge of the leaf spring.
11. The dispenser of claim 6 wherein the leaf spring portion lies beneath the stationary portion.
12. The dispenεer of claim 1 wherein the reεilient portion iε under εtreεε while it bearε againεt the inεide εurface of the εtationary portion.
13. The diεpenεer of claim 6 wherein the leaf εpring portion haε reinforcing ribε. 


14. The dispenεer of claim 1 further comprising a circular outer wall having a slot defining a lever portion, the slot having two adjacent portions and a connecting portion continuous with the two adjacent portions, the two adjacent portions defining a hinge region in the circular outer wall about which the lever portion can rotate, wherein the means for engaging the container depending from the circular outer wall and the means for engaging the outlet means and the discharge duct are part of the lever portion.
15. The dispenser of claim 2 wherein the base portion has side and bottom surfaces which contact the means for conveying material and these surfaces have at least one sealing rib.
16. The dispenser of claim 1, wherein the outlet means of the container is a valve with a valve stem and the means for engaging the outlet means engageε the valve stem of the container.
17. The dispenser of claim 1 wherein the dispenser is adapted to dispense material from a presεurized container.
18. The dispenser of claim 1 wherein the dispenser is adapted to dispenεe material from a pump container.
19. The diεpenser of claim 1 wherein the means for engaging the container is integrally molded to the container.
20. The dispenεer of claim 1 wherein the meanε for engaging the outlet meanε is integrally molded to the outlet means.
21. The dispenser of claim 1 wherein the diεpenεer iε a diεpensing actuator cap. 


22. An insert for sealing a terminus of a discharge duct of a dispenser, the insert comprising a base portion adapted to fit within and seal the discharge duct of the dispenser, the base portion having a rearward wall, a forward wall and a top surface, the rearward and forward walls depending from the top surface and having first and second openings, respectively, the base portion having a passage extending from the first opening to the second opening, through the base portion to allow for the pasεage of product; and an upwardly protruding leaf εpring portion depending from the forward wall below the second opening, the leaf spring portion being pivotable adjacent to the forward wall, the leaf spring portion having a front edge extending beyond the top surface of the body portion, and a surface for engaging an inside surface of the discharge duct of the dispenser, a contour of the surface of the leaf spring portion matching the contour of inεide εurface of the diεcharge duct.
23. The insert of claim 22 wherein the first and second openingε are adjacent the top εurface of the body portion and the passage runs through the top surface of the body Portion.
24. The insert of claim 22 further comprising a εtep portion depending from a bottom εurface of the body portion.
25. The inεert of claim 22 wherein the leaf εpring portion includeε reinforcing ribbing.
26. The insert of claim 22 wherein the insert is adapted to be friction fit within the discharge duct of the dispenεer. 


27. The insert of claim 22 wherein the surfaces of the base portion are in contact with an inside surface of the discharge duct of the dispenser, sealing the inside εurface.
28. The inεert of claim 22 wherein the surfaces of the base include side and bottom walls, the walls having at least one sealing rib.
29. The insert of claim 22 wherein the surfaces of the base include side walls and the leaf spring portion extends beyond the side walls.
30. A dispenser for a container having an outlet means, the dispenser comprising: a generally circular outer wall; a means for engaging the container; a means for engaging the outlet means of the container; the circular outer wall having a slot defining a lever portion, the slot having two adjacent portions and a connecting portion continuous with the two adjacent portions, the two adjacent portions defining a hinge region in the circular outer wall about which the lever portion can rotate; the lever portion comprising a tubular εection defining a product paεεageway, the tubular section having a first and second end portion, the first end portion having a meanε for engaging the outlet meanε of the container at itε firεt end such that product can enter the product passageway through the means for engaging and the second end portion having a means for product to be dispensed from the product passageway; and a meanε for engaging the lever portion εuch that force applied to the means for engagement will cause rotation of the lever portion, actuating the container, causing product to enter the product passageway. 


31. The dispenser of claim 30 wherein the means for engaging the container is the circular outer wall.
32. The dispenεer of claim 30 wherein the tubular εection includes an esεentially vertical portion proximate its first end and an essentially angled portion proximate its second end, the product passageway being defined by the vertical and angled portions.
33. The dispenser of claim 30 wherein the outlet meanε is a valve stem and a valve, and hinge region is in about the same horizontal plane as the top of the valve stem.
34. The dispenεer of claim 30 wherein the meanε for product to be dispensed from the product passageway is defined at least in part by a resilient means with a normally closed position sealing the product passageway, the resilient means being capable of being deflected by diεcharging product when the valve εtem is actuated.
35. The dispenεer of claim 30 wherein the diεpenser is a dispensing actuator cap.
36. The dispenεer of claim 30 wherein the diεpenεer iε adapted to dispense material from a presεurized container.
37. The dispenser of claim 30 wherein the outlet means of the container comprises a valve with a valve stem and the means for engaging the outlet means engages the valve stem.
38. The dispenser of claim 31 wherein the means for engaging the container is integrally molded to the container. 


39. The dispenser of claim 30 wherein the means for engaging the outlet means is integrally molded to the outlet means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
