<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612450</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND APPARATUS PERTAINING TO HANDOFF IN A MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W3600	H04W3630	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W36	H04W36	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method and apparatus in a system comprising cordless telecommunication. The inventive method and apparatus utilize fuzzy-logic to evaluate at least two radio communication parameters when making a handoff decision, or to produce basic data on which a handoff decision can be made. The parameters are assigned membership to at least two input data sets, each having its own membership function. The parameters are divided into groups and a rule table of fuzzy-condition statements is formed. The fuzzy-condition statements are executed and the consequences weighted to a crisp-value which is used in conjunction with handoff. The inventive apparatus includes a fuzzy-processing unit (3) for grouping parameters and executing rules, a unit (4) for determining the crisp-values, for instance the average value, maximum value and/or the minimum value of rule consequences, and an evaluating unit (5) which uses the crisp-values in conjunction with establishing a candidate list or in making a handoff decision.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINZ UDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISRAELSSON PER VIKTOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HINZ, UDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISRAELSSON, PER, VIKTOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS AND APPARATUS PERTAINING TO HANDOFF IN A MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMFIELD OF INVENTIONThe invention relates to a method and apparatus in a system which includes cordless telecommunication. More specifically, the invention relates to a method and to apparatus pertaining to handoff. The inventive method and the inventive apparatus utilize fuzzy logic to evaluate radio communication parameters in con¬ junction with decisions concerning handoff or producing basic data on which the question of handoff can be decided.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMany different kinds of mobile radio communication systems have been proposed and many kinds of systems are in use. The kinds of systems first suggested and developed were analogue systems. There are plural kinds of analogue systems according to different standards, e.g. those standards normally abbreviated NMT, APMS and TACS. These systems may be classified as FDMA-type systems.Some systems proposed and developed later than the previously mentioned analogue systems are digital systems or combined analogue and digital systems. There are several kinds of digital systems or combined digital and analogue systems according to different standards, e.g. the European standard,, normally abbreviated to GSM, and the U.S. standard TIA IS-54. These systems and other systems such as the recently developed digital system according to Japanese standards may be classified as TDMA- type systems. Other digital systems, e.g. systems according to the draft standard TIA PN 3118 to be published as TIA IS-95, may be classified as CDMA-type systems.Although mobile radio communication systems may be analogue or digital, and may be classified as FDMA or TDMA or CDMA-type systems, they have a number of things in common. One thing which is common to all cellular telecommunication systems that include 

cordless communication is the need for handoff.When a mobile station is located in one cell and has a call connection with another mobile station or with a subscriber which has a fixed terminal and uses a base station for the cell concerned for the call connection and moves further and further away from the cell and said base station, it will be impossible sooner or later to use the base station of said cell for the purpose of continuing the call. Sooner or later, it will be necessary to handoff to another base station for another cell.There may be various reasons for handoff. One obvious reason, which is common to all kinds of systems, is that the strength of the radio signals
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I S
1. A method pertaining to handoff in a mobile telecommunication system comprising cordless telecommunication, wherein at least two telecommunication parameters are chosen as handoff parameters for providing a basis on which a handoff decision can be made, and the actual values of the handoff parameters are measured c h a r a c t e r i z e d by using the measured values as inputs to a fuzzy-logic including membership functions and fuzzy condition sets, executing the fuzzy-condition sets with the determined handoff parameter values, weighting consequences from the executed fuzzy-condition sets to form a crisp-value, and using the crisp-value when making a handoff decision.
2. A method pertaining to handoff in a mobile telecommunication system comprising cordless telecommunication, wherein at least two telecommunication parameters are chosen as handoff parameters for providing a basis on which a handoff decision can be made, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by assigning each handoff parameter a membership to at least two input data sets which characterize the handoff parameters; assigning to each of said input data sets a membership function which is characteristic of respective input data sets; forming at least one parameter group which includes at least two handoff parameters for each group; determining at least two output data sets having membership functions; forming a rule table which includes at least two rules; forming each rule as a fuzzy-condition set which for handoff parameters in a group of operators compares the parameter value memberships with input data sets and in response to the result of the comparison implicates an output data set membership function given by the condition set so as to obtain a consequence of fuzzy-condition sets; determining the values of the handoff parameters; executing the fuzzy-condition sets with the determined handoff parameter values; weighting consequences from the executed fuzzy-condition sets to form a crisp-value in accordance with one of the following fuzzy-evaluating methods the largest value method, the average value method and the centroid method; and using the crisp-value when making a handoff decision. 


3. A method according to claim l or 2, c h a r a c t e ¬ r i z e d by forming at least two parameter groups; forming and executing at least one condition set for each parameter group; and using the crisp-values from the condition sets of both groups.
4. A method according to claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that one parameter group contains at least two of the parameters RXLEV_NCELL(n) , RXLEV_UL and RXLEV_DL.
5. A method according to claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a parameter group contains the parameters RXLEV_NCELL(n) ,
RXLEV_UL and RXLEV_DL.
6. A method according to claim 1, 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e ¬ r i z e d by using the number of available radio channels of a base station as one of the handoff parameters.
7. A method according to claim 2 or 6, c h a r a c t e ¬ r i z e d in that the condition sets together contain at least four different parameters.
8. A method according to any one of claims 1-7, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d by establishing at least one list of handoff candidates having a ranking constructed from the crisp-values obtained from condition sets which include one of the handoff parameters RXLEV_NCELL(n) , RXLEV_UL and RXLEV_DL.
9. A method according to claim 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the candidate list includes information concerning approximate available communication capacity of those candidates included in the candidate list.
10. A method according to any one of claims 1-7, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d by updating an existing candidate list with the aid of the crisp-values. 


11. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the membership functions are linear, i.e. will form triangles or trapezoids when their vertexes are joined together.
12. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by executing the fuzzy-condition statements with the latest determined handoff parameter values and also with earlier determined handoff parameters; and weighting both the consequences obtained from executing said statements with said earlier values and the consequences obtained by executing said statements with said latest determined values, to obtain the crisp values.
13. A method according to claim 1, 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e ¬ r i z e d by selecting the handoff parameters from the following variables, RXLEV_DL, RXLEV_UL, RXLEV_NCELL(n) , RXQUAL_DL, RXQUAL_TJL, TA, transmission power from neighbouring stations, path loss, C/I, C/A and C/R.
14. A method according to any one of the preceding claims in a cellular mobile system comprising base stations and mobile stations, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by measuring the parameters of received radio signals in the base stations and also in the mobile stations; reporting the measuring results from the mobile stations to the base stations; and using both the measuring results from the mobile stations and the measuring results from the base stations to determine the parameter values.
15. Means for producing basic data for a handoff decision based on at least two signal parameters in a system comprising cordless telecommunication, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by at least one data buffer (2) for receiving the values of at least two paramet- ers; a fuzzy-processing unit (3) for executing fuzzy-condition statements with the parameter values, in which condition statements operators are operative in comparing the memberships of the parameter values to input data sets and, depending on the result of the comparison, implicate an output data set membership 


function given by the condition statement so as to obtain a consequence; a unit (4) for weighting consequences from the fuzzy-processing unit to at least one crisp-value; and a handoff- evaluating unit (5) for generating handoff decision data in dependence on the crisp-values.
16. Means according to claim 15, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processing unit includes a "fuzzy"-control unit (6) , an application memory for sequential user instructions and "fuzzy"- conclusion instructions; and in that the control unit functions to control the flow of data from and between the buffer(s), A/C/M/M (4) and HED (5) in unison with the switch unit.
17. Means according to claim 16, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the switch unit is a BSC or an MSC.
18. Means according to claim 17, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that when only one group has been formed in the processing unit
(3) , the A/C/M/M (4) make their decision on the consequence values and the single "crisp"-value.
19. Means according to claim 17 or 18, c h a r a c t e ¬ r i z e d in that the HED-unit (5) has access to all input data values, "firing"-values and consequence values for evaluation.
20. Means according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that A/C/M/M (4) and HED (5) include decision-making "fuzzy"-logic.
21. Means according to claim 20, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that A/C/M/M (4) produces its output data through the medium of hardware or software "fuzzy" "OR" and "AND" decisions.
22. Means according to claim 20 or 21, c h a r a c t e ¬ r i z e d in that the HED-unit has a candidate list stored therein, or has access to a candidate list or produces a candidate list. 


23. Means according to claim 22, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a handoff decision is made in HED (5) through the medium of "fuzzy" "OR" and "AND" operators in hardware or software "IF" and "THEN" statements.
24. Means according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that an exchange of data infor¬ mation takes place between the switch unit and the HED-unit (5) .
25. A mobile station in a system comprising cordless telecom¬ munication, said mobile station including means for producing basic data for handoff between base stations on the basis of at least two signal parameters in the system, c h a r a c t e ¬ r i z e d by means for receiving the actual values of at least two parameters, and fuzzy-logic means for executing fuzzy- condition statements with the values of the parameters and weighing consequences to obtain at least one crisp-value and generating basic data on which a handoff decision can be made in dependence on the crisp-values.
26. A mobile station in a system comprising cordless telecom¬ munication, said mobile station including means for producing basic data for handoff between base stations on the basis of at least two signal parameters in the system, c h a r a c t e ¬ r i z e d by at least one data buffer (2) for receiving the values of at least two parameters; a "fuzzy"-processing unit (3) for executing fuzzy-condition statements with the values of the parameters, in which condition statements operators are operative in comparing the parameter value membership to input data set, and depending on the result of the comparison implicate an output data set membership function given by the condition statement so as to obtain a consequence; a unit (4) for weighting consequences from the fuzzy-processing unit to obtain at least one crisp- value; and a handoff evaluating unit (5) for generating basic data on which a handoff decision can be made in dependence on the crisp-values. 


27. A base station in a system comprising cordless telecom¬ munication, said base station including means for producing basic data for handoff between base stations on the basis of at least two signal parameters in the system, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by means for receiving the actual values of at least two parameters, and fuzzy-logic means for executing fuzzy-condition statements with the values of the parameters and weighing consequences to obtain at least one crisp-value and generating basic data on which a handoff decision can be made in dependence on the crisp-values.
28. A base station in a system comprising cordless telecom¬ munication, said base station including means for producing basic data for handoff between base stations on the basis of at least two signal parameters in the system, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by at least one data buffer (2) for receiving the values of at least two parameters; a "fuzzy"-processing unit (3) for executing fuzzy-condition statements with the values of the parameters, in which condition statements operators are operative in comparing the parameter value membership to input data set, and depending on the result of the comparison implicate an output data set membership function given by the condition statement so as to obtain a consequence; a unit (4) for weighting consequences from the fuzzy-processing unit to obtain at least one crisp-value; and a handoff evaluating unit (5) for generating basic data on which a handoff decision can be made in dependence on the crisp-values.
29. A switch in a telecommunication system comprising cordless communication via base stations, said switch including means for producing basic data for handoff on the basis of at least two signal parameters in the system, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by means for receiving the actual values of at least two parameters, and fuzzy-logic means for executing fuzzy-condition statements with the values of the parameters and weighing consequences to obtain at least one crisp-value and generating basic data on which a handoff decision can be made in dependence on the crisp- values. 


30. A switch in a telecommunication system comprising cordless communication via base stations, said switch including means for producing basic data for handoff on the basis of at least two signal parameters in the system, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by at least one data buffer (2) for receiving the values of at least two parameters; a "fuzzy"-processing unit (3) for executing fuzzy-condition statements with the values of the parameters, in which condition statements operators are operative in comparing the parameter value membership to input data set, and depending on the result of the comparison implicate an output data set membership function given by the condition statement so as to obtain a consequence; a unit (4) for weighting consequences from the fuzzy-processing unit to obtain at least one crisp-value; and a handoff evaluating unit (5) for generating basic data on which a handoff decision can be made in dependence on the crisp-values.
31. A telecommunication system comprising base stations for cordless communication, said system including means for producing basic data for handoff on the basis of at least two signal parameters in the system, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by means for receiving the actual values of at least two parameters, and fuzzy-logic means for executing fuzzy-condition statements with the values of the parameters and weighing consequences to obtain at least one crisp-value and generating basic data on which a handoff decision can be made in dependence on the crisp-values.
32. A telecommunication system comprising base stations for cordless communication, said system including means for producing basic data for handoff on the basis of at least two signal parameters in the system, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by at least one data buffer (2) for receiving the values of at least two parameters; a "fuzzy"-processing unit (3) for executing fuzzy- condition statements with the values of the parameters, in which condition statements operators are operative in comparing the parameter value membership to input data set, and depending on the result of the comparison implicate an output data set membership function given by the condition statement so as to obtain a consequence; a unit (4) for weighting consequences from 


the fuzzy-processing unit to obtain at least one crisp-value; and a handoff evaluating unit (5) for generating basic data on which a handoff decision can be made in dependence on the crisp-values. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
