<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651980</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multi-valved voice prosthesis.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F220	A61F220	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A voice prosthesis (10) includes a cylindrical 
body (12) for placement in an opening (14) formed in the 

tracheoesophageal wall (16). Body (12) has a first end 
(18) lying on the esophageal side (20) of the 

tracheoesophageal wall (16) when prosthesis (10) is placed 
in opening (14) and a second end (22) lying on the tracheal 

side (24) of tracheoesophageal wall (16). Body (12) 
provides a passageway (26) for airflow from its second end 

(22) to its first end (18) to provide alaryngeal speech-producing 
airflow (28) from esophagus (20). A first 

backflow-preventing valve (30) controls the passageway (26) 
to prevent the flow of fluids from esophagus (20) through 

passageway (26) to trachea (24). A second backflow-preventing 
valve (32) is provided in series with first 

backflow-preventing valve (30) to prevent flow of fluids 
from esophagus (20) through passageway (26) to trachea (24) 

in the event of incompetence of first backflow-preventing 
valve (30) in the open or partially open orientation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HANSA MEDICAL PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HANSA MEDICAL PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOM ERIC D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOM, ERIC D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to speech prostheses which 
permit the production of alaryngeal speech. It is 
disclosed in the context of a particular type of such a 
voice prosthesis. However, it is believed to be useful 
with other types of voice prostheses as well. Several different types of voice prostheses 
useful for the production of alaryngeal speech are known. 
There are, for example, the prostheses described in U.S. 
Patents: 4,911,716; 4,614,516; and, 4,435,853, and 
numerous references cited in those patents. The trend 
toward increasing the dwelling time of such prostheses in 
the tracheoesophageal wall of a wearer has been noted in, 
for example, U.S. Patent 4,911,716. The reasons for 
increasing the dwelling time include the difficulty that 
some wearers have in inserting and removing the prostheses 
and the tendency of the puncture in the tracheoesophageal 
wall to close when the prosthesis is removed from it. This 
tendency sometimes even necessitates reforming the 
puncture. Voice prosthesis devices of these types are 
generally constructed from relatively soft, pliable 
biocompatible materials. Certain species of Candida, 
fungus that occasionally infects mucus membranes of the 
throat and trachea can grow on the voice prostheses and 
distort the valves incorporated in the voice protheses. 
See, Mahieu, H.F., et al., "Candida Vegetations on Silicone 
Voice Prostheses, "Arch. Otolaryngol, Head Neck Surg., 
March 1986, Vol. 112, pp. 321-325. Such distortion 
sometimes renders the valves incapable of closing. 
Consequently, it is not uncommon for a wearer of a voice  
 
prosthesis device of these general types to have to remove 
the device, for cleaning or for replacement. In such users, it is not uncommon for the device 
to be out of the user's fistula for a period of up to five 
to ten minutes during which time either an alternative 
prosthesis is put in its place or a catheter is put in to 
maintain the fistula. If the user fails to maintain the 
fistula at all times, it will close rapidly, even in as 
short a time as five to ten minutes, to the point that the 
patient cannot get the device back into the fistula. This 
requires that another surgical operation be performed to 
reopen the fistula so that the cleaned voice prosthesis 
device or a new voice prosthesis device can be inserted. 
Some surgeons have expressed a reluctance to use voice 
prosthesis devices of these general types because of this 
propensity of the fistula to reclose when the voice 
prosthesis device is removed for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a voice prosthesis of the type including 
a cylindrical body for placement in an opening formed in 

the tracheoesophageal wall, the body having a first end 
lying on the esophageal side of the tracheoesophageal wall 

when the prosthesis is placed in the opening and a second 
end lying on the tracheal side of the tracheoesophageal 

wall when the prosthesis is placed in the opening, the body 
providing a passageway for airflow from its second end to 

its first end to provide alaryngeal speech-producing 
airflow from the esophagus, and a first backflow-preventing 

valve controlling the passageway to prevent the flow of 
fluids from the esophagus through the passageway to the 

trachea, the improvement comprising a second backflow 
preventing valve in series with the first backflow-preventing 

valve to prevent flow of fluids from the 
esophagus through the passageway to the trachea in the 

event of failure of the first backflow-preventing valve. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first 
backflow-preventing valve is provided adjacent the first 

end of the body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
second backflow-preventing valve is provided between the 

first backflow preventing valve and the second end of the 
body. 
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the second 
backflow-preventing valve is removably provided between the 

first backflow preventing valve and the second end of the 
body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
first valve comprises a first valve seat provided in the 

passageway, and a first valve flap provided adjacent the 
first valve seat and formed to move away from the first 

valve seat toward the first end of the body when a pressure 
differential is developed across the first valve seat with 

 
the second end of the body at a positive pressure relative 

to the first end of the body. 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the second 
valve comprises a second valve seat provided in the 

passageway, and a second valve flap provided adjacent the 
second valve seat and formed to move away from the second 

valve seat toward the first end of the body when a pressure 
differential is developed across the second valve seat with 

the second end of the body at a positive pressure relative 
to the first end of the body. 
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the first 
valve comprises a first valve seat provided in the 

passageway, and a first valve flap provided adjacent the 
first valve seat and formed to move away from the first 

valve seat toward the first end of the body when a pressure 
differential is developed across the first valve seat with 

the second end of the body at a positive pressure relative 
to the first end of the body. 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the second 
valve comprises a second valve seat provided in the 

passageway, and a second valve flap provided adjacent the 
second valve seat and formed to move away from the second 

valve seat toward the first end of the body when a pressure 
differential is developed across the second valve seat with 

the second end of the body at a positive pressure relative 
to the first end of the body. 
The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the first 
valve comprises a first valve seat provided in the 

passageway, and a first valve flap provided adjacent the 
first valve seat and formed to move away from the first 

valve seat toward the first end of the body when a pressure 
differential is developed across the first valve seat with 

the second end of the body at a positive pressure relative 
to the first end of the body. 
The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the second 
valve comprises a second valve seat for selectively 

removable coupling to the second end of the body, and a 
second valve flap provided adjacent the second valve seat 

and formed to move away from the second valve seat toward 
the first end of the body when the second valve is coupled 

to the passageway upstream from the first end and a 
pressure differential is developed across the second valve 

seat with the second valve flap side of the second valve 
seat at a negative pressure relative to the other side of 

the second valve seat. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
