<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641451</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED TAGGING SYSTEM HAVING RESONANT FREQUENCY SHIFT COMPENSATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1375	G01S1382	G06K708	G06K708	G06K19067	G06K19067	G08B1324	G08B1324	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G06K7	G06K7	G06K19	G06K19	G08B13	G08B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tagging system (20) compensates for both resonant frequency spatial dependent shifts and resonant frequency dependent shifts for detecting data resonant circuits (DC1-DC6) on an RF tag (10) which is carried by a tagged object (34). The system includes at least one transmitter (26) and at least one receiver (28) for determining the actual resonant frequencies of reference resonant circuits (SC1-SC5, FC1-FC4) on the tag (10). A microprocessor controller (22), in response to the frequency difference between the undisturbed resonant frequencies of the reference resonant circuits and the actual resonant frequencies of the reference resonant circuits, provides compensating factors to compensate for the spatial and frequency effects of the resonant frequencies of the resonant circuits on the tag (10). The transmitter and receiver determine the actual resonant frequency of each data resonant circuit (DC1-DC6) on the tag (10). The microprocessor controller (22) then determines the undisturbed resonant frequencies of the data resonant circuits on tag (10) from the actual resonant frequencies of the data resonant circuits and the compensation factors.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAEM SANJAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISTVAN RUDYARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAURO GEORGE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAEM, SANJAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISTVAN, RUDYARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAURO, GEORGE, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Improved Tagging System Having Resonant Frequency Shift CompensationField of Invention The present invention generally relates to the field of tagging systems in which the presence of resonant circuits or other resonant modes on a tag are detected to generate a code determined in accordance with which resident circuits or other resonant modes are being detected. More particularly, the present invention relates to an improved RF tagging system which compensates for frequency shifts of the resonant frequencies of the resonant circuits or modes due to the interaction of the tagged item with the resonant circuits or modes on the RF tags or due to other disturbances or manufacturing variations. More specifically, the present invention relates to such an improved system which compensates for spatial and/or frequency dependent resonant frequency shifts in the resonant frequencies of the resonant circuits due to interaction between the tagged item and the resonant circuits on the tag.Background of the InventionPrior art systems are known in which the existence of a single resonant circuit in a detection field or zone is utilized as an anti-theft type apparatus. Essentially, if an article having a single resonant frequency tag passes through a detection zone, an alarm is generated which indicates the unauthorized presence of store goods in the detection zone. Such resonant circuits have been constructed in accordance with standard printed circuit board techniques .Some prior RF tagging systems have provided multiple different tuned (resonant) circuits on a tag so as to specifically identify the goods to which the tag is attached or the destination to which those goods should be 

directed. Such systems have been proposed for parcel or other article delivery systems wherein resonant circuits are utilized to provide a destination or sender code rather than printed bar codes. The use of resonant circuit tagging is advantageous in that it is not subject to problems such as dirt obscuring a portion of a printed bar code and causing an error in determining the code associated with the article. Also, exact alignment of the tag with the detection system may not be required in RF tagging systems, since generally it is desired only to detect the presence of the resonant circuits somewhere in a broad detection zone. This can be achieved without precise alignment between the resonant circuit, the detection zone and the detection apparatus. However, prior systems utilizing multiple tuned circuit detection contemplate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. A tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon at least one reference resonant means and at least one data resonant means, each of said data resonant means being resonant at at least a different actual resonant frequency corresponding to an a designed resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies and each said reference resonant means being resonant at at least an actual different resonant frequency corresponding to a predetermined known designed different resonant frequency; determining means for determining the actual resonant frequencies of each said reference resonant means; and compensating means for determining for each said reference resonant means the frequency difference between its actual resonant frequency and its corresponding predetermined known designed resonant frequency and responsive thereto providing a compensation factor for the resonant frequency of each said data resonant means, said determining means determining the actual resonant frequency of each said data resonant means, and said compensating means being responsive to said compensation factors and the actual resonant frequencies of said data resonant means for determining the designed resonant frequencies of said data resonant means.
2. A tagging system according to claim 1 wherein said tag has a plurality of said reference resonant means and a plurality of said data resonant means . 3. A system according to claim 2 wherein each of said reference resonant means corresponds to a reference resonant circuit and each of said data resonant means corresponds to a data resonant circuit, and wherein said designed resonant frequencies correspond to undisturbed resonant frequencies of said reference and data resonant circuits . 


 4. A system as defined in claim 3 wherein said determining means are responsive to said compensation factors for determining the actual resonant frequency of each said data resonant circuit. 5. A system as defined in claim 3 wherein said compensating means correlates said frequency differences and the predetermined undisturbed resonant frequencies of said reference resonant circuits to the predetermined undisturbed resonant frequencies of said data resonant circuits for providing said compensation factors.
6. A system as defined in claim 5 wherein said data and reference resonant circuits are passive resonant circuits and wherein said determining means include transmitter means for radiating radio frequency energy in a frequency range including the undisturbed resonant frequencies of said data and reference resonant circuits.
7. A system as defined in claim 6 wherein said transmitter means are responsive to said compensating factors for radiating radio frequency energy at transmission frequencies corresponding to each of said actual resonant frequencies of said data resonant circuits.
8. A system as defined in claim 7 wherein said transmitter means are dithered transmission means for sweeping frequency ranges above and below each said actual resonant frequency of said data resonant circuits.
9. A system as defined in claim 8 wherein said determining means further include dithered receiving means responsive to said compensation factors for receiving radiated radio frequency energy in said frequency ranges. 10. A system as defined in claim 2 wherein the designed resonant frequencies of said reference resonant means span the designed resonant frequencies of said data resonant means, whereby said compensation factors are frequency dependent . 11. A system as defined in claim 2 wherein each of said reference resonant means is located at a different 


predetermined known location on said tag, wherein each said data resonant means is located at a different predetermined known location on said tag and wherein said compensating means correlates said frequency differences and the location of said reference resonant means on said tag to the locations of said data resonant means on said tag for providing said compensation factors.
12. A system as defined in claim 3 wherein each of said reference resonant circuits is located at a different predetermined known location on said tag, wherein each said data resonant circuits is located at a different predetermined known location on said tag and wherein said compensating means correlates said frequency differences and the location of said reference resonant circuits on said tag to the locations of said data resonant circuits on said tag for providing said compensation factors, wherein the undisturbed resonant frequencies of said reference resonant circuits are closely spaced together, whereby said compensation factors are spatially dependent . 13. A system as defined in claim 12 wherein said data and reference resonant circuits are passive resonant circuits and wherein said determining means include transmitter means for radiating radio frequency energy in a frequency range including the undisturbed resonant frequencies of said data and reference resonant circuits. 14. A tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon a plurality of first reference resonant circuits, a plurality of second reference resonant circuits, and a plurality of data resonant circuits, each said data resonant circuit being resonant at a different actual resonant frequency corresponding to an undisturbed resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies and being located at a predetermined known location on said tag, each said first reference resonant circuit being resonant at an actual different resonant frequency corresponding to a 


predet e rmin ed known undi st urbed di f f e rent re sonant frequency and being located at a predetermined known locat ion on said tag, and each said second re ference resonant circuit be ing re sonant at an actual dif ferent resonant frequency corresponding to a predetermined known undisturbed different resonant frequency and being located at a predetermined known location on said tag; determining means for determining the actual re sonant f requency of each said re ference resonant circuits ; compensating means for determining, for each said first reference resonant circuit the frequency difference between its actual resonant frequency and its corresponding predetermined known undisturbed resonant frequency, for determining, for each said second reference resonant circuit the frequency difference between its actual resonant frequency and its corresponding predetermined known undisturbed resonant frequency, and being responsive to said determined frequency differences for providing a compensation factor for the resonant frequency of each said data resonant circuit; said determining means determining the actual resonant frequency of each said data resonant circuit, and said compensating means being responsive to said compensation factors and the actual resonant frequencies of said data resonant circuits for determining the undisturbed resonant frequencies of said data resonant circuits.
15. A system as defined in claim 14 wherein said determining means are responsive to said compensation factors for determining the actual resonant frequency of each said data resonant circuit, and wherein said compensating means correlates said frequency differences associated with said first reference resonant circuits and the location of said first reference resonant circuits on said tag to the locations of said data resonant circuits on 


said tag for providing a spatially dependent compensation factor for each said data resonant circuit.
16. A system as defined in claim 15 wherein the undisturbed resonant frequencies of said first resonant circuits are closely spaced together.
17. A system as defined in claim 15 wherein said compensating means further correlates said frequency differences associated with said first reference resonant circuits and the location of said first reference resonant circuits on said tag to the location of each said second reference resonant circuit on said tag for estimating a spatially dependent shift component of each said frequency difference associated with each said second reference resonant circuit . 18. A system as defined in claim 17 wherein the undisturbed resonant frequencies of said second reference resonant circuits span the undisturbed resonant frequencies of said data resonant circuits.
19. A system as defined in claim 17 wherein said compensating means subtracts each said estimated spatial shift component from the corresponding frequency difference associated with each said second reference resonant circuit for providing a frequency dependent frequency difference for each said second reference resonant circuit . 20. A tagging system comprising: a tag having thereon a plurality of reference resonant modes and a plurality of data resonant modes, each of said data resonant modes being resonant at a different actual resonant frequency corresponding to an a designed resonant frequency selected from a predetermined plurality of known resonant frequencies and each said reference resonant modes being resonant at an actual different resonant frequency corresponding to a predetermined known designed different resonant frequency; 


 determining means for determining the actual resonant 
'
 frequencies of each said reference resonant modes; and compensating means for determining for each said reference resonant modes the frequency difference between its actual resonant frequency and its corresponding predetermined known designed resonant frequency and responsive thereto providing a compensation factor for the resonant frequency of each said data resonant modes, said determining means determining the actual resonant frequency of each said data resonant modes, and said compensating means being responsive to said compensation factors and the actual resonant frequencies of said data resonant modes for determining the designed resonant frequencies of said data resonant modes. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
