<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646680</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Jet regulator to be connected to sanitary fixtures
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03C1084	E03C102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03C	E03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03C1	E03C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a jet regulator (1) to be connected to sanitary fixtures or the like, having a jet-separating device which has a perforated plate which exhibits a number of throughflow holes in order to produce individual jets. The jet regulator (1) according to the invention is characterised in that at least one deflection slope (6, 7) is assigned to at least some of the throughflow holes, at a distance from their outflow side, which deflection slope is arranged, at least in its sub-region against which at least one of the individual jets flows, obliquely with respect to the flow direction (Pf1), and in that flow impediments formed by spaced-apart pins (11) and/or ribs (12) are arranged downstream of said deflection slope or deflection slopes (6, 7), as seen in the direction of deflection. The jet regulator according to the invention, which can do without the otherwise conventional jet-regulating screens, is distinguished by a low amount of noise formation and the production of a uniform full jet, the overall height of the jet regulator not exceeding the conventional overall height of jet regulators of this type. 
<
IMAGE
>
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILDFANG DIETER GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIETER WILDFANG GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRETHER HERMANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEHM HOLGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRETHER, HERMANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEHM, HOLGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Flow regulator for connection to sanitary fittings
or the like, having a flow separating device which

comprises a perforated plate having a number of
throughflow holes for producing individual jets,

characterised in that associated with at least some of
the throughflow holes (3), at a spacing from the outflow

side thereof, is at least one discharge slope (6, 7)
which is arranged at an angle to the direction of flow

(Pf1) at least in its area onto which at least one of
the individual jets flows, and in that obstacles to the

flow which are formed by pins (11) and/or ribs (12)
spaced apart from one another are arranged downstream of

this discharge slope or slopes (6, 7) in the direction
of discharge.
Flow regulator according to claim 1, characterised
in that the pins (11) point towards the perforated plate

(2) with their free ends and at least the free ends of
the pins (11) arranged in the outflow region or in the

direction of outflow of the throughflow holes (3) have a
discharge slope (6).
Flow regulator according to claim 1 or 2,
characterised in that the free end portions of

preferably all the pins (11) taper towards the
perforated plate (2) and these end portions are

preferably conical in shape.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 3,
characterised in that at least some of the pins (11)

arranged in the outflow region or direction of outflow
of the throughflow holes (3) are arranged offset

relative to said holes (3).
Flow regulator according to claim 4, characterised 
in that the pins (11) are offset radially inwards

relative to the throughflow holes (3).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 5,
characterised in that at least in a partial region of

the flow regulator (1) the pins (11) arranged downstream
of the discharge slope or slopes (6, 7) are arranged at

different spacings from the longitudinal axis of the
flow regulator.
Flow regulator according to claim 6, characterised
in that the pins (11) are arranged offset from one

another at different spacings from the longitudinal axis
of the flow regulator.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 7,
characterised in that at least some of the throughflow

holes (3) are associated with a common discharge slope.
Flow regulatcr according to claim 8, characterised
in that the common discharge slope (7) is constructed as

an end face of an, in particular, circular and/or
concentric annular wall (13), facing the perforated

plate (2).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 9,
characterised in that, arranged downstream of the

perforated plate (2) in the direction of flow (Pf1), is
at least one annular wall (13, 14) which tapers towards

the perforated plate (2) at least in its region facing
the perforated plate (2).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 10,
characterised in that pins (11) are provided on the

outside of at least one annular wall (13, 14) in the
tapering region thereof, and an annular channel (15, 16,

17) is provided between one annular wall (13, 14) and an 
adjacent annular wall, the inside of the wall of the

flow regulator and/or a central member (20) arranged
coaxially with the longitudinal axis of the flow

regulator.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 11,
characterised in that at least one annular wall (13, 14)

comprises, on the outside and/or inside of the wall of
at least its region facing the perforated plate (2),

steps in the form of annular or cascade-like gradations.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 12,
characterised in that the steps of the gradations are

located in a plane lying substantially at right angles
to the direction of flow (Pf1) and the axial surfaces of

the outside and/or inside of the annular wall which
connect the steps to one another are arranged

substantially in the direction of flow (Pf1).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 13,
characterised in that the edges between the steps and

the adjacent axial surfaces of the annular wall or walls
(13, 14), these edges projecting into an annular channel

(15, 16, 17), are sharp-edged.
Flow regulatcr according to one of claims 1 to 14,
characterised in that the longitudinal extent of the

axial surfaces is equal to or greater than the radial
extent of the adjacent steps.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 15,
characterised in that the ribs (12) are provided on the

inside of the wall of the flow regulator (1) and/or on
the inside of at least one annular wall (13, 14) and

preferably extend in the radial direction.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 16, 
characterised in that the narrow end or end face (18) of

at least part of the ribs (12), which is oriented in the
direction of flow (Pf1), is arranged at a spacing in

front of an adjacent annular wall (13, 14) or the
central member (20).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 17,
characterised in that the thickness of the ribs (12) is

matched to the diameter of the pins (11) provided on the
adjacent annular wall (13, 14).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 18,
characterised in that at least some of the ribs (12) are

connected, in the direction of flow (Pf1), with
connecting webs (19) which connect the inside of the

wall of the flow regulator (1) or an annular wall (13,
14) to an opposing annular wall (13, 14) or to the

central member (20).
Flow regulator according to claim 19, characterised
in that the connecting webs (19) are arranged radially.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 20,
characterised in that the ribs (12) and optionally the

connecting webs (19) connected thereto taper conically
towards the discharge end.
Flow regulator according to claim 21, characterised
in that the ribs (12) and optionally the connecting webs

(19) connected thereto taper conically over their entire
longitudinal extent.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 22,
characterised in that the ribs (12) or the connecting

webs (19) are rounded off at the edges at their narrow
ends remote from the direction of flow (Pf1). 
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 23,
characterised in that the perforated plate (2) has a

central throughflow hole (3').
Flow regulator according to claim 24, characterised
in that other throughflow holes (3) are arranged in a

circle and, more particularly, concentrically around the
central throughflow hole (3').
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 25,
characterised in that the perforated plate (2) has

throughflow holes (3) which are arranged in at least two
circular paths or circles of holes (4, 5).
Flow regulator according to claim 26, characterised
in that the circular paths or circles of holes (4, 5)

are arranged concentrically.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 27,
characterised in that the throughflow holes (3) in the

perforated plate (2) are rounded off on the inflow side
and/or taper in a funnel shape in the direction of flow

(Pf1).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 28,
characterised in that the throughflow holes (3) of the

perforated plate (2) have a rounded edge portion on the
outflow side.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 29,
characterised in that the perforated plate (2) has

reinforcing ribs (21) oriented particularly in the
radial direction.
Flow regulator according to claim 30, characterised
in that the reinforcing ribs (21) are provided on the

flat, outflow side of the perforated plate (2). 
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 31,
characterised in that the perforated plate (2) is of

dish-shaped construction.
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 32,
characterised in that, associated with the central

throughflow hole (3') of the perforated plate (2), is a
pin (11) coaxially mounted on the central member (20),

the free end of the pin facing the perforated plate
being constructed as a discharge slope (6).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 33,
characterised in that the central member (20) tapers on

the outside towards the perforated plate (2), at least
in its region facing the perforated plate (2).
Flow regulator according to one of claims 1 to 34,
characterised in that the central member (20) is of

conical construction at least in its region facing the
perforated plate (2) or has steps in the form of annular

or cascade-shaped gradations.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
