<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636441</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tundish nozzle assembly block.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22D1110	B22D1110	B22D4100	B22D4102	B22D4102	B22D4108	B22D4150	B22D4150	C21C700	C21C700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22D	B22D	B22D	B22D	B22D	B22D	B22D	B22D	C21C	C21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22D11	B22D11	B22D41	B22D41	B22D41	B22D41	B22D41	B22D41	C21C7	C21C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two-piece tundish nozzle assembly block (40) is 
provided for the drain regions of tundish vessels. 

The two-piece assembly block (40) includes a lower 
main block (44) firmly mounted in the refractory 

lining (12) of the tundish, and a selectively 
removable top sleeve (42) which, together with the 

refractory lining (12), protects the lower main block 
(44) from direct exposure to molten iron or steel. 

The top sleeve (42) is directly exposed to molten iron 
or steel passing into the drain (32). The top sleeve 

(42) is not strongly bonded in place, and can be 
easily removed and replaced when worn or damaged. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNECO METREL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNECO/METREL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOOFI MADJID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOOFI, MADJID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to a two-piece 
nozzle assembly block which is inserted in the 
refractory lining of a metallurgical vessel, for 
example, a tundish vessel, in the region of the exit 
nozzle. This invention also includes a tundish vessel 
which is equipped with the two-piece tundish nozzle 
assembly block. Tundish vessels in the iron and steel 
industry are used to process (i.e. purify) molten iron 
or steel at temperatures up to about 3300°F. The 
molten metal enters the vessel at a location known as 
the "pouring region" or "impact region." From there, 
the molten metal is caused to flow toward one or more 
drains in the floor of the tundish vessel at locations 
remote from the pouring region. The flow is regulated 
so that the molten metal has an average "residence 
time" in the vessel sufficient to allow impurities in 
the molten metal to rise to the top of the vessel 
before the molten metal exits through the drains. This 
can be accomplished using baffles, dams, weirs, and 
other flow control devices strategically positioned 
between the pouring region and the drains. In order to withstand the continuous exposure 
to hot molten metal, steel tundish vessels are lined on 
the inside with a high temperature-resistant refractory 
insulating material that is also resistant to 
oxidation, corrosion and erosion. The refractory 
lining can be made from one or more castable refractory  
 
materials known in the art including, for example, 
refractory fibers (e.g. aluminum silicate, calcium 
silicate), refractory fillers (e.g. alumina, silica, 
silicates, magnesia), and binder (e.g. colloidal 
silica, sodium silicate, starch, phenol-formaldehyde 
resin, urea formaldehyde resin). Eventually, these 
refractory lining materials wear out, causing the need 
for repair or replacement. In some areas of the tundish, including the 
drain, the refractory materials are exposed to 
comparatively greater stresses than in the main body of 
the tundish. At the drains, the velocity of the molten 
metal is faster than in the main body because a 
relatively large volume of steel is being channeled 
through comparatively small openings which cover only a 
minor portion of the surface area on the tundish floor. 
As a consequence, the refractory material which 
protects the drain regions wears out more quickly than 
the refractory material covering most of the tundish 
vessel. In the past, a special procedure has been 
employed for placing and replacing refractory material 
in the drain regions of tundish vessels. At
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A nozzle assembly block for use in a drain 
region of a metallurgical vessel, comprising: 

   a lower main block including an inner wall 
defining a hollow portion, an outer wall, and top and 

bottom walls extending between the inner and outer 
walls; and 

   a selectively removable top sleeve including 
a horizontal extension which covers the top wall of 

the lower main block, a vertical extension 
intersecting the horizontal extension which covers the 

inner wall of the lower main block, and an inner 
hollow portion defined by the vertical extension for 

receiving a nozzle. 
The nozzle assembly block of claim 1, 
wherein the inner and outer walls have circular 

cross-sections. 
The nozzle assembly block of claim 1 or 
claim 2, wherein the lower main block comprises a high 

temperature-resistant refractory material. 
The nozzle assembly block of claim 3, 
wherein the refractory material is selected from the 

group consisting of Al₂0₃, Mg0, zirconia, 
Al₂0₃.SiC, and compounds and combinations thereof. 
The nozzle assembly block of any preceding 
claim, wherein the selectively removable top sleeve 

comprises a high temperature-resistant refractory 
material. 
The nozzle assembly block of claim 5, 
wherein the refractory material is selected from the 

 
group consisting of Al₂0₃, Mg0, zirconia, 

Al₂0₃.SiC, and compounds and combinations thereof. 
The nozzle assembly block of any preceding 
claim, wherein the selectively removable top sleeve is 

joined to the lower main block using a low-adhesive 
graphitic mortar. 
The nozzle assembly block of claim 8, 
wherein the mortar comprises about 60-70 weight 

percent alumina, about 5-15 weight percent graphite, 
and a balance substantially of silica, calcia and 

magnesia. 
A nozzle assembly block for use in a drain 
region of a metallurgical vessel, comprising: 

   a lower main block including an inner wall 
having a circular cross-section and defining a hollow 

portion, an outer wall having a circular cross-section 
surrounding the inner wall, and top and bottom 

surfaces joining the inner and outer walls; and 
   a selectively removable top sleeve which 

covers the inner wall and the top surface joining the 
inner and outer walls, the top sleeve defining an 

inner hollow portion. 
The nozzle assembly block of claim 9, 
wherein the circular cross-sections of the inner and 

outer walls are concentric. 
The nozzle assembly block of claim 9 or 
claim 10, wherein the inner hollow portion also has a 

circular cross-section. 
The nozzle assembly block of any of claims 9 
to 11, wherein the top sleeve comprises a vertical 

 
extension adjacent to the inner wall of the lower main 

block, and a horizontal extension adjacent to the top 
surface of the lower main block. 
The nozzle assembly block of any of claims 9 
to 12, wherein the lower main block and top sleeve 

each comprises a high temperature-resistant refractory 
material. 
A tundish vessel having an inner refractory 
lining, an outer steel shell, one or more walls, a 

floor, a pouring region and at least one drain 
opening, the vessel further comprising: 

   a depression formed in the refractory lining 
surrounding the drain opening, the depression having a 

diameter larger than the drain opening; 
   a lower main block mounted in the 

depression, the lower main block including an inner 
wall defining a hollow portion, an outer wall, and top 

and bottom surfaces surrounding the inner and outer 
walls; 

   a selectively removable to sleeve which 
covers the inner wall and the top surface joining the 

inner and outer walls, the top sleeve defining an 
inner hollow portion; and 

   a tundish nozzle commencing in the inner 
hollow portion and extending through the steel shell. 
The tundish vessel of claim 14, wherein the 
lower main block is permanently mounted in the 

depression. 
The tundish vessel of claim 14 or claim 15, 
wherein the lower main block comprises a high 

temperature-resistant refractory material. 
The tundish vessel of any of claims 14, 15 
or 16, wherein the top sleeve comprises a high 

temperature-resistant refractory material. 
The tundish vessel of any of claims 14 to 
17, wherein the hollow portion, the inner hollow 

portion, and the tundish nozzle have circular 
cross-sections. 
The tundish vessel of claim 15, wherein the 
lower main block is gunned into place in the 

depression. 
The tundish vessel of any of claims 14 to 
19, wherein the depresson has a diameter about three 

times as large as the drain opening. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
