<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658091</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ELASTOGRAPHIC MEASUREMENT AND IMAGING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S752	G01S752	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S7	G01S7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved ultrasonic pulse-echo method and apparatus that has particular application in making precision measurements of compressibility in any backscattering material, in particular organic tissue, is disclosed. The method employs a standard transducer or transducer containing device which is translated transaxially, thereby compressing or displacing a proximal region of a target body in small known increments. At each increment, a pulse is emitted and an echo sequence (A-line) is detected from regions within the target along the sonic travel path or beam of the transducer. Resulting time shifts in echo segments corresponding to features in the target, corrected for regions of varying sonic speed along the sonic path, provide relative and quantitative information concerning the strain caused by the compressions. The stress imparted by the transducer and containing device is also determined, corrected for depth along the sonic path. The appropriate values for stress are divided into the respective values for strain along each path to yield an elastogram, or array of compressibility values, of the target.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOARD OF REGENTS THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CESPEDES, IGNACIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OPHIR, JONATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PONNEKANTI, HARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ELASTOGRAPHICMEASUREMENT AND IMAGINGThis invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for performing elastographic diagnosis of a target body. Elastography is a system for measuring and imaging elastic modulus and compressibility distributions m an elastic tissue. It also has application to strain profiling and improved sonographic measurement and imaging. This system is typically based on external compression of a target body, and utilizes one or more transducers, acting as or with a compressor, to generate pre- and post- compression sonic pulses and receive the resulting echo sequences (A-lines) from within the target body. The pre- and post-compression echo sequence pairs may then be cross- correlated or matched to determine the strain along the path of the sonic pulses, and preferably to yield a strain profile of tne target body. This strain profile may then be converted into a compressibility profile or elastogram by measuring the stress imposed by the compressing device and calculating the elastic moduli oased on the stress and the strain profile.An elastogram may be considered to be a special form of multi-trace sonogram, wherein each trace is a record or display witπ depth within a target body of an elastic modulus function of the body. A preferred elastic modulus function for purposes of display s tne inverse of the bulk modulus, which provides a measure of compressibility. As explained later in this description, tne inverse of the 

Young's moduli may usually be used instead of the bulk moduli. Less preferred but also helpful are the Young's moduli themselves. Methods for making and using elastograms are described at length in co-pending application no. 7/535,312.While the methods described in application no. 7/535,312 produce greatly improved records and understanding of structures of elastic tissues, it has been observed that certain inaccuracies in the resulting elastograms may arise. In particular, inaccuracies have been observed if the transducer and compressor used to compress and insonify a tissue are relatively small in size relative to the depth (or thickness) of the target body, giving rise to decreasing stress in the target body as the distance increases from the compressor. Likewise, inaccuracies have been observed in elastograms and sonograms if the target body is not relatively homogeneous with respect to sonic speed, giving rise to strata through which sonic pulses travel at differing velocities. The improved methods and apparatus for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A method of correcting an elastogram of an elastically compressible target body wherein the elastogram comprises an array of records derived from a corresponding array of ultrasonic echo sequences received from a corresponding array of sonic travel paths and wherein at least a first one of the sequences traveled along its sonic path within the target body with substantially different travel times than other echo sequences in the array of echo sequences, and the stress within the target body along said travel path also varied substantially, which comprises: compensating the record of each said first sequence for the differences in its travel times; and compensating the record of each said first sequence for such stress variations, to form a corrected elastogram.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the elastogram comprises a compressibility profile.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the target body comprises human or animal tissue.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein the target body comprises a human body.
5. A method of correcting an elastogram of an elastically compressible target body wherein the elastogram comprises an array of records derived from a corresponding array of ultrasonic echo sequences received from a corresponding array of sonic travel paths within the target body, and wherein at least a first one of the sequences traveled along its sonic path within the target body with substantially different travel times than other echo sequences in the array of echo sequences, and the stress within the target body along the travel path of at least a 


second one of said sequences varied substantially, which comprises: compensating the record of each said first sequence for the differences in its travel times; and compensating the record of each said sequence for such stress variations to form a corrected elastogram.
6. The method of claim 5 m which the target body comprises human or animal tissue.
7. The method of claim 6 which the elastogram comprises a compressibility profile.
8. A method of forming an elastogram of an elastically compressible target body wherein the elastogram comprises an array of records derived from a corresponding array of ultrasonic echo sequence received from a corresponding array of sonic travel paths within the target body, and wherein at least a first one of the sequences traveled along its sonic path within the target body with substantially different travel times than other echo sequences in the array of echo sequences, which comprises: compensating the record of each said first sequence for the differences m its travel times to form a corrected elastogram.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the elastogram comprises a compressibility profile.
10. The method of claim 9, wnere tne target body comprises human or animal tissue.
11. A method of correcting an elastogram of an elastically compressible target body wnereir the elastogram comprises an array of records derived from a corresponding array of ultrasonic echo sequences received from their respective sonic travel paths within the target body, and wherein at 


least a first one of the records is deficient because of a variation in stress within the target body along the travel path corresponding to said first record, which comprises: compensating each such deficient record for its respective stress variation to form an elastogram wherein each such deficiency has been reduced.
12. The method of Claim 11 in which said records comprise a compressibility profile.
13. The method of Claim 11 wherein said records comprise a Young's modulus of elasticity profile.
14. The method of Claim 11 in which said records comprise a bulk modulus of elasticity profile.
15. The method of claim 12 in which the target body is human or animal tissue.
16. A method of estimating compressibility of a target body, the method including the steps of:
(a) sonically coupling an ultrasonic source to said target body;
(b) emitting a first pulse of ultrasonic energy from the source along an axis in said target body;
(c) detecting the arrival time of a first echo sequence having at least one echo segment arriving in response to said first pulse of ultrasonic energy;
(d) transaxially moving the ultrasonic source so as to compress said target body;
(e) emitting a second pulse of ultrasonic energy from the source along said axis in the target body following said movement; 


 (f) detecting the arrival time of a second echo sequence having at least one echo segment, being congruent with at least one said echo segment having arrived in response to said first pulse, arriving in response to said second pulse of ultrasonic energy;
(g) measuring the differential displacement of a plurality of said congruent echo segments; (h) calculating the strain along said axis following said movement; (i) measuring the stress imparted along said axis as a result of said movement by:
(1) measuring the shape and area of the ultrasonic source, including any compressor attachments, compressing against the target body;
(2) determining a profile of variations in stress along said axis from the position along said axis and said shape and area of the source; and
(3) calculating a corrected stress along said axis by applying said profile to said measured stress; and (j) dividing the strain along said axis by the stress along said axis.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein in steps (b) and (e) a plurality of said first and second pulses are emitted along a corresponding plurality of axes into the target body, and steps (c) , (d) , and (f) through (j) are performed for each said first and second pulses.
18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the steps of 


(a) identifying regions along said axes having different sonic speeds from the determined values of compressibility;
(b) determining the time required for said pulses and echo sequences to traverse said regions along said axes ;
(c) determining correction time delay factors for correcting variations in echo sequence travel time arising from variations in sonic speed in the target body; and
(d) applying said time delay factors to said echo sequences for correcting said substantial variations. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
