<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654151</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND ELEMENT FOR MAKING A RELIEF IMAGE USING AN IR SENSITIVE LAYER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M540	B41M541	G03F700	G03F7095	G03F100	G03F700	G03F100	G03F7095	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M5	B41M5	G03F7	G03F7	G03F1	G03F7	G03F1	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A photosensitive element having an infrared imageable layer, and a process for making a relief image from such an element are disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a process for making a
relief image and, more particularly, to a process for
making a relief image from a photosensitive element
having a layer which is sensitive to infrared laser
radiation. This invention also relates to a
photosensitive element having an infrared-sensitive
layer.Photosensitive elements which can be used to make
relief images are well known. The photosensitive
compositions generally comprise a photoinitiator and a
component which is capable of reacting with the
initiator, after it has been activated by exposure to
actinic radiation. The reaction of the initiator and
the second component produces a change in the physical
properties of the layer such that the exposed areas can
be differentiated from the nonexposed areas.Imagewise exposure of a photosensitive element
requires the use of a phototool which is a mask having
clear and opaque areas covering the photosensitive
layer. The phototool prevents exposure and
photoreaction in the non-image areas, so that the image
can be later developed. The phototool is clear, i.e.,
transparent to actinic radiation, in the image areas so
that those areas are exposed to radiation. The 
phototool is usually a photographic negative (or
positive) of the desired printing image. If corrections
are needed in the final image a new negative (or
positive) must be made. This is a time-consuming
process. In addition, the phototool may change slightly
in dimension due to changes in temperature and humidity.
Thus, the same phototool, when used at different times
or in different environments, may give different results
and could cause registration problems.Thus, it would be desirable to eliminate the
phototool by directly recording information on a
photosensitive element, e.g., by means of a laser beam.
The image to be developed could be translated into
digital information and the digital information used to
adjust the relative position of the material and laser
for exposing. The digital information could even be
transmitted from a distant location. Corrections could
be made easily and quickly by adjusting the digitized
image. In addition, the digitized image could be either
positive or negative, eliminating the need to have both
positive-working and negative-working photosensitive
materials, or positive and negative phototools. This
saves storage space and, thus, reduces cost. Another
advantage is that registration can be precisely
controlled by machine during the imaging step.In general, it has not been very practical to use
lasers for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for preparing a relief image which comprises:

(1) preparing an element having the following layers:

(a) a support;
(b) a photosensitive layer comprising an elastomeric
binder, at least one monomer and an initiator having

sensitivity to non-infrared actinic radiation;
(c) at least one infrared radiation sensitive layer which
is substantially opaque to actinic radiation;
(b') at least one barrier layer interposed between the
photosensitive layer (b) and the infrared radiation

sensitive layer (c); and
(d) a coversheet;
(2) exposing imagewise the element through layer (d) with
infrared laser radiation;
(3) removing the layer (d) having adhered thereto a part of
layer (c), wherein the remaining element consists of layers

(a), (b), (b') and a mask consisting of the part of layer
(c) not adhered to layer (d);
(4) exposing overall the remaining element of step (3) with
actinic radiation through the mask; and
(5) developing the product of step (4).
The process according to claim 1 wherein the exposure to
actinic radiation in step (4) effects a change in solubility of

the exposed photosensitive layer (b), and the develpment step (5)
is carried out by removing (i) the areas of the photosensitive

layer which are more soluble, (ii) the part of layer (c) adhering
to the barrier layer (b') and at least the areas of barrier layer

(b') adhering to the areas of the photosensitive layer (b) which 
are more soluble.
The process according to claim 2 wherein the photosensitive
layer is photosolubilizable.
The process according to claim 2 wherein the photosensitive
layer
 is photohardenable and the relief image is used as a
flexographic printing plate.
The process according to claim 1 wherein the barrier layer is
strippable and is removed prior to step (5).
The process of claim 1 wherein the photosensitive layer (b)
is photohardenable and the development step (5) is carried out

by removing (i) the infrared-sensitive material which was not
removed during step (3), (ii) the areas of the barrier layer

which were not exposed to actinic radiation, and (iii) the areas
of the photohardenable layer (b) which were not exposed to

actinic radiation.
The process according to claim 1 which further comprises the
step of:


(6) backflash exposing the element overall to actinic
radiation through the support, said backflash exposure

occurring after step (1) and before step (5).
The process according to claim 7 wherein step (6) takes place
after step (1).
The process according to claim 1 which further comprises a
post-exposure step after step (5).
The process according to claim 1 which further comprises a
detackification treatment after step (5).
The process according to claim 10 wherein the detackification
treatment comprises exposure to light having a wavelength less 

than 300 nm.
The process according to claim 1 wherein step (5) further
comprises developing the product of step (4) by treating with a

first developer to remove substantially all of layer (c),
followed by treatment with a second developer to remove

substantially all of the unexposed areas of the photohardenable
layer and at least the unexposed areas of the barrier layer.
A photosensitive element suitable for preparing a relief
image comprising:


(a) a support;
(b) a photosensitive layer comprising an elastomeric
binder, at least one monomer and an initiator having

sensitivity to non-infrared actinic radiation;
(c) at least one infrared radiation sensitive layer which
is substantially opaque to actinic radiation;
(b') at least one barrier layer interposed between the
photosensitive layer (b) and the infrared radiation

sensitive layer (c); and
(d) a coversheet which is removed after imagewise exposure
to infrared laser radiation.
The element according to claim 13 wherein carbon black is
present in the infrared radiation sensitive layer (c).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
