<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652461</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Liquid crystal display
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F1139	G02F11362	G02F113	G02F1137	G02F1136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an active matrix liquid crystal display device based 
on voltage control (non-zero driving voltage) of the birefringence (negative 

or positive) of the liquid crystal cell. In the device a ground (earth) plate 
comprises a piece of glass 'e' with a transparent conductive coating 'f', such 

as iridium tin oxide. A silicon wafer 'g' with integrated circuits on it has a 
coating of polymer 'h' for aligning liquid crystal molecules 'i'. The coated 

glass 'e' also has a coating 'j' for aligning the liquid crystal molecules. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a reflective display device, particularly to such a
device based on active matrix control or display of an electro-optic material
such as a liquid crystal. The display can be fabricated on integrated circuits
based on single crystalline silicon wafers.Commercial active matrix displays are usually based on light transmission.
They are matrix devices where the transmission of light of each individual
pixel is controlled by an electrical voltage. These active matrix liquid crystal
displays are commonly based on the twisted nematic (TN) effect of liquid
crystal for controlling light transmission, and semiconductor thin film
transistors (TFT) for controlling the individual pixel's transmission state. The
TFT can be made of materials such as polycrystalline silicon, amorphous
silicon or cadmium selenide.The principle of these active matrix display devices is as follows: incoming
light is first polarized by passing through a polarizer, and then sent into the
liquid crystal cell, which comprises many pixels. When no voltage is applied
on the pixel, the polarization vector of the incoming light will be rotated by
the liquid crystal molecules through the TN effect. A polarizer placed at the
output side of the liquid crystal cell can be used to transmit either the light
(normally on) or reject the light (normally off). When a proper voltage is
applied to the pixel, the TN effect disappears and the polarization of the
light is unchanged. The light will therefore be rejected (off) or transmitted
(on) by the output polarizer, depending on whether the device is normally on
or off respectively. Each pixel can be turned on or off independently by the
active control of the voltage across it. Gray scale can also be achieved by 
supplying intermediate voltages. All of such active matrix displays are
invariably based on glass substrates and function in the transmission mode.
Polarizers are placed in the front and back of the liquid crystal panel. Some
displays are viewed in reflection by placing a mirror in the back of the liquid
crystal panel. But the operation is, however, transmission, not reflection.The active control of the display matrix is achieved by controlling the
electrical signals on the transistors on each pixel. Additionally, driver
electronic circuits are required to control the timing and scanning of the
electrical pulses to each pixel. While TFTs are adequate for controlling the
transmission state of the pixels, they are undesirable for the driver part of the
active matrix display.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electro-optic apparatus for image display, comprising a tunable
birefringent display cell, including a material (i) having a positive or negative

birefringence
the phase retardation of which can be described with

an ordinary index of refraction and a voltage dependent
extraordinary index of refraction; said display cell comprising


an active matrix controllable display element, including reflector means
(d) for causing incident electromagnetic energy to traverse across the cell

a plurality of times;
polarising means (i)
being oriented relative to said display cell

for polarising light incident on said display cell and
receiving light reflected by said reflector means (d); and voltage control means being arranged

such that an off-state
or any brightness in between an on-state and said off-state of each pixel require

a non zero driving voltage at which the extraordinary index of refraction
varies with voltage characterised in that said voltage control means are arranged to

apply a non zero driving voltage to each pixel in said on state.
Apparatus according to Claim 1, being operable in a
non-birefringent state by application of voltage to the cell.
Apparatus according to Claim 1 or Claim 2,
comprising a liquid crystal display.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein said reflector means
providing for traversal of the cell twice by incident light energy.
Apparatus according to Claim 4, wherein said reflector means comprising
a metal electrode reflector means (d). 
Apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein the metal electrode
reflector means (d) comprising aluminium.
Apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein the panels being carried
by a silicon chip.
An active matrix liquid crystal display device comprising an apparatus
according to any preceding claim.
A display device according to Claim 8, further comprising a polarizer
(m, p) adapted to produce a linearly polarized beam of incident light.
A display device according to Claim 9, comprising a plurality of
polarizers each adapted to produce a plurality of linearly polarised beams of

incident light at a plurality of wavelengths.
A display device according to Claim 9 or Claim 10, wherein the
polarizer(s) comprising a prism or prisms (m).
A display device according to Claim 11, wherein the polarizer(s)
comprising two prisms to form a cube (m).
A display device according to Claim 9, wherein the polarizer
comprising a sheet or thin film polarizer (p).
A display device according to any of Claims 8 to 13, further comprising
means to provide a colour display. 
A display device according to Claim 14, wherein the colour
means comprising one or more colour filter or filters.
A display device according to any of Claims 8 to 15, comprising a
coating (j) for aligning the liquid crystal molecules.
A display device according to any of Claims 8 to 16, comprising
one or a plurality of crystalline silicon based liquid cells.
A display device according to any of Claims 8 to 17, including an
earth plate (e) comprising a glass plate with a transparent conductive coating (f).
A display device according to Claim 18, wherein the conductive
coating comprising an indium tin oxide coating.
An apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 7 or a display device
according to any of Claims 8 to 19, comprising a light source (l).
An instrument, comprising an active matrix display device according
to any of Claims 7 to 19. 
Apparatus according to any preceding claims 1 to 7, wherein the
driving voltage of said voltage control means is defined as a first driving voltage and a

second driving voltage, said first driving voltage being
greater than said second driving voltage, and said on state

being associated with one of said first driving voltage and
said second driving voltage and said off state being

associated with one of said second driving voltage and said
first driving voltage, respectively.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
