<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654351</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Inkdrop-volume test using heat-flow effects, for thermal-inkjet printers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2175	B41J205	B41J2125	B41J2175	B41J205	B41J2125	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides methods of determining ink volume 
ejected from a printhead, controlling ejected volume, 

and warning of low ink supply. A printhead is fired to 
eject ink: this operating step includes heating the ink 

and head; carrying away heat, in the ejected volume, from 
the head; and conveying a volume of cooler ink to the 

head, from a supply, to replace the ejected ink. The 
method finds the head cooling caused by the carrying-away 

and conveying; and to this applies a known calibration to 
find the volume ejected. The heating is roughly equal to 

that which occurs in printing. Besides the operating 
step, the method preferably includes finding (a) printhead 

cooling due to static mechanical thermal drain alone, and 
(b) printhead thermal response to warming by the same 

amount of heat as used to fire the pen in the operating 
step -- but 
without
 ink ejection. These baseline values 
are used with the cooling observed in the operating step 

to isolate the effect of ink ejection and so find the 
cooling more accurately. The warming can be done by 

applying electrical energy to printhead-firing resistors, 
at pulse widths narrower than used for firing -- but 

greater frequency -- to inject power equal to that in 
normal operation. The temperature measurements are made 

by monitoring a conventional sensing resistor in the pen, 
and can include fitting a linear slope to the observed 

temperature-vs.-time relation. (All these same steps are 
also done in advance, for calibration, before the machine 

manufacture is completed -- with concurrent, 
in situ
 measurement, 
as by before-and-after pen weighings, of actual 

ink weight ejected.) Ascertained volume can be applied to 
control the printer -- particularly ejected ink volume -- 

and to warn that the ink supply needs replenishment. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WADE JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WADE, JOHN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to machines and
procedures for printing text or graphics on printing media
such as paper, transparency stock, or other glossy media;
and more particularly to a thermal-inkjet machine and
method that construct text or images from individual ink
spots ejected onto a printing medium from nozzles in one
or more thermal-inkjet pens.An important factor in thermal-inkjet printing is the
volume of ink applied to a printing medium by firing the
pen printhead -- or printheads, in the case of a pen with
plural ink chambers, see for example US-A-5 036 337 which represents
the closest prior art document.Each printhead comprises a large number (typically
twelve to more than a hundred) of individual modules, each
capable of being fired to eject an individual drop or
"jet" of ink. Each of these modules includes: 
an individual heating element or resistor (part of a
generally planar integrated circuit),an individual nozzle or orifice (formed in a generally
planar orifice plate), andan individual ink-containing cell (part of a maze-like
structure of ink passageways formed in a generally
planar spacer, called the "barrier", which is
disposed between the integrated circuit and the
orifice plate).For purposes of this document, each of these modules
consisting of one resistor, one nozzle and one cell will
be called a "jet module".To fire a jet module once, a pulse of electrical
energy is directed into the heating element or resistor
which forms part of that module, to abruptly raise the
temperature of the resistor. The hot resistor vaporizes
a small amount of ink in the cell, immediately adjacent
to the heating element.Abrupt expansion of this vapor expels from the cell,
through the orifice, a still-liquid drop of ink from a
position just inside the orifice.If the applied energy is excessive, or insufficient
to perform this process reliably, the result can be a variety
of problems which I shall group into two categories:
(1) overheating, underheating, and their consequences,
which I shall call "energy-management problems"; and(2) overinking, underinking, and their consequences,
which I shall call "ink-volume problems".
Energy-management problems are taken up in the related
patent document mentioned above. For purposes of this
document I shall simply assume that the energy applied 
to each jet module is appropriate to resolve all such
problems.The present document addresses ink-volume problems.
The volume of ink ejected from an inkjet-pen printhead,
for a particular or representative image, is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of running a thermal-inkjet printing machine
that has a thermal-inkjet pen and that uses ink ejected

from a printhead of the pen to mark on a printing medium;
said method comprising:


performing a volume-ascertaining sequence which
includes the steps of:


operating the pen printhead to eject a volume of
ink, said operating step comprising the substeps of

(1) heating the ink and printhead, (2) carrying away
heat, in the ejected volume of ink, from the printhead,

and (3) conveying a volume of cooler ink to the
printhead, from an ink supply, to replace the ejected

volume;
determining the amount of cooling of the printhead
produced by the carrying-away and conveying

substeps; and
correlating the determined amount of cooling
with ejected ink volume according to a known calibration

relationship, to ascertain the magnitude of the
volume of ink ejected; and

then applying the ascertained magnitude to control
actuation of the pen printhead to eject ink for marking on

a printing medium.
The method of claim 1, wherein:

said applying comprises using the ascertained magnitude
to control the ink volume ejected for marking on the

print medium.
The method of claim 2, wherein:

said magnitude-using comprises using the ascertained
magnitude to control a depletion algorithm which in turn

controls the ink volume ejected for marking on the print
medium.
The method of claim 1, wherein:

said applying comprises using the ascertained magnitude
to trigger a low-ink-supply operating mode if the

ascertained magnitude corresponds to imminent ink-supply
exhaustion.
The method of claim 4, wherein:

said low-ink-supply operating mode comprises warning
an operator of imminent ink-supply exhaustion.
The method of claim 4:

further comprising, concurrently with said printhead
actuation for marking on a printing medium, provision of

relative motion between the printing medium and a marking
axis of the pen; and
wherein said low-ink-supply operating mode comprises
inhibiting the relative motion and the marking.
The method of claim 4, particularly for use in a
printing machine that has at least two such pens, and

wherein:

said low-ink-supply operating mode comprises taking
out of service a pen for which ink-supply exhaustion is

imminent, and putting into service another pen.
The method of claim 1, wherein:

said determining step comprises making an allowance
for thermal leakage from the printhead to a body of the

pen.
The method of claim 8, wherein:

said determining step comprises monitoring printhead
temperature decline while no heat is applied to the printhead

and no ink is ejected from the printhead.
The method of claim 1, wherein:

said determining step comprises making an allowance
for thermal mass of the printhead, or for heat flow into

or out from the thermal mass.
The method of claim 10, wherein:

said determining step comprises the substep of warming
the printhead without ink ejection; and

concurrently monitoring the printhead temperature.
The method of claim 11, wherein:

the heating substep comprises directing electrical
energy pulses to a firing resistor at pulse widths wide

enough to fire ink from the pen; and
the warming substep comprises directing electrical
energy pulses to the same firing resistor at pulse widths

narrower than required to fire ink from the pen.
The method of claim 11, wherein:

the heating substep comprises directing electrical
energy pulses to a firing resistor at a frequency low

enough to fire ink from the pen; and
the warming substep comprises directing electrical
energy pulses to the same firing resistor at a frequency

too high to fire ink from the pen.
The method of claim 1, further comprising:

before performing the volume-ascertaining sequence,
finding the calibration relationship.
The method of claim 14, wherein:

the calibration-finding step comprises weighing the
pen twice to determine a volume of ink ejected during the

calibration-ascertaining step.
The method of claim 1, wherein said determining step
comprises the substep of:


during the operating step, obtaining a measure of the
rate at which the pen temperature changes.
The method of claim 16, wherein the measure-obtaining
substep comprises:


automatically fitting a curve to data representing
successive temperatures of the printhead; and
using the slope of the curve as the measure of said
rate.
The method of claim 16, wherein the measure-obtaining
substep comprises:


monitoring the pen temperature by sensing the resistance
of a resistor associated with the pen; and
using changes in the sensed resistance to find said
measure of pen-temperature changing rate.
A method of determining volume of ink ejected from a
thermal-inkjet pen; said method comprising the steps of:


determining the amount of cooling produced by ejection
and replacement of the ejected volume, said determining

step including the substeps of:

preheating the pen by directing electrical
energy pulses to a firing resistor at pulse widths

narrower than needed to fire ink from the pen,
firing the pen to eject ink in a selected operating
mode, by directing electrical energy pulses to

the same firing resistor at pulse widths wide enough
to fire ink from the pen, and
monitoring the pen temperature, by sensing the
resistance of a resistor associated with the pen, to

obtain a measure of the rate at which the pen temperature
changes; and

correlating the determined amount of cooling with ink
volume according to a known calibration relationship, to

ascertain the magnitude of the volume of ink ejected.
A method of controlling volume of ink ejected from a
thermal-inkjet pen; said method comprising the steps of:


establishing volume of ink ejected from a thermal-inkjet
pen; said establishing step including the substeps

of:

determining the amount of cooling produced by
ejection and replacement of the ejected volume, and
correlating the determined amount of cooling
with ink volume according to a known calibration

relationship, to ascertain the magnitude of the
volume of ink ejected; and
applying the ascertained magnitude to set subsequently
ejected ink volume to a different value.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
