<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640660</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of monitoring a patient's progress using a kit of putties
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B1910	C08L8304	G09B1900	A61H102	A63B2100	A61H102	G09B1910	A63B2314	C08K500	C08K500	A63B2100	A63B23035	G09B1900	C08L8300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	C08L	G09B	A61H	A63B	A61H	G09B	A63B	C08K	C08K	A63B	A63B	G09B	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B19	C08L83	G09B19	A61H1	A63B21	A61H1	G09B19	A63B23	C08K5	C08K5	A63B21	A63B23	G09B19	C08L83	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus (10) for providing manipulative 
physical therapy includes a first mass (14) of a putty 

including a reaction product of siloxane with a boron- or 
tin-containing compound and a normal polysiloxane. At 

least one additional mass (18-32) of the putty is 
provided to the patient, the additional mass adaptable to 

be manually combined by the patient with the first mass 
(14) until a uniform color is achieved in the combined 

mass (38). Preferably, a plurality of additional masses 
(18-32) having a variety of colors are provided for 

successive combination with the combined mass. The 
apparatus provides a means by which the progress of 

manipulative physical therapy may be monitored, as a 
uniform color in the combined mass will be achieved only 

after extensive manipulation. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JMK INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JMK INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBBON ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBBON, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates
to a method for monitoring a patient's progress
in manipulative therapy using exercise putty and a kit
of parts for creating an exercise putty to perform this method.Borosiloxanes exhibit peculiar physical
characteristics which make them suitable for therapeutic
use. Borosiloxane bouncing putties are shown, for
example, in U.S. Patent No. 2,541,851, issued to Wright,
and U.S. Patent No. 3,677,997, issued to Kaiser et al.
Both of these patents are fully incorporated by reference
herein.These-bouncing putties have the peculiar
characteristic of being able to be kneaded and worked as
a putty-like material, while at the same time exhibiting
elastic properties under a greater degree of force. A
borosiloxane bouncing putty has long been commercially
available as a toy under the trademark "SILLY PUTTY".
Because of their characteristics, bouncing putties have
found application in physical therapy to strengthen
muscular control and performance of, e.g., patients'
hands.Because a lump of exercise putty is by its
nature a shapeless mass, there is no easy way for a
physical therapist (or the patient) to monitor the
progress being made in manipulating the putty. Different
amounts of kneading or manipulation will, in conventional
exercise putties, create the same result -- the same
shapeless mass. There is no good way to measure the
amount of manipulation which has been done. A need
therefore exists for a method and apparatus to monitor 
the progress made by a patient in exercising his or her hands.According to one aspect of the present invention, there is
provided a method of monitoring the progress of a patient,
comprising the steps of:
supplying to a patient a first malleable mass of
putty comprising (a) a chain-extending reaction product of
polydiorganosiloxane and a compound containing boron or tin,
and (b) a second polydiorganosiloxane gum, said first mass
having a first colour;supplying to a patient a second malleable mass of
putty having a second colour different from the first colour,
the second malleable mass being blendable into the first mass;directing the patient to combine the first mass with
the second mass to form a combined mass having a uniform colour
which is a result of blending the first colour with the second
colour, the uniform colour of the combined mass indicating that
the patient has manipulated the combined mass by a
predetermined amount.According to a further aspect of the invention, there is
provided a kit of parts for creating an exercise putty and
comprising
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of monitoring the progress of a patient,
comprising the steps of:


supplying to a patient a first malleable mass of
putty comprising (a) a chain-extending reaction product of

polydiorganosiloxane and a compound containing boron or tin,
and (b) a second polydiorganosiloxane gum, said first mass

having a first colour;
supplying to a patient a second malleable mass of
putty having a second colour different from the first colour,

the second malleable mass being blendable into the first mass;
directing the patient to combine the first mass with
the second mass to form a combined mass having a uniform colour

which is a result of blending the first colour with the second
colour, the uniform colour of the combined mass indicating that

the patient has manipulated the combined mass by a
predetermined amount.
The method of claim 1, wherein the second malleable mass
is significantly smaller and has a more concentrated colour

than the first malleable mass.
The method of claim 1 or 2, and further comprising the
step of inspecting the combined mass for streaks, the presence

of streaks indicating that the combined mass has been
manipulated by less than a predetermined amount.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the first
malleable mass is a putty including borosiloxane. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the second
malleable mass is a putty including a polymer constituent

selected from the group consisting of borosiloxane, a
polydiorganosiloxane gum and mixtures thereof.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein said first
malleable mass comprises:


100 parts by weight of a chain-extended polysiloxane
reaction product formed by reacting a polysiloxane having a

viscosity of 50,000 to 100,000 centistokes with a reactant
containing oxygen and either boron or tin;
10 to 50 parts by weight of a second polysiloxane gum
having a Williams' plasticity in the range of 120 to 140 mm;
0.2 to 2.0 parts of an internal lubricant; and
5 to 45 parts by weight of a particulate filler
material
The method of any preceding claim, and further comprising
the steps of:


after a uniform colour has been achieved in the
combined mass, supplying to the patient a third malleable mass

having a third colour which is different from the uniform
colour of the combined mass;
directing the patient to manually combine the third
mass with the combined mass to form a second combined mass

having a second uniform colour which is a result of blending
the third colour with the uniform colour, the achievement of

the second uniform colour of the second combined mass
indicating that the patient has again manipulated the combined

mass by a predetermined amount.
The method of claim 7, and further comprising:

for a predetermined number of iterations, performing
the following steps:
after a uniform colour has again been achieved in the
combined mass, supplying to the patient a further malleable

mass having a colour different from the uniform colour; and
directing the patient to manually combine the further
malleable mass with the combined mass u
ntil a uniform colour is
again achieved.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the successive
colours denote putties of increasing stiffness.
A kit of parts for creating an exercise putty to perform
the method according to claim 1 and comprising:


a first mass of putty including a reaction product of
a polysiloxane and either a boron- or a tin-containing compound

and having a first colour, and further including a second
polydiorganosiloxane gum; and
at least one additional mass of putty including (a) a
reaction product of polysiloxane and either a boron- or tin-containing

compound, (b) a polydiorganosiloxane gum, or (c)
mixtures of (a) and (b), said additional mass having a second

colour distinct from the first colour, the additional mass
adaptable to be manually combined by the patient with the first

mass to form a combined mass having a uniform colour which is a
result of blending the first colour and the second colours.
A kit of parts according to claim 10, wherein the
different colours denote putties of increasing stiffness. 
A kit of parts according to claim 10 or 11, and further
comprising a plurality of additional masses having colours

distinct from the first colour, at least some of the colours of
the additional masses being distinct from each other, a first

additional mass adaptable to be combined with said first mass
to form a combined mass, remaining additional masses adapted to

be successively manually added to the combined mass, respective
uniform colours being achieved after the complete blending of

each additional mass with the combined mass.
A kit of parts according to any of claims 10 to 12,
wherein said first mass comprises:


100 parts by weight of a chain-extended polysiloxane
reaction product formed by reacting a polysiloxane having a

viscosity of 50,000 to 100,000 centistokes with a reactant
containing oxygen and either boron or tin;
10 to 50 parts by weight of a second polysiloxane gum
having a Williams' plasticity in the range of 120 to 140 mm;
0.2 to 2.0 parts of an internal lubricant; and
5 to 45 parts by weight of a particulate filler
material.
A kit of parts according to claim 13, wherein said chain-extended
siloxane reaction product is selected from the group

consisting of borosiloxane and stannosiloxane.
A kit of parts according to claim 13 or 14, wherein said
reactant is dibutyldiacetoxytin. 
A kit of parts according to claim 13 or 14, wherein said
reactant is trimethyl boroxine.
A kit of parts according to any of claims 13 to 16 wherein
said particulate material is precipitated silica.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
