<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643891</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1228	H04L1228	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Procedure for the transmission of digital data in a control/monitoring system of a building, said system consisting of room-specific nodes interconnected by means of fibre-optic or galvanic cables and used as control units. In the system, the data flows in the form of packets containing the fields required for data transmission in the system. Digital data and analog data converted into digital form are transmitted in the system, analog data being converted into digital form by taking samples of it at a given sampling frequency. Each packet contains data to be transmitted at at least two different sampling frequencies. Moreover, each node takes care of substantially all of the control/monitoring data needed in the place where the node is located.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTTINEN TAPIO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTTINEN, TAPIO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTTINEN TAPIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTTINEN, TAPIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a procedure for the transmission
of digital data according to the introductory part of
claim 1.The increasing number of functions of and devices used in
buildings and the increasing safety and environmental requirements
impose new requirements on the development of systems
for internal transfer of data and energy within a building.
In a commercial building, dozens of different systems
are needed, and their number is increasing in homes as well.
To solve the problem of the expenses resulting from the
installation and renovation of these systems, general systems
designed to replace separate ones have been developed. In
this type of "intelligent" system, it is possible to connect
e.g. temperature sensors and electromechanical actuators to
the same conductor.In these systems, however, several types of medium are used
according to the type of mechanical connection of the devices
or other requirements. There are also a number of data links
completely outside these systems, including e.g. public
address and centralized radio systems, data networks and
telephone networks.WO, A1, 9 115 908 discloses a ring communication system,
where data is transmitted in a series of data packets between
the nodes. The packets are subdivided to provide a plurality of
channels, and each node is programmed to access specific
channels within the packets. However, this publication does not
disclose any status flags in connection with the data packets.A procedure for transmission of digital data according to the invention
is defined in claim 1.This way of handling the status information provided by the flags
reduces the needs for data buffering at the nodes.In the present invention, all data transmission required in a
building is integrated in a single medium. Excluded from the
system is only the television aerial signal, but this, too,
can be included when the component speeds increase in the
future. However, video signals can be transmitted in compressed
form even through a slow communication link, such as
the 11 MHz link presented as an example in this application.
In the system in question, the central component is a
room-specific node, a local electronic control centre with a
sufficient number of connections for the control, monitoring
and data transmission functions required for one room.  All devices needed in a room can be connected to the system:
illuminators, electric heaters or electrically operated
circulation water valves, different motors, locks, etc. The
detectors used to obtain the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Procedure for the transmission of digital data in a control/monitoring
system of a building, said system consisting of room-specific

nodes interconnected by means of fibre-optic or galvanic cables
and used as control units, which form a loop, and of which one

node operates as a central node,

in which system the data flow serially in the form of packets including
the fields required for data transmission in the system, the fields

further comprising fields for commands and corresponding data
transfer required by the system, as analog data converted to digital

form, of which fields the command fields have leading and trailing
flags respectfully preceding and following said data expressing the

status,
characterized
 in that

the caller detects the leading flag indicating whether the field is free
or not and the caller changes the leading flag from free-flag to reserved-flag

and writes a new content into the field,
in the command field the receiver releases the field for following user
by means of a status bit acting as a tra
iling flag, which status bit is
transmitted by the central node to become a status bit preceding the

field in question and acting as a leading flag, which informs the following
user about the status of the field,
whereby the transmission delay caused by the number of the nodes
is even at its maximum less than the time needed for the transmission

of one packet when the number of nodes is at the most half of
the number of bits in the packet and when the delay of one node is

always less than the transmission time of two bits.
Procedure for the transmission of data according to claim 1,

characterized
 in that each node is able both to receive data by
reading a field in the packet and to transmit data by replacing 

the data in a field of the packet with new data.
Procedure according to claim 1 for the transmission of data in
a system at least partially implemented in the form of a loop,


characterized
 in that the data either flows in one direction in
the loop or, in systems requiring special reli-ability, a

duplicate loop is used, the data in the other loop flowing in the
opposite direction.
Procedure for the transmission of data according to claim 1 or
3, 
characterized
 in that the packets are transmitted in the loop
at a constant frequency.
Procedure for the transmission of data according to claim 1,

characterized
 in that the delay occurring in the passage of a
packet through all the nodes of the loop and back to the central

node is, even at its maximum, less than the time elapsing during
the transfer of one packet, said delay being dependent on the

number of nodes, and that the ordinal number of a packet
completely returned to the central node is always lower by two

than that of the packet being transmitted, so that especially
telephone signals to be transmitted at a frequency lower than the

packet frequency can be as-sembled on the basis of the current
number of the packet transmission cycle relating to the

transmission of telephone signals.
Procedure for the transmission of data according to claim 1,

characterized
 in that the loop has a central node which controls
the timing of the transmission of the packet, fills in the

required fields from different sources and copies the necessary
fields from the packet received from the loop for retransmission

into the loop, and that several loops can be connected by means
of said central node to form a larger system.
Procedure for the transmission of data according to claim 1,

characterized
 in that a command field contained in the packet 
conveys commands controlling other data communication from the

central node to the nodes as well as all data trans-misson
required by the control/monitoring system.
Procedure for the transmission of data according to claim 7,

characterized
 in that the command field is preceded by a flag
indicating whether it is free or reserved, passing this

information to a node writing to said field, and that the command
field is followed by another flag, by means of which a node

having just read the field can release it.
Procedure for the transmission of data according to claim 1,

characterized
 in that, if any one of the nodes does not receive
a packet from the loop, it will start sending packets

independently into the loop, enabling a break in the loop to be
automatically located.
Procedure for the transmission of data according to claim 1,

characterized
 in that the packet contains a synchroniza-tion
field, by means of which the fields of the packet can be located,

and that the occurrence of data matching the synchronization
field data is prevented in other parts of the packet.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
