<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634631</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for monitoring signals from transducers and optical encoders
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01D100	G01D102	G01D5245	D06B1100	G01D512	D06B1100	G01D5244	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01D	G01D	G01D	D06B	G01D	D06B	G01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01D1	G01D1	G01D5	D06B11	G01D5	D06B11	G01D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for monitoring an incoming 
transducer signal or a synchronising signal from an 

optical encoder in real time and displaying the degree 
of stability. The incoming transducer signal or 

optical encoder signal comprises of a certain number of 
voltage pulses. The number of pulses for a set period 

of time is measured to develop an actual frequency of 
voltage pulses per set unit of time. Furthermore, a 

representative numerical value for the time between two 
adjacent pulses is also developed. This time between 

adjacent pulses is altered by means of a look-up table 
to develop an average pulse frequency for that same set 

period of time. The average value for this period of 
time is then compared against the actual frequency of 

voltage pulses per set period of time. This 
comparative value can then be outputted to a display. 

Furthermore, the actual frequency of voltage pulses per 
set period of time can be compared to percentages of 

the average pulse frequency to determine process 
control conditions. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MILLIKEN RES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MILLIKEN RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON HAROLD LEE JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, HAROLD LEE JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for 
monitoring the incoming transducer signal or 
synchronizing signal from an optical encoder. Both the 
optical encoder and transducer convert motion into 
incremental electrical pulses. Control signals then 
respond to each pulse thereby regulating a motor or 
some other electrical mechanism. A major problem 
encountered is sometimes the encoder or transducer 
signal is erratic or unstable due to mechanical 
problems with the mechanisms associated with the 
control system. This unstable condition may be 
intermittent, occurring only occasionally or it may 
occur constantly. One example of a possible cause of 
this instability is a bad bearing in a drive system. 
Since the control system is linked to the encoder 
and/or transducer system, it provides responses in a 
slightly erratic manner. In the past, the only 
solution was to monitor this pulse with an oscilloscope 
and hope to catch the instability at the right point in 
time. A long felt need in the control system industry 
is to develop a system to monitor the 
transducer/optical encoder pulse train in real time and  
 
display the degree of stability. The system could then 
monitor the pulse train one hundred (100%) percent of 
the time to catch problems before they could become 
serious. In DE-A-4035520 there is taught a method of calculating 
a median value of time intervals between pulses 
generated in the context of measuring the speed of a 
vehicle. However, the present invention solves the 
abovementioned problem in a manner not fully disclosed 
or envisaged in the known prior art. An object of the present invention is to provide 
apparatus and method for monitoring the incoming 
transducer signal or synchronizing signal from an 
optical encoder in real time and display the degree of 
stability. The incoming transducer signal or optical 
encoder signal comprises of a certain number of voltage 
pulses. The number of pulses for a set period of time 
is measured to develop an actual frequency of voltage 
pulses per set unit of time. Furthermore, a 
representative numerical value for the time between two 
adjacent pulses is also developed. This time between 
adjacent pulses is altered by means of a look-up table 
to develop an average pulse frequency for that same set 
period of time. The average value for this period of 
time is then compared against the actual frequency of 
voltage pulses per set period of time. This 
comparative value can then outputted to a display. 
Furthermore, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for monitoring signal pulses (50) from a 
transducer or an encoder comprising of a circuit (52, 54, 56, 58) 

for generating a first digital number proportional 
to a time period between adjacent pulses in a 

monitored signal characterised in that said 
apparatus further comprises of: 


a) a circuit (60) for generating a second digital number, 
representing over a fixed period of time the 

extrapolated value of the first digital number; 
b) a circuit (62) for adding the monitored signal pulses 
for said fixed period of time to generate a third 

digital number; and 
c) a circuit (68) for comparing said second digital number 
with said third digital number within a 

predetermined tolerance to generate a fourth 
digital number. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 1, further 
comprising of a circuit to output said fourth 

digital number. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 2, wherein said 
circuit to output said fourth digital number 

includes a digital output device. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 3, wherein said 
digital output device includes a cathode ray tube. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 3, wherein said 
digital output device includes a liquid crystal 

display.  
 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 3, wherein said 
digital output device includes an 

electroluminescent display. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 3, wherein said 
digital output device includes a plasma display. 
Apparatus as defined in Claim 3, wherein said 
digital output device includes a light emitting 

diode. 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
further comprising a circuit to determine the 

percentage of variance of said third digital 
number from said second digital number. 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for transforming said first 

digital number into a second digital number that 
represents transducer signal pulses for a period 

of time includes a look-up table (60). 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for generating a first 

digital number proportional to a time between 
adjacent pulses in said signal includes a counter 

(58). 
Apparatus as defined in any one preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for generating a first 

digital number proportional to a time between 
adjacent pulses in said transducer signal includes 

a time base generator (54). 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for adding signal pulses for  

 
said period of time to generate a third digital 

number includes a counter (62). 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for adding signal pulses for 

said period of time to generate a third digital 
number includes a clock (64). 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for adding signal pulses for 

said period of time to generate a third digital 
number includes a latch (66). 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for generating a first 

digital number proportional to a time between 

adjacent pulses in said signal includes an AND 
gate (56). 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for generating a first 

digital number proportional to a time between 
adjacent pulses in said transducer signal includes 

an inverter (52). 
Apparatus as defined in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said circuit for comparing said second 

digital number with said third digital number to 
generate a fourth digital number includes a 

comparator (68). 
A process for monitoring signal pulses from a 
transducer or an encoder comprising the step of 

generating a first digital number proportional to 
a time period between adjacent pulses in a 

monitored signal; characterised in that the  
 

process further comprises the steps of: 

(a) generating a second digital number, 
representing over a fixed period of time the 

extrapolated value of the first digital 
number; 
(b) adding the monitored signal pulses for said 
period of time to generate a third digital 

number; and 
(c) comparing said second digital number with 
said third digital number within a 

predetermined tolerance to generate a fourth 
digital number. 
A process as defined in Claim 19, wherein said 
first digital number proportional to said time 

between adjacent pulses in a transducer signal is 
generated by means that includes a counter (58) 

and a time based generator (54). 
A process as defined in Claim 19 or Claim 20, 
wherein said first digital number is transformed 

into said second digital number by means that 
include a look-up table (60). 
A process as defined in any one of Claims 19 to 
21, wherein said second digital number is compared 

with said third digital number to generate said 
fourth digital number by means that include a 

comparator (68). 
A process as defined in any one of Claims 19 to 
20, wherein said transducer signal pulses are 

added for said period of time to generate said  
 

third digital number by means that include a clock 
(64) and a counter (62). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
