<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636010</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A SURGICAL DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61F200	A61B1728	A61F200	A61B1732	A61B1728	A61B1732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61F	A61B	A61F	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61B17	A61F2	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to surgical devices, particularly to remotely
operated surgical devices for use in least invasive surgical (LIS)
techniques.LIS techniques are in contrast to open surgical techniques. They
include operation through natural ducts within the body (endoscopy) and
operation through one or more relatively small openings made by the
surgeon in the patient's body (percutaneous techniques), for example
laparoscopic surgery involving making small openings in the patient's
abdominal wall, and arthroscopic surgery involving making small
openings in a joint region. Advantages of LIS, compared to open surgery,
are lower morbidity rates, shorter patient recovery times and lower costs
of the procedure.Surgical devices used in LIS are remotely operated. Typically
devices are inserted into the patient's body, the operating head of the
device is projected beyond the distal end of the housing, and this operating
head is then activated by the surgeon from the proximal end of the device.Simple, known LIS surgical devices use, for example, flexible steel
wires which spring apart when extended from the distal end of a tube and
which can be brought together again on withdrawal back into the tube.
Examples of such devices are described in US Patent Nos. 2,114,695,
2,137,710, 2,670,519, and 3,404,677.Numerous LIS surgical devices incorporating a variety of special
materials, including shape memory alloys are also known. US 4,926,860
to Stice et al, issued 22 May 1990, for example, describes an arthroscopic
procedure using a curved cannula and a normally straight shape
memory alloy probe. The curved cannula facilitates access to parts of the
joint, and bends the probe as it passes therethrough. However when the 
probe exits from the distal end of the cannula it adopts its normal straight configuration.Also US Patent No. 4,665,906 to Jervis discloses medical devices which make use of
pseudoelastic (SIM) properties of shape memory alloys. SIM pseudoelastic properties and their
advantages are discussed in more detail later in this specification.LIS surgical devices involving rotation of a knife are also known. For example, US
4,723,545 to Nixon and Mombrimie, issued 9th February 1988 describes a surgical instrument
suited for arthroscopic surgery comprising a blade mounted in a tubular body portion so that it can
project beyond the body portion and so that it can oscillate with respect to the body portion. This
oscillation of the blade facilitates the cutting process, notwithstanding the toughness or cut
resista
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical device comprising

(a) a tubular housing (3) having a longitudinal bore extending therethrough,
(b) a first elongate member (5) extending through the longitudinal bore of the housing, and
having a proximal (5'') and a distal segment (5'), wherein at least part of the distal segment

comprises an elastic material, and wherein the distal segment assumes a first shape when
extended from the longitudinal bore, and a second shape when withdrawn into the bore,

characterized by
(c) a second elongate member (7) also having a proximal (7'') and a
distal segment (7'), the second elongate member being linked to the first elongate member such

that it extends substantially parallel to the first elongate member and is bent by the first
elongate member, when the first elongate member changes from its first to its second shape

and vice versa, the second elongate member being rotatable relative to, and substantially
about, the axis of the first elongate member, and
(d) an operating head (11) secured to the distal segment of the second elongate member so that
it


(i) is moved with the second elongate member (7) when the first elongate member (5)
changes from its first to its second shape and
(ii) can be rotated by the second elongate member (7) substantially about the axis of the
first elongate member.
A surgical device according to claim 1, wherein at least part of at least the distal
segment (7') of the second elongate member (7) is tubular and surrounds at least

part of the first elongate member (5). 
A surgical device according to claim 2, wherein at least part of the distal segment
of the second elongate member (7) is flexible.
A surgical device according to claim 2, wherein the proximal segment (7'') of the second
elongate (7) call be moved from the proximal end of the housing (3) to effect rotation of the

operating head.
A surgical device according to claim 2, wherein the proximal segment (7'') of the second
elongate member is also tubular and the tubular proximal segment (7'') is secured to the

tubular distal segment (7') of the second elongate member.
A surgical device according to claim 5, wherein the tubular proximal segment (7'') of the
second elongate member projects from the end of the housing (3), and can be rotated by the

operator of the surgical device to cause rotation of the operating head.
A surgical device according to claim 1, wherein at least part of at least the distal segment
(7') of the second elongate member extends within at least part of at least the distal segment

(5') of the first elongate member (5).
A surgical device according to claim 7, wherein at least part of at least the distal segment
(5') of the first elongate member defines a tube.
A surgical device according to claim 8, wherein at least part of at least the distal segment of
the first elongate member is a tube.
A surgical device according to claim 9, wherein the proximal segment (5'') of the first

elongate member (5) is also tubular.
A surgical device according to claim 8, wherein the second elongate member comprises a
cable (19) extending within the first elongate member (5).
A surgical device according to claim 1, wherein the said elastic material is adapted to
transform from

one shape to another without the application of heat.
A surgical device according to claim 1 wherein the said elastic material comprises a
pseudoelastic shape memory alloy. 
A surgical device according to claim 1 wherein the operating head comprises a holding
means (13) for a surgical instrument.
A surgical device according to claim 14, wherein the holding means is provided with a held
article selected from the group consisting of jaws of a clamp, blades, scissors, and a needle.
A surgical device according to claim 14 comprising elongate activating means (15) for activating
the held article.
A surgical device according to claim 16, wherein the activating means (15) passes through
the outer of the first and second elongate members.
A surgical device according to claim 1, wherein the housing has a transverse dimension of
less than 10 mm.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
