<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634071</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TELEPHONE ANSWERING DEVICE LINKING DISPLAYED DATA WITH RECORDED AUDIO MESSAGE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M1274	H04M12745	H04M1275	H04M157	H04M157	H04M165	H04M165	H04M1652	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A telephone answering device (TAD) (25) which includes a means of intelligently organizing voice messages, associated entered codes such as personal IDs and home telephone numbers, and information stored in the memory of the TAD. These codes or numbers are decoded by means of the caller entering DTMF signals into the telephone which are recognized, recorded and processed by the TAD. When processed with codes and personal information previously entered into the device's memory, the TAD displays (32) the identity of the callers for each message, thus providing a menu of choices, i.e., a list of callers. This enables the user to access messages in a selective manner based on the identity of the caller. The need to listen to the actual voice messages to determine the caller's identity and the need to listen to the messages sequentially or chronologically is obviated, saving both time and effort.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KLAUSNER PATENT TECHNOLOGIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KLAUSNER PATENT TECHNOLOGIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOTTO ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLAUSNER JUDAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOTTO, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLAUSNER, JUDAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention refers to a telephone message system as
set forth in the preamble of claim 1. A system of this kind is
known from the article of Antonio Ruiz, "Voice and Telephony
Applications for the Office Workshop", 1st International
Conference on Computer Workstations, November 11-14, 1985, San
Jose, California.In the aforementioned article, an audio and telephony sub-system
for an office workstation is disclosed, including a pre-stored
directory of authorised users with personal codes. The system
stores voice messages as well as text messages from incoming
calls. The system includes a display that displays a log of
received voice and text messages along with information relating
to authorised users leaving messages. This information is
retrieved from the pre-stored directory, based on the personal
codes entered by the authorised users during their message. When
an unauthorised user, i.e. a user which does not possess a
personal code listed in the dictionary, calls the system, the
display cannot provide any information relating to that caller
and, thus, unauthorised callers are inherently unidentified.A standard telephone answering device (TAD) for ordinary
customers is connected to a telephone, and by means of a tape
recorder and magnetic tape included in the TAD, it records voice
messages from callers. TADs of this kind have several
disadvantages:
(1) The owner of the device must play back many minutes of taped
voice messages just to know who has called. (2) The owner cannot intelligently search for a specific caller's
recorded message.(3) To retain a list for later callback after listening to messages,
the owner must either keep tape unerased, or must copy down the
list with a pen and paper.(4) The caller must speak his name, phone number, etc. into his phone
which is then transmitted through the phone system and recorded
on the answering machine on the other end of the line. Since many
callers feel uncomfortable talking to machines, some callers do
not leave messages and merely hang up the phone.5) An additional inconvenience occurs when the user wishes to
retrieve stored messages by phone. He must on occasion hang on the
phone for many minutes for all recorded voice messages to be played
in their entirety and must copy with pen and paper in order to have
a hard copy. This is not only inconvenient, but may be quite costly,
particularly if the call to retrieve messages is a long distance
call and the user is interested in a particular message that is
preceded by a number of lengthy, less
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS : l. A telephone answering device coupled to a telephone line for automatically answering, storing and later retrieving incoming telephone calls, comprising: means for receiving and storing a signal from said telephone line specifying a caller; means for receiving and storing a voice message from said caller on said telephone line; means for linking the received signal with the corresponding voice message; means for transmitting said received signal for stored calls to a user for assisting in the selective retrieval of said calls.
2. A telephone message system coupled to a telephone line for automatically answering, storing and later retrieving incoming telephone calls, comprising: (a) a telephone answering device, which comprises: means for receiving and storing a signal from said telephone line specifying a caller; means for receiving and storing a voice message from said caller on said telephone line; means for converting said received signal into received identifying information; means for linking the received identifyin information with the corresponding voice message; 


 means for transmitting signals representative of said received identifying information for stored calls to a user for assisting in the selective retrieval of said calls; and (b) a remote access device, which comprises: means for storing a predetermined list of names and associated stored identifying information; means for receiving said signals from said telephone answering device specifying the identities of the callers; means for comparing the signals with said predetermined list; means for displaying the respective caller's name if the comparing means matches the signals with any stored identifying information in said list.
3. A telephone answering system as in claim 2, wherein said telephone answering device and said remote access device are in close proximity to one another and communicate through a disengageable electrical connection.
4. A telephone answering system as in claim 2, wherein said telephone answering device and said remote access device are physically separated from one another and are adapted to communicate through a telephone line.
5. A telephone answering device as in claim 2, wherein said means for displaying also displays a linking code 


for each caller's name corresponding to the recorded voice message in said telephone answering device, whereby said linking codes may be selectively transmitted by the user of the RAD to said telephone answering device to cause said device to replay the corresponding voice message.
6. A telephone answering system as in claim 2, further comprising disengageable electrical connecting means for selectively coupling and uncoupling said telephone answering device and said remote access device to one another.
7. A remote access device for retrieving at least one recorded voice message left by a caller on a base telephone answering machine, comprising: means for storing a predetermined list of names and associated stored identifying information; means for receiving signals from the base answering machine specifying the identities of the callers; means for converting said received signals into received identifying information; means for comparing the received identifying information with said predetermined list; means for displaying the respective caller's name if the comparing means matches the received identifying information with any stored identifying information in said list, said means for displaying also displaying a linking code for each caller's name corresponding to the recorded voice message in the telephon 


answering machine, whereby the user will have access to said linking codes, which then may be selectively transmitted to said telephone answering machine to cause said machine to replay the corresponding voice message.
8. A remote access device as in claim 7, wherein said means for displaying is also adapted to display a selected caller's name and associated identifying information from said predetermined list.
9. A remote access device as in claim 8, further comprising a DTMF tone generator for producing DTMF tones corresponding to a portion of said associated identifying information.
10. A remote access device as in claim 7, further comprising a DTMF tone generator for transmitting to said telephone answering machine the DTMF tone sequence corresponding to the linking code for a displayed caller's name.
11. A remote access device communicating over a telephone line for assisting in the selective retrieval of stored voice messages on a telephone answering machine, comprising: means for receiving a signal from said telephone answering machine over the telephone line, said signal being indicative of the caller of at least one of said stored messages and identifying a linking code linking the caller's identity with 


the corresponding voice message stored in said telephone answering machine; means for displaying the caller's identity for at least said one of said stored messages; and means for displaying the linking code corresponding with each caller's name, whereby the user will have access to the linking code which corresponds to a particular caller's name and which, when said linking code is transmitted to said telephone answering machine will cause said machine to play back the corresponding voice message.
12. A remote access device communicating over a telephone line for assisting in the selective retrieval of stored voice messages on a telephone answering machine, comprising: means for receiving a first signal from said telephone answering machine over said telephone line, said signal identifying the callers of said snored messages; means for displaying the caller identities for said stored messages; selection means associated with said displaying means for allowing selection of the displayed identities; and means for controlling said telephone answering machine, said means for controlling being operatively connected vith said selection means for transmitting a second signal over said telephone line to cause said machine to play back a selected stored message in response to the selection on said selection means of a displayed identity. 


 13. A remote access device communicating over a telephone line for automatically retrieving information identifying stored voice messages on a telephone answering machine, comprising: a microcomputer having a read only memory (ROM) for providing a program for said microcomputer, and a random access memory (RAM) with a plurality of storage sections therein; a keyboard means having a plurality of alphanumeric and function keys coupled to said microcomputer; an alphanumeric display means mounted on said device and coupled to said microcomputer; said RAM being adapted to have a predetermined list of names and associated identifying information stored therein in a first memory section thereof; an analogue telephone interface means for coupling said telephone line and said microcomputer for communicating over said line with said telephone answering machine; a telephone signal converter means coupled between said telephone line and said microcomputer for converting a telephone number transmitted from said telephone answering machine over the telephone line into digital form understandable by said microcomputer; said microcomputer comparing converted incoming telephone numbers with said list stored in said first memory section of said RAM; means for indicating a caller's name and said incoming telephone numbers when the caller's transmitted telephone number 



corresponds to a telephone number previously stored in said first memory section; means for displaying a linking code for each caller's name corresponding to its associated voice message stored in said telephone answering machine, whereby the user may transmit a linking code for a particular caller's name to said telephone answering machine and cause said machine to replay the corresponding voice message.
14. In a mobile telephone having receiving means and transmission means capable of establishing telephone communication, a remote access device within said mobile telephone for retrieving at least one recorded voice message left by a caller on a base telephone answering machine, said remote access device comprising: means for storing a predetermined list of names and associated stored identifying information; means for receiving signals from the base answering machine specifying 
'
the identities of the callers; means for converting said received signals into received identifying information; means for comparing the received identifying information with said predetermined list; means for displaying the respective caller's name if the comparing means matches the received identifying information with any stored identifying information in said list, said means for displaying also displaying a linking code for each caller's 


name corresponding to the recorded voice message in the telephone answering machine, whereby the user will have access to said linking codes, which then may be selectively transmitted through said mobile telephone to said telephone answering machine to cause said machine to replay the corresponding voice message.
15. A telephone answering device coupled to a telephone line for automatically answering, storing and retrieving incoming telephone calls comprising: means for storing a predetermined list of names and associated stored identifying information; means for receiving a signal from said telephone line specifying the caller; means for receiving a voice message from said caller on said telephone line and storing said voice message; means for converting said received signal into received identifying information; means for linking the received identifying information with the corresponding voice message; means for comparing the received identifying information with said predetermined list; means for displaying the respective caller's name if the comparing means matches the received identifying information with any stored identifying information in said list; and means adapted to allow the user to select a caller's name from said display for audibly retrieving the voice message associated with the selected caller's name. 


 16. The telephone answering device as in claim 15, wherein said means for displaying a caller's name is adapted to display a list of a plurality of caller's names for facilitating accessing by the user of a selected voice message.
17. The telephone answering device as in claim 15, wherein said means for displaying is also adapted to simultaneously display the corresponding caller's name and associated stored identifying information when the voice message associated with the selected caller is audibly retrieved.
18. The telephone answering device as in claim 15 further comprising input means with a plurality of alphanumeric and function keys for controlling the inputting and retrieval of information from said device.
19. The telephone answering device as in claim 18 including means cooperating with said input means for automatically dialling a caller's number in response to being actuated by the user.
20. The telephone answering device as .in claim 19 wherein said number is automatically retrieved from said stored identifying information.
21. The telephone answering device as in claim 18 in which said device is incorporated in a telephone instrument, said 


input means performing the combined functions of dialling telephone numbers and controlling said device.
22. The telephone answering device as in claim 15 in which said device contains a display means for visually displaying stored identifying information and received identifying information.
23. The telephone answering device as in claim 15 including means for printing out callers' names.
24. The telephone answering device as in claim 15 including means for storing the time of incoming calls.
25. The method of automatically answering, storing and retrieving incoming telephone calls with a telephone answering device having a memory which is coupled to a telephone instrument comprising the steps of: storing a predetermined list of names and associated stored identifying information in said memory; receiving a signal specifying the caller of an incoming call; receiving a voice message from the caller and storing it in said memory; converting said received signal into received identifying information; 


 comparing said received identifying information with said predetermined list and displaying the caller's name if the received identifying information matches any stored identifying information identical in said predetermined list, linking the output caller's name with its corresponding voice message; selectively retrieving the voice message corresponding to a given displayed caller by selecting that caller's name.
26. A method as in claim 25, further comprising the step of displaying a list of a plurality of callers' names to facilitate selection by a user of a selected voice message.
27. A method as in claim 26, further comprising the step of simultaneously displaying the corresponding caller's name and stored identifying information when the voice message associated with the selected caller is audibly retrieved.
28. A telephone answering device coupled to a telephone line for automatically answering, storing and retrieving incoming telephone calls, comprising: means for receiving a signal having an identifier from said telephone line identifying the caller of an incoming call; means for receiving a voice message from said caller and storing said voice message; 


 means for linking said identifier with the corresponding voice message; means for displaying the identifiers for a plurality of incoming calls; and means for selecting one of the identifiers from said display and for audibly retrieving the voice message linked to the selected identifier.
29. A telephone answering device coupled to a telephone line for automatically answering, storing and retrieving incoming telephone calls comprising: a microcomputer having a read only memory (ROM) for providing a program for said microcomputer, a random access memory (RAM) with a plurality of storage sections therein and peripheral interface means for coupling peripheral means to said microcomputer; a keyboard means having a plurality of alphanumeric and function keys coupled to said microcomputer by said peripheral interface means; an alphanumeric display means mounted on said device and coupled to said microcomputer by said peripheral interface means; said RAM having a predetermined list of names and associated identifying information stored therein in a first memory section thereof; an analogue telephone interface system coupled between said telephone line and said microcomputer having a line seizing 



means for connecting said device to said telephone line after a predetermined number of rings; a telephone signal converter means coupled between said telephone line and said microcomputer for converting a telephone number transmitted over the telephone line into digital form understandable by said microcomputer; a voice recording means coupled between said telephone line and said microcomputer for receiving and storing in digital form a voice message in a second memory section of said RAM; said microcomputer comparing converted incoming telephone numbers with said list stored in said first memory section of said RAM; means for displaying a caller's name and said incoming telephone numbers when the caller's transmitted telephone number corresponds to a telephone number previously stored in said first memory section; means for linking a caller's name to its associated voice message; means adapted to allow a user to select a caller's name from said means for displaying and for simultaneously audibly retrieving the voice message associated with the caller's name from said second memory section.
30. A telephone answering device as in claim 29 wherein said means for displaying is adapted to display a plurality of caller's names.. 


 31. A telephone answering device as in claim 29 wherein said means for displaying is also adapted to display a caller's name and stored identifying information when the linked voice message is audibly retrieved. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
