<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623001</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BLOOD ALCOHOL MONITOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3398	G01N3398	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A monitor device (102) which measures ethanol levels expelled through a subject's skin to monitor blood alcohol level with a gas content sensor (218) at regular or random intervals. The device differentiates between a positive reading caused by an external, interferant, gas and a positive reading caused by consumption of alcohol. The device has a temperature sensor (220) which monitors the skin temperature of the subject prior to performing the alcohol test to provide an indication of a barrier being placed between the device and the subject's skin or if the device has been removed from the subject. The device measures the distance from the subject's skin by means of a distance sensor (222) thereby preventing the subject from moving the device far enough away to provide an inaccurate indication of the amount of alcohol in the subject's blood and providing another tamper indication if the device is removed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCOHOL MONITORING SYSTEMS LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALCOHOL MONITORING SYSTEMS LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWTHORNE JEFFREY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS MARY F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWTHORNE, JEFFREY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PHILLIPS, MARY, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to continuous monitoring
of human blood alcohol levels and more particularly relates
to a non-invasive blood alcohol level monitoring
device. Even more particularly, the invention relates to
a portable device, affixed to the subject, for monitoring
blood alcohol, without requiring subject participation, by
determining the alcohol levels expelled through a subject's
skin.Devices for testing the blood and breath alcohol
content of a human subject have been used for many years.
This type of testing is typically done using breath alcohol
testing methods, for example, see U.S. Patent
3,904,251, entitled "Apparatus for Detecting or Measuring
a Constituent of a Gas", issued February 24, 1976 to Jones
et al. This system tests the alcohol content of a subject's
breath by utilizing a breath analyzing sensor in a
breath sampling system that includes a disposable tube. A
subject exhales into the tube and an operator of the
handheld instrument pushes a button releasing a spring
loaded pump which draws a deep lung breath sample into the
device. The breath sample is then analyzed by a sensor
and the subsequent reading is interpreted by the operator.More recently such breath alcohol testing
instruments have been added to Home Arrest Systems. These
systems have an encoded transmitter and a base receiver
unit. The transmitter is attached to the subject, and the 
system determines if the subject is located within a short
distance, usually under 250 feet, from the base receiver
unit. These systems may attach a conventional breath
alcohol testing device to the base unit.Other prior art, for example, U.S. Patent
4,843,377 issued June 27, 1989 to Fuller et al, and U.S.
Patent 4,916,435 issued April 10, 1990 to Fuller, consists
of a one way video system which is attached to a conventional
breath alcohol tester. This system transmits a
picture of the test results, along with a picture of the
subject taking the test, over conventional phone lines to
a central monitoring station. An operator at the central
station must view the video picture to help assure that
the proper subject is taking the breath alcohol test.
U.S. Patent 4,665,385 entitled "Hazardous Condition
Monitoring System", issued May 12, 1987 to Henderson consists
of a hazardous gas sensor and an ethanol sensor
located near a microphone attached to a walkie talkie.
The system transmits encoded information pertaining to
hazardous gas levels and subject breath alcohol levels
when the walkie talkie is used.U.S. Patent 4,997,770 entitled "Method
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A portable monitor (102) for sensing blood alcohol
levels in a human subject comprising:


alcohol measuring means (218) for measuring a
percentage of alcohol contained in a gas within a predetermined

distance from the human subject to create a percentage measurement;
timer means (212) for activating said alcohol
measuring means (20) at predetermined time intervals to cause said

alcohol measuring means to create a plurality of percentage
measurements at said predetermined time intervals;
storage means (208) for storing said plurality of
percentage measurements; and
securing means (22) for securing said alcohol
measuring means within a selected distance from the human subject's

skin.
A portable monitor according to claim 1, wherein
detection means (222) is provided for detecting when said measuring

means (218) is greater than the selected distance from the human
subject, and communication means (112) is provided for

communicating said stored percentage measurements and distance
measurements to another monitor (114).
A portable monitor according to claim 2, wherein a
data processing center (114) is provided at said other monitor

(114) to receive said percentage measurements and distance
measurements from said communication means (112), and said other

monitor (114) includes means (234) for activating said alcohol
measuring means.
A portable monitor according to claim 1, wherein
said securing means (22) includes:


a bracelet (20) releasably attachable to a limb of
the human subject; 
electrical conductor means (238) within said
securing means;
means (239) for causing an electrical current to be
conducted through said electrical conductor means; and
means (214) for detecting an absence of electrical
current in said electrical conductor means.
A portable monitor according to claim 1, wherein
there is provided:


temperature measurement means (220) for measuring
the human subject's skin temperature at a predetermined distance

from the point where said alcohol measuring means is attached to
the human subject;
means (222) for detecting that said human subject's
skin temperature is outside a predetermined range of temperatures;

and
means (104) for storing and transmitting to another
monitor an indication of exceeding said range of temperatures.
A portable monitor according to claim 1, wherein
said alcohol measuring means further comprises means (114) for

determining that an interferant gas caused said predetermined range
to be exceeded and further wherein said communication means (112)

comprises means for sending an interferant gas indicator when said
alcohol measuring means (218) determines that an interferant gas

caused said predetermined range to be exceeded.
A method of monitoring the percentage of blood
alcohol content of a human subject, said method comprising:


(a) placing a gas contents sensor (218) in
proximity to the human subject's skin;
(b) activating said sensor (218) at predetermined
time intervals to create a plurality of percentage measurements of

the blood alcohol content in a gas sample emitted from the skin
when said gas contents sensor is disposed at a predetermined

distance from the skin; 
(c) storing an error indication if the human subject
tampers with said measurements or an error occurs within said

measurements;
(d) storing each measurement of alcohol expelled through
the subject's skin and storing a measurement result; and
(e) transmitting each of said measurement results and each
of said indications to a monitoring station.
The method of claim 7 wherein step (c) further comprises
the steps of:


(a) determining if a temperature measurement of the human
subject's skin is within a predetermined range of temperatures;

and
(b) if a change in said percentage of alcohol exceeds a
predetermined increase during a predetermined time period, of

storing an interferant indication transmitting said interferant
indication to said monitor station.
A device for use in a monitoring system for determining
blood alcohol levels in a human subject, and for attachment to

a limb of the subject comprising:

a housing (24) having an internal cavity (36) therein;
gas content sensing means (218) disposed in said internal
cavity for measuring a percentage of alcohol contained in a gas

expelled from a skin portion of the subject, said sensing means
(218) including a sample port (41) containing a hydrophobic

membrane (40) and a fuel cell (302) and valve means (50) for
opening and closing said sample port (41);
infrared sensing means in said internal cavity (36) for
determining the distance between the skin portion and said gas

contents sensing means (218) ;
securing means (20) including an electrically conductive
strap (22) encircling the limb of the subject for securing said

housing (24) to the subject with said internal cavity (36) in
facing relation to the skin portion and said gas contents sensing

means (218) a predetermined distance from the skin portion; and 
programmable means (202) including a timer (212) for
selectively opening said sample port (41) and activating said

fuel cell (302) at predetermined time intervals, said
programmable means (202) including tamper detection means (222)

for detecting when said device is moved beyond a predetermined
distance from the human subject.
A device according to claim 9, additionally comprising
means for directing an electrical current through said conductive

strap (22), means for detecting an absence or change of
electrical current in said conductive strap (22), and means for

transmitting any such absence or change of electrical current to
a remote location.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
