<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639140</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PACKAGING TRAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D500	B65D500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A packaging tray specifically designed for marketing potato crisps and for storing on supermarket shelves has a rectangular base (1) and upstanding side (3, 5) and end walls or ledges (230), at least the front end wall of which is preferably of two-layer thickness with one layer folded into back-to-back relationship relative to the other so as to upstand from the base by a less amount than the remaining walls (3, 5) and wherein a stacking pillar is provided at each corner of the tray, the pillar being formed from a stacking panel (37) foldably connected to an end portion of a respective side wall and including means (43) to hold the stacking panel in position and latchably to connect it to the side wall and including cooperable detent means (222) at each corner for connecting each pillar to its respective end wall or ledge. The invention also extends to a blank for the packaging tray. The tray is particularly suitable for storing large numbers of packets of potato crisps or other goods on a supermarket shelf which are easily accessible by a customer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOWATER PACKAGING LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOWATER PACKAGING LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COKER CLIFFORD ROBERT DRAKE S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLOWAY ALEXANDER EDWARD PIPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COKER, CLIFFORD, ROBERT 52 DRAKE'S DRIVE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLOWAY, ALEXANDER, EDWARD 32 PIPERS CROFT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PACKAGING TRAYThis invention relates to a packaging tray, and more particularly a tray for potato crisps and the like, and to a blank for erection into the tray.Nowadays, packets of potato crisps are packed and stored in fibreboard boxes, which are converted at the point of sale by tearing one or more panels of the box along lines of weakness (and either folding it/them back or removing it/them) into display/dispensing trays. These are normally stacked on a shelf, and they have an open front, thus allowing one or more packets of potato crisps to be taken from the tray. These known boxes convertible into trays suffer from the disadvantage that they are very unstable when stacked, and it is not unusual for the stacks to collapse and for the packets of potato crisps to fall onto the floor.In an attempt to overcome this problem, one box manufacturer has designed a stackable box which converts into a tray, and which has corner stacking pillars. However, these pillars are provided by diagonal corner flaps provided by extensions of the box side walls, which have to be secured by adhesive to the side walls. While the box performs very satisfactorily, it is expensive to make since a machine has to be provided to apply the adhesive to the box and to erect it. It has therefore not been accepted by the potato crisp manufacturers.We therefore decided there was a need for a hand- erected tray which possessed suitable stacking strength.Traditional hand erected trays have separate corner pillars, e.g. of folded fibreboard, moulded plastics, or wood. One piece trays with integral corner pillars of fibreboard are known, but because of the need to use board material in the vicinity of the corner to sandwich between two layers of end wall to lock together the side and end walls at the corner, this has resulted, in all previous constructions, in there being no vertically continuous panel extending diagonally 

across the corner to provide vertical stacking strength.A further problem which arises particularly during the loading of packets of potato crisps is that the packaging tray is tilted during the loading process so that packets tend to fall out of the tray either during loading by a packer or after loading when the tray is removed from support given by the packer's body. There is therefore a need for additional support to prevent loss of packets during or after loading, whilst maintaining the open front configuration for display and access purposes.The present invention seeks to solve these problems.According to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A packaging tray which can be erected from a blank into a tray without the use of adhesive or staples and comprising a rectangular base; a pair of side walls upstanding from a first opposite pair of sides of the base; first and second end ledges upstanding from a second pair of opposite sides of the base, at least one of the end ledges being substantially lower in height than the side walls; a stacking pillar at each corner, each pillar comprising a stacking panel foldably connected to one end portion of a side wall and means to hold the stacking panel in position and latchably to connect it to the side wall; and co-operable detent means at or adjacent each corner for connecting each side wall to its respective end ledge; in which each stacking panel has one edge resting on the tray base and its opposite edge at the desired stacking height.
2. A packaging tray according to claim 1 wherein the stacking panels are foldably connected to short substantially full height end wall panels each forming part of a stacking pillar and foldably connected to an end of a side wall and extend diagonally across the respective corners of the tray.
3. A packaging tray according to claim 1 or 2 wherein a locking tab projects from the end edge of each stacking panel which engages within a slot formed in each side wall.
4. A packaging tray according to claim 3 wherein the slot is formed by a flap formed in the side wall, which is folded inwardly to receive the edge of the stacking panel behind it.
5. A packaging tray according to claim 3 wherein the slot is an aperture in the side wall.
6. A packaging tray according to any one of claims 1-5 wherein the side walls project upwardly beyond the stacking 


panels to provide locating rails for the underside of another tray.
7. A packaging tray according to any preceding claim wherein at least one end ledge is of two layer thickness, with an inner layer folded into back to back relationship with an outer layer and held in place by at least one projecting tab on its free edge engaging in a corresponding slot in the end of the base.
8. A packaging tray according to any one of claims 1-6 wherein the first end ledge is deeper than the second end ledge so that support is given to the tray contents during packing or loading.
9. A packaging tray according to claim 8 wherein the first end ledge is of single layer thickness, and the second end ledge is of two layer thickness.
10. A packaging tray according to any preceding claim wherein at least one of the co-operable detent means comprises a first tab, foldably connected to an upper region of its respective end ledge and a complementary locking tab on or aperture in an end portion of the side wall.
11. A packaging tray according to claim 10 wherein the first tab includes one or more locking projections foldably connected to the tab, the foldable connections between the tab and end ledge and between the locking projection and tab being substantially perpendicular.
12. A packaging tray according to any preceding claim wherein the end regions of the end ledge are wing portions extending upwardly from the end ledge.
13. A packaging tray according to claim 7 wherein both end ledges are of two layer thickness and substantially lower in height than the side walls. 


14. A packaging tray according to claim 7 or 13 wherein the two layer thickness end ledge is connected to the side walls by co-operable detent means comprising a locking flap sandwiched between the two layers of the end ledge and foldably connected to a lower region of its respective stacking panel.
15. A packaging tray according to claim 14 wherein the locking flap is reverse folded for sandwiching between the two layers.
16. A packaging tray substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 1-4 of the accompanying drawings.
17. A packaging tray substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 5-7 of the accompanying drawings.
18. A packaging tray substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 8 and 9 of the accompanying drawings.
19. A packaging tray substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 8 and 9, as modified by Figure 10, of the accompanying drawings.
20. A blank for a packaging tray as claimed in claim 1, the blank comprising a rectangular base panel, a pair of side wall panels foldably connected to the base panel about a first pair of parallel spaced fold lines defining the sides of the base panel, a second pair of spaced parallel fold lines at right angles to the first pair defining the ends of the base panel, a pair of ledge or nd wall panels foldably connected to "the base panel about respective ones of said second pair of fold lines, each of said ledge or end panels being divided into inner and outer portions by a tram 


line double score line parallel to the second pair of fold lines, at least one projecting tab extending from the free edge of each inner portion engageable in a corresponding slot in the end of the base pnael, and, at each end of each side wall panel, at least a pair of spaced further fold lines extending parallel to said second pair of spaced fold lines, and defining a full height stacking panel and including a locking flap connected along a fold line in line with one of said further fold lines to each said stacking panel, and means associated with the stacking panel for holding and locking it in position in the erected tray.
21. A blank for a packaging tray as claimed in claim 1, the blank comprising a rectangular base panel, a pair of side wall panels foldably connected to the base panel about a first pair of parallel spaced fold lines defining the sides of the base panel, a second pair of spaced parallel fold lines at right angles to the first pair defining the ends of the base panel, a pair of ledge or end wall panels foldably connected to the base panel about respective ones of said second pair of fold lines, at least one of said ledge or end wall panels being of a depth substantially less than the depth of the side wall panels, and, at each end of each side wall panel, at least a pair of spaced further fold lines extending parallel to said second pair of spaced fold lines, by means of which a full height stacking panel is foldably connected to each end of each side wall panel and including a locking flap connected along a fold line in line with one of said further fold lines to each said stacking panel at one end of the blank and locking tabs foldably connected to the ledge or end wall panel at the other end of the blank for connecting the side walls to the end wall in the tray erected from the blank, and means associated with each stacking panel for holding and latching it in position in the erected tray.
22. A blank according to claim 20 or 21 wherein one of said further fold lines is substantially in line with one of 


the fold lines of the second pair of fold lines at the end of the base panel, and a short end wall panel is foldably attached by said one further fold line to the respective end of the side wall panel, with the stacking panel being foldably connected by the other one of the fold lines of the further pair of fold lines to the short end wall panel.
23. A blank according to claim 20, 21 or 22 wherein the means associated with the stacking panel comprises a projecting tab on its free edge which latchably engages in the erected tray in a slot in the side wall from which the stacking panel projects.
24. A blank according to claim 21, 22 or 23 wherein only one of said ledge or end panels is divided into inner and outer portions by a tram line double score line parallel to the second pair of fold lines, at least one projecting tab extending from the free edge of the inner portion engageable in a corresponding slot in the end of the base panel, and wherein the second ledge or end panel has a locking tab at each side of the panel, the tabs being foldably connected to the panel along at least one fold line and being engageable with complementary locking means in a side wall pnael for holding the panel in position in the erected tray.
25. A blank for a packaging tray comprising a rectangular base panel, a pair of side wall panels foldably connected to the base panel about a first pair of parallel spaced fold lines defining the sides of the base panel, a second pair of spaced parallel fold lines at right angles to the first pair defining the ends of the base panel, first and second ledge or end wall panels foldably connected to the base panel about respective ones of said second pair of fold lines, the first of said ledge or end panels being divided into inner and outer portions by a tram line double score line parallel to the second pair of fold lines, at least one projecting tab extending from the free edge of the inner portion engageable in a corresponding slot in the end of the base 


p :,neJ each ledge or end panel having a tab at each side of t * υαnel, the tabs being foldably connected to the panel a . at least one fold line, and b
*
- 
'
rg engageable with co: elementary locking means for hc, ing the panel in position in the erected tray, and, at each end of each side wall panel, at least a pair of spaced further fold lines extending parallel to said second pair of spaced fold lines, and defining a full height stacking panel and means associated with each stacking panel for holding and locking it in position in the erected tray.
26. A blank according to claim 25 wherein the first ledge or end panel has wing portions extending outwardly from each end of its outer portion, and wherein the tabs are foldab÷ c ected respectively to 
•
 outer edge of each wing porti- f engagement with the c ψlementary locking means whic:. ai provided at each end of each side wall panel.
27. A blank according to claim 26 wherein the complementary locking means comprises a locking flap formed in the side wall.
28. A blank according to claim 27 wherein the locking flap comprises a rectangular flap defined on three sides by cuts in the side wall and foldably connected to the side wall on its fourth side, the fourth side being parallel to the second pair of fold lines so that the fl . may be folded out of the plane of its side wall so that the ..ocking tab may be pushed tnrough the aperture thus formed.
29. A blank according to claim 26 wherein the complementary locking means is an aperture in the side wall.
30. A blank according to any one of claims 26-29 wherein the tab includes one or more locking projections foldably connected to the tab and foldable perpendicularly thereto.
31. A blank for a packaging tray, substantially as 


hereinbefore described with reference to Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings.
32. A blank for a packaging tray, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figure 5 of the accompanying drawings.
33. A blank for a packaging tray, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figure 8 of the accompanying drawings.
34. A blank for a packaging tray, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figure 10 of the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
