<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614740</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for making preforms.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29B1116	B29B1116	B29B1300	B29B1308	B29C7004	B29C7030	B29C7034	B29C7038	D04H100	D04H100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29B	B29B	B29B	B29B	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29B11	B29B11	B29B13	B29B13	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	D04H1	D04H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A directed fiber, directed energy process provides 
both a method and an apparatus for making structural 

preforms. Fibrous reinforcement material is chopped into 
short lengths of fiber and propelled toward a perforate 

mold part. During propulsion and/or deposition on the 
perforate mold part the fibers are sprayed with an 

electromagnetic radiation-curable binder. The binder-carrying 
fibers are held on the perforate mold part by 

a flow of air in that the perforate mold part is 
rotatably mounted in a plenum which provides an air flow 

therethrough. Rotation of the perforate mold part and 
scanning action of the fiber and binder propelling 

mechanisms effects even and complete coverage of the 
perforate mold part. After a mat of the chopped fibers 

has been applied to the perforate mold part, a conforming 
second mold part closes the mold and presses the fibers 

to replicate the shape of the three dimensional rigid 
preform. While in the mold, which may be advantageously 

constructed of an electromagnetic radiation transmissive 
material, the pressed fibers are subjected to 

electromagnetic radiation to cure the binder and bond the 
fibers of the mat into a rigid three-dimensional element. 

A subassembly, such as an auxiliary member or members, 
may be attached by applying an electromagnetic energy-curable 

binder to a selected area of the preform and/or 
the subassem
bly, placing the auxiliary member into a 
desired orientation and into intimate contact with the 

preform at the selected binder-coated area, and the 
binder at that area cured by the application of the 

electromagnetic energy. The electromagnetic energy may  
 

be, for example, microwave radiation and/or ultraviolet 
radiation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAWTON C A CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE C.A. LAWTON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCKLEY DANIEL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCKLEY, DANIEL T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and to 
an apparatus for making structural reinforcement preforms 
for resin transfer molding (RTM) and reaction injection 
molding (SRIM) processes for structural composites, and 
is more specifically concerned with techniques for making 
such structural reinforcement preforms in accordance with 
the directed fiber process. In making preforms according to a directed fiber 
process, it has been the practice to spray chopped fibers 
with a binder resin onto a form that has air pulled 
therethrough to locate and hold the fibers in place. The 
form with the fibers and the binder resin is then moved 
into a hot air plenum chamber, dried and.or cured to set 
the binder resin. Utilizing this process, a great deal 
of processing space is required for heating, drying, 
curing and cooling the preforms. The process has also 
therefore required large ovens and other equipment for 
handling the preforms. In making thermoformed preforms, it has heretofore 
been the practice to coat a continuous strand fiber mat, 
during its manufacture, with a thermoplastic binder. The 
mat is supplied in roll form. The mat is unrolled and 
provided as a plurality of overlying flat sheets to vary 
the preform thicknesses and clamped into a holding frame 
at the edges thereof. The frame is then placed in an 
oven with radiant heaters which slowly heat the 
reinforcement mat and the thermoplastic binder from both 
sides. The thermoplastic binder softens in response to 
heating and, while soft, the frame is transferred into 
a cold mold which is then operated to press the  
 
reinforcement mat into the desired shape. Cooling causes 
the thermoplastic binder to stiffen and hold the 
thermoformable mat in its new shape. These processes are slow, require a great deal of 
space and large amount of energy for heating and cooling. Design flexibility is limited in that in order to 
meet the strength requirements of one area, an 
unnecessary use of material in other areas is required 
(layering) which also increases thickness and weight. 
Also, neither of the aforementioned processes permits the 
designer to add subassemblies such as ribs or closed 
sections to maximize design properties. A new system has been proposed which eliminates the 
necessity for large rooms and constantly operating ovens, 
cooled presses and the like and permits design 
flexibility with respect to the provision of 
subassemblies (reinforcement ribs, closed sections, and 
attachment and/or reinforcement members), while at the 
s
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of making a rigid three-dimensional 
preform using a separable mold including a perforate 

first mold part and a pressing second mold part, the mold 
parts, when closed, together a the desired three-dimensional 

shape of the preform and including inner 
surfaces disposed at angles with respect to one another 

forming inside and outside corners, comprising the steps 
of: cutting fibers of reinforcement material into short 

lengths; spraying an electromagnetic energy-curable 
binder onto the cut fibers to at least partially coat the 

fibers with the binder without filling interstices among 
the fibers; propelling the cut fibers onto the perforate 

first mold part while contemporaneously flowing air 
through the first mold part to direct the fibers onto 

all surfaces of the first mold part to a predetermined 
thickness; closing the second mold parts to press the 

binder-coated cut fibers into the desired three-dimensional 
shape of the preform between the pressing 

second mold part and the perforate first mold part of the 
closed mold such that fibers bridging inside and outside 

corners of the closed mold are deformed into desired 
shapes defined by the corners of the closed mold; 

applying electromagnetic energy to the binder-coated 
pressed fibers while in the closed mold to cure the 

binder and bond the fibers to produce the rigid three-dimensional 
structural preform; opening the mold; and 

removing the rigid three-dimensional structural preform 
from the mold. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of 
spraying electromagnetic energy-curable binder is further 

defined as spraying the binder simultaneously during the 
 

step of propelling the cut fibers onto the perforate 
first mold part so that the fibers are coated as they 

are cut and propelled. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of 

spraying electromagnetic energy-curable binder is further 
defined as spraying the binder onto the cut fibers after 

they have been propelled into the mold part. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of 
spraying binder and applying electromagnetic energy are 

respectively further defined as: spraying an ultraviolet 
energy-curable binder onto the cut fibers; and applying 

ultraviolet radiation to the pressed fibers in the mold. 
The method of claim 4 and further comprising 
the steps of moving the rigid three-dimensional preform 

to an energetic stitching location; applying an 
ultraviolet energy-curable binder to at least one 

selected area of the preform; moving a subassemby into 
intimate contact with the preform at the least one 

selected binder coated area; and radiating ultraviolet 
energy onto at least said one selected binder coated area 

to cure the binder and attach the subassembly to the 
preform. 
Apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional 
preform, comprising: a separable mold including 

separable first and second mold parts, each of said mold 
parts including a profiled inner surface complementary 

to the like inner surface of the other mold part, said 
complementary inner surfaces together replicating the 

desired three-dimensional shape of the preform including 
any inside and outside corners of the preform, said inner 

surface of said first mold part being perforate to 
support a flow of air therethrough, and said mold parts 

 
comprising material at least at said inner surface which 

is transmissive with respect to a predetermined 
electromagnetic radiation; means directing an air flow 

through the first mold part to direct the fibers onto all 
surfaces of the first mold part to a predetermined 

thickness; a reinforcement material supply for providing 
reinforcement material including cutting means for 

cutting the reinforcement material into short fibers and 
discharge means for discharging the cut fibers onto said 

first mold part to be held thereat by the air flow 
through said first mold part; a binder source for 

supplying binder which is curable in response to said 
predetermined electromagnetic radiation; spray means 

connected to said binder source for spraying and at least 
partially coating the cut fibers with the binder without 

filling the interstices among the fibers; means closing 
the separable mold parts to press the binder coated cut 

fibers into the desired three-dimensional shape of the 
preform between the mold parts such that fibers bridging 

inside and outside corners are deformed into desired 
shapes of the corners of the closed mold; means applying 

electromagnetic energy to the binder coated pressed 
fibers while in the closed mold to cure the binder and 

bond the fibers to produce the rigid three-dimensional 
structural preform; means for opening the mold; and means 

removing the rigid three-dimensional structural preform 
from the mold. 
The apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional 
preform constructed in accordance with claim 

6, wherein the spray means is located for spraying the 
fibers as they are cut and entering the mold. 
The apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional 
preform constructed in accordance with claim 

6, wherein the spray means is located to spray the fibers 
after they are deposited in the mold. 
The apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional 
preform constructed in accordance with claim 

6, wherein said binder source supplies a binder which is 
curable in response to ultraviolet energy and the mold 

parts comprise material transmissive of ultraviolet 
energy. 
The apparatus for making a rigid three-dimensional 
preform constructed in accordance with claim 

9, including means for applying an ultraviolet energy-curable 
binder to at least one selected area of the 

preform received from the mold; means moving a 
subassembly into intimate contact with the preform at at 

least the selected binder coated area; and means 
radiating ultraviolet energy onto said selected binder 

coated area to cure the binder and attach the subassembly 
to the preform. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
