<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627941</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
USE OF AGGREGATED PROTEINS TO PROLONG RETENTION TIME OF A THERAPEUTIC AGENT ADJACENT A TARGETED SITE SUCH AS A TUMOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K916	A61K916	A61K4748	A61K4748	A61K5112	A61K5112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K47	A61K47	A61K51	A61K51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of prolonging the amount of time it takes for the system of a living being to remove a therapeutically effective agent from a targeted site in the living being, such as in a tumor or tumor bearing region. The method comprises the steps of selecting particles of an aggregated protein, such as macro aggregated albumin. The protein particles are provided to the targeted site in the living being. A therapeutically effective agent, such as colloidal radioactive phosphorous, is then provided to the targeted site in the living being. In an alternative embodiment, the therapeutically effective agent may be mixed with a second aliquot of the aggregated protein particles to produce a mixture thereof. The mixture is then provided to the targeted site in the living being. The aggregated protein may be any suitable protein such as albumin, gamma globulin or peptides having a particle size of approximately 10 to 70 micrometers. In a preferred embodiment, the targeted site is the tumor itself.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORDER STANLEY E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORDER, STANLEY E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORDER STANLEY E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORDER, STANLEY E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 USE OF AGGREGATED PROTEINS TO PROLONGRETENTION TIME OF A THERAPEUTIC AGENT ADJACENT A TARGETED SITE SUCH AS A TUMORField of the InventionThis invention was not conceived in conjunction with or by funding received from any governmental agency, including but not limited to, the Department of Energy.Background ArtThroughout the years, the treatment and/or cure of cancer and other diseases has been intensely investigated culminating in a wide range of therapies. Cancer has typically been treated with surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, alone or with various therapies employing drugs, biologic agents, antibodies, radioactive immunconjugates, lymphocytes, macrophages, etc. (sometimes collectively referred to as "drugs" or "agents") .Cancer may be diagnosed by a number of methods and procedures including radiographic scanning of the suspected tissue or organ. One such method includes the gamma scan of an injected dose of a radioactive material such as technetium 99m as discussed in detail below.The common goal of cancer treatments has been to eliminate or ameliorate cancerous tumors/cells, with minimal toxicity to the normal cells/tissue and without unpleasant or sometimes life-threatening side effects.The delivery of an anticancer drug or agent may be accomplished in numerous ways, such as by irradiation, injection, etc. The intraarterial infusion of anticancer drugs is a widely used procedure which has been used to produce an increase in local tumor effect while attempting to reduce systemic drug toxicity. In this method of treatment, cytotoxicity within the tumor is dependent on drug concentration and the duration of exposure of the tumor to the drug. Drug concentration within the tumor depends upon the amount of blood flow to the tumor, the intra-tumoral deposition of the drug and the required metabolic uptake of the chemotherapeutic agent. The duration of exposure of the drug to the cancerous tumor relates to the rates of blood 

flow and drug uptake and elimination. E. Kim, Journal of Nuclear Medicine _, Vol. 24, No. 10, p.966.Conventional methods of intraarterially providing an anticancer drug by injecting the dosage into an artery supplying the organ suspected of having a neoplasm, result in the drug or agent being quickly removed from the cancerous site due to the circulation of blood and fluids through that organ. T. Kato, et al., Journal of the American Medical Association. Vol. 245, No. 11, p. 1123-1127 (March 1981).One such conventional cancer therapy utilizes an intraperitoneal or intracavitary
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method of prolonging the amount of time it takes for the system of a living being to remove a therapeutically effective agent from a targeted site in the living being comprising the steps of:
(a) selecting particles of an aggregated protein;
(b) delivering the particles to the targeted site of the living being; and
(c) delivering the therapeutically effective agent to the targeted site in the living being.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) is replaced by the steps of mixing the therapeutically effective agent with a second aliquot of the particles to produce a mixture and delivering the mixture to the targeted site in the living being.
3. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the step of selecting the aggregated protein from the group consisting of albumin, gamma globulin and peptides.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein step (a) additionally comprises suspending approximately 600,000 to 1,200,000 of the particles in the carrier liquid and wherein step (b) additionally comprises delivering substantially all of the 600,000 to 1,200,000 particles to the targeted site of the human being.
5. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the step of selecting the therapeutically effective agent to be therapeutically effective in treating cancer.
6. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the step of selecting the therapeutically effective agent from the group consisting of a radioactive isotope, a radioactive pharmaceutical, an antibody, a lymphocyte, a macrophage and a radioactive antibody.
7. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising selecting the targeted site of the living being to be a tumor. 


 8. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the step of selecting the organ from the group consisting of the liver, the pancreas, the kidney and the gallbladder.
9. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of delivering the therapeutically effective agent to the targeted site is accomplished by injection.
10. The method of claim 2 additionally comprising the step of selecting the second aliquot of particles to comprise approximately 600,000 to 2,000,000 of the particles.
11. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the step of selecting the particles to be of a particle size in the range of 10 to 150 micrometers.
12. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the step of selecting the particles to be of a particle size in the range of 10 to 70 micrometers.
13. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the step of selecting the particles to be of a particle size in the range of 20 to 40 micrometers.
14. A method of prolonging the amount of time it takes for the system of a living being to remove a therapeutically effective agent from a targeted site therein comprising the steps of:
(a) selecting an effective number of particles comprised of a proteinaceous material having a diameter in the range of 10 to 150 micrometers;
(b) delivering the effective number of particles to the targeted site in the living being; and
(c) delivering the therapeutically effective agent to the targeted site in the living being.
15. The method of claim 14 additionally comprising the step of selecting the effective number of particles to be in the range of 600,000 to 2,000,000.
16. Use of an aggregated protein to increase the time a therapeutic agent remains adjacent a tumor by suspending particles of the aggregated protein in a carrier liquid and delivering the particles to the tumor. 


 17. The use of claim 16 wherein the suspended particles number approximately 600,000 to 2,000,000.
18. The use of claim 16 wherein the particles are of a particle size in the range of 10 to 150 micrometers.
19. A kit for delivering a therapeutic agent to a tumor and for providing a therapeutic amount of an anticancer agent comprising:
(a) suspended particles of an aggregated protein in a carrier liquid; and
(b) a therapeutically effective amount of a means for alleviating or decreasing the size of a cancerous tumor.
20. A method of prolonging the amount of time a therapeutically effective remains adjacent a targeted site in the living being comprising the steps of:
(a) selecting particles of an aggregated protein;
(b) delivering the particles to the targeted site of the living being; and
(c) delivering the therapeutically effective agent to the targeted site in the living being.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein step (c) is replaced by the steps of mixing the therapeutically effective agent with a second aliquot of the particles to produce a mixture and delivering the mixture to the targeted site in the living being. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
