<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655801</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Retainer mounting structure of connector
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1352	H01R1352	H01R1342	H01R1342	H01R13436	H01R13436	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tubular extension portion is extended from an 
edge portion of a retainer mounting hole at an upper 

surface of a connector housing. A retainer has a flange. 
When the retainer is fitted in the retainer mounting hole, 

the flange is abutted against an upper end of the tubular 
extension portion, so that the retainer mounting hole is 

closed similar to a lid to prevent water or the like from 
intruding into the retainer mounting hole from the upper 

surface of a connector. Water, dropping from above the 
retainer mounting hole, falls on the upper surface of the 

retainer and the flange, and flows to the upper surface of 
the connector housing across an outer peripheral edge of 

the flange. Therefore, the water will not intrude into a 
gap between the retainer and the retainer mounting hole. 

Also, because the water on the upper surface of the 
connector housing cannot flow up and over the tubular 

extension portion, water also will not flow into the 
retainer mounting hole from here. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SABA TOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SABA, TOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a retainer mounting 
structure in which a retainer is fitted in a retainer 
mounting hole, formed in an upper surface of a connector 
mounted in a predetermined posture, to retain metal 
terminals against withdrawal. Figs. 6 and 7 show prior means for mounting a 
retainer for retaining at least one metal terminal against 
withdrawal in a connector mounted in a predetermined 
posture, the at least one metal terminal being mounted 
respectively in at least one cavity in the connector. A connector 30 has a hood portion 31 for receiving 
a. mating connector (not shown), and has a plurality of 
cavities 32 therein for receiving the metal terminals (not 
shown), respectively. A distal end portion of the hood 
portion 31 is fitted in a connector mounting hole formed 
in a panel 33, so that the cavities 32 are arranged in 
rows in a vertical direction. In a condition shown in 
Fig. 6, a dust prevention cover 34 is releasably attached 
to the hood portion 31. The thus mounted connector 30 has two retainer 
mounting holes 35 and 35 which are open respectively to an 
upper and a lower surface of the connector, and are in 
communication with the cavities 32. A retainer 36 is 
fitted in each of the retainer mounting holes 35 to retain 
the metal terminals inserted in their proper position in 
the respective cavities 32. The retainers 36 are 
retainingly engaged with the metal terminals to hold them 
against withdrawal. In the above conventional retainer mounting 
structure, as better shown in Fig. 7, that surface of each 
retainer 36 (fitted in the retainer mounting hole 35) 
exposed to the exterior of the connector 30 lies flush 
with an edge of the retainer mounting hole 35 disposed at 
an outer surface 30a of the connector 30, and a gap S 
between an inner surface of the retainer mounting hole 35 
and an outer surface of the retainer 36 extends straight  
 
from an inner side of the retainer mounting hole 35, and 
is open to the outer surface 30a of the connector 30. Therefore, at the upper surface of the connector 
30, water or the like intrudes into the retainer mounting 
hole 35 through the gap S between the retainer mounting 
hole 35 and the retainer 36 fitted therein, and wets the 
metal terminals in the cavities 32, so that leakage, 
though slight, may occur. The UK-Patent Application GB-A-2 211 033 discloses a 
connector according to the first part of claim 1 having a double locking device to protect the 
contact terminals from slipping out and a method for 
preparing the locking
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A retainer mounting structure of a connector 
comprising: 


a connector (1) mounted in a predetermined 
posture, said connector having at least one metal terminal 

mounted respectively in at least one cavity (8) in said 
connector, a retainer mounting hole (13) in communication 

with said at least one cavity (8) being formed in an upper 
surface of said connector (1), and 
a retainer (12) for retaining said at least 
one metal terminal against withdrawal is fitted in said 

retainer mounting hole (13), 
 
   characterised in that 


an open end of said retainer mounting 
hole (13) being extended in a tubular shape from the upper 

surface of said connector (1), and 
said retainer (12) having a flange (18) that 
is abutted against the open end of the tubular extension 

portion of said retainer mounting hole (13) to close and 
seal said retainer mounting hole. 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
according to claim 1, in which a thickness of two opposing 

sides (15a,15b) of said tubular extension portion (15) is 
different, and a bent portion (19) is formed on a 

peripheral edge of said flange (18) and engages with an 
outer peripheral side surface of said tubular extension 

portion (15). 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
according to claim 1, in which a jig engagement 

portion (20) sized to engage with a retainer removal jig is 
formed in an outer periphery of said retainer (12) between 

said flange (18) and said tubular extension portion (15).  
 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
according to claim 1, wherein 


said connector (1) is mounted in a 
predetermined posture to define an upper surface of said 

connector; 
said retainer mounting hole (13) defining 
extending peripheral sides having peripheral side surfaces 

and vertical inner walls; 
said retainer including a flange (18) that 
closes and seals the vertical inner walls of said retainer 

mounting hole (13) by abutting against the open end of said 
tubular extension portion. 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
of claim 4, wherein said flange (18) includes a bent 

portion (19) that extends downward and engages at least one 
of said extending peripheral sides. 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
of claim 5, wherein thicknesses of two opposing extending 

sides (15a,15b) are different, one of said two opposing 
sides (15a,15b) being too thick to allow engagement of said 

bent portion (19) with said corresponding peripheral side 
surface such that said retainer (12) can only be fitted in 

one proper orientation. 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
of claim 4, wherein said flange (27) includes a tubular 

fitting portion (28) extending downward around a periphery 
of said flange (27) for engaging said peripheral side 

surfaces of said tubular extension portion (25). 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
according to claim 4, wherein
 
   said retainer (26) being fitted in said 

retainer mounting hole (24) and defining a vertical gap 
between said vertical inner walls of said tubular extension 

portion (25) and said retainer (26), said retainer (26) 
including a flange (27) having peripheral dimensions that 

close and seal the vertical gap and abut said open end of  
 

said tubular extension portion (25) to form a horizontal 
gap between said flange (27) and said tubular extension 

portion (25). 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
of claim 8, further comprising a bent portion extending 

downwardly from a peripheral edge of said flange (27) for 
closing at least a portion of said horizontal gap. 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
of claim 9, wherein said bent portion extends completely 

around said flange to form a downwardly extending tubular 
fitting portion (28) that engages said peripheral side 

surfaces of said tubular extension portion (25). 
The retainer mounting structure of a connector 
of claim 8, further comprising a jig engagement 

portion (29) formed in said retainer (26). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
