<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647111</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CARPET CONSTRUCTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D05C1702	B32B522	B32B300	B32B300	A47G2700	B32B524	A47G2704	A47G2700	A47G2702	D05C1700	D06N700	D06N700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D05C	B32B	B32B	B32B	A47G	B32B	A47G	A47G	A47G	D05C	D06N	D06N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D05C17	B32B5	B32B3	B32B3	A47G27	B32B5	A47G27	A47G27	A47G27	D05C17	D06N7	D06N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A carpet construction having an interposed layer of foam and a loop backing. The foam layer is manufactured with a fabric covering on both of its sides, the bottom covering having loops. A carpet backing is affixed to the foam sandwich using conventional methods. The foam sandwich can be secured to the carpet pile layer at the same time and with the same material that binds and seals the carpet pile layer. Alternatively, the foam sandwich can be manufactured, stored and later attached to the carpet which has previously been pre-coated with a binder.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAC FAST SYSTEMS SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAC-FAST SYSTEMS S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PACIONE JOSEPH R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PACIONE, JOSEPH, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a new carpet 
construction and particularly to a carpet for use with a 
hook and loop installation device. As shown in US-A-4 822 658, it has been 
found that it is possible to produce a new carpet to be 
installed, as for instance in wall to wall carpeting, by 
the use of a hook and loop system. With this previous 
invention, in the preferred embodiment, a carpet is 
manufactured with an undersurface substantially covered 
with loops, and this carpet is installed with a 
complementary tape containing hooks which are 
temporarily covered. The tapes are put in place on the 
floor and along the edges at intervals corresponding to 
the width of the carpet or wherever additional 
affixation to the floor is required. The tapes are 
covered so that they do not pre-maturely attach to the 
loops when the carpet is put in place, cut and fitted. 
The tape covering is then pulled off to expose the hooks 
and to adhere the carpet to the floor. This earlier patent also discloses the 
possibility of incorporating a foam layer between the 
primary layer containing the carpet tufts and the 
underlying looped backing. The earlier patent US-A-4 822 658 shows a carpet 
with a foam interposed layer. In-line lamination can 
work to achieve a carpet construction as shown in US-A-4 
822 658. In such process, the bottom loop layer is 
laminated onto the foam while the foam is formed onto 
the layer so that the foam cures on the back of the  
 
carpet resulting in attachment of the underloop layer to 
the top tufted layer of the carpet. A principle drawback of such an arrangement is 
that the unfinished carpet has to be brought to a foamer 
so that the lamination can be done on a foaming line or, 
alternatively, the carpet manufacturer has to invest in 
foaming machinery for his factory. Further, there is considerable stress on the 
foam in use when it is directly attached to the carpet. 
Without a covering to give the foam some dimensional 
stability, the unsupported foam can easily shear, tear 
or delaminate from the carpet. In addition, it would be highly desirable in 
many applications if a lower density foam could be used. 
However, when this method of direct application of the 
foam to a carpet primary layer is used, higher density 
foam is normally needed to give the foam enough 
stability. Some carpet does have a backing such as an 
"action backing" of polypropylene or jute over the back 
of the carpet. Affixing the foam directly to such 
backing could reduce the stress on the foam but attempts
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A laminated carpet for attachment to a floor 
without a separate underpad, the carpet comprising a 

primary layer (1) having pile elements (3) 
substantially covering a first side of the primary 

layer and loops (11) on a lower surface, the pile 
elements and loops being exposed on opposite faces of 

the carpet, characterized in that the carpet comprises: 

(i) a foam layer (7) having a first fabric 
covering (9) on an upper surface of the layer 

and a second fabric covering (11) having the 
exposed loops on a lower surface of the 

layer; 
(ii) means for securing the first and second 
covering to the foam layer (7); and 
(iii) means (13) for securing the upper surface of 
the first covering of the foam layer to the 

primary layer. 
The carpet of claim 1 in which the exposed loops 
(11) substantially cover the lower surface of the foam 

layer (7). 
The carpet of claim 2 in which the exposed loops 
of the second covering are locked into the fabric 

of the covering. 
The carpet of claim 3 in which the second 
covering is a knitted fabric. 
The carpet of claim 3 in which the second 
covering is a woven fabric. 
The carpet of claim 3 in which the first covering 
(9) is a fabric with exposed upstanding threads.  

 
The carpet of claim 6 in which the first covering 
(9) is secured to the primary layer (1) by means of an 

adhesive coated along substantially the entire surface 
of the second side of the primary layer and 

infiltrated into the upstanding threads of the first 
covering (9). 
The carpet of claim 7 in which the 
upstanding threads of the first covering (9) are loops 

locked into the fabric of the covering. 
The carpet of claim 2 in which the loops of the 
second covering (11) are locked into the foam layer 

(7) during setting of the foam. 
The carpet of claim 9 in which the first covering 
(9) has exposed loops projecting upwardly from its 

upper surface and such loops are bound to the covering 
and locked by the foam layer (7) during setting of the 

foam. 
The carpet of any of the preceeding claims in which the carpet is 
produced with a substantially uniform cross-section so 

that it can be cut and fit in place as wall-to-wall 
carpeting. 
The carpet of claim 3 in which the fabric 
coverings (9, 11) are secured to the surface of the 

foam (7) without substantial penetration of foam into 
the fabric. 
The carpet of claim 12 in which the foam layer 
(7) is a pre-manufactured slab foam. 
The carpet of claim 12 or 13 in which the foam layer 
(7) is chemically blown.  

 
A laminated carpet for attachment to a floor, the 
carpet comprising a primary layer (1) having pile 

elements (3) tufted into and through such layer and 
substantially covering a first side of the primary 

layer and a lower surface having exposed loops (11) on 
an opposite face of the carpet to that of the first 

side, characterized in that the carpet comprises: 

(i) a foam layer (7) having a first fabric 
covering (9) having exposed threads 

outstanding from the upper surface of such 
layer and a second fabric covering having 

the exposed loops on the lower surface of 
such layer; and 
(ii) adhesive means (13) for securing the first 
fabric covering of the foam layer to the 

primary layer so that the exposed threads of 
the upper surface of the first covering and 

the tufts extending through the primary 
layer are sealed together. 
The carpet of claim 15 in which the loops (11) 
are locked into the fabric of the second covering. 
The carpet of claim 16 in which the second 
covering is adhered to the surface of the foam layer 

(7) without substantial penetration of foam into the 
second covering. 
The carpet of claim 16 or 17 in wich the first 
covering (9) is adhered to the surface of the foam 

layer (7) without substantial penetration of foam into 
the first covering.  

 
A method of making a laminated carpet comprising 
the steps of: 


(i) manufacturing a foam sandwich having a foam 
layer (7) in the middle and two outer fabric 

coverings (9, 11) at least one of which 
coverings has loops on substantially the whole 

of its surface; 
(ii) manufacturing a carpet pile layer, having 
exposed carpet pile (3) on one surface; 
(iii) securing the foam sandwich to the pile layer 
so that the carpet pile and the loops are 

exposed on opposite faces of the carpet. 
The method of claim 19 comprising the additional 
step of first setting the foam (7) before securing the 

coverings so as to prevent substantial penetration of 
the foam into the fabric coverings. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
