<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656711</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Negotiation systems for communication networks
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L2906	H04L514	H04L12413	H04L12407	H04L514	H04L2906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L29	H04L5	H04L12	H04L12	H04L5	H04L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system provides for detection of enhanced capabilities of stations on
a communications network. A specified pattern of link test pulses are detected

and transmitted to provide for the indication of enhanced capabilities. This is
particularly useful for determining whether a particular station is in full duplex

or half duplex mode without affecting overall network performance.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAYFORD IAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAYFORD, IAN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field of
communication networks and more particularly to networks which include
both half-duplex communications channels and full duplex communications
channels.A continuing trend within the networking industry is a move to enhance
IEEE 802.3/Ethernet performance, using switched and/or full duplex Ethernet
capability. This is seen as yet another "mid life kicker" to Ethernet, either
preserving existing workstation controllers and providing "dedicated Ethernet"
(full 10Mb/s) to each desktop, or by upgrading the existing adapter to full
duplex, for higher performance and enhanced support for interactive
applications.For the current generation of Ethernet controller products, there are two
fundamental areas that require modification to support the full duplex capability.
Basically these are:
(i) The capability to transmit and receive simultaneously (without
collision);(ii) The capability to "auto-negotiate" between the hub and the end
station to determine if the full duplex capability is supported.The intent of full duplex operation is clear - to increase the performance
of an Ethernet link by taking advantage of the 10BASE-T topology, which
provides a full duplex communications link (separate transmit and receive
circuits and cabling), but is normally used in a half duplex mode for 
compatibility with existing coax based Ethernet.There are two components to this performance increase. The first is the
physical capability to actually be able to simultaneously transmit and receive.
The second is the effective elimination of collisions. Since it is assumed that
contention will not occur (an active receiver is no longer an indication that the
transmit MAC process must defer), then the end station effectively assumes it
can always transmit. This second characteristic has more impact at the
hub/repeater than at the end station.At the hub end, this means that a repeater is inadequate (since it can
only deal with a single active receive port at any one time). The repeater must
be replaced with a bridge function, which provides the required level of "store
and forward" buffering, and routes the packet according to its source/destination
address characteristics. This may be by means of the MAC address (in which
case it is technically a bridge), or an internetwork address (in which case it
would be classed as a router). The integration of this bridge/router functionality
into a high performance multiport unit is effectively what the industry refers to
as a "switch" in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining whether there are enhanced capabilities between a
first (102, 150) and second station (110) within a communications network (100,

100'); the method comprising the steps of:

providing a specified pattern of link test pulses from the first station (102,
150), the specified pattern including varying periods of separation between the pulses;
receiving the specified pattern of link test pulses at the second station (110);
and
providing the specified pattern of link test pulses to the first station (102, 150)
from the second station (110),

   
characterised in that
 the specified pattern provided by the first station (102,
150) indicates that the first station has enhanced capabilities, the second station (110)

entering an enhanced mode on receipt of the specified pattern from the first station,
and the first station entering the enhanced mode on receipt of the specified pattern

from the second station.
A method according to claim 1 wherein the varying periods of separation of
the link test pulses are such that a first period of separation occurs before and after a

first predetermined link test pulse, a second period of separation occurs before and
after a second predetermined link test pulse, and a third period of separation occurs

before and after a third predetermined link test pulse.
A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the specified pattern of
link test pulses comprises a first and a second specified pattern of link test pulses, the

first specified pattern indicating that a station is transmitting in half duplex mode but
with full duplex capability, the second specified pattern indicating that a station is

transmitting in full duplex mode.
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the enhanced capabilities comprise
full duplex operation; and wherein
 
   the second station (110) enters full duplex mode on receipt of the first

specified pattern from the first station (102;150);

   the first station, on entering full duplex mode, provides the second specified
pattern to the second station; and

   the second station then enters full duplex mode.
A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the method further comprises the
steps of:


providing a third specified pattern of link test pulses from either one of the
first or second stations; the third specified pattern indicating simplex mode only; and
recognising the third specified pattern by the other of the first or second
stations, the other station then entering simplex mode.
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the second specified pattern is within
the requirements of the first specified pattern
A method as claimed in claim 5, which further includes the step of sending the
first specified pattern by the other station responsive to the recognising step.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the specified
pattern is within a 10BASE-T link test pulse pattern.
A method as claimed in claim 3, comprising the additional steps of:

the second station (110) entering an enhanced mode on receipt of the said
specified pattern from the first station (102;150), and disabling a transmit function at

the second station;
disabling a transmit function at the first station when the first station enters the
enhanced mode;
providing the second specified pattern of link test pulses to the second station
from the first station;
re-enabling the transmit function at the first station; 
the second station then entering the enhanced mode; and
re-enabling the transmit function of the second station.
A station (102, 150) for forming part of a communications network (100, 100')
the station being adapted for determining if other stations on the network include

enhanced capabilities; the station comprising:

means for providing a specified pattern of link test pulses, the specified pattern
including varying periods of separation between the pulses;
means for receiving the specified pattern of link test pulses; and
means for disabling the station if the specified pattern of link pulses is not
received,
means for entering the station into an enhanced mode upon receipt of the
specified pattern.
A station as claimed in claim 10, wherein the varying periods of separation of
the link test pulses are such that a first period of separation occurs before 
and after a
first predetermined link test pulse, a second period of separation occurs before and

after a second predetermined link test pulse, and a third period of separation occurs
before and after a third predetermined link test pulse.
A station as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the enhanced capability
comprises full duplex capability;

   the specified pattern of link test pulses include a first and a second specified
pattern of link test pulses, the first specified pattern indicating that the station is

transmitting in half duplex mode but with full duplex capability, the second specified
pattern indicating that the station is transmitting in full duplex mode; the station

entering full duplex mode on receipt of the first specified pattern. 
A station as claimed in claim 12, the station further comprising:

means for providing a third specified pattern of link test pulses responsive to
an external signal; the third specified pattern indicating that the station is in simplex

mode only;
means for receiving the third specified pattern of link test pulses responsive to
the third specified pattern providing means and
means for recognizing the third specified pattern and entering simplex mode.
A station as claimed in claim 13, which further includes means for sending
the first specified pattern responsive to the recognizing means.
A station as claimed in any one of the claims 10-14 in which the said
specified pattern is within a 10BASE-T link test pulse pattern.
A station as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13, which further comprises:

means for forcing the station to full duplex mode responsive to an external
signal.
A station as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13, which further comprises:

means for forcing the station to half duplex mode responsive to an external
signal.
A station as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17 wherein the external signal is a
hardware input signal.
A station as claimed in claims 16 or claim 17 wherein the external signal is
software programmable.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
