<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644051</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A flexible interconnect circuit for an ink jet print cartridge having a plurality of orifices.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J216	B41J216	B41J2175	B41J2175	B41J2900	B41J2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J29	B41J29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ink jet printhead cartridge (10) comprising an enclosed cartridge body (12) 
for storing a liquid ink supply, a thin film resistor structure (24) having a plurality of 

resistive heater elements thereon in contact with the fluid ink supply, and a flexible 
interconnect circuit (58) having orifices (154, 156) formed therein attached to the 

resistor structure by means of a layer of conductive adhesive. The layer of conductive 
adhesive (72) is made of a polymeric compound having dispersed particulates of a 

conductive material therein to form a electrical connection between the flexible 
interconnect and the resistor structure when the flexible interconnect is brought into 

contact with the resistor structure. The conductive adhesive is cured under controlled 
temperature and pressure to form a permanent conductive bond between the resistor 

structure and the flexible interconnect circuit. The orifices are formed in the flexible 
interconnect circuit by laser milling the flexible interconnect material to conically 

shaped orifices in the flexible interconnect circuit aligned with the resistive heater 
elements, thereby eliminating a separate orifice plate. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELD MARSHALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELD, MARSHALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to ink jet printers and more 
particularly to ink jet printhead cartridges and a method of fabricating 
the same. Ink jet printers typically use disposable ink jet printhead cartridges 
to provide a replenishable supply of ink. Existing ink jet printhead 
cartridges, such as that shown in FIGS. 1 and 2, are typically fabricated 
using a method similar to that described in commonly assigned U.S. 
Patent No. 4,500,895 to Buck et al., entitled "Disposable Ink Jet Head," 
issued February 19, 1985. The prior art printhead cartridges include a cartridge body for 
storing ink. A thin film resistor structure includes a plurality of resistive 
heater elements mounted on the cartridge body. The resistor structure 
typically has a central opening formed therein for supplying ink to the 
resistive heater elements. Channels are formed using a barrier layer on 
the resistor structure ink to disperse the liquid ink from the opening to 
the resistive heater elements. The ink is supplied to the opening in the 
resistor structure by an overlapping opening in the cartridge body 
opening. The resistor structure has contact bonding pads arranged around 
the periphery of the resistor structure. The bonding pads provide a 
bonding site to connect conductors on a flexible interconnect circuit to the 
resistor structure. The conductors supply current from the ink jet printer 
to the individual heater elements. The heater elements dissipate heat 
when the current is supplied thereto. The resulting heat causes the ink  
 
to evaporate and thereby "jet" from the ink cartridge. An orifice plate is then mounted on the resistor structure. The 
orifice plate includes a plurality of orifices which form ink jet nozzles 
when aligned with the corresponding heater element. The alignment of 
the orifice plate to the resistive elements requires precision alignment 
and requires an additional manufacturing step. The orifices provide shape 
and directionality to the ink droplets that are ejected from the cartridge 
when the nozzles are actuated. The flexible interconnect circuit is attached to the cartridge body 
and to the resistor structure. The flexible interconnect conductors are 
bonded to a corresponding contact pad on the resistor structure by 
abrasion or thermosonic welding, as is known in the art. In order to weld 
the flexible interconnect conductors to the resistor structure pads, an 
opening is formed in the flexible interconnect circuit to expose the ends 
of the conductors. The opening exposes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermal ink jet printhead cartridge (10) for use in an ink jet printer 
having a carriage for receiving the ink jet printhead cartridge 

comprising: 
   an enclosed cartridge body (12) for storing a liquid ink supply, the cartridge 

bodyhaving an opening (26) in a bottom side (16) for supplying ink; 
   a thin film resistor structure (24) having a plurality of resistive heater elements 

thereon disposed in contact with the liquid ink supply; 
   means for electrically selecting (58) one or more of the resistive heater elements, 

wherein the selected resistive heater element dissipates thermal energy to evaporate 
the liquid ink disposed in contact with the selected resistive heater element; and 

   a layer of conductive adhesive (72) formed between the thin film resistor 
structure and the selecting means to conduct current between the selecting means and 

the resistive heater elements. 
A printhead cartridge according to claim 1, wherein the layer of 
conductive adhesive includes a polymeric compound (72) comprising: 

   an epoxy compound; and 
   disbursed conductive particulates comprising either one of gold and silver. 
A printhead cartridge according to claim 1 wherein the thin film resistor 
structure comprises: 

   a substrate (24) having a fluid channels formed therein for supplying ink from 
the ink supply to the resistive heater elements, the substrate mounted on the cartridge 

body (12) such that the fluid channels contact the ink supply; and 
   a plurality of conductors coupled to the resistive heater elements for conducting 

the current to the resistive heater elements, wherein the conductors are connected to 
the selecting means by the conductive adhesive. 
A printhead cartridge according to claim 1 wherein the selecting means 
comprises:

 
   a flexible interconnect circuit (58) having a top side and a bottom side; 

and 
   a plurality of conductors (62) mounted on the bottom side of the flexible 

interconnect circuit, wherein each flexible interconnect conductor is electrically 
connected to a corresponding resistor structure conductor by the conductive adhesive. 
A printhead cartridge according to claim 1 wherein the selecting means 
further includes a plurality of orifices (154, 156) for directing ink evaporated by a 

corresponding resistive heater element. 
A method for fabricating a thermal ink jet printhead cartridge 
comprising: 

   providing an enclosed cartridge body for storing a liquid ink supply having an 
opening in a bottom side for supplying ink; 

   providing a thin film resistor structure having a plurality of resistive heater 
elements thereon being in contact with the liquid ink supply; 

   mounting the thin film resistor structure on the bottom side of the cartridge 
body such that the liquid ink is supplied to the resistive heater elements through the 

cartridge body opening; 
   providing a flexible interconnect circuit having a plurality of conductors 

forming a layer of conductive adhesive between the thin film resistor structure 
and the flexible interconnect conductors to electrically connect the flexible interconnect 

conductors to the resistive heater elements; and 
   curing the conductive adhesive under predetermined temperature and pressure 

conditions. 
A method for fabricating a thermal ink jet printhead cartridge according 
to claim 6 further comprising forming a plurality of orifices in the flexible interconnect, 

wherein each orifice is formed over a corresponding resistive heater element. 
A method for fabricating a thermal ink jet printhead cartridge according 
to claim 7 wherein the step of forming a plurality of orifices includes laser machining 

orifices in the flexible interconnect to produce orifices having a conical shape. 
A method for fabricating a thermal ink jet printhead cartridge according 
to claim 6, wherein curing the conductive adhesive is conducted at a temperature of up 

to about 250 degrees Centigrade. 
A method for fabricating a thermal ink jet printhead cartridge according 
to claim 20, wherein curing the conductive adhesive is conducted at a pressure of up 

to about 200 pounds per square inch. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
