<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650910</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Isolation pad for a feeding system and a method for feeding material from the system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G6500	B65G6546	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G65	B65G65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an isolation pad (30) for 
mounting a supply vessel (10) to a feeding mechanism (20), and a system 

containing such a pad. The isolation pad is made of two plates (31,32) 
connected by a flexible elastomer gasket (33). An aperture extends 

through both plates and the gasket. One plate (31) is mounted to the 
supply vessel. The other plate (32) is mounted to the feeding 

mechanism. Consequently, the supply vessel is supported by the 
elastomeric gasket. Because the gasket is flexible, the supply 

vessel is resilient and free to vibrate independently with 
respect to the feeding mechanism. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACRISON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACRISON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICCIARDI RONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICCIARDI, RONALD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of dry bulk
solids feeding systems, particularly, dry solids feeders.The precise metering of dry solids such as amorphous powders
is an important, and often a difficult task in many applications.
Whenever such materials are continuously fed into a process, the
feed rate at which the material is delivered to the process must
be controlled to ensure accuracy.One type of dry solids feeding system is a volumetric
feeder. As the name implies, volumetric feeders dispense
material by volume. They employ a displacement measuring
mechanism of some sort (for example, an auger mounted below a
supply vessel and feeding a fixed volume of material per auger
rotation) operating at a set speed. This results in feeding a
known volume of material. The weight of material fed can
generally be determined based on the material's bulk density.
Other dry solids feeding systems are designed to weigh the
product, where the weight measurement can be used to control the
material feed rate. Such so-called "gravimetric" systems include
loss-in-weight, weigh belt and weigh auger feeding systems. Some materials, however, have a tendency to clump together
or stick to the side of the supply vessel. Further, certain
materials have a tendency to resist flow out of its supply vessel
(hopper) and "rat hole" or bridge. This will cause the material
to be fed at a nonuniform rate, or totally stop feeding,
adversely affecting the process. To overcome these problems, the
supply vessel can be vibrated. This vibration causes the
material to flow more uniformly out of the supply vessel (or
hopper).There are various well-known arrangements of dry solids
feeders in which its supply vessel (or hopper) is vibrated to
cause product to flow out from within. The most common of these
arrangements, where the supply vessel is rigidly attached to the
feeding mechanism, is to simply attach a vibrator directly onto
one of the sides of the supply vessel to induce product flow out
from within.However, there are several drawbacks to this configuration.
Firstly, vibratory forces become non-uniform in nature because
the supply vessel cannot vibrate as a separate entity. Since the
supply vessel is rigidly attached to, or an integral part of, the
feeding mechanism, vibration is transmitted to the feeding
mechanism as well. In effect, the entire feeding system vibrates
(that is, both the supply vessel and the feeding mechanism).
However, vibration is primarily concentrated in that area of the
supply vessel where the vibrator
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A materials feeding system (1) comprising:

a feeding mechanism (20) having an inlet portion
(25) defining an inlet (26);
a supply vessel (10) for receiving material having
an outlet portion (13) defining an outlet (12);
an annular coupling (30) connecting the inlet
portion and the outlet portion and defining an aperture

(31a,32a,33a) whereby the inlet, the aperture and the
outlet define a flow path for the material from the

supply vessel (10) to the feeding mechanism (20);
a vibrator (40) connected to the supply vessel; and
support means (30) operable to support the supply
vessel relative to the feeding mechanism such that the

support vessel is free to vibrate in response to
actuation of the vibrator;

   characterised in that the annular coupling comprises
an annular isolation pad (30) constituting the support

means and operable to provide vibrational isolation
between the supply vessel and the feeding mechanism.
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 1 wherein
the annular isolation pad (30) comprises an upper plate

(31) fixedly attached to a gasket (33) and disposed
between the gasket (33) and the outlet portion of the

supply vessel (10). 
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 1 wherein
the annular isolation pad (30) comprises a lower plate

(32) fixedly attached to a gasket (33) and disposed
between the gasket (33) and the feeding mechanism (20).
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 1 wherein
the annular isolation pad (30) comprises:


an upper plate (31);
a lower plate (32); and
a gasket (33) disposed between the upper plate (31)
and the lower plate (32).
A feeding system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the
gasket is formed of elastomeric material.
A feeding system as claimed in any of claims 4 and
5 wherein the upper plate is not connected to the lower

plate in any other way than by means of the gasket.
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 4 further
comprising a means for attaching the upper plate (31) to

the gasket (33).
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 4 further
comprising a means for attaching the lower plate (32) to

the gasket (33). 
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 4 wherein
the upper plate (31) and the lower plate (32) are

vulcanized to the gasket (33).
A feeding system as claimed in any preceding claim
wherein the feeding mechanism is a volumetric feeding

mechanism.
A feeding system as claimed in any of claims 1
to 9 wherein the feeding mechanism is a gravimetric

feeding mechanism.
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 4 wherein
the outlet portion comprises a supply flange (13) mounted

to the supply vessel (10) and the inlet portion comprises
a feeder flange (25) mounted to the feeding mechanism

(20).
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 12 further
comprising liners (50) disposed between the plates

(31,32) and the flanges (13,25).
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 12 wherein
the supply flange (13) is bolted to the top plate (31).
A feeding system (1) as claimed in claim 12 wherein
the feeder flange (25) is bolted to the bottom plate 

(32).
A feeding system
as claimed in claim 4 wherein the upper plate (31) of the isolation

pad (30) has
a first aperture (31a), the lower plate (32) has a second

aperture (32a) and the isolation gasket (33) has a gasket
aperture (33a), wherein the gasket aperture (33a) is

aligned with the first aperture (31a) and the second
aperture (32a).
A feeding system
as claimed in claim 4 wherein holes (38) are disposed in

the upper plate (31) and the lower plate (32) of the isolation
pad (30) for

engagement to the supply vessel (10) and the feeding
mechanism (20), respectively.
A method of feeding flowable solid material by
operation of a feeding mechanism (20) having an inlet

portion (25) defining an inlet (26), the method
comprising the steps of supplying the material to a

supply vessel (10) having an outlet portion (13) defining
an outlet (12);


coupling the inlet portion and the outlet portion
by operation of an annular coupling defining an aperture

(31a,32a,33a) and directing a flow of material along a

flow path defined by the inlet, the aperture and the
outlet whereby the material flows from the supply vessel 

to the feeding mechanism;
vibrating the supply vessel by operation of a
vibrator (40) connected to the supply vessel; and
supporting the supply vessel relative to the feeding
mechanism by operation of a support means (30) such that

the support vessel is free to vibrate in response to
actuation of the vibrator;

   characterised in that the annular coupling comprises
an annular isolation pad (30) constituting the support

means providing vibrational isolation between the supply
vessel and the feeding mechanism.
The method of claim 18 wherein the step of coupling
comprises bolting a lower plate (32) of the pad (30) to

the feeding mechanism (20) and bolting an upper plate
(31) of the pad (30) to the supply vessel (10).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
