<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635700</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Absolute digital position encoder.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01D512	G01D5249	G01D525	G01D526	G01D5347	H03M122	H03M124	H03M128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01D	G01D	G01D	G01D	G01D	H03M	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01D5	G01D5	G01D5	G01D5	G01D5	H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus to convert absolute angular 
or linear position to digital information utilizes 

a single track. Multiple sensors are placed at essentially 
equal intervals along a track, especially a 

single track. The output from the group of sensors is 
converted to natural binary format by combinatorial 

logic. The sensors may be of different types, for 
example maybe mechanical contacts, optical, magnetic/inductive, 

or capacitive transducers, and may distinguish 
two or more levels each. Such an encoder can be 

used as a potentiometer, multiposition switch, shaft 
encoder, or as length measurement device. The code is 

of the Gray-code kind, in other words adjacent 
positional readings have a Hamming distance of one. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRANDESTINI MARCO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOURNS, INC. BRANDESTINI, MARCO, DR.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRANDESTINI MARCO DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRANDESTINI, MARCO, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the task of converting 
angular or linear mechanical position to a digital output 
and, more particularly, to an absolute digital position 
encoder having a single track. Presently, a number of schemes exist to convert 
angular or linear mechanical position to a digital output. 
The most simple converters are potentiometers. 
Their analog output can then be converted to a digital 
format. In a case calling for an output signal that 
consists of discrete steps, a multiposition switch is 
the present choice.  With the advance of microprocessor-based equipment, 
digital incremental encoders have emerged. They 
typically employ a single track and two sensors arranged 
to produce a pair of outputs in quadrature. An 
up/down counter is connected to the sensor outputs to 
deliver position information. If a second track bearing 
an index marker is provided, the counter can be 
reset when the index position is sensed. Thus a quasi-absolute 
scheme results, in that accurate position information 
can be provided so long as power remains on, 
but after a power-up condition the position information 
is not accurate until the reference position is reached 
in which the index marker zeroes the counter. Where true absolute information is required multi-track 
encoders are the most common choice. They feature 
multiple parallel tracks, their number being roughly 
equivalent to the ²log of the number of steps to be resolved, 
for example 8 tracks for a 256 step encoder. 
Such encoders most commonly utilize an optical scheme 
with a photographically fabricated coding wheel bearing 
a Gray code. Other principles are inductive or capacitive resolvers. 
Both schemes are by nature analog; from the 
amplitude ratio of their two- or three-phase outputs 
the rotary angle is computed. Synchros are a good example 
of a three-phase inductive rotary encoder. A 
straight position encoder of this type is found in digital 
calipers. One object of the invention is to provide an encoding 
principle which can yield a digital absolute angular 
or linear position reading without the need for a 
large number of parallel tracks.  A method and apparatus to convert absolute angular 
or linear position to digital information utilizes a 
single track. Multiple sensors are placed at essentially 
equal intervals along a track (or along half of a 
track), especially a single track. The output from the 
group of sensors is converted to natural binary format 
by combinatorial logic. The sensors may be of different 
types, for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of generating a numerical value representing 
an absolute position of a first member (1) 

with respect to a second member where said first and 
second members are supported for relative movement, 

comprising the steps of: 
   providing on said first member (1) an 

elongate track (2) having a code extending therealong; 
   sensing said code at a plurality of locations 

on said second member which are adjacent said 
track (2) at spaced locations therealong, said track 

(2) moving past each said location during relative 
movement of said first and second members (1); 

   generating a set of digital values which 
each represent a currently-sensed code value at a respective 

said location; and 
   converting said set of digital values 

representing currently sensed code values into a final 
binary output representative of an absolute position of 

said first member (1) with respect to said second (3, 
4, 5) member. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said 
currently sensed code values change to a different said 

code value each time said first member (1) is moved by 
a predetermined amount with respect to said second member, 

in a way as to allow only one of said digital values 
of said set to change each time said first member 

 
is moved by a predetermined amount with respect to said 

second member. 
A method according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein 
said digital values are each a respective binary bit. 
A method according to at least one of the 
Claims 1 to 3, wherein said digital values are each a 

respective ternary or quaternary word. 
A method according to at least one of the 
Claims 1 to 4, wherein only one single track (2) is 

used having at least different code states. 
A method according to at least one of the 
Claims 1 to 5, wherein the digital values of the code 

states are a one step code, especially a Gray-code 
whereby two adjacent sets of digital values have a Hamming 

distance of one. 
An apparatus, comprising: 
   a first member (1) having thereon an 

elongated track (2) with a code extending therealong; 
   a second member having thereon a plurality 

of sensors (9) which are each adjacent said track 
(2) at spaced locations therealong, 

   the first member (1) with the elongated 
track (2) and/or the second member comprising the 

plurality of sensors (9) are supported for relative 
movement to each other, 

   said sensors (9) each moving along said 
track in response to relative movement of said first 

and second members (1); and 
   an electronic circuit which includes 

first means responsive to said sensors (9) for generating 
a set of digital values each representing a 

currently-sensed code value from a respective said 
sensor (9), and second means for converting said set of 

 
digital values representing said currently-sensed code 

values into a final binary output representative of an 
absolute position of said first member with respect to 

said second member. 
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said 
first means includes means for causing the currently 

sensed code value to change to a different said code 
value each time said first member (1) is moved by a 

predetermined amount with respect to said second member 
only one of said digital values of said set changing 

each time said first member (1) is moved by said 
predetermined amount with respect to said second member. 
An apparatus according to Claim 7 or 8, 
wherein each said digital value is represented as a 

binary bit. 
An apparatus according to at least one of the 
Claims 7 to 9, wherein said second member is a stationary 

plate (70) supporting sensors (9) and said first 
member (1) is a disc which rotates relative to said 

plate (70), said first and second members (1) being 
supported in a common housing to form a compact shaft 

encoder. 
An apparatus according to at least one of the 
Claims 7 to 10, wherein said second member is a stationary 

plate (70) supporting sensors (9) and said 
first member (1) is a linear scale moveable relative to 

said plate (70), said first and second members (1) forming 
a compact linear encoder. 
An apparatus according to at least one of the 
Claims 7 to 11, wherein two adjacent sets of digital 

code values have a Hamming distance of one. 
An apparatus according to at least one of the 
Claims 7 to 12, wherein only one single track (2) is 

provided with sectors (3) representing one of at least 
two different code values. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
