<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657330</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Alarm system for detecting glass breakage
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B2100	B60R2510	G08B2124	G08B1304	G08B1302	G08B2108	G08B2100	B60R2510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	B60R	G08B	G08B	G08B	G08B	G08B	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B21	B60R25	G08B21	G08B13	G08B13	G08B21	G08B21	B60R25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An alarm system for detecting glass breakage has a 
switch (22) having an input terminal (24), an output 

terminal (26), and a control terminal (28). The input 
terminal (24) is electrically connected to a power source 

such as a battery. An electrically conductive trace (10) is 
formed on glass, and is electrically connected to the output 

terminal (26) of the switch (22). A controller (20) is 
electrically connected to the control terminal (28) of the 

switch (22) and controls the operation of the switch (22) 
between conducting and non-conducting states. The 

controller (20) measures and compares a reference output 
terminal voltage of said switching means (22) while said 

switch is in the conducting state, a second output terminal 
voltage while the switch is in the non-conducting state and 

a third output terminal voltage of the switch (22) while the 
switching is in the conducting state. The controller (20) 

generates a control signal in response to a comparison of 
said measured voltages. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORD MOTOR CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MADAU ADRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MADAU, ADRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to alarm systems for automobiles and more
specifically to a method and apparatus for detecting the breakage of the windows of an
automobile.In an automotive vehicle it is desirable to activate an alarm in response to theft
attempts as determined by certain sensed inputs. For example, the unauthorised opening of a
cabin door or trunk lid triggers an alarm. Another sensed input desirable for triggering an
alarm is glass breakage. Glass breakage has been sensed using a frangible screened trace (or
patch) of electrically conductive material deposited on the glass. Security systems in
buildings such as banks use such screened traces. However, in a building, the exterior wall at
the periphery of the glass cannot be easily penetrated in order to access and tamper with the
trace. In a motor vehicle, only sheet metal is present at the periphery of the glass. If the patch
on glass systems typically employed on a building were employed on an automobile, the
wiring of such systems might be reachable from the outside of the automobile by piercing the
external sheet metal. Since the wiring can easily be reached by would-be intruders,
previously known systems can easily be defeated by selectably shorting wires together.One advantage of the present invention is that a glass breakage system is employed
using a conductive patch on the external glass of the automobile in a manner that safeguards
against an intruder successfully bypassing the breakage detector through tampering.According to the present invention, this object is achieved by the alarm system
defined in the independent claims. Embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the
dependent claims.In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a switch having an input terminal,
output terminal, and control terminal, provides a pulsed output. The input terminal is
electrically connected to a power source such as a battery. An electrically conductive trace is
formed on glass, and is electrically connected to the output terminal of the switch. A
controller is electrically connected to 
the control terminal of the switch and controls the
operation of the switch between conducting and non-conducting
states. The controller measures and compares a
reference output terminal voltage of the switching means
while the switching means is in the conducting state, a
second output terminal voltage while the switch is in the
non-conducting state and a third output terminal voltage of
the switch while the switching is in the conducting state.
In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An alarm system for detecting glass breakage in a window (8) of an
automotive vehicle having a power source (34) including a frangible screened trace (10) of

conductive material deposited on the glass and connected to the alarm system characterised
by:


switching means (22) having an input terminal (24), an output terminal (26), and a
control terminal (28), for switching between a conducting and non-conducting state, said

input terminal electrically connected to said power source;
the electrically conductive trace (10) deposited on said glass being electrically
connected to said output terminal (26);
control means (20) electrically connected to said control terminal (28) for controlling
said switching means (22) between said conducting and non-conducting states, for measuring

upon activation of the alarm system a reference output terminal voltage of said switching
means while said switching means (22) is in the conducting state, for measuring a second

output terminal voltage of said switching means while said switching means (22) is in the
non-conducting state, for measuring a third output terminal voltage of said switching means

while said switching means is in the conducting state, for comparing said reference voltage,
said second voltage and said third voltage measurements to generate a control signal in

response to a comparison of said voltages.
An alarm system as claimed in Claim 1 further comprising:

an audible alarm (38);
means (20) for activating said alarm when said reference and third output terminal
voltages are substantially not equal or when said reference and second output terminal

voltages are substantially equal or when said second and third output terminal voltages are
substantially equal.
An alarm system as claimed in Claim 1 further comprising:

a resistor (30) connected between said power source (34) and said input terminal (24);
means (20) for measuring said input terminal voltage of said switching means; 
dashboard light (40) for indicting if said switching means is operating properly
according to the measured input terminal voltage.
An alarm system as claimed in Claim 2 further comprising:

means for deactivating said alarm after said alarm has been activated for a
predetermined time;
motion sensing means (16) for detecting intrusion into the automotive vehicle;
means for activating said motion sensor after said alarm has been deactivated; and
means for reactivating said alarm upon detection of intrusion by said motion sensing
means (16).
An alarm system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said glass comprises
tempered glass.
An alarm systems as claimed in Claim 1 further comprising means (20) for
periodically measuring said reference output terminal voltage at a first interval.
An alarm system as claimed in Claim 1 further comprising means (20) for
periodically measuring said second output terminal voltage and said third output terminal

voltage at a random interval substantially less than said first interval.
An alarm system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said control means (20)
comprises of a microprocessor.
An alarm system as claimed in Claim 7, wherein said control means (20)
further comprises of an analogue to digital converter.
An alarm system as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 9 including means for
activating said audible alarm (38) in response to the opening of a door in said vehicle.
A method detecting intrusion into an automotive vehicle having at least one
panel of glass, a power source (34), a switching means (22) and an electrically conductive 

screened trace (10) on said glass, the input terminal (24) of said switching means (22)
connected to said power source (34), said screened trace (10) electrically connected to the

output terminal (26) of said switching means (22), the method being characterised by the
steps of:


(A) switching the switching means (22) to the conducting state;
(B) measuring a reference output terminal voltage from said switching means (22)
while said switching means (22) is in the conducting state prior to any intrusion;
(C) switching the switching means (22) to the non-conducting state;
(D) measuring a second output terminal voltage of said switching means (22)
while said switching means is in the non-conducting state;
(E) switching the switching means (22) to the conducting state;
(F) during said conducting state, measuring a third output terminal voltage; and
(G) activating said alarm (38) in response to said reference and said second output
terminal voltages being substantially equal;

(H) activating said alarm (38) if said reference and third output terminal voltages
are substantially unequal;
(I) activating said alarm (38) if said reference and second output terminal
voltages are substantially equal.
A method as claimed in Claim 11 further comprising the steps of:

measuring the input terminal voltage of said switching means (22), said switching
means (22) have known operating values;
comparing said input terminal voltage with said known values;
signalling a fault if said input terminal voltage value varies substantially from said
known values.
A method as claimed in Claim 11 further comprising the steps of activating
said alarm (38) for a predetermined amount of time; and thereafter, activating a microwave

motion detector (16) for retriggering said alarm (38) upon the detection of motion within said
vehicle. 
A method as claimed in Claim 11 further comprising the step of repeating
steps (C) through (I) at irregular intervals.
A method as claimed in Claim 11 further comprising the step of repeating
steps (A) and (B) at extended intervals.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
