<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646551</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Heat-treatment convertible coated glass and method of converting same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1406	C03C1736	C03C1734	C03C1736	C23C1434	C23C1406	C23C1434	C03C1734	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C03C	C03C	C03C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C14	C03C17	C03C17	C03C17	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C03C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high performance, durable sputter coated, heat-treatable 
glass which after heat-treatment exhibits about 

76% or more visible transmittance, a hemispherical 
emissivity (E
h
) of about 0.16 or less, and a normal 
emissivity (E
n
) of about 0.12 or less is formed by sputter 
coating a layer system on a glass substrate which 

includes an undercoat and overcoat of Si₃N₄, a silver 
layer, and two nickel or nichrome layers on opposite 

sides of the silver layer, and wherein the lower nickel-based 
layer is about three times as thick as the other 

nickel based layer. The increased thickness of the lower 
nickel-based layer allows the coated glass article to be 

both heat-treatable, and "low-E" after the heat-treatment. 
This allows matching with other known glasses 

in the family of layer components by way of the heat-treatment 
process. The layer system employed allows, 

even if not matchable to another glass, for the sputter 
coating operation to include the coating of other members 

of the family of coating without change of targets, 
efficient use of the coater targets that exist, and 

minimal operational changes during production. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to sputter coated glasses and
methods for making them. More particularly, this
invention relates to sputter coated glasses which are
heat-treatable and exhibit high visible light
transmittance and excellent infrared energy reflecting
characteristics useful as architectural glasses, and
certain unique methods for making them.For architectural flat glass, such as is made by the
"float" process, two of the more prominent techniques for
creating solar management coatings on these glasses are
the pyrolytic process and the magnetron sputter coating
process. Drawbacks heretofore experienced in the sputter
coating process have been that the coatings can often be
easily rubbed off (i.e. lack durability) and that the
polysealant used in forming multi-paned architectural
windows often attacks the coating. This, in turn, breaks
down the seal between the panes, allowing detrimental
condensation to accumulate between them. On the other
hand, sputter coatings have had the historic advantage of
being able to achieve low emissivity values and high
visible light transmittance properties, as compared to 
most pyrolytic coatings. These latter two properties are
perhaps among the most important to achieve in certain
architectural glasses.The terms "emissivity" and "transmittance" are well
understood in the art and are used herein according to
their well known meaning. Thus, for example, the term
"transmittance" herein means solar transmittance, which
is made up of visible light transmittance, infrared
energy transmittance, and ultraviolet light
transmittance. Total solar energy transmittance is then
usually characterized as a weighted average of these
other values. With respect to these transmittances,
visible transmittance, as reported herein, is
characterized by the standard Illuminant C (10° obs.,
unless otherwise specified) technique at 380-720 nm;
infrared is 800-2100 nm; ultraviolet 300-400 nm; and
total solar is 300-2100 nm. For purposes of emissivity,
however, a particular infrared range (i.e. 2,500-40,000
nm) is employed, as discussed below.Visible transmittance can be measured using known,
conventional techniques. For example, by using a
spectrophotometer, such as a Beckman 5240 (Beckman Sci.
Inst. Corp.), a spectral curve of transmission at each
wavelength is obtained. Visible transmission is then
calculated using ASTM E-308 "Method for Computing the
Colors of Objects by Using the CIE System" (Annual Book
of ASTM Standards, Vol. 14.02). A lesser number of 
wavelength points may be employed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A low-E coated glass article having a sputter coated layer system thereon
which comprises from the glass outwardly:


a) a first layer consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon;
b) a second layer consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of
nickel and chromium, oxidized or not;
c) a third layer consisting essentially of metallic silver;
d) a fourth layer consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of
nickel and chromium, oxidized or not;
e) a fifth layer consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon;

   
characterized in that
said coated glass article is heat-treatable, the said first layer having a
thickness of about 35-45 nm (350-450 A), the said second layer having a

thickness of greater than about 2 nm (20 A), the said third layer having a
thickness of about 5-12 nm (50-120 A), the said fourth layer having a thickness

of at least about 0.7 nm (7 A) and said fifth layer having a thickness of about
45-55 nm (450-550 A); and, in combination,
said coated glass article, when said glass is clear glass and has a
thickness of about 2.5 mm - 3.5 mm, has the following characteristics after

heat-treatment, as measured according to ASTM standard 1991:


Transmittance (Ill. C. 10° obs.)
about 76%-78%
Sheet Resistance (Rs)
less than about 12 ohms/sq.
Emissivity, normal (En)
less than about 0.12
Emissivity, hemispherical (Eh)
less than about 0.16.
The glass article according 
to claim 1, wherein said normal emissivity

as measured according to ASTM standard 1991(En) is about 0.15 or less before
heat-treatment and about 0.11 or less after heat-treatment; and wherein said

hemispherical emissivity as measured according to ASTM standard 1991 (Eh) is
less than about 0.13 before heat-treatment and less than about 0.14 after heat-treatment.
The glass article according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the
first layer is about 37.5 nm (375 A) and the thickness of the said fifth layer is

about 50 nm (500 A)
The glass article according to claim 3 wherein the third layer is about
7.5 nm (75 A) thick.
The glass article according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the
said second layer is about three times as great as the thickness of the said fourth

layer.
The glass article according to claim 5, wherein the said second layer
is about 2-5 nm (20-50 A) thick and the said fourth layer is about 0.7-1.5 nm

(7-15 A) thick.
The glass article according to claim 1, wherein said layer system
consists essentially of said five layers, and wherein said sputter coated article is

durable and chemically resistant.
A process for sequentially producing at least two sputter coated low-E glass
articles which differ substantially from each other in at least one solar 

management characteristic, in their ability and inability respectively to be heat-treated,
or in both, said sputter coating on each glass article comprising a

plurality of sputter coated layers thereby to form a sputter coating system
comprised of a at least a layer consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon

and at least a layer consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of nickel
and chromium, oxidized or not, comprising the steps of:


a) providing a sputter coater having a plurality of targets within a
plurality of atmospheric zones set up so as to produce a first layer system on a

first glass article, wherein substantially all of said targets and zones are used to
produce said first layer system,
b) sputter coating the first layer system onto said first glass article using
the setup as provided in step (a);
c) thereafter, changing the setup of step (a) without adding to or
substituting for any of said plurality of targets and without enlarging or

decreasing the size of said atmospheric zones, to provide a setup so as to
produce a second layer system on a second glass article whereby substantially

all of said targets and zones are used to produce said second layer system, and
d) thereafter, sputter coating the second layer system onto said second
glass article using the setup as provided in step (c);

   
characterized in that
in said step (b) the setup of said step (a) provides in each of said atmospheric
zones an inert gas containing atmosphere consisting essentially of a mixture of

nitrogen and argon, 
while in said step (d), the setup provided in said step (c) provides in at least
one of said atmospheric zones an inert gas containing atmosphere consisting

essentially of argon and, optionally, of small amounts of oxygen.
A process according to claim 8, wherein said sputter coater includes
about 30 targets or less and about 6 atmospheric zones or less.
A process according to claim 8, wherein only one of said sputter
coated glass articles is heat-treatable, but after it is heat-treated both of said

sputter coated glass articles have substantially the same solar management
characteristics as defined by visible transmittance, color, and emissivity.
A process according to claim 10, wherein before said heat-treatable
sputter coated glass article is heat-treated it has substantially different solar

management characteristics as defined by at least one of visible transmittance,
color, or emissivity.
A process according to claim 11, wherein said heat-treatable sputter
coated glass article has sputter coated thereon a layer system which comprises

from the glass outwardly:

a) a first layer consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon having a
thickness of about 35-45 nm (350-450 A);
b) a second layer consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of
nickel and chromium, oxidized or not, having a thickness of greater than about

2 nm (20 A);
c) a third layer consisting essentially of metallic silver having a thickness
of about 5-12 nm (50-120 A); 
d) a fourth layer consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of
nickel and chromium, oxidized or not, having a thickness of at least about 0.7

nm (7 A);
e) a fifth layer consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon having a
thickness of about 45-55 nm (450-550 A);

   said coated glass article when said glass is clear and has a thickness of
about 2.5 mm-3.5 mm has the following characteristics after heat-treatment as

measured according to ASTM standard 1991:

Transmittance (Ill. C. 10° obs.)
about 76%-78%
Sheet Resistance (Rs)
less than about 12 ohms/sq.
Emissivity, normal (En)
less than about 0.12
Emissivity, hemispherical (Eh)
less than about 0.16.
A process according to claim 12 wherein said heat-treatable sputter
coated glass article, when said glass is clear and has a thickness of about 2.5

mm-3.5 mm, has the following characteristics before heat-treatment as
measured according to ASTM standard 1991:


Transmittance (Ill. C. 10° obs.)
about 70%-73%
Sheet Resistance (Rs)
less than about 15.0 ohms/sq.
Emissivity, normal (En)
less than about 0.16
Emissivity, hemispherical (Eh)
less than about 0.20.
A process according to claim 13, wherein said first-sputter coated
glass article is non-heat-treatable and has sputter coated thereon a layer system

consisting essentially of, from the glass outwardly, the following layers: 
Si
3
N
4
/Ni:Cr/Ag/Ni:Cr/Si
3
N
4
, and wherein said first glass article, when said
glass is clear and has a thickness of about 2.5 mm -3.5 mm, has the following

characteristics as measured according to ASTM standard 1991:


Transmittance (Ill. C. 10° obs.)
greater than about 76%
Sheet Resistance (Rs)
less than about 12 ohms/sq.
Emissivity, normal (En)
less than about 0.12
Emissivity, hemispherical (Eh)
less than about 0.16.
A process according to claim 14, wherein both said sputter coated
glass articles are chemically resistant and durable.
The process according to claim 10, which includes the further step
of heat-treating said heat-treatable sputter coated glass article after sputter

coating said layer system thereon, said heat-treatment including heating said
heat-treatable sputter coated glass article at a temperature of about 621.1-787.7

°C (1150°F - 1450°F) for a time greater than about five minutes and
quenching said glass article for a time and to a temperature sufficient to temper

said glass article.
The process according to claim 10 which includes the further step of
heat-treating said heat-treatable sputter coated glass article after sputter coating

said layer system thereon, said heat-treatment including heating said heat-treatable
sputter coated glass article to a temperature and for a sufficient

period of time to render said glass article bendable and thereafter bending said
glass to a desired shape while in its bendable condition.
A method of forming a low-E heat-treated, thin, durable, solar management 
layering system onto a glass substrate, comprising the steps of:


a) sputter coating an undercoat layer consisting essentially of the
nitride(s) of silicon;
b) sputter coating a first layer consisting essentially of nickel or any
combination of nickel and chromium, oxidized or not;
c) sputter coating a layer consisting essentially of metallic silver;
d) sputter coating a second layer consisting essentially of nickel or any
combination of nickel and chromium, oxidized or not;
e) sputter coating an overcoat layer consisting essentially of the
nitride(s) of silicon; 
characterized in that
said step (a) is carried out in a nitrogen-containing atmosphere;
said step (b) is carried out in an atmosphere consisting of inert gas and,
optionally, small amounts of oxygen and in such a manner that said first layer

consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of nickel and chromium,
oxidized or not, is obtained with a thickness greater than about 2 nm (20 A);
said step (c) is carried out in an atmosphere consisting of inert gas
and, optionally, small amounts of oxygen;
said step (d) is carried out in an atmosphere consisting of inert gas
and, optionally, small amounts of oxygen and in such a manner that said second

layer consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of nickel and chromium,
oxidized or not, is obtained with a thickness of about 0.7 - 1.5 nm (7-15 A);
said step (e) is carried out in a nitrogen containing atmosphere; 
said method thereafter further comprising the step of
f) heat-treating said coated glass wherein said heat-treating is selected
from tempering, bending or heat strengthening; wherein said heat-treated,

sputter coated glass, when said glass substrate is clear glass and has a thickness
of about 2.5-3.5 mm, having the following characteristics after said heat-treatment,

as measured according to ASTM standard 1991:

Transmittance (Ill. C. 10° obs.)
about 76%-78%
Sheet Resistance (Rs)
less than about 12 ohms/sq.
Emissivity, normal (En)
less than about 0.12
Emissivity, hemispherical (Eh)
less than about 0.16.
The method according to claim 18, wherein said thickness of said
first layer consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of nickel and

chromium, oxidized or not, is about 3-5 nm (30-50 A).
The method according to claim 18, wherein said heat-treating step
comprises tempering the coated glass by heating it to a temperature of about

621.1-787.7 °C (1150°F - 1450°F) and thereafter quenching it, the heating and
quenching steps being for a sufficient period of time to temper said glass.
The method according to claim 18, wherein the coated glass is
heated at a temperature and for a sufficient period of time to render said glass

article bendable, and thereafter bending said glass to a desired shape while in its
bendable condition.
The method according to claim 18, wherein said sputter coating is
carried out in a plurality of zones isolated from one another and wherein the 

steps of forming the undercoat and overcoat layers consisting essentially of the
nitride(s) of silicon (Si
3
N
4
) by sputter coating are carried out in at least two
separate zones, each having an atmosphere consisting essentially of about 80%

N
2
 and about 20% Ar, and wherein the steps of forming the layers consisting
essentially of metallic silver and of nickel or any combination of nickel and

chromium, oxidized or not, are carried out in the same zone and wherein said
sputter coating is conducted in said same zone in an atmosphere consisting

essentially of one of:

(a) substantially 100% Ar; and
(b) about 95% Ar and about 5% O
2
.
The method according to claim 18, wherein said undercoat layer
consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon is about 35-45 nm (350-450 A)

thick and said overcoat consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon layer is
about 45-55 nm (450-550 A) thick.
The method according to claim 23, wherein said undercoat
consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon layer is sputter coated to a

thickness of about 37.5 nm (375 A) and said overcoat consisting essentially of
the nitride(s) of silicon layer is sputter coated to a thickness of about 50 nm

(500 A).
The method according to claim 19, wherein it is formed only a single
layer consisting essentially of metallic silver, said silver layer being formed with

a thickness of about 5-12 nm (50-120 A) and wherein said first layer consisting
of nickel or any combination of nickel and chromium, oxidized or not, is formed 

with a thickness of about three times greater than the thickness of said second
layer
The method according to claim 19, wherein said thickness of said
first layer is about 4.5 nm (45 A) thick.
The method according to claim 18, wherein the coated glass, after
said heat-treatment, has a sheet resistance (Rs) of about 11 ohms/sq. or less and

a normal emissivity (En), as measured according to ASTM standard 1991, of
about 0.11 or less.
A method for converting at least one solar management property of
a heat-treatable, sputter coated low-E glass article to a pre-selected level, said heat-tre
atable,
sputter coated low-E glass article comprising, on a glass substrate and from

the substrate outward (i) a first layer consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of
silicon; (ii) second layer consisting essentially of nickel or any combination of

nickel and chromium, oxidized or not; (iii) a third layer consisting essentially of
metallic silver; (iv) a fourth layer consisting essentially of nickel or any

combination of nickel and chromium, oxidized or not; and (v) a fifth layer
consisting essentially of the nitride(s) of silicon; 
characterized in that:
said second, third and fourth layers have been obtained by sputtering,
operating in an inert gas containing atmosphere consisting essentially of argon

and, optionally, of small amounts of oxygen; and
said coated glass article is then heat treated to significantly alter at least one
solar management characteristic selected from visible transmittance, emissivity

or color; wherein said resulting coated glass article after said heat-treatment, 
when the substrate is clear glass and is about 2.5-3.5 mm thick, has the

following characteristics as measured according to ASTM standard 1991:

Transmittance (Ill. C. 10° obs.)
greater than about 76%
Sheet Resistance (Rs)
less than about 12 ohms/sq.
Emissivity, normal (En)
less than about 0.12
Emissivity, hemispherical (Eh)
less than about 0.16.
The method according to claim 28, wherein said sputter coated
glass before heat-treatment has, when said substrate is clear glass and has a

thickness of about 2.5 mm - 3.5 mm, the following characteristics as measured
according to the ASTM standard 1991:


Transmittance (Ill. C. 10° obs.)
about 70%-73%
Sheet Resistance (Rs)
less than about 15.0 ohms/sq.
Emissivity, normal (En)
less than about 0.16
Emissivity, hemispherical (Eh)
less than about 0.20.
The method of claim 29, wherein said En after said heat-treatment is
less than about 0.11 and wherein said En before heat-treatment is about 0.14

and wherein said hemispherical emissivity (Eh) after said heat-treatment is less
than about 0.14 and before said heat-treatment is about 0.17.
The method of claim 29, wherein said heat-treatment step includes
tempering said sputter coated glass article.
The method of claim 29, wherein said second layer is about 2-5 nm
(20-50 A) thick and said fourth layer is about 0.7-1.5 nm (7-15 A) thick.
The method of claim 32, wherein said third layer is about 7.5 nm (75 
A) thick, said first layer being about 35-45 nm (350-450 A) thick, and said fifth

layer being about 45-55 nm (450-550 A) thick.
The method of claim 32, wherein said second layer is about 4.5 nm
(45 A) thick and said fourth layer is about 1.5 nm (15 A) thick.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
