<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613220</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Crimping tool having terminal locating device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R43042	H01R4304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R43	H01R43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A crimping tool having terminal locating device is composed 
of a first clamping member, a second clamping member, a 

base, a pair of clamping members, a stopping member, and a 
pressing member. The first and the second clamping members 

can be caused to join together and are provided respectively 
on their first clamping end and second clamping end with 

teeth and grooves. The base is fastened to the first 
clamping end and provided with a receiving surface and a 

first elongate slot. Each of the clamping members is 
provided with a clamping surface. The stopping member has a 

stopping surface facing a lateral side of the first clamping 
end. The pressing member has an elastic portion and a 

pressing portion provided with a pressing surface. A 
receiving space is formed jointly by the receiving surface, 

the clamping surfaces, the stopping surface and the pressing 
surface. The receiving space can be so adjusted as to locate 

therein a terminal of any shape and any dimension. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIU LIEN HUANG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIU, LIEN-HUANG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU LIEN-HUANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU, LIEN-HUANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a terminal crimping 
tool, and more particularly to a crimping tool having a 
terminal locating device. The prior art terminal crimping tool comprises a first 
clamping member of rod-shaped construction and a second 
clamping member, which are pivoted respectively at the mid-section 
thereof to a pivot and are provided respectively and 
correspondingly several teeth and grooves. The terminal to 
be clamped is arranged on the teeth in such a manner that 
the end of the terminal having electrical wires is pressed 
into a predetermined shape.  
 The prior art terminal crimping tool described above is 
generally not provided with a terminal locating device. As a 
result, an operator must use his or her both hands to do the 
job of clamping the terminal, so as to prevent the terminal 
from moving aside or falling on the floor. Such a maneuver 
as described above often brings about a poor coupling of the 
terminal. With a view to overcoming the drawback of the prior art 
crimping tool described above, the U.S. Patent Numbers 
2,359,083 and 3,673,848 disclose respectively a crimping 
tool having a terminal locating device. The crimping tool 
disclosed in the U.S. Patent Number 2,359,083 is provided 
with a means capable of adjusting the length of the portion 
of terminal which is located outside the crimping tool. 
However, such crimping tool is not provided with a means 
capable of locating the portion of the terminal which 
remains outside the crimping tool, thereby making the 
terminal vulnerable to moving aside during the clamping 
operation. The crimping tool disclosed in the U.S. Patent 
Number 3,673,848 is provided with a receiving space for use 
in accommodating the portion of the terminal which remains 
outside the terminal. However, the receiving space is 
surrounded by a spring piece and is therefore suitable for 
use in accommodating only those terminals having certain 
specific dimensions. In addition, such receiving space is  
 
not provided with a means capable of locating securely a 
terminal of cylindrical construction, or circular chip 
construction. It is therefore the primary objective of the present 
invention to provide a terminal crimping tool with a 
terminal locating device having a receiving space for use in 
locating securely the portion of the terminal which remains 
outside the clamping portion of the crimping tool. The 
receiving space is provided with a means capable of 
adjusting the dimension of the receiving space in a wide 
range so as to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A crimping tool (10) having terminal locating device (20) 
comprising a first clamping member (12) and a second clamping 

member (16), which are pivoted by means of a pivot (11) and are 
provided respectively with a first clamping end (13) and a second 

clamping end (17), said first clamping end and said second 
clamping end being opposite to each other and being capable 

of joining together, and said first clamping end and said 
second clamping end provided respectively and oppositely 

with a plurality of teeth (15) and grooves (19);
 
   wherein said crimping tool further comprises: 


a base (22) fastened securely to a lateral side of said 
first clamping end and provided with a receiving surface (36) 

facing upwards and with a first elongate slot (38) parallel to 
said lateral side of said first clamping end; 
a pair of clamping members (24), each of which is disposed 
on said receiving surface of said base in such a manner that 

each of said clamping members is capable of moving along the 
direction of a longitudinal axis of said elongate slot, said 

clamping members having respectively a clamping surface (44) on 
lateral sides of said clamping members opposite to each 

other;  
 
a stopping member (26) having a locating portion (50) mounted 
movably on a predetermined position of one of said clamping 

members, said stopping member further having a stopping 
portion (52) extending from a lateral side of said locating 

portion to reach said clamping surface, with said stopping 
portion provided with a stopping surface (58) facing a lateral 

side of said first clamping end; and 
a pressing member (28) mounted on a predetermined position 
of said second clamping end and provided thereon with an 

elastic portion (60) and a pressing portion (62) which extends 
downwards and has a pressing surface (66) facing downwards; 
wherein said receiving surface (36), said clamping surface (44), 
said stopping surface (58), and said pressing surface (66) form 

jointly a receiving space (70) which can be adjusted to be 
corresponding in location to any one of said teeth (15) or said 

grooves (19), and which can be so adjusted as to have a desired 
depth and a desired width. 
The crimping tool according to claim 1 wherein said 
clamping members (24) are provided respectively with a threaded 

hole (40) perpendicular to said receiving surface and with a bolt (42) 
engaging said threaded hole, said bolt having a lower end 

extending via said first elongate slot (38) to reach the 
underside of said base (22).  

 
The crimping tool according to claim 1 wherein said 
locating portion (50) of said stopping member (26) is provided with a 

second elongate slot (54) containing a screw and is capable of 
being moved to and locked at a predetermined position by 

means of said screw on said clamping members. 
The crimping tool according to claim 2 wherein said 
locating portion (50) of said stopping member (26) is provided with a 

second elongate slot (54) containing a bolt which has an upper 
end extending beyond an upper surface of said clamping 

member and having thereon a nut (56). 
The crimping tool according to claim 1 wherein said 
clamping surface (44) and said receiving surface (36) form an angle 

smaller than 90 degrees. 
The crimping tool according to claim 1 wherein said 
pressing portion (62) of said pressing member (28) extends downwards 

and perpendicularly to be between a lateral side of said 
second clamping end (17) and said receiving space (70). 
The crimping tool according to claim 1 wherein said 
pressing portion (62) of said pressing member (28) extends downwards 

and perpendicularly to be over an upper surface of said 
first clamping end (13).  

 
The crimping tool according to claim 7 wherein said 
pressing member (28) has an elastic portion (60) of flake-like 

construction with an appropriate elasticity, said elastic 
portion having an end pressing on said upper surface of said 

first clamping end, said pressing portion bending downwards 
from a lateral side of said elastic portion and having an 

end pivoted to a lateral side of said first clamping end. 
The crimping tool according to claim 1 wherein said 
pressing surface (66) of said pressing member (28) is provided thereon 

with a plurality of notches (68) spaced at a predetermined 
interval. 
The crimping tool according to claim 9 wherein each 
of said notches (68) has a lower end wider than an upper end 

thereof. 
The crimping tool according to claim 1 wherein said 
pressing member (28) comprises: 


a main body fastened to a lateral side of said first 
clamping end (13) and provided coaxially with a first axial hole (102) 

passing through an upper surface of said main body (100) and with 
a second axial hole passing through a lower surface of said 

main body;  
 
a press rod (104) received in said first axial hole (102) and said 
second axial hole (103) and provided on an upper end thereof with 

a stopping edge (105) having an outer diameter greater than an 
inner diameter of said second axial hole, said press rod 

further having a flat lower end passing through said second 
axial hole to emerge beyond the underside of said main body (100); 
a screw (107) fastened to an upper end of said first axial 
hole; and 
a biasing means (108) received in said first axial hole (102) such 
that said biasing means (108) is located between a lower end of 

said screw (107) and an upper end of said press rod (104). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
