<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621761</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SURGICAL CUTTING TOOL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1722	A61B1700	A61B1722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An atherectomy catheter device (10) includes an improved guidewire system including a guidewire port member (16) secured to the distal tip portion (13) of the outer tubular member (12) of an atherectomy catheter of the coaxial type having large and small concentrically disposed elongated flexible tubular members (12, 15) with a rotating cutter member (18) fixed to the distal end of the inner tubular member (15). The guidewire (17) is spaced from the cutter head (18) yet controls the cutter disposition relative to the vessel lumen of interest. The inner and outer tubular members (12, 15) are constructed simultaneously to provide flushing liquid and to aspirate the cutting site.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally pertains to a relatively non-invasive plaque 
resolving device of the class adapted to be inserted through the lumen of a blood 
vessel and manipulated therethrough to a desired location to ply a cutting tool to excise 
deposits of atherosclerotic plaque from the internal surfaces of the vessel. More 
particularly, the present invention relates to a guidewire for use in conjunction with such 
a system. Impairment of the circulation of blood occasioned by intraarterial deposits of 
atherosclerotic plaque is a major cause of cardiovascular disease. Obstruction of 
coronary arteries can lead to tissue death because of oxygen deprivation to heart 
muscle. Coronary infarction (heart attack) is the result. Plaque-induced stenosis of 
other major arteries can result in impairment of peripheral organ function. One long-used 
procedure for overcoming such obstructions and blockages involves a surgical 
by-pass operation in which the obstructed arteries are subtended by patient 
autographed blood vessels removed from other parts of the patient's body. Surgically 
invasive endarterectomy has also been used with limited success for clearing 
obstructed vessels. The need has long existed for a less invasive and radical procedure to alleviate 
such blockages and achieve transmyocardial revascularization, or the like, in a manner 
which causes no significant damage to the healthy endothelial lining of the surrounding 
vessel. One device that attempts to fulfill this need is balloon angioplasty in which an 
inflatable balloon is passed to the stenotic region of the affected artery and inflated with 
a fluid to a pressure (normally about 5 atmospheres) to depress the plaque against the 
arterial wall thereby opening up the arterial volume. Because circulation is grossly 
impaired, however, balloon inflation/deflation must occur in a matter of seconds to 
avoid infarction. In addition, limited force is available because of the fear of damage 
to the arteries caused by overpressurization of the balloon. Also, the capture of plaque 
debris that may slough during the expansion process is not as yet provided for by such 
devices. Other approaches include the use of a laser to clear obstructions in vessels as 
proposed, for example, in U.S. Patent 4,207,874 to Choy. In that device, laser energy 
is conveyed by flexible fiberoptics in conjunction with a venial catheter and applied to  
 
the plaque obstruction in the occluded zone. In conjunction with this system various 
axial channels may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical cutting tool (10) for excising undesirable deposits from the interior 
of a blood vessel of interest comprising 


an outer elongate flexible hollow catheter tube member (12) 
having an outside diameter smaller than the lumen of the vessel of 

interest and capable of being advanced through the lumen of the vessel 
of interest and having a proximal end and a distal end, with at least one 

radial fluid passage opening (20) formed at or near the distal end thereof; 
an inner elongated flexible hollow catheter tube 
member (15) coaxially disposed within the outer catheter tube member 

(12) and having a proximal end and a distal end wherein the outside 
diameter is journaled in the outer catheter tube member (12), the distal 

end of the inner tubular member (15) extending beyond the distal end of 
the outer catheter tube member (12); 
a substantially hollow cylindrically symmetric cutter 
member (18) fixed to the distal end of the inner catheter tube member 

(15) and having a symmetric generally oval-shaped distal nose portion 
containing a plurality of radially disposed cutter openings (24) in 

communication with the hollow interior and disposed such that an edge 
thereof excises tissue upon rotation of the cutting member (18), the 

excised tissue being generally directed into the hollow interior of the 
cutter member (18), the hollow interior further being in communication 

with the hollow interior of the inner catheter tube member (12); 
drive means (39) connected to the proximal end of the inner 
catheter tube member (15) for rotating the inner catheter tube member 

(15) thereby rotating the cutting member (18) to excise tissue deposits; 
a guidewire port (16) 
in the form of a hollow, generally cylindrical tubular appendage fixed in 

parallel relation and spaced from the outer surface of the outer catheter 
tube member (12) approaching the distal end thereof but located 

proximal of cutter member (18); and 
a guidewire (17) for controlling the disposition of the  
 

cutter member (18) having its distal end extending through the hollow 
appendage of the guidewire port (17) in a manner which spaces the 

guidewire (17) from the cutter member (18). 
The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising guidewire control means for 
operating the guidewire (17) independent of the operation of the cutting tool (10). 
The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein the guidewire (17) is operable relative to 
the cutting tool (10) so as to control the disposition of the cutting tool (10) relative to its 

position and attitude throughout the circumference of the vessel of interest. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising inlet means (46) for 
introducing a flushing liquid into the lumen of the outer catheter tube member (12) and 

infusing the liquid through the at least one radial fluid passage opening (20) near the 
distal end thereof and outlet means for aspirating liquids through the cutter openings 

(24) via the lumen of the inner tube member (15). 
The apparatus of Claim 3 further comprising inlet means (46) for 
introducing a flushing liquid into the lumen of the outer catheter tube member (12) and 

infusing the liquid through the at least one radial fluid passage opening (20) near the 
distal end thereof and outlet means for aspirating liquids through the cutter openings 

(24) via the lumen of the inner tube member (15). 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the outer catheter tube member (12) 
has a plurality of symmetrically placed fluid passage holes (20) and the distal portion of 

the outer catheter tube member (12) has a necked-down segment of reduced diameter 
at the location of the at least one radial fluid passage (20) to prevent clogging thereof 

during passage of the outer catheter tube member (12) through the vascular system. 
The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein the outer catheter tube member (12) 
has a plurality of symmetrically placed fluid passage holes (20) and the distal portion of 

the outer catheter tube member (12) has a necked-down segment of reduced diameter 
at the location of the at least one radial fluid passage (20) to prevent clog
ging thereof 
during passage with the outer catheter tube member (12) through the vascular system.  

 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the distal end of the outer catheter 
tube member (12) has a necked-down segment of reduced diameter from that of 

the remaining length of the outer catheter tube (12) and at least one radial fluid 
passage opening (20) formed in the area of reduced diameter. 
The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein the outside diameter of the inner 
catheter tube member (15) is journaled in the necked-down portion of the outer 

catheter tube member (12). 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein a plurality of radially disposed cutter 
openings (24) extend along and rearward from a point near the center of the 

tube portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
