<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630490</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VIRTUAL DRUM IMAGESETTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41B1900	B41B1900	B41B2100	B41B2132	B41B2134	H04N106	H04N106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41B	B41B	B41B	B41B	B41B	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41B19	B41B19	B41B21	B41B21	B41B21	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An imagesetter of the "internal drum" type for producing an image on a flexible section of photosensitive material does not actually have a drum (10). Instead, the photosensitive material (30) is supported in a cylindrical shape by spaced internal disks (32, 34). The flexible photosensitive material (30) is held in position to pass around the periphery of the disks (32, 34) by rollers (38, 40, 44, 46). In some cases the flexible photosensitive material (30) may be supported by a sheet of flexible, but relatively rigid material (66).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXTRA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXTRA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERFLINGER MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERFLINGER, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VIRTUAL DRUM IMAGESETTERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention:This invention relates to an imagesetter of the "internal drum" type generally used for the production of color separation image masters, and more particularly to a method and apparatus to form and hold the photosensitive material in a cylindrical shape without requiring a rigid cylindrical surface to back up the material.Description of the Prior Art;Conventional laser raster imagesetting devices, as initially produced, created a linear writing line using either spinners or galvos with f-theta field flattening lenses or a holographic spinner with a field lens. This arrangement was combined with a film transport mechanism to move the photosensitive film or paper past the imaging line or station in order to create a two-dimensional image. The film transport mechanism has variously taken the form of a rotated external drum (Omnitech) , a flat bed (Hell) where either the bed or the optical system was linearly translated, or more usually a capstan drive (Ultre, ECRM, Linotype and Agfa among others) using a flat platen or a roller platen (part of the capstan system) . Devices using this technology were limited in quality by the relatively 

 large writing spot which was obtained due to the optical field angle constraints imposed when forming a relatively long flat writing line. The capstan drive film transport system is subject to slippage, which produces small inaccuracies and non-repeatabilities in image placement. These inaccuracies have restricted the ability of these devices to produce color separation masters, which usually require four registered masters, or to produce printed circuit artwork, which requires high accuracy in image placement.Other high quality imagesetting devices have utilized an "external drum" technology. In these devices, the photosensitive medium is wrapped around the outside of a drum which can be spun at a fast rate of speed. A writing beam is focused on the surface of the drum, and is transported slowly parallel to the spinning axis (or the writing beam is held stationary and the drum is transported axially) to form the second dimension of scan. These devices achieve an accurate small writing spot, but are relatively high in cost and limited in throughput speed because of the relatively large mass of the drum which must be rotated.To avoid the problems associated with rotating a heavy drum, devices have been developed that utilize a so-called "internal drum" technology. See, for example, U.S. Patents
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I M S What is claimed is:
1. Imagesetting apparatus for producing an image on a flexible section of photosensitive material having a first end, an opposite second end and substantially parallel side edges extending between said first and second ends and delimiting between them the area of said section, said apparatus comprising:
(a) means for retaining said section in a substantially cylindrical configuration, said
"
 means being in physical contact with said section over less than ten percent of said area;
(b) means for selectively exposing said area to radiation, thereby producing said image.
2. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein each of said first and second ends of said section constitutes an edge, whereby said section forms an individual sheet of material.
3. The imagesetting apparatus- defined in claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second ends of said section are located within an elongate web, whereby said section forms a part of an elongate web of material. 


4. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said retaining means includes two substantially circular supports, each support disposed adjacent one of said side edges of said section and maintaining physical contact therewith.
5. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said retaining means further includes means, disposed at each of said first and second ends, for applying a tensile force to said section between said first and second ends.
6. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 5, wherein said means for applying a tensile force is in physical contact with each of said first and second ends.
7. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 6, further comprising a base, and wherein said means for applying a tensile force includes means mounted on said base for clamping said first and second ends, respectively.
8. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 6, further comprising a base, wherein said first and second ends are located within an elongate web of material and wherein said means for applying a tensile force includes first and second elongate support rollers each mounted on said base and arranged substantially parallel with the axis of said 


 cylindrical configuration, said first and second support rollers being in physical contact with said 
"
first and second ends, respectively.
9. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 8, wherein said first and second ends are wrapped partially around said first and second support rollers, respectively.
10. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 8, wherein said means for applying a tensile force further comprises first and second pressure rollers mounted on said base adjacent to and parallel with said first and second support rollers, respectively, said first and second ends being retained in the nip between the respective ones of said support and said pressure rollers.
11. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said exposing means includes means for producing at least one modulated beam of radiation and means for moving said beam with respect to said area of said section.
12. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 11, wherein said beam is a pencil beam and wherein said beam moving means includes means for repeatedly scanning said beam substantially linearly across said area in a direction 


substantially parallel to said side edges to produce a one- dimensional image.
13. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein said beam moving means includes means for translating said beam with respect to said area in a direction substantially perpendicular to said side edges to produce a two- dimensional image.
14. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 13, wherein said beam translating means includes means for translating said beam in said direction with respect to a stationary section.
15. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 13, wherein said beam translating means includes means for translating said section in said direction with respect to said beam.
16. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein said retaining means includes at least one substantially circular support disposed adjacent the line of scan of said beam and maintaining physical contact with said section. 


 17. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 16, wherein said retaining means further includes two substantially circular supports, each support disposed adjacent one of said side edges of said section and maintaining physical contact therewith.
18. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein said retaining means includes two substantially circular supports disposed on opposite sides of the line of scan of said beam and maintaining physical contact with said section.
19. Imagesetting apparatus for producing an image on a flexible section of photosensitive material having a first end, an opposite second end and substantially parallel side edges extending between said first and second ends and delimiting between them the area of said section, said apparatus comprising:
(a) means for retaining said section in a substantially cylindrical configuration, said means including a sheet of flexible material having substantially greater rigidity than said section and means for maintaining said sheet in a substantially cylindrical configuration, said section being retained on a surface of said sheet; and
(b) means for selectively exposing said area to radiation, thereby producing said image. 


20. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 19, wherein said section is retained on the inner surface of said sheet.
21. The imagesetting apparatus defined in claim 19, wherein said maintaining means include two substantially circular supports, each support disposed adjacent one of the side edges of said sheet and maintaining physical contact therewith.
22. A method of producing an image on a flexible section of photosensitive material having a first end, an opposite second end and substantially parallel side edges extending between said first and second ends and delimiting between them the area of said section, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) retaining said section in a substantially cylindrical configuration while maintaining physical contact with said section over less than ten percent of said area; and
(b) selectively exposing said area to radiation, thereby producing said image.
23. A method for producing an image on a flexible section of photosensitive material having a first end, an opposite second end and substantially parallel side edges 


extending between said first and second ends and delimiting between them the area of said section, said method comprising the steps of:
(a) retaining said section in a substantially cylindrical configuration by retaining a sheet of flexible material having substantially greater rigidity than said section and maintaining said sheet in a substantially cylindrical configuration, said section being retained on a surface of said sheet; and
(b) selectively exposing said area to radiation, thereby producing said image. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
