<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657650</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Scroll compressor oil circulation system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04C1802	F04C1802	F04C2902	F04C2900	F04C2902	F04C2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04C	F04C	F04C	F04C	F04C	F04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04C18	F04C18	F04C29	F04C29	F04C29	F04C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A scroll compressor oil circulation system has the usual concentric bore oil 
pump which supplies lubricating oil to a chamber within which an impeller rotates. 

The rotating of the impeller within this chamber pumps lubricating oil through a 
passage which communicates with a control passage which injects a quantity of 

lubricant into the compression chambers of the scrolls for cooling and lubrication. 
The amount of oil injected into the compression chamber is controlled by the 

shape of the control passage through the orbiting scroll. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COPELAND CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COPELAND CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAIN GARY KENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAIN, GARY KENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to scroll-type machinery. More
particularly, the present invention relates to an improved lubricating system for
scroll compressors which controls the oil circulation rate throughout the operating
envelope of the compressor.Scroll machinery for fluid compression or expansion is typically comprised
of two upstanding interfitting involute spirodal wraps or scrolls which are
generated about respective axes. Each respective scroll is mounted upon an end
plate and has a tip disposed in contact or near contact with the end plate of the
other respective scroll. Each scroll further has flank surfaces which adjoin, in
moving line contact or near contact, the flank surfaces of the other respective
scroll to form a plurality of moving chambers. Depending upon the relative
orbital motion of the scrolls, the chambers move from the radially exterior ends
of the scrolls to the radially interior ends of the scrolls for fluid compression, or
from the radially interior ends of the scrolls to the radially exterior ends of the
scrolls for fluid expansion. The scrolls, to accomplish the formation of the
chambers, are put in relative orbital motion by a drive mechanism. Either one of
the scrolls may orbit or both may rotate eccentrically with respect to one another.A typical scroll machine, according to the design which has a non-orbiting
scroll, includes an orbiting scroll which meshes with the non-orbiting scroll, a
thrust bearing to take the axial loads on the orbiting scroll, and a lubricant supply
system for lubricating the various moving components of the machine including
the thrust bearing. Accordingly, there is a continuous need in the field of scroll
machines for improved lubricating techniques throughout the operating range of
the machinery.Conventionally, in low-side scroll compressors, a portion of the lubrication
is suction gas flow which is allowed to pick up the overspray of lubricant oil from
the compressor's components and circulate it throughout the compressor. Suction
gas is baffled and routed through the compressor in such a way as to control the
amount of oil which is picked up by the suction gas to a tolerable level for
compressor operation at rated operating conditions. At the hotter "high 
compression ratio" conditions, where it may be desirable to have a higher oil
circulation rate for its cooling effect, the oil circulation rate is actually lower. This
lower oil circulation rate is the result of the suction gas being much less dense at
the higher compression
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A scroll machine comprising:

a first scroll member (68) having on one side a first
spiral vane (72);
a second scroll member (30) having a second spiral vane
disposed in inter-engaging relationship with said first spiral

vane so that as said scroll members orbit with respect to one
another, moving pockets of changing volume are formed by said

vanes, said moving pockets including a first pocket for
receiving a suction gas, one of said scroll members including a

first passage (216) in fluid communication with said first
pocket; and a drive member (32) or causing said scroll members to

orbit with respect to one another characterised by:
a chamber (80) in fluid communication with said first
passage (216);
an impeller (48) disposed in said chamber; and
a pump (38) for supplying a lubricant from a separate
sump to said chamber (80), and in that:
said drive member (32) is adapted to cause said impeller (48)
to rotate, said rotating impeller being operative to pump said

lubricant from said chamber (80) through said first passage
(216) to said first pocket.
A scroll machine according to claim 1, wherein said
first pocket opens to receive said suction gas, said first

passage being located adjacent said first pocket when said
first pocket is open.
A scroll machine according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
said impeller (48) is a counterweight rotating within said

chamber (80).
A scroll machine according to claim 1, 2 or 3,
wherein said chamber (80) is located in the vicinity of said

first and second scroll members (68, 30).
A scroll machine according to claim 1, 2 or 3,
wherein said first scroll member (68) orbits with respect to

said second scroll member (30), said first passage (216) being
located in said first scroll member.
A scroll machine according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said chamber (80) is an annular

chamber. 
A scroll machine according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said impeller (48) pumps said

lubricant through said first passage only when said first
passage (216) is adjacent to said first pocket.
A scroll machine according to any one of the
preceding claims further comprising:

   an upper bearing housing (52) secured to one of said
scroll members (68), said upper bearing housing including a

groove (176) formed therein, a second passage (210) having an
inlet port in fluid communication with said groove and a first

outlet port connecting said second passage to a first face of
said upper bearing housing, said first outlet port being in

communication with said first passage (216).
A scroll machine according to claim 8 wherein said
upper bearing housing (52) further includes a third passage

(206, 212) allowing fluid flow between said chamber and a sump.
A scroll machine according to claim 8 or 9, wherein
said chamber (80) is formed by said upper bearing housing (52)

and a lower bearing housing (50).
The scroll machine according to claim 8, 9 or 10,
wherein said upper bearing housing includes a second face and a

fourth passage (220), said fourth passage allowing fluid flow
between said second face and a sump.
The scroll machine according to claim 8, 9, 10 or
11, wherein said second passage further includes a second

outlet port connecting said second passage to said first face
of said upper bearing housing, said second outlet port being

located radially inward of said first outlet port and operable
to provide lubricant to the moving parts of said scroll

machine.
A scroll machine according to any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said impeller comprises a

counterweight attached to said drive member; and

   said machine includes a passageway (176, 210) for

allowing said lubricant to flow from said chamber through said
first passage in said first scroll to said first pocket when

said first pocket is open, said lubricant being pumped from
said chamber to said first pocket by said rotating

counterweight (48) . 
A scroll machine according to claim 13, wherein
said first pocket is in said open position when said

counterweight is adjacent said passageway for allowing said
lubricant to flow.
A scroll machine according to any one of the
preceding claims, further comprising


an upper bearing housing (52) secured to said second
scroll member (68) and having a first bearing surface for

supporting said first scroll member, said upper bearing housing
including a groove (176) formed in the end of said upper

bearing housing opposite to said first bearing surface and a
second passage (210) having an inlet port in fluid

communication with said groove and a first outlet port
connecting said second passage (216) to said first bearing

surface, said second passage being in communication with said
first passage when said first pocket is open;
a lower bearing housing (59) secured to said upper
bearing housing, said lower bearing housing and said upper

bearing housing cooperating to form said chamber (80) located
in the vicinity of said first scroll member, said upper bearing

housing including a third passage (220) for providing fluid
communication between said chamber and a sump (80).
The scroll machine according to claim 15, wherein
said upper bearing housing further includes a second bearing

surface disposed radially outward from said first bearing
surface and a fourth passage (218) for allowing fluid flow

between said second bearing surface and said sump (80).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
