<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650631</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NON-DISRUPTIVE, RANDOMLY ADDRESSABLE MEMORY SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K19177	G11C11403	G11C11405	G11C1141	G11C1141	H03K19177	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K19	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for reprogramming a reconfigurable-logic array is provided whereby a portion of the array (15) can be reconfigured without disrupting the operation of the entire array. Avoiding total disruption of array operation typically requires that the configuration control signals, which determine the configuration of the array, remain substantially non-disrupted during a reprogramming operation. In one embodiment, the reprogramming operates by unique decoding in which an electrical path (12) is established only between the particular storage elements being reprogrammed, thereby avoiding disruption of the configuration control signals provided by other storage elements. In other embodiments, buffers and/or read-modify-write techniques are used to minimize disruption of configuration control signals of storage elements not being reprogrammed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATMEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATMEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATMEL CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATMEL CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present application is related to U.S. Patent
Application Serial No. 752/282, filed August 29, 1991
by inventors Garverick, Sutherland, Popli, Alturi,
Smith, Pickett, Hawley, Chen, Moni, Ting, Camarota and
Furtek for CONFIGURABLE LOGIC ARRAY.The present invention relates generally to
programmable and reconfigurable logic devices and
particularly to memory systems for configuring and
programming the same.Fig. 1 is a drawing of a typical configurable
logic array. The configurable logic array includes a
regular array 10 of identical cells 11, an I/O means
20 which couples external I/O signals 40 to and from
the array 10 and programming means 30 which couples
external configuration signals 50 to and from the
array 10 so as to reconfigure the array and/or
ascertain its present configuration. Fig. 2 shows a typical cell in a configurable
logic array. Each cell 11 includes a configurable
logic element ("CLE") 15 having, at a minimum, a
simple logic gate, such as a 2-input NAND gate and
means for controlling inter-cell connections 12 to the
CLEs of other cells in response to configuration
signals 50 from programming means 30. Such
configurable logic array devices are described, for
example, in U.S. Patents 3,473,160 for "Electronically
Controlled Microelectronic Cellular Logic Array" and
3,531,662 for "Batch Fabrication Arrangement for
Integrated Circuits".The article "A Survey of Microcellular
Research" by Robert C. Minnick, Journal of the
Association for Computing Machinery, Vol. 14, No. 2,
April 1967, pp. 203-241, provides a comprehensive
survey of pre-1967 configurable logic array devices.
More
recent examples of configurable logic arrays can be
found in U.S. Patents 4,020,469 for "Programmable
Arrays"; 4,642,487 for "Special Interconnect for
Configurable Logic Array"; and 4,918,440 for
"Programmable Logic Cell and Array".As shown in Fig. 2, each cell 11 in a
configurable logic array typically comprises a 
configurable logic element 15 and a control store 16.
Control store 16 comprises a plurality of control
store elements (each storing one bit) and provides a
plurality of configuration control signals 17 to CLE
15 which control the logical configuration of CLE 15.
The configuration control signals 17 may determine,
for instance, the connections between various logic
gates in CLE 15, the inputs to various logic gates in
CLE 15, and the connections between logic gates in
CLE 15 and the intercell connection terminals 12. The
collective configurations of the various control
stores 16 in the array 10
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A configurable logic array comprising:

a plurality of configurable logic elements (11), said
logic elements having at least two configuration states;
a plurality of control store elements (16) arranged in a
two-dimensional array such that each element is

associated with a particular row and column of the array,
said control store elements providing configuration

control signals to said configurable logic elements for
selecting the configuration state of said configurable

logic elements; and,
programming means (30) for programming said control store
elements, said programming means being capable of

directly programming a subset of said control store
elements without substantially disrupting the

configuration control signals provided by others of said
control store elements, said programming means

comprising:
row decode means (60) including a plurality of word
lines (65), each said word line connecting to the control

store elements in a single row of said two-dimensional
array; and
column decode means (70) including a plurality of bit
lines (75), each said bit line connecting to the control store

elements in a single column of said two-dimensional
array;
each control store element comprising:
a bistable latch (95,96) having two states and providing a 
configuration control signal;
a write switch (92) responsive to one of said word lines
for connecting said bistable latch to one of said bit

lines;
a read switch (93) responsive to one of said word lines
for connecting said bistable latch to said one of said

bit lines; and
a read buffer (94) disposed between said bistable latch
and said read switch so as to prevent signals from said

one of said bit lines coupled through said read switch
from substantially disrupting the state of said bistable

latch.
A configurable logic array as defined in claim 1,
wherein the column decode means comprises:


means for connecting said one of said bit lines to a
data line; and
means for temporarily storing and maintaining
signals on others of said bit lines.
A configurable logic array comprising:

a plurality of configurable logic elements (11), said
logic elements having at least two conf
iguration states;
a plurality of control store elements (16) arranged in a
two-dimensional array such that each element is

associated with a particular row and column of the array,
said control store elements providing configuration control signals for selecting the

configuration states of said configurable logic elements;
programming means (30) for programming said control store
elements, said programming means being capable of 

directly programming a subset of said control store
elements without substantially disrupting the

configuration control signals provided by others of said
control store elements, said programming means

comprising:
row decode means (60) including a plurality of read word
lines (65a) and a plurality of write word lines (65b), each said read

word line and each said write word line connecting to the
control store elements in a single row of said two-dimensional

array; and
column decode means (70) including a plurality of bit
lines (75) and a plurality of column decode word lines (65c), each

said bit line and each said column decode word line
connecting to the control store elements in a single

column of said two-dimensional array;
each control store element comprising:
a bistable latch (115,116) having two states and providing a
configuration control signal;
a write switch (113);
a read switch (112);
a column decode switch (114) responsive to one of said
column decode word lines to connect said bistable latch

to said read switch and said write switch;
said write switch responsive to one of said write
word lines to connect said column decode switch to one of

said bit lines; and
said read switch responsive to one of said read word
lines to connect said column decode switch to said one of 

said bit lines.
A configurable logic array as in claim 3 wherein the
column decode means further comprises means for

connecting said one of said bit lines to a data line.
A configurable logic array as in claim 3 wherein the
impedance of said read switch when said read switch is

conducting a higher than the impedance of said write
switch when said write switch is conducting.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
