<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659390</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
External fixation dressing.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1760	A61B1760	A61F501	A61F501	A61F1300	A61F1300	A61F1302	A61F1302	A61F1315	A61F1315	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61F5	A61F5	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	A61F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flexible external fixation dressing product 
contains a clear hydrogel material in a gel-like phase. The 

fixation dressing product is comprised of several layers 
including a thin-film top layer, optional backing layer, 

optional support layer, hydrogel layer, and optional release 
liner, and is adapted for use around the retaining pins of 

an external fixation device. The thin-film top layer may 
define a center portion and a perimeter portion. The 

backing layer, support layer and hydrogel material are 
positioned in the center portion of the thin-film top layer. 

The porous backing layer is formed of a porous material 

having sufficient porosity that the backing layer can be 
secured to the hydrogel material without the use of an 

adhesive. During manufacture, the dressing product is 
assembled and a substantially centered opening and a slit 

are cut. The opening and slit extend through all layers of 
the dressing and may also extend through the release liner, 

if included. The slit extends from an outer edge of the 
dressing and intersects the opening. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NDM ACQUISITION CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NDM ACQUISITION CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARTMELL JAMES VERNON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STURTEVANT WAYNE ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLF MICHAEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARTMELL, JAMES VERNON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STURTEVANT, WAYNE ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLF, MICHAEL L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to wound dressings 
and, more particularly, to an external fixation dressing 
product containing a hydrogel substance and an opening which 
accommodates a retaining pin. External fixation devices are widely used by 
medical personnel when treating patients with severely 
broken limbs. Holes are drilled into several places along 
the broken bone, and retaining pins are placed in the holes. 
The pins extend outward in a generally perpendicular 
direction from the broken bone. A series of connected rods 
having appropriately-spaced holes therewithin is mounted 
over the pins. Such a device secures the fracture in place 
after it has been properly set, thereby allowing the bone to 
heal. It has been discovered that infection frequently 
results from the use of external fixation devices. If left 
uncovered, the areas immediately surrounding the holes in 
the patient's skin through which the pins extend are 
susceptible to bacteria and crusted organisms. Further, 
many prior art bandages used to cover the areas surrounding 
the retaining pins consist of a gauze material. Being 
opaque, such a material does not permit medical personnel to 
monitor the healing of the wound easily. Further, a gauze 
material may form an actual adhesive attachment that would 
damage new cell tissue upon removal. It is often desirable to allow a wound to heal in 
a slightly moist or occlusive state, as it is believed that 
this may accelerate healing. It is important, therefore, 
that excess wound exudate be removed. If excess wound 
exudate remains on a wound, a "blister" of exudate can form 
under the wound dressing, which is not only unsightly, but 
also may cause the dressing to leak, thereby defeating the 
aim of sterility. Additionally, it is not desirable to 
remove all exudate, as that would result in a dry wound and, 
hence, a slower healing process. Existing methods of  
 
aspiration, however, can lead to infection or destroy 
sterility. Many dressings currently adapted for use around 
retaining pins do not maintain a tight seal between the 
dressing and the retaining pin. These prior art dressings, 
therefore, do little to prevent bacteria and other organisms 
from coming into contact with the wound. Further, the 
method of manufacturing some prior art dressings involves 
die-cutting holes in the dressing in order to accommodate 
the retaining pins. The portion of the dressing that is cut 
out must be disposed of and, often, causes the die to clog. It is seen, therefore, that there is a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An external fixation dressing for bandaging the 
area around an external fixation retaining pin, comprising: 

   a thin-film top layer having a first side and a 
second side; 

   an adhesive layer positioned on said second side 
of said top layer; and 

   a hydrogel layer having a first side and a second 
side, said first side of said hydrogel layer being 

positioned on said adhesive layer such that said adhesive 
layer resides between said top layer and said hydrogel 

layer, said dressing defining a substantially centered 
opening which extends through said top layer, said adhesive 

layer, and said hydrogel layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said top layer, said adhesive layer, and said 

hydrogel layer are transparent. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, said dressing further defining
 a slit which extends from 
an outer edge of said dressing and intersects said opening, 

said slit extending through said top layer, said adhesive 
layer, and said hydrogel layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said opening is defined by a C-shaped cut and a 

hinged portion, the diameter of said opening being sized to 
receive a retaining pin. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said opening is defined by an asterisk-shaped 

plurality of intersecting cuts, the diameter of said opening 
being sized to receive a retaining pin. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, further comprising a release liner secured to said second 

side of said hydrogel layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, further comprising a support layer having a first side 

and a second side and comprising a permeable fabric having a 
plurality of interstices therewith, said support layer 

secured to said first side of said hydrogel layer and 
located between said hydrogel layer and said adhesive layer, 

wherein said hydrogel layer penetrates said interstices to 
said first side of said support layer such that said 

hydrogel layer resides on both said first side and said 
second side of said support layer, said hydrogel layer being 

adhered to said second side of said top layer by means of 
said adhesive layer such that said first side of said 

support layer is adjacent to said second side of said top 
layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, further comprising a porous backing layer having a first 

side and a second side; said first side of said backing 
layer being adhered to said second side of said top layer by 

means of said adhesive layer; said second side of said 
backing layer being adhered to said first side of said 

hydrogel layer; said dressing defining a substantially 
centered opening which extends through said hydrogel layer, 

said backing layer, said adhesive layer, and said top layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
8, wherein said backing layer is formed of a porous material 

having sufficient porosity such that said second side of 
said backing layer is securable to said first side of said 

hydrogel layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
8, wherein said backing layer comprises a filled polyolefin 

foam. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said hydrogel layer comprises: 


(a) from about 0% to about 90% by weight 
polyhydric alcohol; 
(b) from about 6% to about 60% by weight 
aliphatic diisocyanate-terminated prepolymer; 
(c) from about 4% to about 40% by weight 
polyethylene oxide-based polyamine; 
(d) up to about 2% by weight sodium chloride; and 
(e) the balance water. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said hydrogel layer comprises: 


(a) from about 15% to about 30% by weight 
polyhydric alcohol; 
(b) from about 8% to about 14% by weight 
isophorone diisocyanate-terminated prepolymer; 
(c) from about 5% to about 10% by weight 
polyethylene oxide-based diamine; 
(d) up to about 1% by weight sodium chloride; and 
(e) the balance water. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
1, wherein said hydrogel layer comprises: 


(a) about 17% by weight polypropylene glycol; 
(b) about 12% by weight isophorone diisocyanate-terminated 
prepolymer; 
(c) about 9% by weight polyethylene oxide-based 
diamine; 
(d) about 1% by weight sodium chloride; and 
(e) about 61% by weight water. 
An external fixation dressing for bandaging the 
area around an external fixation retaining pin, comprising: 

   a thin-film top layer having a first side and a 
second side and defining a perimeter portion and a center 

portion;
 

   a first adhesive layer positioned on said second 
side of said top layer; 

   a backing layer having a first side and a second 
side, said first side of said backing layer being adhered to 

said second side of said top layer by means of said first 
adhesive layer; 

   a hydrogel layer having a first side and a second 
side, said first side of said hydrogel layer being 

positioned on said second side of said backing layer; and 
   a support layer having a first side and a second 

side and comprising a permeable fabric having a plurality of 
interstices therewithin; said support layer secured to said 

first side of said hydrogel layer and located between said 
hydrogel layer and said backing layer; wherein said hydrogel 

layer penetrates said interstices to said first side of said 
support layer such that said hydrogel layer resides on both 

said first side and said second side of said support layer; 
said support layer being adjacent to said second side of 

said backing layer; said dressing defining a substantially 
centered opening and a slit which extends from an outer edge 

of said dressing and intersects said opening; said opening 
and said slit extending through said top layer, said first 

adhesive layer, said backing layer, said support layer, and 
said hydrogel layer; said top layer, said backing layer, 

said support layer, and said hydrogel layer being 
appropriately sized such that said top layer, said backing 

layer, said support layer, and said hydrogel layer reside 
entirely within said center portion of said second side of 

said top layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
14, wherein said backing layer is formed of polyurethane, 

said dressing further comprising a second adhesive layer 
positioned on said second side of said backing layer, such 

that said first side of said hydrogel layer adheres to said 
second side of said backing layer by means of said second 

adhesive layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
14, wherein said backing layer is formed of a porous 

material having sufficient porosity such that said second 
side of said backing layer is securable to said first side 

of said hydrogel layer. 
An external fixation dressing as claimed in claim 
14, further comprising a release liner positioned over said 

second side of said hydrogel material and secured to said 
perimeter portion of said second side of said top layer by 

means of said first adhesive layer. 
A method of manufacturing an external fixation 
dressing, comprising: 

   providing a thin-film top layer having a first 
side and a second side; 

   coating said second side of said top layer with an 
adhesive layer; 

   applying an aqueous, polyurethane, hydrogel 
material to said second side of said top layer, such that 

said adhesive layer resides between said top layer and said 
hydrogel material; and 

   cutting a slit and a substantially centered 
opening in said dressing, said slit extending from an outer 

edge of said dressing and intersecting said opening, said 
opening being sized to receive a retaining pin, said slit 

and said opening extending through said top layer, said 
adhesive layer, and said hydrogel layer. 
A method of manufacturing an external fixation 
dressing as claimed in claim 18, wherein said cutting step 

includes cutting a C-shaped opening in said dressing. 
A method of manufacturing an external fixation 
dressing as claimed in claim 18, wherein said cutting step 

 
includes cutting an opening defining an asterisk-shaped 

plurality of intersecting cuts in said dressing. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
