<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643301</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for ultrasonic detection of air bubbles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2944	A61M136	G01N2934	G01N2934	G01N2938	G01N2922	G01N2936	A61M136	G01N29032	G01N2902	G01N2936	G01N2902	G01N2932	G01N2922	G01N2944	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	A61M	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	A61M	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N29	A61M1	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	A61M1	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Inclusions in a liquid flow, such as air bubbles in a blood 
flow, are detected by transmitting a signal through the fluid and 

receiving and interpreting the received signal based on the 
expected degree of attenuation for the liquid and the inclusions. 

The amplitude of the transmitted signal is automatically adjusted 
to maintain a constant average amplitude of the detected signal, 

thus compensating for changes in the detection environment. The 
average amplitude of the transmitted signal is controlled by 

integrating the received signal using an integrator with a time 
constant longer than the time constant of the expected inclusion 

signals, and comparing the integrated signal to a constant 
reference level. 
 
The presence of microbubbles is detected and a signal 
comprising a string of high frequency pulses is generated while the 

microbubbles are present. By counting the pulses, in conjunction 
with knowledge about the flow of liquid and the anticipated size of 

the microbubbles, an estimate of the total amount of air infused 
into the patient within a given time period is calculated. 
A tubing holder for retaining a flexible tube in an inclusion 
detector has tubing retention grooves formed into tubing engagement 

faces, the tubing engagement faces being spaced closer together 
than the tube diameter. The tube is inserted into the tubing 

holder by compressing and deforming it against the tubing 
engagement faces, until it reaches the tubing retaining grooves. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GAMBRO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GAMBRO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORMONT WILLIAM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANDEL WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANICA KEITH J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER DOUGLAS P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELSH CHRISTOPHER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORMONT, WILLIAM M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, DAVID A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANDEL, WILLIAM R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANICA, KEITH J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, DOUGLAS P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELSH, CHRISTOPHER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the detection of inclusions in
liquids. More particularly this invention relates to the
detection of air and gas bubbles in biological or pharmaceutical
liquids such as blood.An artificial kidney apparatus is an extracorporeal blood
circulation and processing system in which blood is removed from
a patient, dialyzed to remove impurities and excess liquid, and
returned to the patient.In chronic care dialysis the patient typically is suffering
from long term or end stage renal failure. Although the chronic
care dialysis patient is quite ill, the patient's condition is
usually relatively stable. The chronic patient typically visits
a dialysis center periodically, approximately two or three times
a week, to be dialyzed. Blood flows and amounts of fluids and
impurities removed are relatively large and removed over a
relatively short time. Acute care dialysis is more typical of
temporary renal failure, such as from trauma. Under these
circumstances the patient's body is often unable to withstand the
relatively drastic and sudden changes that accompany chronic care
dialysis. It is, therefore, desirable to dialyze the patient
continuously at very low blood flow rates.An objective common to virtually all extracorporeal
circulation and processing systems for biological liquids, such 
as blood, and to infusion of biological liquids, such as blood or
blood components, and pharmaceutical liquids, such as saline
solution and intravenous medications, is to minimize or eliminate
the infusion of undissolved air or gases (referred to simply as
"air" hereafter) into the body of the patient. The air may take
the form of fairly large bubbles or may be in the form of much
smaller bubbles referred to as microbubbles. It is well known
that the infusion of large bubbles of air can result in injury or
death to the patient. The effects of a small number of
microbubbles are less serious, but it is generally considered
prudent to limit the total amount or rate of air infused in the
form of microbubbles.In chronic care dialysis air is typically removed and
detected in a drip chamber located in a return line to the
patient. The drip chamber is a relatively large volume reservoir
with an air-blood interface configured to induce air bubbles to
coalesce and leave the blood at the air-blood interface.
Exemplary drip chambers are illustrated in U.S. Patents No.
4,102,655 issued in 1978 to Jeffery et al., 4,666,598 and
4,681,606 issued in 1987 to Swan, Jr., et al. issued in 1987 to
Heath et al. The possibility of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An inclusion detector (22) for detecting the
presence of inclusions in a fl w of a liquid (36) while

compensating for slowly varying characteristics of the detection environment
comprising:


a transmitting transducer (40) for transmitting a signal
through a liquid flowing in a conduit (34) at a

transmitted signal level;
a means (70,74) for driving the transmitting transducer;
a receiving transducer (44) for receiving the signal
transformed by passage through the conduit (34);
interpreting means (76,80,84,92,94) for
interpreting the received signal,

a sudden change in the received signal level being
indicative of the presence of an inclusion in the liquid

flow; and
a signal adjusting means (88) to account for the slowly varying characteristics of the detection environment while allowing the detection of said sudden changes;

   
characterized by
 the signal adjusting means (88)
adjusting the average level of the signal that is

transmitted by said transmitting transducer in reaction to the slowly
varying characteristics of the detection environment so

as to maintain an average value of said signal received
by said receiving transducer at a constant value. 
The inclusion detector defined in claim 1,
further comprising said conduit (34), wherein said

conduit is flexible plastic medical tubing having a
circumferential wall and the signal is transmitted and

received through the wall of the tubing.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 1 or 2

characterized in that
 the signal is an ultrasonic signal.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 2 or 3

characterized in that
 the means (70, 74) for driving the transmitting transducer comprises
 
   an oscillator (70) and 
in that
 the transmitting transducer
is ultrasonic and electrically responsive to the oscillator.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 4

characterized in that
 the means for driving the transmitting transducer further
comprises a driver (74) electrically responsive to the

oscillator, the ultrasonic transducer being electrically
responsive to the driver.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 5

characterized in that
 the adjusting means adjusts a level
of voltage supplied to the driver (74).
The inclusion detector defined in claim 5 or 6

characterized in that
 the driver comprises:

a first transistor (134, 136); and
a second transistor; and
the first and second transistors are electrically
responsive to the oscillator to alternately apply and

remove the voltage supplied to the driver to and from the
transmitting transducer.
The inclusion detector defined in any of claims
2-7 
characterized in that
 the receiving transducer is

   ultrasonic and 
in that
 the
interpreting means comprises:


a rectifier (80) electrically responsive to the
receiving transducer; and
at least one signal comparator (92) electrically 
responsive to the rectifier.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 8

characterized in that
 the interpreting means further
comprises:


an amplifier (76) electrically responsive to the
receiving ultrasonic transducer, the rectifier being

electrically responsive to the amplifier; and
a filter (84) electrically responsive to the
rectifier, the at least one signal comparator being

electrically responsive to the filter.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 9

characterized in that
 the level adjusting means adjusts the
transmitted signal to maintain an average voltage level

between the filter and the at least one comparator at a
constant value.
The inclusion detector defined in any of claims
8-10 further 
characterized by:

   another signal comparator (94) substantially
identical to the at least one comparator and electrically

responsive to the rectifier.
The inclusion detector defined in any of claims
8-10 
characterized in that
 the at least one signal
comparator comprises: a first signal comparator

(250) electrically responsive to the rectifier to detect
the presence of a failure of the inclusion detector;


a second signal comparator (252) electrically
responsive to the rectifier to detect the presence of a 

relatively large inclusion; and
a third signal comparator (254) electrically
responsive to the rectifier to detect the presence of a

relatively small inclusion.
The inclusion detector defined in any of claims
8-12 
characterized in that
 the signal adjusting means
further comprises:


an integrator (206) electrically responsive to
the rectifier; and
a supply voltage adjusting means (208)
electrically responsive to the integrator.
The inclusion detector defined in any of claims
3-13, wherein said conduit (34) is flexible tubing and


characterized by
 a tubing holder (32) for retaining said
flexible tubing (34) in contact with said

ultrasonic transducers (40) comprising:

a first mounting block (38);
a first generally planar tubing engagement face
(374) having an axis and a first leading edge (378)

generally parallel to the axis;
a first tubing retaining groove (386) recessed
into the first tubing engagement face, the first tubing

engagement groove being generally parallel to the axis
and spaced a predetermined distance from the leading edge

and having a generally arcuate cross sectional
configuration;
a first ultrasonic transducer mounted in the
first mounting block below and in proximity with the

first tubing retaining groove; 
a second mounting block (42);
a second generally planar tubing engagement face
(374) having an axis and a second leading edge (378)

generally parallel to the axis;
a second tubing retaining groove (386) recessed
into the second tubing engagement face, the second tubing

engagement groove being generally parallel to the axis and
spaced a predetermined distance from the leading edge and

having a generally arcuate cross sectional configuration;
and
a housing (320) securing and supporting the first
and second mounting blocks in a relationship wherein:


the first tubing engagement face faces the
second tubing engagement face, is generally parallel to the

second tubing engagement face and is spaced a predetermined
distance from the second tubing engagement face;
the first leading edge is generally parallel
to and opposite the second leading edge;
the first tubing retaining groove is
generally parallel to and opposite the second tubing

retaining groove; and
the predetermined distance is selected to
permit the tubing to be inserted between the first tubing

engagement face and the second tubing engagement face at
the location of the first and second leading edges when the

tubing is relatively greatly compressed, and retained in

the first and second tubing retaining grooves when the 
tubing is relatively less compressed.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 14

characterized in that the

second ultrasonic transducer (44) is mounted in the second
mounting block below and in proximity with the second

tubing retaining groove at a location generally opposite
the location of the first ultrasonic transducer.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 14 or 15

characterized in that
 the leading edges are beveled.
The inclusion detector defined in any of claims
1-16 
characterized in that
 the inclusion is at least one
bubble of at least one of air or gas.
The inclusion detector defined in any of claims
1-16 
characterized in that
 the inclusion is a solid
particle.
The inclusion detector defined in any of claims
1-18 
characterized in that
 the liquid is at least one of a
biological or a pharmaceutical liquid.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 19

characterized in that
 the liquid is one of blood or a blood
component.
The inclusion detector defined in claim 1 or 2

characterized in that
 the signal is a light signal.
An extracorporeal blood processing apparatus (20)

characterized in that
 it comprises an inclusion detector as
defined in any of claims 1-21.
The extracorporeal blood processing apparatus of 
claim 22 
characterized in that
 the blood processing
apparatus is a dialysis apparatus.
A method for detecting the presence of
inclusions in a liquid (36) flowing in a conduit (34)

while compensating for slowly varying characteristics of the detection
environment comprising:


driving a transmitting transducer (40) to transmit a signal through the liquid at a
transmitted signal level;
receiving the signal at a received
signal level by means of a receiving transducer (44) the received signal being

transformed by passage through the liquid;
interpreting the received signal to detect the presence
or absence of an inclusion, a sudden change in the

received signal level being indicative of the presence of
an inclusion; and adjusting a signal to account for the slowly varying characteristics of the detection environment while allowing the detection of said sudden changes; 
characterized by
adjusting the average level of the
signal transmitted by said transmitting transducer (40) in reaction to the slowly varying characteristics

of the detection environment to maintain the average
value of the signal received by said receiving transducer (44) at a

constant level.
The detecting method defined in claim 24

characterized in that
 the conduit is flexible plastic
medical tubing having a circumferential wall and the

signals are transmitted and received through the wall of
the tubing.
The detecting method defined in claim 24 or 25

characterized in that
 the signal is an ultrasonic signal.
The detecting method defined in claim 24

characterized by
generating an oscillating signal; and  
electrically driving a first ultrasonic transducer
with the oscillating signal to produce ultrasonic

mechanical vibrations.
The detecting method defined in claim 27

characterized by

amplifying the oscillating signal by a determined gain
factor before the oscillating signal electrically drives

the ultrasonic transducer.
The detecting method defined in claim 28

characterized by
 the adjusting step comprising determining
the determined gain of the amplifying step to maintain a

constant value of a voltage level that is
proportional to the received signal level.
The detecting method defined in any of claims 26-29

characterized by
mechanically driving a second ultrasonic
transducer with the ultrasonic mechanical vibrations

produced by the first ultrasonic transducer to produce an
electrical signal; and
rectifying the electrical signal to produce a
rectified electrical signal.
The detecting method defined in claim 30

characterized by
amplifying the electrical signal before it is
rectified; and
filtering the rectified electrical signal to
produce a filtered electrical signal.
The detecting method defined in claim 31

characterized by
 the level adjusting step comprising
adjusting the strength of the ultrasonic mechanical

vibrations produced by the first ultrasonic transducer to
maintain the average level of the filtered electrical

signal at a constant value.
The detecting method defined in claim 32

characterized by
 the signal adjusting step means further
comprising:


integrating the value of the filtered electrical
signal to produce an integrated electrical signal; and
adjusting the strength of the ultrasonic
mechanical vibrations produced by the first ultra sonic

transducer in response to the integrated electrical signal.
The detecting method of any of claims 31-33

characterized by
 the interpreting step comprising comparing
the filtered electrical signal to at least one

predetermined reference signal.
The detecting method defined in claim 34

characterized by
 the interpreting step further comprising:

comparing the filtered electrical signal to a
first predetermined reference signal to detect the presence

of a relatively large inclusion; and
comparing the filtered electrical signal to a
second predetermined reference signal to detect the

presence of a relatively small inclusion.
The detecting method defined in any of claim 24-35 

characterized in that
 the inclusion is at least one
bubble of at least one of air or gas.
The detecting method defined in any of claims 24-35

characterized in that
 the inclusion is a solid particle.
The detecting method defined in any of claims 24-37

characterized in that
 the liquid is at least one of a
biological or a pharmaceutical liquid.
The detecting method defined in claim 38

characterized in that
 the liquid is one of blood or a blood
component.
The detecting method defined in claim 24 or 25

characterized in that
 the signal is a light signal.
The detecting method defined in any of claims 24-35
wherein at least one of the inclusions is a microbubble


characterized by
 measuring the amount of air in the form of
microbubbles in the liquid flowing in the conduit

comprising:

generating at least one logic signal pulse for
each microbubble
 detected:
counting the number of logic pulses generated
over a predetermined time period;
establishing the number of logic signal pulses
that represent one microbubble:
ascertaining the number of microbubbles in the
tube during the predetermined time period.
The detecting method defined in claim 41 wherein:

   the logic pulses are generated at a predetermined 
frequency during a detection time period when a microbubble

is detected; and the establishing step comprises:

determining a value of a constant that is
directly proportional to the frequency at which the logic

pulses are generated and directly proportional to an
expected microbubble size; and
dividing the constant by a flow rate of the
liquid in the tube.
The method defined in claim 41 or 42

characterized in that
 the ascertaining step further
comprises:

   dividing the number of logic pulses counted over
the predetermined time period by the number of logic pulses

that represent one microbubble.
The method defined in any of claims 41-43

characterized by
:

   correlating the number of microbubbles
ascertained in the predetermined time period with a volume

of air in the flowing liquid during the predetermined time
period.
The method defined in any of claims 41-44

characterized by
:

   comparing the number of microbubbles ascertained
in the predetermined time period with an allowable number

of microbubbles for the time period.
The method defined in any of claims 41-45

characterized by
:
 
   activating an alarm if the number of microbubbles

ascertained in the predetermined time period exceeds the
allowable number of microbubbles for the time period.
An extracorporeal blood processing apparatus
according to any one of claims 1 to 23 including means for

operating in accordance with the method as defined in any of
claims 41 - 46.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
