<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618611</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for washing substrates
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F100	H01L2102	B08B308	G03F742	B08B310	G03F742	H01L21306	G03F108	B08B310	G03F100	H01L21304	B08B308	H01L2130	H01L21027	G03F108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	H01L	B08B	G03F	B08B	G03F	H01L	G03F	B08B	G03F	H01L	B08B	H01L	H01L	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F1	H01L21	B08B3	G03F7	B08B3	G03F7	H01L21	G03F1	B08B3	G03F1	H01L21	B08B3	H01L21	H01L21	G03F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for washing a photomask substrate or 
a semiconductor wafer. The mixing heat generated on mixing H₂SO₄ 

and H₂O₂ is effectively utilized for promoting the reaction. 
H₂SO₄ and H₂O₂ are discharged from separate nozzles and mixed at 

a mixing point directly below and proximate to the nozzles to 
give a H₂SO₄ - H₂O₂ liquid mixtu
re. The liquid mixture is caused 
to descend onto near the center of the photomask kept in rotation 

so that the liquid mixture is spread over the substrate surface 
under a centrifugal force. The H₂SO₄ - H₂O₂ flow ratios, the 

height of the mixing point and the number of revolutions of the 
substrate are controlled for providing the uniform temperature 

distribution of the liquid mixture on the substrate surface and 
for achieving uniform washing. In this manner, the 

chloromethylstyrene resist materials, which are employed in 
electron lithography, and which are only hardly soluble, may be 

exfoliated by a wet exfoliation technique. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for washing
a photomask substrate or a semiconductor wafer employed in the
manufacture process of semiconductor devices. More particularly,
it relates to a substrate washing method and apparatus whereby
it is possible to exfoliate a resist pattern remaining on the
substrate.With an increasingly refined design rule for circuit
patterns and device arraying patterns on a semiconductor device,
contamination by various particles, metal impurities or organic
substances generated on or affixed to a photomask substrate or
a semiconductor wafer employed in the production process of
semiconductor devices has come to affect the product yield or
reliability significantly. Thus it becomes necessary to wash off
contaminants occasionally affixed to the photomask substrate or
the semiconductor wafer during the manufacture process of the
semiconductor devices.As the method for washing the photomask substrate or the
semiconductor wafer, dry washing with plasma processing or
irradiation with ultra-violet (UV) rays, or a wet washing using
a washing solution, have been proposed. Dry washing is a technique proposed in keeping with the
general tendency of the semiconductor process towards a dry
process. It has such assets that it is superior in washing
uniformity and suffers from re-deposition of contaminants on the
substrates to a lesser extent, while it can be integrated to
other dry processes, and a drying step may be eliminated.
However, it is not suited to removal of contaminants and is
unable to remove particles, while it is liable to damage the
substrate and produce secondary contamination. Consequently, if
dry washing is applied, it becomes necessary to perform
subsequent wet washing or rinsing with pure water.On the other hand, wet washing may be carried out using an
inexpensive device, while being superior in throughput and
capable of removing plural contaminants simultaneously. Besides,
it is possible with the wet washing to perform batch processing
and simultaneous washing of the front and reverse sides. Above
all, a photomask substrate for light exposure for reduced size
projection in which a circuit pattern or device arraying pattern
applied is about five times as large as the wafer is usually
washed by wet washing.The simplest washing method consists of immersing the
substrate in a washing tank for a pre-set time and mechanically
washing the substrate taken out from the tank with a brush. It
is however not possible with such method to prevent the foreign
matter
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for washing a substrate (13) by bringing a liquid washing mixture (8) composed
of plural types of liquids into contact with the substrate, comprising


preparing said liquid washing mixture by discharging said liquids from separate supply
ports (4,7) and mixing them before they reach the surface of the substrate, and
raising the temperature of the liquid washing mixture by the mixing heat evolved during
mixing,
characterized in that

the distance (h
1
,h
2
) of each supply port (4,7) to said substrate surface is set, so that
the distance of the point of mixing (P) of said plural types of liquids to said substrate surface

is controlled to optimize the spatial temperature distribution of said liquid washing mixture
on said substrate; said point of mixing being a point of intersection of said

liquids discharged from each supply port; each suplly port being a nozzle. 
The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the flow ratios of
the plural types of the liquids are controlled for optimizing

the temperature distribution of said liquid washing mixture on
said substrate.
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the substrate is
rotated during washing at an optimi
zed number of revolutions.
The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein a washing cycle
consisting of washing with said liquid washing mixture and

subsequent rinsing with pure water is repeated at least twice.
The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the liquids
making up the liquid washing mixture are sulfuric

acid and aqueous hydrogen peroxide and wherein a resist material
on said substrate is decomposed and removed by said washing. 
An apparatus for washing a substrate (13) comprising

a washing chamber (1)
a substrate holder (12) with said substrate in said washing chamber,
means (11) for rotating said substrate holder,
a first nozzle (7) for supplying a first liquid to the substrate,
a second nozzle (4) for supplying a second liquid to the substrate.
said second nozzle being arranged so that the second liquid is mixed with said first liquid
from said first nozzle before the liquids reach the substrate.
characterized by

means to set the distance (h
1
,h
2
) of said first and second nozzle (4,7) to said substrate surface to control the distance of the point of mixing (P) of said first and second
liquids to said substrate to optimize the spatial temperature distribution of said liquids on said substrate, whereby the temperature of the liquid mixture is raised by the mixing heat evolved during mixing; said point of mixing being a point of intersection of said liquids discharged from each nozzle. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 6 further comprising

   means for controlling the number of revolutions of said
rotating means.
The apparatus as claimed in claim 6 further comprising

   a first rinse nozzle (16) for supplying a rinse solution to said
substrate surface.
The apparatus as claimed in claim 6 further comprising

   a second rinse nozzle (15) having an opening directed to the
sidewall surface of said washing chamber.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
