<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657070</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEPOLARIZED SOLID-STATE DIODE-PUMPED LASER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S3094	H01S3094	H01S30941	H01S30941	H01S3098	H01S3098	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosed invention, a laser and method for producing depolarized laser light, pertains to the field of laser radiation production. One embodiment of the laser comprises a solid state non-birefringent lasant material (18), a laser diode source (S) and birefringent optical retarding means (24) for transmitting light from the laser diode source to the lasant material, for reflecting laser light produced by the lasant material towards the output coupler (20) to form an optical cavity for the lasant material, and for forming in the cavity single line multimode laser light having at least two longitudinal standing laser modes characterized by two closely spaced apart orthogonal linear polarizations of approximately the same power level.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANTHON DOUGLAS W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EGGLESTON ALAN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANTHON, DOUGLAS, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EGGLESTON, ALAN, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DEPOLARIZED SOLID-STATE DIODE-PIJMPED LASERTechnical FieldThis invention relates to the general subject of lasers and, in particular to diode-pumped, solid-state lasers and methods for producing a depolarized output.Background of the InventionFiberoptic sensors using Mach-Zehnder modulators often require a stable, polarized optical carrier at the output end of a long length of variable birefringence optical fiber. This occurs in coherent communications and in fiber sensors to avoid input lead polarization noise and polarization fading. In general, three approaches have been employed to solve this problem: using polarization preserving fiber; active polarization control with a birefringence device which produces the desired state at the output in conjunction with a feedback loop; and using depolarized light which will always remain depolarized independent of fiber birefringence. (See A.D. Kersey, et al., Electron Lett.. 23; p. 634 and p. 924; 1987).The second method is illustrated by the system developed by Marshall, at EG&G Energy Measurements. That system uses discrete retardation plates located in front of the laser. A computer monitors the feedback signal and uses stepper motor rotation stages to adjust the launch polarization state.The third approach has the advantage of avoiding expensive polarization preserving fiber and does not require complex electronic feedback control loops. One convenient way of achieving this is by combining a depolarized optical source with a polarizer at the modulator 

input. This approach has been demonstrated using two polarization- coupled, frequency-offset, single-frequency lasers as a source. (See W.R. Burns, R.P. Moeller, CH. Buhner and A.S. Greenblatt, "Depolarized source for fiber-optic applications"; Opt. Lett.. 16(6), 381 (1991) and B. Marshall "Polarization Control Systems" Proceedings PSAA-91. pp. 83 (1991)).In particular, the system of Burns et al. used ring cavity, diode-pumped Nd:YAG lasers which have precise narrow linewidths that can be thermally tuned. These lasers are normally linearly polarized. The depolarized source was simply created by combining the beams from two lasers whose linear polarization states are at 90° to each other, and adjusting the thermal controllers so that the frequency difference between the two sources is at some large frequency, compared to the detection bandwidth of the system of interest. All of these methods are relatively complicated, and in many applications a simpler, single-laser, depolarized source would be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
That which is claimed is:
1. Laser apparatus, comprising: a) a solid-state lasant material having an input face, an opposite output face, and a direction of propagation between said input face and said output face, said lasant material having minimal birefringence along said direction of propagation; b) an output coupler disposed towards said output face; c) pumping means for pumping light into said input face of said lasant material to produce a population inversion therein; d) optical retarding means, having one face abutting said input face of said lasant material and having an opposite face coated for transmitting light from said pumping means to said lasant material and for reflecting laser light produced by said material towards said output coupler to form an optical cavity for said lasant material, for forming in said cavity single line multimode laser light having at least two longitudinal standing laser modes characterized by two closely spaced apart orthogonal linear polarizations of approximately the same power level; and e) means for avoiding high order transverse laser modes in said cavity.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: f) a non-polarization maintaining optical fiber having an input end connected to receive laser lightwave from said output coupler and having an opposite output end. 


3. The apparatus of claim 2, further including: g) a polarizer for receiving light from said output end of said optical fiber and for producing a plane polarized light output.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, further including: h) an optical modulator for receiving light passing through said polarizer from said output end of said optical fiber.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said lasant material is non- birefringent.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said pumping means comprises an array of laser diodes that are distributed along a reference axis; and wherein said optical retarding means comprises a quarterwave plate having a fast optical axis aligned to said reference axis of said laser diode array and having a slow optical axis at right angles to said fast optical axis.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said cavity has an optical length that is proportional to one-half the mode spacing of said laser light. 


8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said optical retarding means comprises a quarterwave plate whose fast and slow optical axes are in a plane parallel to said input face of said lasant material.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said optical retarding means includes at least one of an etalon and birefringent filter means.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for avoiding high order transverse laser modes in said cavity comprises an aperture plate located between said output coupler and said input face of said lasant material.
11. A multi-mode laser, comprising: a) a mass of lasant material having minimal birefringence between an input face and an opposite output face; b) an output coupler disposed towards said output face; c) at least one semi-conductor that, in response to the flow of electrical therethrough, pumps laser light into said input face of said lasant material for producing a population inversion in said lasant material; and d) input means for transmitting light from said semi-conductor to said lasant material and for reflecting laser light produced by said mass towards said output coupler to form an optical cavity for said lasant material, said optical cavity having optical length that is proportional to one-half the longitudinal mode spacing of said laser light; and 


 e) birefringent means for optically retarding one of two polarization eigenstates relative to light in said cavity of the other polarization eigenstate by an amount to substantially eliminate phase coherence between said eigenstates, and for producing in said cavity two polarization eigenstates of substantially equal intensity and substantially single line multi-mode laser light.
12. The laser of claim 11, wherein said lasant material is Nd:YAG; and wherein said longitudinal mode spacing is on the order of 2 GHz.
13. The laser of claim 11, wherein said output coupler is coated to preferably reflect light at 1319 nm relative to light at 1338 nm.
14. The laser of claim 11, wherein said input means comprises a quarterwave plate having one face abutting said input face of said lasant material and having an opposite face abutting said input face.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, further including an aperture plate located between said output coupler and said input face of said lasant material.
16. In a communications system of the type using an external modulator which operates in response to an optical carrier supplied through an 


optical fiber, a method of providing a polarized optical carrier comprising the steps of: a) forming an optical cavity for a lasant material having an input face and an opposite output face by locating an output coupler disposed towards said output face and by locating a quarterwave plate having one face abutting said input face and having an opposite face that is coated for transmitting optical pumping light to said lasant material and for reflecting laser light produced by said lasant material towards said output coupler, b) providing a plurality of semi-conductors that, in response to the flow of electrical current therethrough, produces optical pumping light; c) pumping said lasant material using said semi-conductors to produce a population inversion in said lasant material; d) substantially reducing high order transverse modes in said cavity; and e) adjusting said optical cavity to have an optical length that is proportional to one-half the longitudinal mode spacing of said laser light and to produce standing wave substantially single frequency laser light characterized by two closely spaced apart orthogonal linear polarizations of about the same power level out of said output coupler for at least the some power levels of said semi-conductors.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein step (b) is performed by using an array of said semi-conductors distributed along a reference axis for end pumping said lasant material; and wherein step (a) is performed by using 


a quarterwave plate having an axis that is generally parallel to said reference axis of said array.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein step (d) is performed by locating in said optical cavity an aperture plate between said output coupler and said output face of said lasant material.
19. The method of claim 16, further including the steps of: f) optically connecting one end of a non-polarization maintaining optical fiber to said output coupler; and g) connecting a polarizer between said modulator and the other end of said optical fiber.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein step (a) is performed by using a lasant material formed from a crystal of Nd:YAG; wherein step
(b) is performed by using semi-conductors that produce light at about 800 nm; and wherein step (c) is performed to produce laser light having a wavelength of substantially 1319 nm. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
