<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621971</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HANDS-FREE BODY MOUNTED LASER SCANNER AND METHOD OF USE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K714	G06K1700	G06K1700	G06K714	G06K710	G06K710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K17	G06K17	G06K7	G06K7	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser scanner system (2) including a compact, lightweight laser scanning engine (4) which permits reading the symbols while the hands of the user are free. The engine is coupled to a remote unit (10) forming a portion of the system (2). The engine (4) is arranged to be mounted on the wrist or mounted on the head of the user while the remote unit may be mounted on a belt or holster worn by the user. Alternatively, the remote unit may be located at a counter or some other stationary structure. The laser engine (4) is automatically turned on when the engine (4) is moved to place an object in front of the laser engine. The system (2) requires no trigger or other hand operated device to initiate the laser beam, and the scanning, receiving, and signal and data processing operations.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
METROLOGIC INSTR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
METROLOGIC INSTRUMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNOWLES CARL H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNOWLES, CARL, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a compact, lightweight
laser scanner system and to a method of scanning.Various types of laser scanning devices are in
use and have been disclosed in the patent literature.
Many of these scanners read bar codes, such as the
Uniform Produce Code, which are imprinted on products,
on labels affixed to the products, or on packaging for
the products.One type of scanner is referred to as a slot
scanner. Typically slot scanners are mounted beneath
or at the check out counter of a retail establishment,
such as a supermarket. Another type of scanner is a
hand-held scanner. That scanner typically includes a
grip portion held in one's hand to enable the scanner
to be directed onto a bar code so that the scan
pattern produced by the scanner transverses the bar
code symbol to read it.In the last few years there has been increased
development toward making hand-held scanners extremely
small and lightweight. One such scanner is disclosed
in my United States Letters Patent number 4,930,848
which is assigned to the same Assignee as this
invention. That scanner comprises a hand grip portion
and a body portion. Within the body portion is an
"engine" having all of the necessary optical,
mechanical and electrical components required to
produce a laser beam scanning pattern for reading bar
codes and for receiving light reflected therefrom to
produce an electrical signal indicative thereof.
Other hand-held laser scanners are disclosed in the
patent literature, including United States patent
numbers 4,387,297 (Swartz et al.), 4,409,470 (Swartz
et al.), 4,460,120 (Swartz et al.), 4,607,156 
(Koppenall et al.), 4,706,248 (Swartz et al.), and
4,575,625 (Knowles).Although the hand-held scanners of the prior art
allow for reading of a bar code, they all typically
require that they be held in the hand of the user so
that the pattern can be aimed at the bar code. In the
course of checking out customers' purchases at a check
out counter a clerk is thus required to continually
pick up the scanner, direct its laser beam onto the
symbols to effect the reading of the symbols and then
either lay down the scanner between readings or
between customers or to place it in a support cradle
or mount so that the clerk can use his or her hands
for other purposes.US-A-4,766,299 shows a hand-mounted laser bar
code reader. A switch associated with the laser is
attached to a hand strap such that the bar code reader
is switched on and off by deliberate flexure of
muscles in the user's hand.EP-A-0 323 848 shows bar code reading
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A compact, light-weight laser scanning system (2)
comprising a laser scanner engine (4) and a remote

means (10), said laser scanning engine (4) comprising:

a housing (12);
a laser light beam source (16) ;
means (34) for sweeping said beam to create a
line scan pattern (14);
means (24, 26) for projecting said line scan
pattern (14) out of said housing (12) and onto a

symbol, on an object, to be read;
means (30) for receiving light reflected from a
symbol and converting said reflected light into an

electrical signal indicative thereof;
means (6, 36, 38, 40) for mounting said laser
scanner engine (4) on the body of a user; characterised by

object detection means for detecting an object
located within the range of the scanning system ; and
control circuitry connected automatically to turn
on said laser light beam source, said beam sweeping

means and said receiving means
when an object is detected.
The system of claim 1 further comprising, in said remote means, signal
processing and
 decoding means for processing said
electrical signal so as to decode a symbol on a

detected object, and automatically producing symbol
character data representative of said decoded symbol

in response to the decoding of a symbol. 
The system of claim 2 wherein said control
circuitry turns on said signal processing and decoding

means when an object is detected.
A system of claim 2 or 3, which further
comprises a radio frequency signal transmitting means,

for transmitting said symbol character data to a
peripheral device.
The system of any preceding claim further
comprising power supply means for supplying electrical

power to said laser scanning engine (4).
The system of claim 5 wherein said power supply
means are located in said remote means (10), and said

laser scanner engine (4) and said remote means (10)
are connected by electrical conductor means (8) for

carrying said electrical signal from said laser
scanning engine (4) to said remote means (10) and for

providing electrical power from said remote means (10)
to said laser scanning engine (4).
The system of any preceding claim wherein said
object detection means comprises means for

transmitting energy to an object and means for
receiving reflected energy from said object.
The system of claim 7 wherein said means for
transmitting energy comprises an infrared transmitter

and said means for receiving energy comprises an
infrared receiver. 
The system of any preceding claim further
comprising means (37) for mounting said remote means

(10) on the body of a user.
The system of any preceding claim wherein said
means (6, 36, 38, 40) for mounting said laser scanner

engine (4) comprises a glove (36) or a strap (6) for
mounting said laser engine (4) on the wrist of a user.
The system of claim 10 wherein said housing (12)
has a light transmission aperture (11) through which

light can exit and enter said housing (12), the
housing being affixed to said glove (36) so that in

use said light transmission aperture (11) is oriented
in the general direction in which the fingers of said

hand extend.
The system of any of claims 1 to 9 wherein said
means (6, 36, 38, 40) for mounting said laser scanner

engine (4) comprises a hat (38) or a headband (40) for
mounting said laser engine (4) on the head of a user.
The system of any preceding claim wherein said
remote means (10) comprises a storage means for

storing information representing symbols located on an
object and means for alerting when said symbols are

read.
A system of any preceding claims wherein said
laser light beam source (16) comprises a laser diode 

(16).
A method of scanning a symbol on an object using
a hands-free laser scanning system (2), with a laser

scanner engine (4), said method comprising:

using a laser light beam source (16) in a housing
(12) to produce a laser beam;
sweeping said beam to create a line scan pattern
(14) ;
projecting said scan line pattern (14) out of the
front of said housing (12) onto said symbol to be

read;
receiving light reflected from said symbol and
converting said reflected light into an electrical

signal indicative thereof;
mounting said laser scanner engine (4) on a
portion of the body of a user; characterised by
automatically producing said laser beam, sweeping
said beam, projecting said scan line pattern (14) out

of the front of said housing (12) onto said symbol to
be read, receiving said light reflected from said

symbol and converting said reflected light into an
electrical signal indicative thereof, when said laser

engine is moved so that said object is in proximity to
said front of said housing (12) by means of

object detection means for detecting an object
located within the range of the scanning system ; and
control circuitry connected automatically to turn
on said laser light beam source, said beam sweeping

means and said receiving means
when an object is detected.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
