<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650341</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLEXIBLE RETRACTABLE DOOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47K328	A47K338	A47K400	A47K400	E06B902	E06B902	E06B908	E06B908	E06B911	E06B911	E06B913	E06B956	E06B956	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47K	A47K	A47K	A47K	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47K3	A47K3	A47K4	A47K4	E06B9	E06B9	E06B9	E06B9	E06B9	E06B9	E06B9	E06B9	E06B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flexible, retractable assembly for use as a door, space divider, covering or the like which comprises a sheet (20) such as Mylar 
<
TM
>
 polyester film having a permanent memory set to roll up on itself or otherwise retract automatically into a coil (42), accordion, or other compact configuration. The assembly is adapted to be stored on one side of an opening and then guided across the opening to fully or partially cover the opening. The permanent memory set of the sheet permits it to retract at least partially under its own force to eliminate or minimize the need for separate rewinding apparatus. The sheet may substitute for a variety of standard products including entryway doors, closet, cabinet and shower doors, screen doors and windows, room dividers, machinery guards and covers for various items such as fluorescent light fixtures. The sheet may be combined with decorative finishes including a tambour composite structure providing aesthetic and functional advantages.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRIEVE JAMES A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TODD JOHN M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRIEVE, JAMES A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TODD, JOHN M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIEVE JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODD JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIEVE, JAMES A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODD, JOHN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLEXIBLE RETRACTABLE DOORScope Of The InventionThis invention relates to a flexible retractable assembly useful for a variety of purposes including various types of doors, space dividers, coverings and the like. Typical uses comprise entryway doors, cabinet doors, furniture doors, doors for enclosing bathtubs and showers and for closing closets and the like, various covers, and screens as used, for example, to cover an entrance from a patio to a home interior, window screens, and screen doors and windows for a lanai.Background Of the InventionDoors, bug screens, and other coverings of the type referred to are well known for many purposes. The various assemblies described herein are intended as substitutes for such conventional products.In the context of doors for use in water contain¬ ment applications such as about bathtubs and showers, known doors suffer a number of disadvantages. Rigid panel glass and/or plastic doors are known specifically adapted as tub and shower doors. Such doors have rigid fixed panels of glass or plastic opened by sliding or by being hinged typically either as a single hinged panel door or as a bi-fold door. Known rigid panel doors suffer the disadvantages that when hinged, they require space for the doors to swing or, when sliding, they do not permit fullSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 - 2 -access to the tub or shower. When not open, the doors have the disadvantage of taking up a considerable amount of space.Other door-like closures for water containment applications are well known as in the form of flexible slid¬ able shower curtains hung from a bar above the tub/shower opening. While inexpensive, such curtains are frequently ineffective to prevent water leakage and considerable water damage can result especially through careless use as may frequently occur in hotels and the like. Attempts have also been made to use plastic sheets which can be pulled out to cover the shower opening and then rewound or refolded to conserve space when not in use. Such attempts have also not been successful from the standpoints of utility, cost and aesthetics_.In the context of doors for use in non-water con¬ tainment, uses such as entryway doors, doors to close closets, cabinets and the like, many doors are known which are in effect, retractable. These include, notably, bi-fold doors and accordion doors. Both of these types of doors have the disadvantage that when retracted, they still impair entry to the opening and occupy a considerable amount of ■epaee. Typically, these doors are of a relatively
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 - 49 -
CLAIMS
1. A flexible retractable closure assembly for an opening comprising: a flexible sheet having front and rear end edges and side edges extending laterally between the end edges, said sheet having a permanent memory set to gather itself automatically into a compact configuration proximate said rear edge, locating means retaining said compact configuration at one side of said opening, guide means guiding said sheet from the locating means across the opening, retaining means for holding the sheet in an extended position whereby the sheet extends at least partially over said opening, and wherein by the sheet moving from said locating means, the sheet is movable between:
(a) a retracted position with the front end edge near the locating means and the substantial entirety of the sheet in a compact state, and
(b) said extended position with the front end edge spaced from the locating means and a substantial portion of the sheet extending across the opening.
2. An assembly as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said compact configuration comprises a coil.
3. An assembly as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said sheet defines a plurality of longitudinally extending folds whereby the sheet is extendable and retractable in accordion fashion.
4. An assembly as claimed in Claim 1 including retaining means to retain the sheet in the retracted position and in positions intermediate the retracted and extended positions.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 - 50 -
5. An assembly as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said sheet is rectangular, said guide means comprising channel means receiving and guiding at least one of said side edges therein.
6. An assembly as claimed in Claim 5 wherein said guide means comprise spaced parallel upper and lower channel forming means receiving and guiding said side edges therein across the opening.
7. An assembly as claimed in Claim 2 wherein said locating means comprise vertical axle means centrally within said coil.
8. An assembly as claimed in Claim 7 wherein said axle means comprise upper and lower center posts extending axially into the center of the coil from each end of the coil.
9. An assembly as claimed in Claim 2 wherein said locating means comprises housing means disposed circumfer- entially about the coil with a vertical slot therethrough directed towards the guide means through which the sheet extends.
10. An assembly as claimed in Claim 9 wherein said housing comprises an elongate hollow tube adjacent said opening with a forward face in the plane of the opening, a side face directed towards the opening, and the vertical slot located in said side face proximate said forward face.
11. An assembly as claimed in Claim 10 wherein said tube is generally rectangular in cross-section.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 12. An assembly as claimed in Claim 7 including coil support surfaces under the coil supporting the coil by contact with, the lower side edge.
13. An assembly as claimed in Claim 12 wherein the coil support surfaces are low friction surfaces to facilitate uncoiling and sliding of the lower side edge of the coil thereon.
14. An assembly as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the coil support surfaces are journalled for rotation about a vertical axis substantially coincident with the axis of said coil.
15. An assembly as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said sheet comprises polyester film thermally treated to have said permanent coil set.
16. An assembly as claimed in Claim 15 wherein said sheet comprises Mylar (trademark) brand film.
17. An assembly as claimed in Claim 16 wherein said sheet includes stiffening means stiffening said sheet against deflection out of vertical.
18. An assembly as claimed in Claim 6 including rigid corner means associated with the front edge and received in at least said upper channel forming means to maintain said front edge parallel with the axis of the coil on movement of the curtain between the retracted and extended positions.
19. An assembly as claimed in Claim 18 wherein rigid corner means are received by each of said upper and lower channel forming means.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 - 52 -
20. An assembly as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said retaining means is provided by frictional engagement between said sheet and said guide means.
21. An assembly as claimed in Claim 20 including handlebar means attached to said front end edge, and at least upper channel means for receiving an upper end of said handlebar means, said frictional engagement being provided through engagement of the handlebar means within said channel.
22. As assembly as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said retaining means include latch means for holding said sheet in the extended position.
23. An assembly as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said retaining means include pivotally mounted bars extending from said locating means into engagement with said front edge.
24. An assembly as claimed in Claim 23 wherein said bars are formed in two pieces hinged at an intermediate point, said pieces assuming a horizontal position when the sheet is fully extended, and including means for pivoting said pieces away from the horizontal to permit retraction of the sheet.
25. An assembly as claimed in Claim 24 wherein said bars are located at the top and bottom of said sheet.
26. An assembly as claimed in Claim 1 including a weight positioned for vertical movement at the side of said opening opposite said locating means, and means extending between and attached to said weight and said front edge whereby the weight operates to assist in movement of the sheet between retracted and extended positions.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 - 53 -
27. An assembly as claimed in Claim 26 including separate locating means disposed in spaced relationship to said first-mentioned locating means, and a separate sheet extending from said separate locating means toward said first-mentioned locating means whereby the respective sheets are movable toward and away from each other across said opening.
28. An assembly as claimed in Claim 27 including latch means associated with said sheets for holding the sheets together in extended positions.
29. An assembly as claimed in Claim 26 including pivotally mounted retaining bar means movable in response to movement of said sheet, said retaining bar means operating to assist in holding said sheet in an extended position.
30. An assembly as claimed in Claim 29 wherein said guide means include handlebar means, and wherein said retaining bar means are pivotally connected between said handlebar means and said locating means.
31. An assembly as claimed in Claim 30 wherein said handlebar means extend vertically along the front edge of said sheet, a channel member attached to one of said handlebar means and said locating means adjacent the lower end thereof, one end of said bar means being received in said channel member, the other end of said bar means being pivotally attached to the other of said handlebar means and said locating means, pivoting of said bar means in response to movement of said sheet serving to retain said handlebar and lo ating means substantially evenly spaced apart.
32. An assembly as claimed in Claim 31 including a roller attached to said one end of said bar means to facilitate movement relative to said channel means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
