<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651530</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Communication systems using passive RF routing.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B634	G02B634	H03H900	H03H972	H04H102	H04H102	H04N722	H04N722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	H03H	H03H	H04H	H04H	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	H03H9	H03H9	H04H1	H04H1	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Communication between an upstream point, such as a TV-source 
headend (HE1) followed by a fiber optic line (FF1), and a number of downstream 

points, such as coaxial cable connected subscriber locations (SU1, SU2 -- SUN), is 
achieved by wavelength or frequency demultiplexing a spectrum of downstream 

radio-frequency signals with a surface-acoustic- wave (SAW) demultiplexer-multiplexer 
(in RO1) and distributing the demultiplexed signals to the downstream 

points, for example through the cables (CO1, CO2 -- CON). 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARCIE THOMAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMINOW IVAN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCUSE DIETRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARCIE THOMAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMINOW IVAN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCUSE DIETRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is related to the copending U.S. 
application Serial No. 08/029724, filed March 11, 1993, of 
T.E. Darcie, et al, and assigned to the same assignee as 
this application. This invention relates to methods and means for 
communicating between an upstream point and a number of 
downstream points, and particularly to communication 
systems starting at a source with optical fiber trunks and 
terminating at subscribers via coaxial cable distribution 
networks. Fiber deployment in the trunk portion of distribution 
networks has resulted in a dramatic increase in options 
available to subscribers. Fiber feeders now end in nodes 
from which short coaxial cable distribution networks serve 
relatively small numbers of subscribers such as 100 to 
2,000. Because the length of the coaxial cable in each 
case is less than approximately 1 to 2 kilometers, the 
effective available bandwidth is large, for example 1GHz. 
This enhanced bandwidth allows a variety of services in 
addition to the conventional load of amplitude-modulation, 
vestigial-sideband, (AM-VSB) video channels. At present, 
fiber-coaxial systems broadcast substantially the same 
signals to each subscriber in the distribution plant. 
While this is fine for ordinary cable services, it fails 
to provide the privacy and security demanded for business, 
personal file transfers, pay video on demand, or special 
telephony. Privacy represents the inability of unintended 
listeners to eavesdrop. Security means that no rogue 
radio-frequency RF upstream transmitter can interrupt 
communication.  Copending U.S. application Serial No. 08/029724, 
filed March 11, 1993 discloses a passive optical network 
(PON) subscriber loop system that avoids this limitation 
by taking advantage of tunable lasers and wavelength 
selective routers. This arrangement furnishes a virtually 
private channel between the headend station and each user. 
However, it requires distribution with fiber optic lines 
directly to each subscriber. U.S. patent No. 5,136,671 
discloses suitable optical router for this purpose. An object of the invention is to furnish a system 
allowing a coaxial cable distribution network to limit 
information broadcast to each subscriber, whether or not 
such information is encrypted and whether or not such 
information is from an optical fiber trunk. Another object of the invention is to furnish the 
equivalent of a private downstream and upstream channel, 
between a broadcast source and a subscriber, which is 
inaccessible to other users. Yet
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for communicating between an upstream 
point arranged for operating over a radio-frequency 

spectrum and a plurality of downstream points each 
arranged for operating over a specified portion of the 

spectrum, comprising: 
   a trunk coupled to the upstream point and having a 

radio-frequency electrical upstream lead for operating 
over the spectrum; 

   a plurality of radio-frequency electrical downstream 
leads each connected to a downstream point. 

   a surface-acoustic-wave wavelength demultiplexer-multiplexer 
connecting said upstream lead to said 

plurality of downstream leads. 
A system as in claim 1, wherein said surface-acoustic-wave 
demultiplexer-multiplexer includes a 

wavelength-separating acoustic grating having a plurality 
of unequal-length waveguides. 
A system as in claim 1, wherein said surface-acoustic-wave 
demultiplexer-multiplexer includes: 

   a surface acoustic wave (SAW) supporting 
piezoelectric material; 

   a plurality of unequal length waveguides deposited on 
said piezoelectric material and forming a grating having 

upstream ends and downstream ends; 
   an electrical-to-SAW upstream transducer deposited on 

said piezoelectric material and connected to said upstream 
lead; 

   an upstream coupler deposited on said piezoelectric 
material and coupling the upstream transducer to the 

upstream ends of the waveguides; 
   an electrical-to-SAW downstream transducer deposited 

on said crystal and connected to said downstream leads; and
 

   a downstream coupler deposited on said crystal and 
coupling the downstream transducer to the downstream ends 

of the waveguides. 
A system as in claim 3, wherein said upstream 
coupler is an acoustic star coupler, and said downstream 

coupler is a star coupler. 
A system as in claim 3, wherein said 
piezoelectric material is a crystal. 
A system as in claim 5, wherein said crystal is 
lithium niobate. 
A system as in claim 5, wherein said crystal is 
quartz. 
A system as in claim 3, wherein said waveguides 
are conductors on the surface of said piezoelectric 

material. 
A system as in claim 3, wherein each of said 
waveguides in the grating differs in length from the 

lengths of all other waveguides in the grating so as to 
impart predetermined and different progressive phase 

shifts to the surface acoustic waves. 
A system as in claim 3, wherein said couplers 
are star couplers forming free space regions. 
A system as in claim 1, wherein said trunk 
incudes an optical fiber operating over an optical range 

including the spectrum and a demodulator for applying the 
spectrum to the upstream lead. 
A system as in claim 1, wherein the router 
includes: 

   a SAW supporting material; 
   a blazed grating structure in said material having a 

given number of teeth; a launching acoustical transducer 
on the material directed toward the grating structure; 

   a plurality of metal receiving paths on said 
structure; and 

   an acoustical detector for each of a selected one of 
said paths. 
A method for communicating between an upstream 
point arranged for operating over a radio-frequency 

spectrum and a plurality of downstream points each 
arranged for operating over a specified portion of the 

spectrum, comprising: 
   passing signals covering a spectrum of radio 

frequencies between the upstream point and an upstream 
electrical lead; 

   passing specified portions of the spectrum between a 
plurality of radio-frequency electrical downstream leads 

and the plurality of downstream points; and 
   multiplexing-demultiplexing signals in the spectrum 

and spectrum portions with a surface-acoustic-wave 
wavelength demultiplexer-multiplexer connecting said 

upstream lead to said plurality of downstream leads. 
A method as in claim 13, wherein said 
demultiplexing-multiplexing step includes: 

   establishing surface acoustic waves (SAWs) with an 
electrical-to-SAW upstream transducer on a surface 

acoustic wave (SAW) supporting material and connected to 
said upstream lead; 

   forming interferences with a grating of a plurality 
of unequal length waveguides having upstream ends and 

 
downstream ends; 

   said interference forming step including coupling the 
SAWs from the upstream tr
ansducer to the waveguides 
through an upstream coupler and coupling the 

signals at the downstream ends of the waveguides to a 
downstream coupler; and 

   transducing the SAWs at the downstream ends of the 
waveguides with an electrical-to-SAW downstream transducer 

connected to said downstream leads; and 
A method as in claim 14, wherein said coupling 
with said upstream coupler uses an acoustic star coupler, 

and said coupling step with said downstream coupler uses a 
star coupler. 
A method as in claim 14, wherein said 
interference forming step includes imparting predetermined 

and different phase shifts to the surface acoustic waves 
by passing the surface acoustic waves through waveguides 

over different paths each of which has a length which 
differs in length from the lengths of all other waveguides 

in the grating. 
A method as in claim 14, wherein said coupling 
steps include passing the SAWs through star couplers 

forming free space regions. 
A method as in claim 13, wherein said passing 
step includes propagating the spectrum as a subcarrier in 

an optical signal over an optical fiber operating over an 
optical range including the spectrum and a demodulating 

the optical signal to apply the spectrum to the upstream 
lead. 
A router for routing radio frequency signals 
 

between an upstream point and a plurality of downstream 
points, comprising: 

   a surface acoustic wave (SAW) supporting material; 
   an electrical-to-SAW generator deposited on said 

material at the upstream point and including an electrical 
to SAW transducer; 

   a SAW detector deposited on said material at the 
downstream points and including a plurality of SAW to 

electrical downstream transducers; 
   a grating establishing a plurality of unequal length 

acoustic paths each extending along said material from 
said generator to said detector. 
A router as in claim 19, wherein 
   said generator includes an acoustic star coupler 

coupled to the electrical to SAW transducer and to said 
paths; and 

   said detector includes an acoustic star coupler 
coupled to the SAW to electrical transducers and to said 

paths. 
A router as in claim 19, wherein said material 
is a piezoelectric material. 
A router as in claim 19, wherein said material 
is a crystal. 
A router as in claim 19, wherein said material 
is a quartz crystal. 
A router as in claim 19, wherein said material 
is lithium niobate. 
A router as in claim 19, wherein said grating 
includes a plurality of acoustical waveguides of different 

 
lengths each extending between an upstream and a 

downstream end. 
A router as in claim 19, wherein said grating 
includes a plurality of blazed grating teeth extending 

along a curved reflection course at unequal distances from 
a first position at said electrical to SAW transducer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
