<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651671</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AIR-LIQUID SEPARATOR ASSEMBLY AND SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1900	B01D3300	B01D4512	B01D4512	B04B300	B01D2400	B01D3600	B04B300	B01D3370	B01D2438	B01D1900	B01D3600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B04B	B01D	B01D	B04B	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D19	B01D33	B01D45	B01D45	B04B3	B01D24	B01D36	B04B3	B01D33	B01D24	B01D19	B01D36	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for separating an air-liquid mixture in a low gravity environment is disclosed having a high-speed separator (14) to initially process the air-liquid mixture. A second, low-speed separator (24) has its inlet (22) connected to the liquid discharge outlet (18) of the high-speed separator (14) in order to remove the entrained air bubbles from liquid discharged from the high-speed separator (14). The low-speed separator (24) has an air outlet (28) and a liquid discharge outlet (34). Air removed by air outlet (28) of the low-speed separator (24) may be returned through outlet conduit (30) to the air-liquid mixture inlet (12) of the high-speed separator (14) or vented through filter (32).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRUMMAN AEROSPACE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRUMMAN AEROSPACE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANGIALARDI JOHN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANGIALARDI, JOHN, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system for separating an air-liquid 
mixture, as well as a separator assembly to be used in this system. The 
assembly and the system finds particular use in separating air-liquid 
mixtures in low gravity environments. In zero gravity or low gravity environments, such as those found in 
spacecraft and space stations, airflow is used to entrain free floating liquid. 
The mixture is then processed through phase separators which return the 
air to the ambient atmosphere and transfer the separated liquid to other 
processing equipment. The known separators operate at high speeds, on 
the order of several thousand rpm, which results in the entrainment of air 
bubbles in the liquid output. This is particularly troublesome when the 
liquid contains any soaps or foaming agents. The known high speed separators provide excellent separation of air 
or any gas from the liquid. The separation of air from liquid is coarse and 
partially controlled only by applying very high back pressure on the liquid 
discharge line. Low speed or nonrotating separators (such as cyclone or  
 
vortex separators) do not provide the level of air separation as the high speed 
separators, nor are they as dependable. EP-A-328949 discloses a high speed centrifugal separator. From a first aspect, the invention provides a system for separating an air-liquid 
mixture in a low gravity environment comprising: 
a) a first, rotatable separator coupled to means capable of effecting 
high speed separator rotation and having an air-liquid mixture inlet, an air outlet 
and a liquid outlet; b) a second, rotatable separator coupled to means capable of effecting 
relatively lower speed separator rotation and having a mixture inlet connected 
to the liquid outlet of the first separator, an air bleed outlet and a liquid 
discharge outlet, the second separator comprising a debubbler to remove air 
bubbles entrained in the liquid discharged from the first separator; c) pressure actuated check valve means operatively interposed in a 
conduit connecting the liquid outlet of the first separator to the mixture inlet of 
the second separator such that liquid may only flow from the first separator 
toward the second separator, the check valve opening to allow such flow at a 
pressure of P1; d) a pressure actuated bleed valve operatively located in a conduit 
connected to the air bleed outlet of the second separator, the bleed valve opening 
at a pressure P2 to permit flow through the conduit such that P2 > P1, thereby 
maintainin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for separating an air-liquid mixture in a low gravity environment 
comprising: 


a) a first, rotatable separator (14) coupled to means capable of 
effecting high speed separator rotation and having an air-liquid mixture inlet (12), an air 

outlet (16) and a liquid outlet (18); 
b) a second, rotatable separator (24) coupled to means capable of effecting 
relatively lower speed separator rotation and having a mixture inlet (22) connected to the 

liquid outlet of the first separator, an air bleed outlet (28) and a liquid discharge outlet (34), the 
second separator comprising a debubbler to remove air bubbles entrained in the liquid 

discharged from the first separator; 
c) pressure actuated check valve means (26) operatively interposed in a conduit 
connecting the liquid outlet of the first separator to the mixture inlet of the second 

separator such that liquid may only flow from the first separator toward the second 
separator, the check valve opening to allow such flow at a pressure of P
1
; 
d) a pressure actuated bleed valve (46) operatively located in a conduit connected 
to the air bleed outlet of the second separator, the bleed valve opening at a pressure 

P
2
 to permit flow through the conduit such that P
2
 
>
 P
1
, thereby maintaining a 
positive air pressure within the second separator; 
e) outlet valve means (38) operatively associated with the liquid discharge 
outlet of the second separator to control the flow of liquid from the second separator: 

and, 
f) pressure sensing control means (40) operatively associated with the second 
separator and the outlet valve means (38) to sense the pressure of the liquid in the second 

separator and open the outlet valve means when the pressure of the liquid reaches a 
predetermined value. 
The system of claim 1 further comprising conduit means (30) interconnecting the 
bleed valve (46) to the mixture inlet (12) of the first separator (14).  

 
The system of claim 1 or 2 further comprising vent means connected to the bleed 
valve to vent the air flowing through the bleed valve (46) to ambient atmosphere. 
The system of claim 3 further comprising filter means (32) operatively associated 
with the vent means to filter the air flowing through the vent means. 
The system of any preceding claim wherein the second separator (24) comprises: 

a) a stationary housing having the mixture inlet (22) and the liquid discharge 

outlet (34); 
b) a separator member (54) rotatably located within the stationary housing so 
as to rotate about an axis; and, 
c) drive means (56) to rotate the separator member. 
The system of claim 5 wherein the mixture inlet (22) is generally coaxial with the 
axis of rotation of the separator member (54). 
The system of claim 6 wherein the separator member (54) is generally cylindrical 
in configuration and wherein the mixture inlet (22) communicates with the interior of the 

cylinder. 
The system of claim 7 wherein the separator member comprises a filter basket 
having internal and external vanes.  

 
The system of any of claims 5 to 8 wherein the stationary housing has 
upper and lower walls (48,50) connected by a "V"-shaped section (52). 
The system of claim 9 wherein the drive means (56) rotates the separator 
member (54) at a speed sufficient to locate the liquid in the "V"-shaped section 

of the separator and generate enough pressure to excite the pressure sensing 
control means (40). 
The system of any of claims 5 to 10 wherein the stationary housing 
defines a liquid collection portion and wherein the liquid discharge outlet (34) 

communicates with the liquid collection portion. 
The system of claim 11 further comprising: 

conduit means connected to the liquid discharge outlet (34) such that the 
outlet valve means is located in the conduit means so as to control the flow of 

liquid through the conduit means and wherein the pressure sensing control 
means (40) is operatively associated with the liquid discharge outlet (34) and the 

outlet valve means (38) to sense the pressure of the liquid collected in the liquid 
collection portion and to open the outlet valve means when the sensed pressure 

reaches a predetermined value. 
The system of claim 12 further comprising a static pressure conduit (44) 
interconnecting the pressure sensing control means (40) and the mixture inlet 

(22). 
The system of claim 9 wherein residual liquid is retained by minimum 
surface configuration during non-operating mode in a liquid collector portion 

defined between the legs of the "V". 
A separator for removing air bubbles from an air-liquid mixture 
comprising: 


a) a stationary housing having a mixture inlet (20), a liquid discharge 
outlet (34) and an air outlet (28) and comprising: 


i) upper and lower, spaced apart walls (48,50) each having a 
substantially planar circular configuration; and 
ii) a sidewall (52) interconnecting the upper and lower walls and 
defining a liquid collector portion between the upper and lower spaced  

 
walls; 
b) a separator member (54) rotatably located within the housing 
having walls which generally define a cylinder with respect to an axis which 

extends generally transversely to the upper and lower walls of the housing; and, 
c) drive means to rotate the separator member about the axis,
 
   characterised in that said sidewall (52) having a generally V-shaped cross-sectional 

configuration and in that said drive means is adapted to rotate the 
separator member about the axis at a low speed which is nevertheless sufficient 

to locate the liquid in the V-shaped sidewall thereby removing said bubbles and 
causing the separated liquid to discharge through said outlet. 
The separator of claim 15 wherein the mixture inlet (20) is generally 
coaxial with the axis of the separator member (54). 
The separator of claim 16 wherein the mixture inlet (20) communicates 
directly with the interior of the cylinder. 
The separator of claim 16 or 17 wherein the air outlet (28) communicates 
directly with the interior of the separator member (54) to withdraw air separated 

from the liquid. 
The separator of claim 17 or 18 wherein the separator member (54) 
comprises a filter basket having internal and external vanes. 
The separator of any of claims 15 to 19 wherein the stationary housing 
defines a liquid collection portion and wherein the liquid discharge outlet (34) 

communicates with the liquid collection portion. 
The separator of claim 20 further comprising: 

a) conduit means (36) connected to the liquid discharge outlet (34); 
b) valve means (38) in the conduit means to control the flow of liquid 
through the conduit means; 
c) pressure sensing control means (40) operatively associated with the 
liquid discharge outlet and the valve means to sense the pressure of the liquid 

collected in the liquid collector portion and to open the valve means when the 
sensed pressure reaches a predetermined value. 
The separator of claim 21 further comprising a static pressure conduit 
(44) interconnecting the pressure sensing control means (40) and the mixture 

inlet (22). 
The separator of claim 21 or 22 wherein the drive means (56) rotates the 
separator member at a speed sufficient to generate enough pressure to excite the 

pressure sensing control means (40), said speed being less than 300 RPM. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
