<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643860</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R2500	B60R2500	B60R2510	B60R2510	G01S314	G01S332	G01S500	G01S500	G01S502	G01S502	G01S514	G01S514	G08B2510	G08B2510	G08G1127	G08G113	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04M1104	H04M1104	H04W6400	H04W6400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G08B	G08B	G08G	G08G	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R25	B60R25	B60R25	B60R25	G01S3	G01S3	G01S5	G01S5	G01S5	G01S5	G01S5	G01S5	G08B25	G08B25	G08G1	G08G1	H04M11	H04M11	H04M11	H04M11	H04W64	H04W64	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vehicle tracking system makes use of a conventional cellular telephone network including a plurality of fixed cellular transmitter sites each covering a predetermined area. The system includes a plurality of cellular signal processing units for installation at hidden locations in vehicles to be monitored. Each unit is connected to one or more different sensors in the vehicle, at least one of the sensors being a break-in detector for detecting tempering with the vehicle, and to a cellular antenna, and includes a controller for monitoring the sensor outputs and initiating an emergency message transmission to a remote monitoring station in the event of actuation of a sensor. The car processing unit monitors site identifying signals and signal strengths of transmissions from adjacent cellular transmitter sites in an emergency, and the emergency message includes vehicle identifying information, cell site identifying information, and signal strength information which will be dependent on distance from the cell site. The monitoring station includes a computer for determining and displaying an approximate vehicle location from the incoming cell site identifying and signal strength information.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRACKMOBILE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRACKMOBILE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEFFER ELIEZER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON MARCO J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEFFER, ELIEZER, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON, MARCO, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to vehicle tracking and locating systems for locating vehicles in an emergency.In U.S. Patent Nos. 4,891,650 and 5,055,851 of Sheffer a vehicle locating system was described which relied on the use of the existing nationwide cellular radio network used in mobile telecommunications (cellular phone syrtem) .Cellular telephone networks rely on a fixed array of cell sites, each cell site covering a predetermine rea and having a wireless signal detecting and generatii.-j unit at a central location in the area. These cell sites receive and transmit signals to and from cellular phones within their area on their own set of frequencies, and are linked via conventional land lines to a mobile telecommunication switching office (MTSO) for transmission to other cell sites, receivers, or conventional phones via a telephone company central office (CO) .U.S. Patent Nos. 4,891,650 and 5,055,851 describe a system for detecting an emergency in a vehicle, such as forced entry, and using the existing cellular radio network to transmit an alarm signal from the vehicle to adjacent cell sites. The mobile telephone switching or MTSO is modified in order to transmit a signal indicating the signal strength of the received alarm signal to an external, to telephone company, central alarm station. The transmitted signal also includes vehicle identifying information. At t. e central alarm station, the approximate vehicle position can be estimated based on the relative strengths of the signal received from the vehicle at adjacent cell sites. A police car can then be dispatched towards the approximate vehicle location. The tracking 

vehicle turns on its own cellular car radio so that the tracking vehicle is itself tracked using the same technique. In this way, an operator in the central alarm monitoring station can observe the relative position of the original vehicle and the tracking vehicle or vehicles. Since the exact position of the tracking vehicle is known, this can be used to provide the tracking vehicle with instructions for moving towards the target.One disadvantage of this previous vehicle location system is that it requires modification of the software at the MTSO so that it will generate the required signal strength signals for transmission to the central monitoring station. This would be a relatively complex and expensive procedure.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved vehicle
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A vehicle tracking system, comprising: an array of fixed cellular signal receiving and transmitting units each covering a predetermined area and forming part of a cellular telephone network, each fixed cellular unit including means for transmitting cellular control signals identifying said unit; a signal processing unit for mounting in a vehicle, the unit including signal generating means for generating an emergency signal on detection of an emergency, the signal generating means including means for receiving cellular control signals from any fixed cellular units within range of the vehicle, means for determining the signal strengths of any received cellular control signals, and means for transmitting said emergency signal including the received cellular control signals and determined signal strengths from the vehicle; and a central monitoring means for receiving said emergency signal and for computing an approximate vehicle location from said cellular control signals and signal strengths.
2. The system as claimed in Claim 1, further including sensor means linked to said signal processing means for detecting an emergency in said vehicle, said signal processing means including means for monitoring the output of said sensor means and operating sa- 1 emergency signal generating means on actuation of said sensor n ~.ns .
3. The system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said emergency signal includes vehicle identifying information. 


 4. The system as claimed in Claim 1, including a telecommunications switching office connected to said fixed cellular units, said central monitoring means being coupled to said telecommunications switching office, and said transmitting means comprising means for transmitting said emergency signal to said central monitoring means via one of said fixed cellular units and said telecommunications switching office.
5. The system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said signal receiving and transmitting means comprises a cellular transceiver and at least one cellular antenna connected to said transceiver.
6. The system as claimed in Claim 5, including a pair of cellular antennas connected to said transceiver, and control means for alternately receiving incoming signals from adjacent cell sites from the two antennas and for comparing said signals and transmitting the strongest set of signals in said alarm message for ensuring omni¬ directional reception of signal strength from all adjacent cell sites.
7. The system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said central monitoring means includes a computer, connecting means for connecting the computer to receive incoming alarm signals via a telephone line, and display means for displaying output information from said computer, the computer including means for receiving and storing incoming alarm messages, means for displaying vehicle identifying information on said display means in response to an incoming alarm signal means for computing an approximate vehicle location from the incoming alarm signal information on adjacent cellular transmitter units and signal 


strengths, and means for displaying the computed vehicle location on the display means.
8. The system as claimed in Claim 1, including a plurality of identical signal processing units mounted in vehicles to be monitored and in tracking vehicles for tracking said monitored vehicles, the central monitoring means including means for receiving incoming alarm information signals from processing units in a first vehicle being tracked and in tracking vehicles chasing that vehicle and for computing approximate vehicle locations for the first vehicle and the tracking vehicles, and for comparing the computed tracking vehicle locations to the actual tracking vehicle locations and cc^rεctiπ the first vehicle location in accordance with any d 
■
:repancy between the computed and actual tracking vehicle locations.
9. The system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the central control station processing means includes means for determining the area covered by the fixed cellular units detected by the signal processing unit, means for displaying a map of the determined area and for displaying a computed vehicle location at the appropriate position on the map, and for up-dating the displayed vehicle location in response to incoming cell identifying and signal strength information from the vehicle.
10. The system as claimed in Claim 2, wherein the sensor means includes a towing sensor for detecting towing of the vehicle, a sensor for detecting start of the vehicle without use of an ignition key, and an emergency button for operation by the driver of the vehicle. 


 11. The system as claimed in Claim 10, wherein said cellular processing unit includes a power input, monitoring means connected to said sensors and having an output connected to said signal generating means, said monitoring means being connected to said power input at all times, and switching means connected between said power input and said signal generating means, said switching means comprising means for normally disconnecting said signal generating means from said power input when the vehicle ignition is off and for connecting the signal generating means to the power input when the ignition is on, and said monitoring means comprising means for operating said switching means to connect said signal generating means to the power input on actuation of any of said sensors while the vehicle ignition is off.
12. The system as claimed in Claim 1, including a pair of alternative power inputs to said unit, the first input comprising means for connection to a vehicle battery output, and a back-up battery connected to the other power input for supplying power to the unit in the event of loss of vehicle battery power.
13. The system as claimed in Claim l, wherein said signal generating means comprises a transceiver for receiving and transmitting cellular radio signals, and a controller for controlling said transceiver to transmit said alarm message in the event of an emergency.
14. The system as claimed in Claim 13, including microphone and speaker means connected to said controller, the controller including means for activating said microphone and speaker means in the event of receipt of a listen-in command from said central monitoring means to allow an operator at said central monitoring means to 


listen to sounds in the vehicle, the central monitoring means including means for dialing up said vehicle unit and transmitting said listen-in command to said unit on receipt of a selected control input from said operator.
15. A method of locating and tracking a vehicle, comprising the steps of: detecting an emergency situation in a vehicle; monitoring the cell identifying information transmitted from cellular phone network cell sites within range of the vehicle in a signal receiving and transmitting unit in the vehicle in response to detection of an emergency situation; extracting and storing signal strength data in the vehicle unit from the signals received from adjacent cell sites; transmitting a packet of information from the vehicle unit to a central controller at a remote monitoring station, the information including an alarm code, vehicle identifying information, and cell identifying and extracted signal strength information; and processing the alarm information at the central computer to compute an approximate vehicle location from the cell identifying and relative signal strength information. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
