<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613180</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device having wiring electrodes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2352	H01L23532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor device of the invention has a p⁺-type 
silicon source region (24B), an insulating film 

(28, 18) formed on the source region (24B) and having a 
contact hole, and a wiring electrode (38B) connected to 

the source region (24B) through the contact hole. The 
wiring electrode (38B) has a Ti layer (32) formed on the 

insulating film and an exposed surface of the source 
region (24B), a TiN layer (34) formed on the Ti layer 

(32), and an Aℓ layer (36) formed on the TiN layer (34). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO SHIBAURA ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEDA TAKEO C O PATENT DIVISIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEDA, TAKEO, C/O PATENT DIVISION K. K. TOSHIBA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor 
device having wiring electrodes and, more particularly, 
to a semiconductor device wired through contact holes. In semiconductor devices such as MOS transistors, 
aluminum is used as a wiring layer. A MOS transistor 
has, for example, n-type diffusion regions in the surface 
area of a p-type silicon substrate. These regions 
are used as a source and drain. Contact holes are formed 
by patterning an insulating layer covering the substrate 
and diffusion layers. Wiring layers are formed, 
extending through the contact holes and contacting the 
diffusion layers. In connecting the wiring layer with 
the diffusion layer, Aℓ is deposited on the diffusion 
layer by sputtering, and alloyed with Si by annealing. However, when the wiring layer is heated to a temperature 
of 450°C in another step, the Aℓ diffuses from 
the wiring layer into the silicon substrate, growing 
Aℓ-Si spikes within the substrate. In recent years, 
shallow diffusion layers are often formed with a use of 
BF₂ and BCℓ₂, and, in this case, the alloy spikes may 
grow deeper than the diffusion layer. If spikes penetrate 
the diffusion layer and reach the substrate, the 
pn junction between the substrate and the diffusion 
layer will break down. Furthermore, disconnection of the wiring layer  
 
occurs easily in the portion inside of the contact hole. 
This is because electromigration occurs in this portion 
when a relatively large current flows in the Aℓ wiring 
layer. Two conventional methods of preventing alloy spikes 
are known. In the first method, Aℓ is deposited by 
sputtering, together with about 1 to 5% of Si (based on 
Aℓ amount), onto the diffusion layer. This method can 
reliably prevent alloy spikes. However, it would only 
be used when an increase in contact resistance can be 
ignored. In practice, such an increase in contact resistance 
cannot be ignored, and the Si amount must be 
reduced to a low percentage at which alloy spikes can 
not be sufficiently prevented. Namely, a high amount 
of silicon is preferable in the control of alloy spike 
growth. If the Si amount exceeds the solid solubility 
of Aℓ, however, solid Si precipitates in the wiring 
layer in addition to the Aℓ-Si alloy. The precipitated 
Si has a remarkably low conductivity. The contact resistance 
of the wiring layer undesirably increases due 
to the low conductivity. In particular, the narrow region 
of the wiring layer inside of the contact hole may 
be electrically separated from the diffusion region due 
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor device comprising: 
   a semiconductor element (24A); 

   an insulating film (16, 18, 28) formed on said 
semiconductor element (24A), said insulating film (16, 

18, 28) having a contact hole (30A) exposing a portion 
of said semiconductor element (24A); and 

   a wiring electrode (38A) connected to said 
semiconductor element (24A) through said contact hole 

(30A), said wiring electrode (38A) being composed of a 
first layer (32) of Ti formed on said insulating film 

(16, 18, 28) and the exposed portion of said 
semiconductor element (24A), a second layer (34) of 

TiN formed on said first layer (32), and a third layer 
(37) having Al as its major component and formed on 

said second layer (34); 
   characterized in that 

   said second layer (34) is in direct contact with a 
surface of said first layer (32) which is unexposed to 

atmospheric air. 
A device according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said third layer (37) is made of one member 

selected from the group consisting of pure Al, an Al-Si 
alloy, an Al-Ti-Si alloy, and Al-Zr-Si alloy, an 

Al-Ti alloy and an Al-Zr alloy. 
A device according to any preceding claim, 
characterized in that said wiring electrode further 

comprises a layer (52) of TiSi formed on said third 
layer (37). 
A device according to any preceding claim, 
characterized in that said semiconductor element is a 

diffusion region of a first conductivity type formed 
 

in a semiconductor substrate (10) of a second 
conductivity type. 
A device according to claim 4, characterized in 
that said third layer (37) has an amorphous surface 

region having at least one implanted impurity selected 
from the group consisting of As, BF₂ and Ar. 
A device according to claim 5, characterized by 
further comprising: 

   a second insulating film (40) formed on said 
wiring electrode (38A) and having a second contact 

hole (42) exposing a portion of the amorphous surface 
region of said third layer (37); and 

   a wiring layer (44) formed on said second 
insulating film (40) and contacting the exposed 

portion of said third layer (37) through said second 
contact hole (42). 
A device according to any preceding claim, 
characterized in that said third layer (37) has an 

amorphous surface region having at least one impurity 
selected from the group consisting of As, BF₂ and Ar. 
A device according to claim 1, characterized by 
further comprising: 

   a second insulating film (40) formed on said 
wiring electrode (38A) and having a second contact 

hole (42) exposing a portion of a surface region of 
said third layer (37); and 

   a wiring layer (44) formed on said second 
insulating film (40) in contact with the surface 

region of said third layer (37) through said second 
contact hole (42). 
A device according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said wiring electrode (38A) further comprises a 

fourth layer of Ti formed between said second layer 

(34) and said third layer (37). 
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor device, 
said method comprising the steps of: 

   forming an insulating film (16, 18, 28) covering a 
surface of a silicon substrate (10); 

   forming a semiconductor element (24A) in the 
surface of said silicon substrate (10); 

   patterning said insulating film (16, 18, 28) to 
form a contact hole (30A) exposing a portion of said 

semiconductor element (24A); 
   depositing a first layer (32) of Ti on said 

insulating film (16, 18, 28) and the exposed portion 
of said semiconductor element (24A), and a second 

layer (34) of TiN on said first layer (32); and 
   depositing a third layer (37) having Al as its 

major component on said second layer (34), said first, 
second and third layers (32, 34, 37) forming an 

electrode for said semiconductor element (24A); 
characterized in that 

   said depositing step of the first and second 
layers (32, 34) includes a process of successively 

sputtering the first and second layers (32, 34) in a 
single vacuum chamber. 
A method according to claim 10, characterized by 
further comprising the step of patterning said first, 

second and third layers (32, 34, 37) so that the 
remaining portions of said first, second and third 

layers (32, 34, 37) serve as a wiring layer. 
A method according to claim 10, characterized by 
further comprising the step of forming an insulative, 

 
protective film (40) covering said wiring layer and 

the exposed portion of said insulating layer (16, 18, 
28) by low-temperature plasma chemical vapour 

deposition. 
A method according to claim 12, characterized in 
that said insulating layer (16, 18, 28) and said 

insulative, protective film (40) are composed of 
silicon oxide. 
A method according to any of claims 10 to 13, 
characterized in that said semiconductor element (24A) 

is formed by doping an impurity in the surface of a 
silicon substrate (10). 
A method according to claim 14, characterized in 
that said semiconductor element (24A) contains a p-type 

impurity. 
A method according to any of claims 10 to 15, 
characterized in that said third layer (37) is formed 

of a material selected from the group consisting of 
pure Al, Al-Si alloys, Al-Ti-Si alloys, Al-Zr-Si 

alloys, Al-Ti alloys and Al-Zr alloys. 
A method according to any of claims 10 to 16, 
characterized by further comprising the step of 

subjecting a surface of said third layer (37) to ion 
implantation of at least one impurity selected from 

the group consisting of As, BF₂ and Ar so that the 
surface of said third layer (37) becomes amorphous. 
A method according to claim 10, characterized by 
further comprising a step of providing a fourth layer 

(50) of Ti between said second layer (34) and said 
third layer (37). 
A method according to any of claims 10 to 18, 
characterized by further comprising a step of 

annealing said second layer (34) in a nitrogen 
atmosphere. 
A semiconductor device with a wiring electrode, 
comprising: 

   a semiconductor element (24A, 24B); 
   an insulating film (18, 28) having a contact hole 

(30A, 30B) and formed on said semiconductor element 
(24A, 24B); and 

   a wiring electrode formed on said insulating film 
and connected to said semiconductor element through 

said contact hole characterized in that 
   said wiring electrode comprises a first layer (32) 

of Ti formed on said insulating film (18, 28) and an 
exposed portion of said semiconductor element (24A, 

24B), a second layer (34) of TiN formed on said first 
layer (32), and a third layer (36) having Al as a 

major component and formed on said second layer (34). 
A device according to claim 20, characterized in 
that said wiring electrode comprises first, second, 

and third layers (32, 34, 36) formed by deposition in 
the same vacuum. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
