<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646010</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
USE OF MULLERIAN INHIBITING SUBSTANCE FOR TREATING TUMORS AND FOR MODULATING CLASS 1 MAJOR HISTOCOMPATIBILITY ANTIGEN EXPRESSION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K4800	A61K4800	C07K14435	C07K14575	C07K1618	C07K1626	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	A61K48	A61K48	C07K14	C07K14	C07K16	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This application concerns the treatment of certain tumors using an effective amount of the glycoprotein Muellerian Inhibiting Substance (MIS). This application further concerns the treatment of certain tumors using an effective amount of the C-terminal fragment of MIS. Also, this application concerns DNA sequences encoding the C-terminal fragment of MIS, vectors containing the DNA sequence and transformed host cells capable of producing the C-terminal fragment. This application further concerns treating certain tumors by transfecting tumor cells with a gene coding for MIS or the C-terminal fragment of MIS. Gene therapy treatments for inhibiting growth of certain tumors are also provided. Further, this application concerns a method for modulating class I histocompatibility antigens with MIS and EGF.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN HOSPITAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GENERAL HOSPITAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARKSDALE EDWARD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIN TAI WAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONAHOE PATRICIA K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EPSTEIN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACLAUGHLIN DAVID T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARRY ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAGIN RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARKSDALE, EDWARD M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIN, TAI WAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONAHOE, PATRICIA K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EPSTEIN, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACLAUGHLIN, DAVID T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARRY, ROBERT L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAGIN, RICHARD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 USE OF MULLERIAN INHIBITING SUBSTANCE FOR TREATING TUMORS AND FOR MODULATING CLASS 1 MAJOR HISTOCOMPATIBILITY ANΗGEN EXPRESSIO5 This invention was made with government support under CA 17393 awarded by the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.This application is a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. Application No. 07/299,158, filed January 19, 1989, which disclosure is herein incorporated 10 by reference. This application is also a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. Application No. 07/901,637, filed June 19,1992, which is a Continuation-In- Part of U.S. Application No. 07/683,966, filed April 12 1991 , which disclosures are herein incorporated by reference.15 Field of the InventionThis application is directed to inhibiting local and metastatic tumor growth by administering to certain tumors an effective amount of Mϋllerian Inhibiting Substance or an effecitve amount of the carboxy-terminal fragment20 of MIS. This application further concerns inhibiting primary and metastatic tumor growth by transfecting tumor cells with a vector capable of expressing an effective amount of Mϋllerian Inhibiting Substance or an effective amount of the carboxy-terminal fragment of MIS. Also, this application is directed to DNA sequences encoding the C-terminal fragment of MIS, vectors containing25 the DNA sequences and transformed host cells capable of producing the C- terminal fragment. This application further concerns gene therapy treatments for patients suffering from certain tumors. Also disclosed is a method for modulating class I histocompatibility antigens by administering Mϋllerian Inhibiting Substance and Epidermal Growth Factor.30 

 Background of the InventionMϋllerian Inhibiting Substance (MIS) is produced by the fetal testis as a 140 kDa glycosylated disulfide-linked homodimer that causes regression of the Mϋllerian duct in the male fetus. Under reducing conditions, the protein migrates on gel electrophoresis at an apparent molecular weight of 70 kDa. The protein can be proteolytically cleaved by exogenous plasmin into two distinct fragments that migrate electrophoretically as 57 kDa and 12.5 kDa moieties with cleavage at residue 427 of the intact 535 amino acid monomer (Pepinsky, et al, J. Biol. Chem. 263: 18961-4 (1988)).Various methods for purifying MIS are known. U.S. Patent No. 4,404, 188, filed July 29, 1981 and entitled "Purified Mϋllerian Inhibiting Substance and Method of Purification" describes a process for purifying MIS which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is:
1. A method of inhibiting tumor growth comprising administering an effective amount of MIS to a patient.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said MIS has a molecular weight of 140 kDa or 70 kDa.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the MIS is purified from an immunoaffinity chromatography matrix by eluting with an effective amount of an alkali metal halide or an alkaline earth metal halide followed by eluting with an acid solution having a pH of between about 2.5 and 4.0.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein said MIS is proteolytically cleaved by reacting with a proteolytic compound to form protein fragments having a molecular weight of about 57 kDa and 12.5 kDa.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said proteolytic compound is plasmin.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising administering an effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent following administration of the MIS, said chemotherapeutic agent effective in inhibiting growth of said tumor.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the chemotherapeutic agent is cisplatin.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the MIS is rhMIS. 


 9. A method of inhibiting tumor growth comprising administering an effective amount of a combination of a chemotherapeutic agent and MIS to a patient.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said MIS has a molecular weight of 140 kDa or 70 kDa.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the MIS is purified from an immunoaffinity chromatography matrix by eluting with an effective amount of an alkali metal halide or an alkaline earth metal halide followed by eluting with an acid solution having a pH of between about 2.5 and 4.0.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein said MIS is proteolytically cleaved by reacting with a proteolytic compound to form protein fragments having a molecular weight of about 57 kDa and 12.5 kDa.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein said proteolytic compound is plasmin.
14. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective tumor inhibiting amount of proteolytically cleaved MIS.
15. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 14, wherein said proteolytically cleaved MIS comprises protein fragments having a molecular weight of about 57 kDa and 12.5 kDa.
16. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 14, further comprising a chemotherapeutic agent effective in inhibiting growth of said tumor.
17. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 16, wherein said chemotherapeutic agent is cisplatin. 


 18. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 14, wherein said MIS is rhMIS.
19. A method of inhibiting tumor growth comprising administering an effective amount of C-terminal fragment of MIS substantially free of N- terminal fragment to a patient.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein said C-terminal fragment of MIS has a molecular weight of about 25 kDa or about 12.5 kDa.
21. The method of claim 19, further comprising administering an effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent following administration of the C-terminal fragment of MIS, said chemotherapeutic agent effective in inhibiting growth of said tumor.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the chemotherapeutic agent is cisplatin.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein the C-terminal fragment of MIS is derived from rhMIS.
24. A method of inhibiting tumor growth comprising administering an effective amount of a combination of a chemotherapeutic agent and C- terminal fragment of MIS substantially free of N-terminal fragment to a patient.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein said chemotherapeutic agent is cisplatin and said C-terminal fragment of MIS has a molecular weight of about 25 kDa or about 12.5 kDa. 


 26. A localized method of inhibiting tumor growth by activating MIS at a tumor site comprising activating MIS at the tumor site by proteolytic cleavage with a substance capable of cleaving MIS into fragments of about 57 kDa and about 12.5 kDa.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the tumor is perfused with the substance capable of cleaving MIS into fragments of about 57 kDa and about 12.5 kDa.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the substance is plasmin.
29. A tumor inhibiting pharmaceutical composition comprising C- terminal fragment of MIS substantially free of N-terminal fragment of MIS.
30. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 29, wherein said C- terminal fragment of MIS has a molecular weight of about 25 kDa or about 12.5 kDa.
31. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 29, further comprising a chemotherapeutic agent effective in inhibiting growth of said tumor.
32. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 31, wherein said chemotherapeutic agent is cisplatin.
33. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 29, wherein said C- terminal fragment is derived from rhMIS.
34. A DNA sequence consisting essentially of that shown in Figure 17 or Figure 18. 


 35. A recombinant DNA molecule comprising a DNA sequence selected from the group consisting of:
(a) the DNA sequence of claim 34;
(b) DNA sequences that hybridize to any of the DNA sequences of (a) and that code for a polypeptide having about 109 amino acids and displaying the biological activity of a human or bovine C-terminal fragment of MIS; and
(c) DNA sequences which are degenerate as a result of the genetic code to the DNA sequences defined above and which code for a polypeptide having about 109 amino acids and displaying the biological activity of a human or bovine C-terminal fragment of MIS.
36. The recombinant DNA molecule according to claim 35 , wherein said DNA sequence is operatively linked to an expression control sequence in the recombinant DNA molecule.
37. A host transformed with the recombinant DNA molecule of claim 36.
38. A host transformed with the recombinant DNA molecule of claim 36, said host being selected from the group consisting of strains of E. coli, Pseudomonas, Bacillus, yeast and animal cells in culture.
39. The host according to claim 38, wherein said animal cells are selected from the group consisting of COS cells, CHO cells, mouse cells, swine cells and human tissue cells in culture.
40. A method of producing a polypeptide displaying the biological activity of a C-terminal fragment of MIS, said method comprising the step of culturing a host transformed with a recombinant DNA molecule according to claim 36, and recovering said polypeptide. 


 41. The method according to claim 40, wherein said host comprises strains of E. coli, Pseudomonas, Bacillus, yeast and animal cells in culture.
42. The method according to claim 40, wherein said animal cells are selected from the group consisting of COS cells, CHO cells, mouse cells, swine cells, and human tissue cells in culture.
43. The method of claim 1 or 19, wherein said tumor is selected from the group consisting of vulvar epidermoid carcinoma, cervical carcinoma, endometrial adenocarcinoma, ovarian adenocarcinoma, and ocular melanoma.
44. The method of claim 1 or 19, wherein said tumor is selected from the group consisting of prostate, lymphoid, breast, cutaneous, and germ cell tumors.
45. A method for inhibiting tumor growth comprising transfecting a tumor cell with a gene capable of expressing an effective amount of MIS to inhibit tumor growth.
46. A method for inhibiting tumor growth comprising transfecting a tumor cell with a gene capable of expressing an effective amount of the C- terminal fragment of MIS to inhibit tumor growth.
47. The method of claim 45 or 46, wherein primary tumor growth is inhibited.
48. The method of claim 45 or 46, wherein metastatic tumor growth is inhibited. 


 49. The method of claim 45 or 46, wherein said tumor is selected from the group consisting of vulvar epidermoid carcinoma, cervical carcinoma, endometrial adenocarcinoma, ovarian adenocarcinoma, and ocular melanoma.
50. The method of claim 45 or 46, wherein said tumor is selected from the group consisting of prostate, lymphoid, breast, cutaneous and germ cell tumors.
51. The method of claim 1 or 19, wherein primary tumor growth is inhibited.
52. The method of claim 1 or 19, wherein metastatic tumor growth is inhibited.
53. A method for inhibiting tumor growth in a patient comprising:
(a) culturing autologous TILs taken from the patient in IL-2 to stimulate growth;
(b) transducing said stimulated TILs in vitro with a vector containing a gene capable of expressing an effective amount of an antiproliferative agent selected from the group consisting of MIS and the C-terminal fragment of MIS; and
(c) re-introducing said transduced TILs into the patient.
54. The method of claim 53, wherein said vector is a retroviral vector further containing a selection gene.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein said selection gene is the neomycin resistance gene. 


 56. The method of claim 55, wherein said retroviral vector is N2.
57. The method of claim 54, further comprising between steps (b) and (c): selecting for transduced TILs in an appropriate selection medium.
58. The method of claim 57, wherein said medium comprises the neomycin analog G418.
59. A method for inhibiting tumor growth in a patient comprising:
(a) inserting into a retroviral vector a gene capable of expressing an antiproliferative agent selected from the group consisting of MIS and the C- terminal fragment of MIS to form a recombinant construct;
(b) transfecting an amphotropic packaging cell line with said recombinant construct; and
(c) contacting said tumor with said transfected amphotropic cell line to inhibit tumor growth.
60. The method of claim 59, wherein said packaging cell line is selected from the group consisting of PA-12 or PA-317.
61. The method of claim 59, wherein said retroviral vector further contains a drug susceptibility gene.
62. The method of claim 61 , wherein said susceptibility gene is HS- tk.
63. A method for enhancing the expression of mRNA capable of encoding a class I MHC protein in a cell comprising providing to the cell an effective amount of MIS to enhance the expression of the mRNA. 


 64. The method of claim 63, wherein said enhanced expression of the mRNA is sufficient to increase the expression of class I MHC antigens on the surface of said cell.
65. The method of claim 64, wherein said cell is a tumor cell, and wherein said enhanced expression of class I MHC antigens is sufficient to suppress the metastasis of said tumor cell.
66. The method of claim 64, wherein said cell is a cell of an immunodeficient patient, and wherein said enhanced expression of class I MHC antigens is sufficient to alleviate the immunodeficiency of said patient.
67. The method of claim 65 or 66, wherein said MIS is co- administered with interferon.
68. The method of claim 66, wherein the patient suffers from AIDS.
69. A method for decreasing the expression of class I MHC mRNA in a cell comprising providing to said cell an effective amount of an antagonist of MIS.
70. The method of claim 69, wherein said antagonist of MIS is EGF.
71. The method of claim 69, wherein said decreased expression of class I MHC mRNA is sufficient to decrease the expression of class I MHC antigens on the surface of said cell.
72. The method of claim 71 , wherein said cell is to be transplanted into a transplant recipient patient, and wherein, said decreased expression of class I MHC mRNA is sufficient to decrease immunogenicity of said cell. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
