<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658481</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Opening-closing device comprising a lid hinged to a frame designed to engage the rim of a container.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D4316	B65D4316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D43	B65D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An opening-closing device with a lid (1) is 
obtained by thermoforming from thermoformable sheet 

material and comprises a relatively rigid perimeter 
frame or framework (2) bounding an internal space and 

designed to engage the rim of a container body, a lid 
(3) which can be seated removably in the space within 

the frame (2) and which is linked integrally thereto by 
means of at least one flexible portion (4) acting as a 

hinge, means (18, 26, 10) for retaining the lid in the 
closed position and an operating grip (5) for the lid 

(3) placed on the side opposite the hinge (4). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISAP OMV GROUP SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISAP O.M.V. GROUP SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PADOVANI PIETRO DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PADOVANI, PIETRO, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an opening-closing 
device with a lid for containers in general and in 
particular for containers thermoformed from plastics 
material. In the manufacture of containers which are 
thermoformed from thermoformable sheet material the 
production of hollow container bodies such as trays, 
bowls, beakers, cups, etc., and lids for application 
to and removal from a container body, as well as 
containers with lids, or container bodies attached to 
a corresponding incorporated lid by means of one or 
more hinge strips which may be weakened along 
predetermined lines of bending are known. The production of containers with lids by 
thermoforming sheet or strip material implies that the 
lid should necessarily have the same thickness as the 
body of the corresponding container. For many  
 
applications this is undesirable given that relatively 
small thicknesses may be sufficient for the lids, 
while it is desirable to have a container body of 
greater thickness, on account of requirements for 
robustness, structural stability and aesthetics, e.g. 
to avoid bulging. Obviously if a sheet of thicker 
thermoplastic material is used this objective can be 
achieved in any case, but with a considerable wastage 
of thermoformable material. The main object of this invention is to provide 
an opening-closing device with a lid obtained by the 
thermoforming of thermoformable material, which can be 
applied to a container body for loose products, in 
general both before and after the container body has 
been filled. Another object of this invention is that the said 
opening-closing device with a lid of thermoformable 
material may be applied either to containers of 
plastics material or containers of other materials. A further object of this invention is that the 
said opening-closing device should be suitable for 
acting as an advertising vehicle for the contents of 
promotional gift articles. Not the last object of this invention is that the 
opening-closing device with a lid according to the  
 
invention should be relatively simple and easy to 
manufacture, be highly reliable and have a limited 
cost. These and other objects which will be more 
apparent below are accomplished through an opening-closing 
device with a lid obtained by thermoforming 
which comprises a relatively rigid perimeter frame or 
framework which is designed to engage the rim of a 
container body, a lid which can be located removably 
in the space within the frame or framework and which 
is firmly anchored thereto by means
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An opening-closing device with a lid obtained by 
thermoforming, which comprises a relatively rigid 

perimeter frame or framework bounding an internal 
space and designed to engage the rim of a container 

body, a lid which can be seated removably in the space 
within the frame and which is linked integrally 

thereto by means of at least one flexible portion 
acting as a hinge, means for retaining the lid in the 

closed position and an operating grip for the lid 
placed on the side opposite the hinge. 
A device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the said perimeter frame has the structure of a 

double wall bounding an uninterrupted annular groove 
or recess designed to receive the upper edge of a 

container body. 
A device according to claim 2, characterised in 
that the said frame has a plurality of recesses or 

projections on its inner wall which are transverse to 
its inner wall and which are spaced along the frame 

and designed to make a snap connection to 
corresponding projections or seats provided along the 

 
edge of the container body. 
A device according to claims 2 or 3, 
characterised in that the said groove or recess is 

bounded by two inner and outer side walls, and a top 
wall, which has a rebate on its outer face which 

extends along the entire length of the frame and faces 
the interior thereof. 
A device according to any one of claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that the said grip is located on the 

opposite side with respect to the hinge. 
A device according to claim 5, characterised in 
that the recess has a widening in the vicinity of the 

hinge and the operating grip which affects the full 
width of the top wall. 
A device according to any one of claims 4 to 6, 
characterised in that the said recess also extends 

over the outer wall of the frame in the vicinity of 
the hinge. 
A device according to any one of the foregoing 
claims, characterised in that the said lid is formed 

 
of a panel or wall having a configuration and overall 

dimensions which are slightly smaller than the space 
within the frame and which has a slightly recessed 

projecting perimeter edge which together with the 
panel bounds an outer cavity and ends in a peripheral 

flange. 
A device according to claim 8, characterised in 
that the flange is connected to the said hinge or 

forms a single body therewith along the part thereof 
adjacent to the said frame. 
A device according to claim 9, characterised in 
that the said flange has a uniform thickness 

substantially equal to the height of the rebate in the 
frame, so that when the lid is in the closed position 

it is flush and coplanar with the said top wall of the 
frame. 
A device according to claims 9 or 10, 
characterised in that the said operating grip is 

constructed partly by a both outward and inward 
widening of the said flange and partly by a length of 

the said edge of the lid which is inclined so as to be 
recessed towards the outer cavity in such a way as to 

 
create an undercut area together with the widened 

flange which is accessible from the outer cavity so 
that it can be engaged by the tips of the fingers. 
A device according to claim 11, characterised in 
that the said grip is provided with impressions 

providing a better purchase for the fingers. 
A device according to any one of the foregoing 
claims, characterised in that the said means for 

retention in a closed position also comprise a recess 
provided from the part of the inner space within the 

said frame in a section away from and opposite the 
hinge and extending in the direction of the thickness 

or height of the frame and provided with two opposing 
recessed and undercut side walls, and one or a 

corresponding projection projecting from the said 
projecting edge of the lid and configured so as to 

taper slightly from the flange towards the wall or 
panel of the lid, with undercut sides so as to engage 

slidably and removably nest in a corresponding recess 
in the frame. 
A device according to claim 13, characterised in 
that the said retaining means comprise at least one 

 
projection or recess in the said edge of the cover in 

an area adjacent to the hinge in order to mate with a 
corresponding recess or projection provided in the 

inner side of the frame for more correct positioning 
and stable retention of the lid in the closed 

position. 
A device according to any one of the foregoing 
claims, characterised in that the said flexible hinge 

portion comprises a strip-like portion constructed in 
a single piece with the outer wall of the said frame 

and the flange of the lid and has two parallel lines 

of weakness, one against the outer wall of the frame 
and the other at a distance therefrom substantially 

equal to the height of the frame. 
A container when fitted with an opening and 
closing device with a lid according to any one of the 

foregoing claims. 
A container according to claim 16, characterised 
in that it has a rim capable of being seated in the 

said groove of the frame and having recesses or 
projections for forming a snap connection thereto. 
A container according to claim 17, characterised 
in that it has a peripheral shoulder adjacent to the 

edge on which the frame is seated, so as to provide a 
smooth inner wall without any breaks in continuity 

between the container and the frame. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
