<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621880</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEM FOR THE SIMULTANEOUS DELIVERY OF DRUGS ACTIVATABLE BY ENZYMES AND LIGHT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F2056	A61K4100	A61K4100	C08F2052	C08F12000	C08F12004	A61K4748	C08F2000	C08F2004	A61K4748	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	A61K	A61K	C08F	C08F	C08F	A61K	C08F	C08F	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F20	A61K41	A61K41	C08F20	C08F120	C08F120	A61K47	C08F20	C08F20	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV UTAH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOPECEK JINDRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRINICK NANCY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOPECEK, JINDRICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRINICK, NANCY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to treatment of neo-plastic
diseases using polymeric drugs with increased
therapeutic efficacy. These drugs are composed of a
polymer combination with two or more different drugs
attached, one of which is photoactivatable: By
combination is meant either a mixture of two copolymers,
one containing a photosensitizer (photoactivatable drug)
and the other containing an antineo-plastic drug, or a
single copolymer having a photosensitizer and an
antineo-plastic drug attached to the same polymer
molecule. Such combinations are useful for the
treatment of neo-plastic diseases. The polymers may
also contain a suitable targeting moiety. The
photoactivatable drug may be bound to the polymeric
carrier either by a nondegradable or by an enzymatically
degradable bond. The antineoplastic drug is always
bound to the polymeric carrier via bonds stable in the
blood stream, but susceptible to cleavage by lysosomal
enzymes. When so formulated, both drugs enter the same
cells almost concurrently because the body distribution
of both drugs will generally be the same. This is
fundamentally different compared to the combination
therapy of two low molecular weight drugs not attached
to polymer chains because the body distribution of each
drug is different. Moreover, after reaching the
lysosomal compartment of the cell, the drug bound via an
enzymatically degradable bond is released from the
carrier by the action of lysosomal enzymes and diffuses
through the lysosomal membrane into the cytoplasm. The 
photoactivatable drug, remains inactive in the cell.
It becomes activated only after light of a suitable
wavelength is applied (a laser or a chemiluminescence
reaction or any other suitable source may be used as a
light source). One of the main advantages of this
approach is the optimization of the action of both
drugs. The rate of release of the first anticancer
agent (e.g. adriamycin) by lysosomal enzyme cleavage may
be controlled by the structure of the side-chain, for
example the oligopeptide sequence, P. Rejmanova et al.,
Makromol. Chem., 184, 2009(1983). After an optimal
time period, light can be applied, resulting in the
activation of the photoactivatable drug. This will
cause the death of those cells which were not destroyed
by the first anticancer drug.The present invention minimizes the amount of
cancer cells which are resistent to chemotherapy, thus
decreasing substantially the possibility of tumor
recurrence. This approach has a higher potential in
the successful treatment of multidrug resistant
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A composition for use in the treatment of cancerous
tissues in warm-blooded animals containing both an

anticancer drug and a photoactivatable drug attached to
copolymeric carriers comprising a member selected from

the group consisting of (a) a copolymeric carrier having
attached thereto both an anticancer drug and a

photoactivatable drug, (b) a mixture of copolymeric
carriers wherein one copolymeric carrier has attached

thereto an anticancer drug and the other copolymeric
carrier has attached thereto a photoactivatable drug 
and
(c) a mixture of polymeric carriers wherein one

copolymeric carrier has attached thereto both an
anticancer drug and a photoactivatable drug and the

other copolymeric carrier has attached thereto a member
selected from the group consisting of an anticancer drug

and a photoactivatable drug, with the proviso that said
anticancer drug is attached to said polymeric carrier by

side-chains which are stable in the blood stream of said
warm-blooded animal but susceptible to hydrolysis by

lysosomal enzymes intracellularly and wherein said
polymeric carriers optionally contain a targeting

moiety.
A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said
polymeric carrier is made up of copolymerized comonomer

units comprising (a) between about 5.0 to 99.7 mol % of
underivatized comonomer units, (b) between about 0.2 to

20.0 mol % of derivatized comonomer units having
attached thereto a member selected from the group

consisting of said anticancer agent and said
photoactivatable agent; and (c) between about 0 to 94.8

mol % of derivatized comonomer units containing said
targeting moiety.
A composition according to Claim 2 wherein said
polymeric carrier contains between about 0.1 to 94.8 mol

% of derivatized comonomer units containing said
targeting moiety. 
A composition according to Claim 2 wherein said
polymeric carrier is a copolymer containing

underivatized and derivatized comonomer units selected
from the group consisting of N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide

(HPMA), N-methylacrylamide,
N,N-dialkylacrylamides, acrylic acid, methacrylic acid,

polyamino acids, polysaccharides, copolymers containing
polyethyleneoxide sequences and polyvinyl pyrrolidone-maleic

anhydride copolymers.
A composition according to Claim 4 wherein said
anticancer drug is attached to said polymeric carrier by

enzyme degradable side-chains selected from the group
consisting of oligopeptide sequences, oligosaccharide

sequences and structures similar to those in nucleic
acids.
A composition according to Claim 5 wherein said
side-chain is an oligopeptide.
A composition according to Claim 6 wherein said
polymeric carrier is a copolymer prepared from the

copolymerization of underivatized and derivatized
comonomer units of N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide

(HPMA).
A composition according to Claim 4 wherein said
polymeric carrier is a polysaccharide.
A composition according to Claim 8 wherein the
polysaccharide is dextran.
A composition according to Claim 4 wherein said
polymeric carrier is a copolymer containing

underivatized and derivatized units of polyvinyl
pyrrolidone-maleic anhydride copolymers.
A composition according to Claim 7 wherein the
oligopeptide side-chain is a peptide selected from the

group consisting of Gly-Gly, Gly-Phe-Gly, Gly-Phe-Phe,
Gly-Leu-Gly, Gly-Val-Ala, Gly-Phe-Ala, Gly-Leu-Phe, Gly-Leu-Ala,

Ala-Val-Ala, Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly (SEQ ID NO: 1),
Gly-Phe-Phe-Leu (SEQ ID NO:2), Gly-Leu-Leu-Gly (SEQ ID

NO:3), Gly-Phe-Tyr-Ala (SEQ ID NO:4), Gly-Phe-Gly-Phe 
(SEQ ID NO:5), Ala-Gly-Val-Phe (SEQ ID NO:6), Gly-Phe-Phe-Gly

(SEQ ID NO:7), Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly-Phe (SEQ ID
NO:8), or Gly-Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly-Phe (SEQ ID NO:9).
A composition according to claim 11 wherein the
side chain peptide is Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly (SEQ ID NO:1).
A composition according to Claim 12 wherein
said anticancer drug attached to said side-chain peptide

is a member selected from the group consisting of
adriamycin, daunomycin, melphalan and bleomycin and

derivatives thereof.
A composition according to Claim 13 wherein
said anticancer drug is adriamycin.
A composition according to Claim 7 wherein said
photoactivatable drug is attached to said polymeric

chain by a nondegradable spacer.
A composition according to Claim 15 wherein said
nondegradable spacer is a member selected from the group

consisting of glycine, or ε-aminocaproic acid.
A composition according to Claim 7 wherein
said photoactivatable drug is attached to said polymeric

carrier by enzyme degradable side-chains selected from
the group consisting of oligopeptide sequences,

oligosaccharide sequences and structures similar to
those in nucleic acids.
A composition according to Claim 17 wherein
said side-chain is an oligopeptide.
A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the
oligopeptide side-chain is a peptide selected from the

group consisting of Gly-Gly, Gly-Phe-Gly, Gly-Phe-Phe,
Gly-Leu-Gly, Gly-Val-Ala, Gly-Phe-Ala, Gly-Leu-Phe, Gly-Leu-Ala,

Ala-Val-Ala, Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly (SEQ ID NO:1),
Gly-Phe-Phe-Leu (SEQ ID NO:2), Gly-Leu-Leu-Gly (SEQ ID

NO:3), Gly-Phe-Tyr-Ala (SEQ ID NO:4), Gly-Phe-Gly-Phe
(SEQ ID NO:5), Ala-Gly-Val-Phe (SEQ ID NO:6), Gly-Phe-Phe-Gly

(SEQ ID NO:7), Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly-Phe (SEQ ID
NO:8), or Gly-Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly-Phe (SEQ ID NO:9). 
A composition according to Claim 19 wherein the
side chain peptide is Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly (SEQ ID NO:1).
A composition according to Claim 19 wherein
said photoactivatable drug is a member selected from the

group consisting of porphyrins, phthalocyanines,
purpurins, chlorins, napthalocyanines, cationic dyes,

and tetracyclines and derivatives thereof.
A composition according to Claim 21 wherein
said photoactivatable drug is a chlorin derivative.
A composition according to Claim 22 wherein
said chlorin derivative is meso-chlorin e
6
.
A composition according to Claim 18 wherein
both said anticancer agent and said photoactivatable

drug are attached to said polymer chain by an
oligopeptide side-chain which is a peptide selected from

the group consisting of Gly-Gly, Gly-Phe-Gly, Gly-Phe-Phe,
Gly-Leu-Gly, Gly-Val-Ala, Gly-Phe-Ala, Gly-Leu-Phe,

Gly-Leu-Ala, Ala-Val-Ala, Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly (SEQ ID NO:1),
Gly-Phe-Phe-Leu (SEQ ID NO:2), Gly-Leu-Leu-Gly (SEQ ID

NO:3), Gly-Phe-Tyr-Ala (SEQ ID NO:4), Gly-Phe-Gly-Phe
(SEQ ID NO:5), Ala-Gly-Val-Phe (SEQ ID NO:6), Gly-Phe-Phe-Gly

(SEQ ID NO:7), Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly-Phe (SEQ ID
NO:8), or Gly-Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly-Phe (SEQ ID NO:9).
A composition according to Claim 24 wherein
said anticancer drug is a member selected from the group

consisting of adriamycin, daunomycin, melphalan and
bleomycin and derivatives thereof and said

photoactivatable drug is a member selected from the
group consisting of porphyrins, phthalocyanines,

purpurins, chlorins, napthalocyanines, cationic dyes,
and tetracyclines and derivatives thereof.
A composition according to Claim 25 wherein
said peptide is Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly.
A composition according to Claim 25 wherein
said anticancer drug is adriamycin and said

photoactivatable drug is a chlorin derivative. 
A composition according to Claim 27 wherein
said chlorin derivative is meso-chlorin e
6
.
A composition according to Claim 4 wherein said
copolymeric carrier is a polymeric carrier having both

an anticancer drug and a photoactivatable drug attached
to the same polymeric molecule.
A composition according to Claim 4 wherein said

polymeric carrier is a mixture of copolymeric carriers
wherein one copolymeric carrier has attached thereto an

anticancer drug and the other copolymeric carrier has
attached thereto a photoactivatable drug.
A composition according to Claim 4 wherein said
polymeric carrier is a mixture of polymeric carriers

wherein one copolymeric carrier has attached thereto
both an anticancer drug and a photoactivatable drug and

the other copolymeric carrier has attached thereto a
member selected from the group consisting of an

anticancer drug and a photoactivatable drug.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
