<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654880</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modular wall-mounted equipment enclosure.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K502	H05K502	H05K714	H05K714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K5	H05K5	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wall-mounted enclosure (10) for mounting electrical and electronic 
equipment and the like, in modular form. The enclosure body takes the form 

of a mounting assembly, including mounting modules, with each module 
including a backbone element (16) and a cover element (18). The backbone 

element has a horizontally extending backplane (24) bordered by two 
upstanding side portions (22), with an interassembly connecting mechanism 

for joining one backbone element to an adjacent backbone element. The 
backplane includes a flat mounting surface (26), with a pattern of preformed 

pilot holes (34), and two recessed wiring channels (28). Interconnection is 
provided by interlocks and screw anchor points. The cover element includes 

a horizontally extending cover plate (70) with coverwalls (74) and a cover 
assembly connecting mechanism for joining one cover element to another 

cover element. Adjacent cover elements are joined by mutual engagement 
of a mating tab (92) and slot (90), and by screw anchor points (96). The 

cover element is removably mounted on the backbone element to rotate 
between an open position and a closed position. Modules are assembled 

into the mounting assembly by coplanar abutment of modules with mutual  
 

engagement of the backbone assembly connecting means and the cover 
assembly connecting means. Two identical endcap elements (20) are joined 

to the outermost modules of the mounting assembly to enclose an interior 
enclosure space. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON SERVICE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON SERVICE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOETZ GENE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNKLER JEFFERY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOETZ, GENE D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNKLER, JEFFERY S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field of devices for protectively 
mounting equipment, and more particularly to the field of devices mounted 
on a wall for enclosing equipment and instruments. The wall-mounted enclosure for electrical and electronic equipment is a 
familiar fixture, yet the art has yet to deal with the problem posed by a 
system that has varying equipment requirements, so that a single size 
enclosure will not suffice. More important, the art has yet to deal with the 
problem of upgrading existing systems to accommodate additional 
equipment within an enclosure. At present, the art demands that a new 
enclosure be installed, after dismantling existing installations. That situation, 
of course, leads to excessive system downtime and upgrade cost. The 
present invention addresses that problem and offers a cost-effective solution.  The broad object of the present invention is to provide a modular enclosure 
for housing electronic, electrical and other equipment. This object is achieved in the present invention of a wall-mounted enclosure 
for mounting electrical and electronic equipment and the like. The enclosure 
body takes the form of a mounting assembly, including mounting modules, 
with each module including a backbone element and a cover element. The 
backbone element has a horizontally extending backplane bordered by two 
upstanding side portions and two abutment edges, with interassembly 
connecting means for joining one backbone element to an adjacent 
backbone element. Looking at the backbone element, the side pieces 
include hinge accepting means and a second portion includes cover latch 
means, respectively, and each has cap receiver means. The backplane 
includes a generally flat mounting surface, having a plurality of preformed 
pilot holes arranged in a selected pattern, with at least one wiring channel 
recessed from the mounting surface and a plurality of clamp apertures 
formed adjacent the abutment edges. The backbone assembly connecting 
means includes interlock means for mutually engaging an adjacent backbone 
element, located on abutment edges, and at least one joining assembly, 
having an anchor plate extending from one abutment edge, and a cover 
plate extending from the opposite abutment edge, the interlock means and 
the joining assembly being located such that coplanar abutment of two 
backbone elements brings respective interlock means and joining assemblies 
into registration. The cover element includes a horizontally extending cover plate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A wall-mounted enclosure (10) for mounting electrical and electronic 
equipment, comprising: 

a mounting assembly (12) including a plurality of mounting modules (14), 
each said module including 

a backbone element (16), having a horizontally extending backplane (24) 
bordered by two upstanding side portions (22) and two abutment edges, and 

further having interassembly connecting means (52) for joining one said 
backbone element to an adjacent said backbone element, wherein 

a first said side portion includes hinge accepting means (46); 
a second said portion includes cover latch means (50); 

each said side portion includes cap receiver means;
 

said backplane includes a generally flat mounting surface (26), having a 
plurality of preformed pilot holes (34) arranged in a selected pattern thereon; 

at least one wiring channel (28) recessed from said mounting surface; and a 
plurality of clamp apertures (30) formed adjacent said abutment edges; and 

said backbone assembly connecting means includes interlock means (52) for 
mutually engaging an adjacent backbone element, located on the abutment 

edges, and at least one joining assembly, having an anchor plate (58) 
extending from one said abutment edge, and a cover plate extending from 

the opposite abutment edge, said interlock means and said joining assembly 
being located such that coplanar abutment of two said backbone elements 

brings the respective interlock means and joining assemblies into 
registration; 

   a cover element (18), including a horizontally extending cover plate (70) 
bordered by two upstanding coverwalls (74) and cover plate edges, and 

cover assembly connecting means for joining one said cover element to 
another said cover element, wherein 

   a first said coverwall (76) includes a hinge attachment means, adapted for 
mating with said backbone element hinge accepting means (46), such 

that said cover element is rotatably carried on said backbone element; 
   a second said coverwall (78) includes latch engagement means (80), 

adapted for latching engagement with said backbone element latch 
means (50); 

   said cover assembly connecting means includes a front mating tab (92) and 
a front mating slot (90), carried on opposite said cover plate edges, 

 
adapted for mutual locking engagement, and cover locking assemblies, 

having a screw tab (94) extending from one said cover plate edge and a 
screw anchor point (96) disposed on the opposite cover plate edge, 

arranged such that coplanar abutment of one said cover element with a 
second said cover element brings a said screw tab into registration with 

said screw anchor point; 
   wherein said cover element is removably mounted on said backbone 

element to rotate between an open position providing access to said 
backbone element, and a closed position in which said latch engagement 

means (80) engages said cover latch means and said backbone and 
cover elements define an interior enclosure space; and 

   wherein said modules are assembled into said mounting assembly by 
coplanar abutment of said modules with mutual engagement of said 

backbone element interassembly connecting means and said cover 
assembly connecting means; and 

   two identical endcap elements (20), joined to the outermost modules of said 
mounting assembly to enclose said interior enclosure space, each said 

endcap element having clamp tabs (100) engaged with said backbone 
element clamp apertures (66) and mounting arms (102) adapted for 

engagement with said cap receivor means (68). 
The wall-mounted enclosure of Claim 1, wherein said backplane (24) 
includes two said wiring channels (28), disposed on either side of said 

mounting surface; and a plurality of mounting islands (36) located in said 
wiring channels, the tops of said islands being coplanar with said mounting 

surface and having preformed pilot holes therein. 
The wall-mounted enclosure of Claim 1, wherein said backplane (24) 
further includes at least one convection vent (33) formed in the side thereof 

opposite said mounting surface and extending across said backplane from 
one said abutment edge to another, such that a said convection vent 

traverses the reverse surface of said backplane; and said endcap elements 
include at least one convection vent aperture (106) positioned for fluid 

communication with said convection vent. 
The wall-mounted enclosure of Claim 1, wherein said backbone element 
interassembly connecting means are adapted for mutual engagement solely 

by unidirectional motion perpendicular to said mounting surface. 
The enclosure of Claim 1, wherein each said endcap element (20) 
further includes an electrically conductive layer applied to the inner surface 

thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
