<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640750</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compression release engine braking systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01L1306	F01L1306	F02B300	F02B306	F02B3700	F02B3700	F02B3712	F02B3712	F02B3718	F02B3718	F02B3724	F02D1304	F02D1304	F02D2300	F02D2302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01L	F01L	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02D	F02D	F02D	F02D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01L13	F01L13	F02B3	F02B3	F02B37	F02B37	F02B37	F02B37	F02B37	F02B37	F02B37	F02D13	F02D13	F02D23	F02D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a compression release engine braking 
system for a turbocharged internal combustion engine, 

excessive stress associated with opening the exhaust 
valves of the engine near top dead center of engine 

compression strokes when the engine is turning at high 
speed is prevented by reducing the intake manifold 

pressure from what it otherwise would be at that high 
speed. This is done by retarding the turbocharger so 

that its speed is less than it otherwise would be at 
high engine speed. Turbocharger retarding can be 

accomplished in any of several ways such as by 
restricting the flow of engine exhaust gas to or from 

the turbocharger, or by allowing a portion of the 
exhaust gas to bypass the turbocharger. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JACOBS BRAKE TECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JACOBS BRAKE TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to compression release 
engine braking systems for turbocharged internal 
combustion engines, and more particularly to such 
systems in which increased braking horsepower can be 
provided at low and moderate engine speeds without 
unacceptably high stress on components of the engine 
and engine brake at high engine speeds. Compression release engine brakes for 
internal combustion engines are well known as shown, 
for example, by Cummins U.S. patent 3,220,392. The 
purpose of such brakes is to convert the associated 
engine from a power source to a power sink when braking 
is desired. Such power sinking may be helpful to 
assist the wheel brakes of a vehicle (e.g., a tractor 
trailer truck) propelled by the engine, thereby 
prolonging the life of the wheel brakes and increasing 
the safety of operation of the vehicle. When engine 
braking is desired, the flow of fuel to the engine is 
cut off and the engine brake is turned on. Turning on 
the engine brake causes it to open at least one exhaust 
valve in at least one engine cylinder (preferably 
several or all engine cylinders) each time the piston 
in that cylinder nears top dead center of its 
compression stroke. This releases to the exhaust  
 
manifold of the engine the gas compressed in the 
cylinder and prevents the work done in compressing that 
gas from being recovered in the subsequent "power" 
stroke of the piston. The engine therefore dissipates 
the work of compressing the gas thus exhausted, and 
that dissipated work brakes the engine and the 
associated vehicle. In effect, the engine brake 
temporarily converts the engine to a gas compressor in 
order to make the engine absorb work or energy. The typical compression release engine brake 
opens exhaust valves in the associated engine as 
described above by picking up an appropriately timed 
motion from another part of the engine and transmitting 
that motion to the exhaust valve or valves to be 
opened. For example, a fuel injector pushtube of one 
cylinder may be in motion when the engine brake needs 
to open the exhaust valve or valves of another 
cylinder. The engine brake may therefore be provided 
with a hydraulic circuit between a master piston 
operated by the fuel injector pushtube mechanism and a 
slave piston which operates on the exhaust valve 
mechanism. When the engine brake is turned on, this 
hydraulic circuit is sealed so that a fuel injector 
input to the master piston is transmitted to the slave 
piston, thereby causing the slave piston to open the 
as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a compression release engine braking 
system including a turbocharged internal combustion 

engine and a compression release engine brake for 
opening at least one exhaust valve in the engine near 

top dead center of the compression stroke of the engine 
piston in the engine cylinder served by that exhaust 

valve, apparatus for reducing the force required from 
the engine brake to open said exhaust valve when the 

engine is turning at relatively high speeds comprising: 
   means for monitoring a characteristic of 

the engine which is indicative of engine speed; and 
   means responsive to said means for 

monitoring for retarding the turbocharger when said 
characteristic indicates that the speed of the engine 

is greater than a predetermined threshold value. 
The apparatus defined in claim 1 wherein 
said means for retarding comprises: 

   means for restricting the flow of engine 
exhaust gas through the turbine of the turbocharger. 
The apparatus defined in claim 2 wherein 
said means for restricting comprises a variable flow 

restrictor. 
The apparatus defined in claim 3 wherein 
said variable flow restrictor is disposed in the 

exhaust line of said engine downstream from said 
turbine. 
The apparatus defined in claim 3 wherein 
said variable flow restrictor is disposed in the 

exhaust line of said engine upstream from said turbine. 
The apparatus defined in claim 1 wherein 
said means for retarding comprises: 

   means for allowing a portion of the 
engine exhaust gas to bypass the turbine of the 

turbocharger. 
The apparatus defined in claim 1 wherein 
said means for monitoring comprises: 

   means for monitoring the pressure of the 
gas in said intake manifold. 
The apparatus defined in claim 1 wherein 
said means for monitoring comprises: 

   a tachometer for monitoring the speed of 
the engine. 
A method of operating a compression 
release engine braking system which includes a 

turbocharged internal combustion engine and a 
compression release engine brake for opening at least 

one exhaust valve in the engine near top dead center of 
the compression stroke of the engine piston in the 

engine cylinder served by that exhaust valve, said 
method comprising the steps of: 

   monitoring a characteristic of the 
engine which is indicative of engine speed; and 

   retarding the turbocharger when said 
characteristic indicates that the speed of the engine 

is greater than a predetermined threshold value in 
order to reduce the force required from the engine 

brake to open said exhaust valve when the engine is 
turning at relatively high speeds. 
The method defined in claim 9 wherein 
said retarding step comprises the step of:

 
   restricting the flow of engine exhaust 

gas through the turbine of the turbocharger. 
The method defined in claim 10 wherein 
said restricting step comprises the step of: 

   restricting the flow of engine exhaust 
gas exiting from the turbine of the turbocharger. 
The method defined in claim 10 wherein 
said restricting step comprises the step of: 

   restricting the flow of engine exhaust 
gas from the engine to the turbine of the turbocharger. 
The method defined in claim 9 wherein 
said retarding step comprises the step of: 

   allowing a portion of the engine exhaust 
gas to bypass the turbine of the turbocharger. 
The method defined in claim 9 wherein 
said monitoring step comprises the step of: 

   monitoring the pressure of the gas in 
said intake manifold. 
The method defined in claim 9 wherein 
said monitoring step comprises the step of: 

   monitoring the speed of the engine. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
