<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613080</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Graphical user interface incorporating a panning workspace with means for affixing windows
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F314	G06F3048	G11B2734	G11B27031	G06F314	G06F3033	G11B2734	G11B27034	G06F3033	G06F3048	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G11B	G11B	G06F	G06F	G11B	G11B	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G11B27	G11B27	G06F3	G06F3	G11B27	G11B27	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides apparatus and 
methods for use in computer display system, and in 

particular, display system s having object-oriented graphic 
user interfaces with overlapping windows. A display system 

including at least one central processing unit (CPU) is 
coupled through appropriate input/output (I/O) circuitry to 

input devices, such as a cursor control device. The CPU is 
further coupled to a hard disk drive for the storage of 

programs and data, and is coupled to a network through which 
the CUP may communicate with a variety of system resources 

such as editors, music synthesizers, graphic generators and 
the like. The CPU is also coupled to a display device on 

which the present invention's user interface is displayed. 
Utilizing the teachings of the present invention, a "real" 

and a "virtual" workspace is defined comprising the entire 
desktop available to a user. The real workspace constitutes 

that portion of the desktop visible to the user on the 
display at any one time. The virtual workspace comprises a 

predefined extension of the screen area of the display which 
is also available for use by the user. The virtual 

workspace constitutes that portion of the desktop which is 
not visible to the user at any one time. The real and 

virtual workspaces comprise the entire desktop available to 
the user for opening and manipulating windows in the display 

system. In addition, windows may be selectively affixed to 
the desktop. Using the cursor control device, a user may 

pan horizontally over the desktop (both real and virtual). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY ELECTRONICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUFFY ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAHAM JON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUFFY, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAHAM, JON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus and
methods for displaying graphic information, and more
particularly, the present invention relates to a computer
controlled display system for displaying and manipulating
overlapping windows of data on a desktop workspace.Over the past decade, a variety of graphic user
interfaces have been developed to ease human interaction
with computer systems. Many display systems utilize
metaphors in the design of the interface as a way of
maximising human familiarity, and conveying information
between the user and the computer. It is common for
computer systems incorporating so-called "object oriented"
display systems to utilize multiple "windows" on a display
in which combinations of text and graphics are disposed.
The display systems utilize familiar metaphors, such as
desktops, control panels, notebooks and the like, such that
the interface takes advantage of existing human mental
structures to permit a user to draw upon the metaphor
analogy to understand the requirements of the particular
computer system.It is well know that designing around a familiar
metaphor helps reduce human learning time. (See for example,
Patrick Chan, "Learning Considerations in User Interface
Design: The Room Model", Report CS-84-16, University of
Waterloo Computer Science Department, Onatario, Canada, July
1984, and the references cited therein.) The ability to
operate on images or objects which relate the user to actual
objects on, for example, a desktop, results in a stronger
man-machine interface. (See for example, D.Robson, "Object
Oriented Software Systems", BYTE, August 1991, page 74,
Vol.6, No.8; L.Tesler, "The Smalltalk Environment", BYTE,
August 1981, page 90, Vol.6, No.8; and Smith, et al., "Star 
User Interface: An Overview", National Computer Conference,
1982).Research in interface design using metaphors in
man-machine interfaces may be applied to computer controlled
editing systems to incorporate and integrate various
production media resources, such as special effects, music,
graphics and the like. In the case of an editing system, a
variety of resources must be integrated, scheduled and
coordinated with one another to obtain a complete multi-media
product. Users of computer controlled editing systems
are generally familiar with the individual resources and the
coordination of those resources to develop a finished
product. Accordingly, the "windows" utilized in a video
editing system may be designed such that the metaphor of the
interface takes advantage of the knowledge of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computer display system including a central
processing unit (CPU) (24) coupled to a display (50) having

a display screen (60), such that data is displayed on said
display screen in a plurality of windows, comprising:


user interface generation means coupled to said
CPU for displaying said data in said windows, said user

interface generation means generating and displaying a user
interface including a desktop having a visible portion (100)

and a virtual portion (140,145), wherein said visible
portion (100) corresponds to that portion of the said

desktop currently visible on said display screen (60), said
virtual portion corresponding to that portion of said

desktop currently not visible to said user on said display
screen;
panning means (52,30) coupled to said CPU for
selectively panning said desktop in at least two directions,

such that said desktop pans in a direction selected by a
user, and that portion of said desktop within said visible

portion is displayed to said user; characterised in that
said windows displayed on said desktop include attachment

means (200) for selectively affixing at least one of said
windows (170) to said desktop, such that if a window (170)

is affixed to said desktop said window (170) moves with said
desktop in the direction said desktop is panned, and remains

stationary relative to said desktop.
The computer display system as defined by claim 1, wherein
in the event said window (170) is not affixed to said

desktop, said window remains stationary with respect to said
user, such that said unaffixed window appears to said user

to float above said desktop as said desktop is panned. 
The computer display system as defined by claim 2, wherein
said panning means includes a cursor control device (52)

coupled to said CPU and operable by said user.
The computer display system as defined by claim 2 or 3,
wherein said attachment means (200) includes a floating

window activation button in each of said windows (170)
displayed on said display having two states, a first state

corresponding to an affixed state and a second state
corresponding to said unaffixed state.
The computer display system as defined by claim 4, wherein
said activation button (200) displays the notation DN if

said function has been placed in said affixed state.
The computer display system as defined by claim 5, wherein
said activation button (200) displays the notation UP if

said function has been placed in said unaffixed state.
The computer display system as defined by any one of claims
2 to 4, further including a function bar (104) on said

display screen on which is displayed a plurality of
functions selectable by said user.
The computer display system as defined by Claim 7, wherein
said function bar (104) is horizontally disposed along the

lower portion of said display screen.
The computer display system as defined by claim 8, further
including a title bar (102) disposed horizontally across the

top of said display screen.
The computer display system defined by claim 9, wherein
said function bar (104) remains stationary relative to said

user. 
The computer display system as defined by claim 9, wherein
said title bar pans with said desktop.
The computer display system as defined by any one of claims
2 to 11, wherein in the event said windows overlay one

another on said desktop, windows (170) unaffixed to said
desktop appear to said user to float above windows (210)

which are affixed to said desktop.
The computer display system as defined by claim 12, wherein
said panning is horizontal.
The computer display system as defined by claim 3, wherein
said desktop further includes a cursor (136) displayed on

said display screen and controlled by said cursor control
device (52), said cursor having the shape of an arrow

including a body and two opposing arrow heads, one (165) of
said arrow heads pointing left and one arrow head (168)

pointing right with respect to said user viewing said
display, said arrow heads corresponding to panning

directions of said desktop.
The computer display system as defined by claim 14, wherein
said cursor control device includes at least two switches

(54,56) coupled to said CPU, said switches corresponding to
said panning directions.
The computer display system as defined by claim 15, wherein
if said cursor is placed by said user using said cursor

control device over one of said windows displayed on said
desktop, said CPU modifies the shape of said cursor.
The computer display system as defined by claim 16, wherein
said modified cursor has the shape of an arrow having only a

single arrow head. 
A method for increasing the usable workspace for a
user in a computer display system including a central

processing unit (CPU) (24) coupled to a display (50) having
a display screen (60), such that data is displayed on said

display screen in a plurality of windows, comprising the
steps of:


generating and displaying a user interface
including a desktop having a visible portion (100) and a

virtual portion (150,145), wherein said visible portion
(100) corresponds to that portion of said desktop currently

visible on said display screen, and virtual portion
(140,145) corresponding to that portion of said desktop

currently not visible to said user on said display screen;
panning said desktop in at least two directions,
such that said desktop pans in a direction selected by a

user, and that portion of said desktop within said visible
portion is displayed to said user; and
selectively affixing at least one (170) of said
windows to said desktop, such that if a window is affixed to

said desktop said window (170) moves with said desktop in

the direction said desktop is panned, and remains stationary
relative to said desktop; characterised in that in the event

said window (170) is not affixed to said desktop, said
window remains stationary with respect to said user, such

that said unaffixed window appears to said user to float
above said desktop as said desktop is panned.
The method as defined by claim 18, wherein said
user uses a cursor control device (52) coupled to said CPU

and operable by said user to pan said desktop.
The method as defined by claim 18, wherein each of
said windows includes a floating window activation button

having two states, a first state corresponding to an affixed
state and a second state corresponding to said unaffixed

state. 
The method as defined by claim 20, wherein said
activation button displays the notation DN if said function

has been placed in said affixed state.
The method as defined by claim 21, wherein said
activation button displays the notation UP if said function

has been placed in said unaffixed state.
The method as defined by claim 18 further
including a function bar (104) on said computer display screen on

which is displayed a plurality of functions selectable by
said user.
The method as defined by claim 23, wherein said
function bar (104) is horizontally disposed along the lower

portion of said display screen.
The method as defined by claim 24 further
including a title bar (102) disposed horizontally across the

top of said computer display screen.
The method as defined by claim 25, wherein said
function bar (104) remains stationary relative to said user.
The method as defined by claim 25, wherein said
title bar pans with said desktop.
The method as defined by claim 18, wherein in the
event said windows overlay one another on said desktop,

windows (107) unaffixed to said desktop appear to said user
to float above windows (200) which are affixed to said

desktop.
The method as defined by claim 28, wherein said
panning is horizontal. 
The method as defined by claim 19, wherein said
desktop further includes a cursor (136) displayed on said

display screen and controlled by said cursor control device,
said cursor having the shape of an arrow including a body

and two opposing arrow heads, one (165) of said arrow heads
pointing left and one arrow head (168) pointing right with

respect to said user viewing said display, said arrow heads
corresponding to panning directions of said desktop.
The method as defined by claim 30, wherein said
cursor control device includes at least two switches (54,56)

coupled to said CPU, said switches corresponding to said
panning directions.
The method as defined by claim 31, wherein if said
cursor is placed by said user using said cursor control

device over one of said windows displayed on said desktop,
said CPU modifies the shape of said cursor.
The method as defined by claim 32, wherein said
modified cursor has the shape of an arrow having only a

single arrow head.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
