<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657230</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and system for the on-site remediation of lead-contaminated soil and waste battery casings.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B09C100	B09C106	C10B5300	C10B5300	C22B400	C22B400	C22B1300	C22B1302	H01M1054	H01M1054	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B09C	B09C	C10B	C10B	C22B	C22B	C22B	C22B	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B09C1	B09C1	C10B53	C10B53	C22B4	C22B4	C22B13	C22B13	H01M10	H01M10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mobile system for the remediation of a mixture of 
lead-contaminated soil and waste lead-acid battery casings 

includes a plasma arc furnace unit (18) having a plasma arc torch 
which operates at a sufficiently elevated temperature to (i) 

convert the battery casings in the mixture into a combustible 
gas, (ii) volatilize lead contaminants which are present in 

the mixture and entrain the volatilized lead contaminants as a 
vapor in the combustible gas, and (iii) vitrify the soil, 

whereby lead contaminants that were present in the mixture are 
substantially removed therefrom. An internal combustion 

engine-driven generator (102a-102c) supplies the plasma arc furnace (18) 
with electrical power. In this regard, the internal combustion 

engine-driven generator receives the combustible gas from the 
plasma arc furnace as a fuel source in order to drive the 

generator. A lead-filtration unit (106) is preferably interposed 
between the generator and the plasma arc furnace so as to 

receive the combustible gas generated by the plasma arc 
furnace and remove the entrained lead contaminants therefrom. 

A supply of secondary fuel gas (110) (e.g. liquified petroleum gas, 
natural gas or the like) may optionally be supplied to the 

internal combustion engine-driven generator as a supplemental 
fuel together with the combustible gas generated by the plasma 

arc furnace. The various unit operations may be mounted for 
mobility (e.g. on truck beds, rail cars or the like) to permit 

transportation to a landfill in need of remediation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXIDE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXIDE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARANSKI JOHN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BITLER JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARANSKI, JOHN P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BITLER, JOHN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a process for 
the remediation of lead-contaminated soil and waste battery 
casings. It is concerned with certain modifications and 
improvements in the invention described and claimed in 
copending and commonly owned US Patent Application Serial No. 
07/973,236 filed on 10 November 1992, entitled "Process for 
Remediation of Lead-Contaminated Soil and Waste Battery 
Casings", and in equivalent applications thereto. More specifically, the present invention relates to a novel 
process whereby a mixture of lead-contaminated soil and 
battery casings may be pyrolyzed in a plasma arc furnace so as 
to volatilize the battery casings to form a combustible CO gas 
that is then supplied as a primary fuel to a conventional 
smelting furnace. A major proportion of the lead contaminant 
is likewise volatilized and transferred along with the 
combustible gas to the smelting furnace where it can then be 
subjected to conventional lead-recovery techniques. The soil, 
on the other hand, forms a vitrified slag in the plasma arc 
furnace and thereby serves as a non-toxic and non-leachable 
host matrix for any minor proportion of lead that is either 
not volatilized or removed from the plasma arc furnace in a 
molten form.  The safe treatment and disposal of all waste materials is 
demanded in most developed nations. In this regard, there is 
a growing demand on industry by environmentalists and 
government agencies to alleviate potentially toxic and/or 
contaminated waste disposal sites that were employed for many 
years prior to the public's heightened environmental concerns 
and the enactment of environmental legislation. For example, a number of now defunct lead-acid battery 
recycling sites were operated where lead was reclaimed from 
spent lead-acid batteries. At most such lead-acid battery 
recycling sites, the primary operation consisted of breaking 
the battery case, draining the spent acid, and separating the 
battery cases from the commercially valuable lead to be 
recycled. The broken battery cases, which were at that time 
formed of a non-recyclable, hardened rubber material known in 
art parlance as "ebonite", were of no commercial value and 
were thus typically discarded as landfill waste. However, it 
is now known that these discarded battery cases in landfills 
nonetheless were contaminated with sufficient quantities of 
lead that could detrimentally affect the environment. Various techniques have been proposed for the remediation 
of landfills containing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for the remediation of a mixture of 
lead-contaminated soil and waste lead-acid battery casings 

comprising: 
   a plasma arc furnace having a plasma arc torch which 

operates at a sufficiently elevated temperature to (i) convert 
the battery casings in the mixture into a combustible gas, 

(ii) volatilize lead contaminants which are present in the 
mixture and entrain said volatilized lead contaminants as a 

vapor in the combustible gas, and (iii) vitrify the soil, 
whereby lead contaminants that were present in the mixture are 

substantially removed therefrom; and 
   an internal combustion engine-driven generator for 

supplying said plasma arc furnace with electrical power, said 
internal combustion engine-driven generator receiving the 

combustible gas from said plasma arc furnace as a fuel source 
and combusting the combustible gas in order to drive the 

generator. 
A system as in claim 1, further comprising a 
lead-filtration unit which is interposed between said 

generator and said plasma arc furnace, said lead-filtration 
unit receiving the combustible gas generated by the plasma arc 

furnace and removing the entrained lead contaminants therefrom. 
A system as in claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising a 
supply of secondary fuel gas which is supplied to said 

combustion engine-driven generator as a supplemental fuel 
together with said combustible gas generated by said plasma 

arc furnace. 
A system as in any preceding claim, further comprising a 
soil preparation unit which includes a soil drier for drying 

the mixture of soil and waste battery casings prior to being 
supplied to said plasma arc furnace unit. 
A system as in any preceding claim, further comprising a 
slag processing unit for processing the vitrified soil 

discharged from the plasm arc furnace unit. 
A system as in claim 5, wherein said slag processing unit 
includes a crusher for comminuting the vitrified soil. 
A system as in claim 6, wherein said slag processing unit 
includes a screen for sizing the comminuted vitrified soil. 
A process for the remediation of lead-contaminated soil 
and waste lead-acid battery casings comprising the steps of: 


(a) feeding a mixture of lead-contaminated soil and 
waste lead-acid battery casings into an electrically powered 

plasma arc furnace; 
(b) pyrolyzing the mixture in the plasma arc furnace 
by bringing the mixture into contact with a plasma arc torch 

at a sufficiently elevated temperature to (i) convert the 
battery casings in the mixture into a combustible gas, (ii) 

volatilize lead contaminants which are present in the mixture 
and entrain said volatilized lead contaminants as a vapor in 

the combustible gas, and (iii) vitrify the soil, whereby lead 
contaminants that were present in the mixture are 

substantially removed therefrom; 
(c) transferring the combustible gas to an internal 
combustion engine which drives an electrical power generator 

and then combusting the combustible gas as a fuel source 
within said internal combustion engine to cause said generator 

to generate electrical power; and 
(d) supplying said generated electrical power from 
said generator to said plasma arc furnace as a source of 

electrical power therefor. 
A process as in claim 8, further comprising the step of 
removing the vaporized lead contaminants entrained in said 

combustible gas prior to supplying said combustible gas to 
said internal combustion engine of said electrical power 

generator. 
A process as in claim 8 or claim 9, wherein step (c) 
includes supplying a supplemental fuel to said internal 

combustion engine together with said combustible gas. 
A process as in claim 10, wherein said supplemental fuel 
is liquefied petroleum gas or natural gas. 
A process as in any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein said 
battery casings are crushed prior to being fed into the plasma 

arc furnace. 
A process as in claim 12, wherein said battery casings 
are crushed to achieve an average particle size of between 9.5 

and 12.7 mm (0.375 to 0.5 inch). 
A process as in any one of claims 8 to 13, wherein step 
(a) is practised such that a weight ratio of soil to battery 

casings of between 7:1 to 5:1 is fed to the plasma arc furnace. 
A process as in any one of claims 8 to 14, wherein step 
(b) includes agitating the mixture of lead-contaminated soil 

and waste lead-acid battery casings during pyrolysis by the 
plasma arc furnace. 
A method as in claim 15, wherein said step of agitating 
the mixture includes subjecting the mixture to mechanical 

agitation. 
A method as in claim 15, wherein said step of agitating 
the mixture includes oscillating the plasma arc torch relative 

to the mixture during pyrolysis. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
