<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610310</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING LENSES USING THIN COATINGS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C3910	G02C706	B29C4514	B29C4318	B29C4514	B29D1100	B29C4318	B29D1100	B29C3508	B29C3508	G02C706	B29C3910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	G02C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29D	B29C	B29D	B29C	B29C	G02C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C39	G02C7	B29C45	B29C43	B29C45	B29D11	B29C43	B29D11	B29C35	B29C35	G02C7	B29C39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fast, relatively inexpensive method and simple is disclosed for producing a finished plastic multifocal or progressive lens from a preformed lens which has a predetermined lens correction (i.e., curvature or prescription) at its optical center. The method comprises providing a mold; providing an optical quality resin composition; providing a preformed plastic lens contacting the preformed lens with the mold such that the surfaces of the preformed lens and the mold form a cavity enclosing the resin composition; and curing the resin composition. The cavity formed by the preformed lens and the mold is shaped, among other purposes, (1) to correspond to the desired change in curvature, and (2) such that the lens correction at the optical center of the resulting lens is substantially the same (preferably the same) as the predetermined lens correction at the optical center of the preformed lens. The preformed lens may also be cast with a thin nonprescription layer which acts as a carrier for the multifocal or progressive region of the finished lens. The methods disclosed allow casting of lenses without employing expensive conventional optical gaskets. The methods also allow for simpler relocation of the optical center to the proper position with respect to the multifocal or progressive prescription, preferably without using conventional optical gaskets or optical center movers.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOTECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOTECH, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLUM RONALD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLUM, RONALD, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods for
quickly and inexpensively producing multifocal and
progressive plastic optical quality spectacle lenses from
preformed lenses of a given prescription.In manufacturing lenses, and particularly lenses
for eyeglasses, the use of plastics is often desirable due
to their light weight and durability. Plastic lenses also
provide relatively economic vision correction. Methods 
for producing plastic lenses of various prescriptions are
well known. Applicant's U.S. Patent 4,873,029 and
co-pending applications Serial Nos. 190,856 (filed May 6,
1988) and 339,217 (filed April 17, 1989), which are
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth,
disclose methods for making plastic lenses of ophthalmic
quality for eye glasses.Prior methods of others have, however, failed to
provide fast and economic means for manufacturing high
index-quality, reliable multifocal (e.g., bifocal,
trifocal, etc.) or progressive plastic lenses. U.S.
Patent 3,248,460 (the "'460 patent") discloses means for
casting plastic lenses from thermosetting or thermoplastic
materials wherein a plastic blank having significantly
less curvature than required for the full intended
prescription of the lens is used as a base onto which an
additional layer of material is cast. The '460 patent
employs a conventional optical gasket to provide space
between the plastic blank and the mold and to hold the
resin material in the cavity created thereby. The
additional layer of material changes the curvature of the
resulting lens over the vast majority of its surface,
thereby changing the prescription of the resulting
finished lens to the power required. The material in the
'460 patent is cured by heat. However, such heat curing
process requires heating over a period of more than 12
hours, thus making the formation of the lens a long,
drawn-out process.U.S. Patent No. 3,946,982 also discloses methods
for casting an entire lens surface with a prescription
layer using a conventional optical gasket.Methods for forming plastic optical quality spectacle
lenses are described in WO 91/08104 and WO 91/08105. The
lenses described have a multifocal or progressive region
and are formed in a mould using a pre-formed lens to form a
cavity to receive optical quality resins. The cavity
formed between the mould and the pre-formed lens is shaped
or configured to correspond to the desired shape of the
multifocal or progressive region of the finished lens.
Resin compositions suitable for the described purpose
include a thermal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of making a lens, said method comprising:

a
. providing a mould (13, 100) having a moulding
surface;
b
. providing an optical quality resin composition
(16) containing an initiator activated by ultraviolet

radiation;
c
. providing a pre-formed plastics lens (11) having a
bonding surface;
d
. placing said resin composition in said mould,
arranging said pre-formed lens in said mould such that the

bonding surface of said pre-formed lens and said mould form
a cavity (14) of non-uniform thickness enclosing said resin

composition, such that said resin has an unequal thickness
between said mould and said pre-formed lens;
e
. curing said resin composition by applying
ultraviolet radiation and heat to said resin composition;

and
f
. wherein said resin when cured forms a non-uniform
surface optical layer over the bonding surface of the preformed

lens,

   
characterised in that
 said resin composition is
substantially free of thermal initiators and wherein said

resin is cured while remaining substantially free of thermal
initiators, and wherein said heat is provided in a

controlled manner to equalise the degree of cure over
portions of the resin having unequal thickness.
A method for making a lens according to claim 1 wherein
said mould has a first complementary surface of curvature

substantially the same as that of the bonding surface of the
pre-formed lens, and wherein the added lens curvature of 

said resulting lens substantially corresponds to that of the
moulding surface of said mould.
A method for making a lens according to claim 1 wherein
said mould has a first complementary surface of curvature

different from that of the bonding surface of the pre-formed
lens, and wherein the added lens curvature of said resulting

lens substantially corresponds to that of the moulding
surface of said mould.
A method for making a lens according to claim 1 wherein
said mould has a first complementary surface of curvature

substantially the same as that of the bonding surface of the
pre-formed lens and a second surface corresponding to an

aspheric, multifocal or progressive region to be added, said
aspheric, multifocal or progressive region constituting a

portion of the mould; said cavity having a first portion co-operating
with said mould to form a space therebetween of a

changing thickness and a second portion co-operating with
said mould to form said aspheric, multifocal or progressive

region (21, 100); wherein the added lens curvature of said
resulting lens substantially corresponds to that of the

moulding surface of said mould:
A method for making a lens according to claim 1 wherein
said mould has a first complementary surface of curvature

different from that of the bonding surface of the pre-formed
lens and a second surface corresponding to an aspheric,

multifocal or progressive region to be added, said aspheric,
multifocal or progressive region constituting a portion of

the mould; said cavity having a first portion co-operating
with said mould to form a space therebetween of a changing

thickness and a second portion co-operating with said mould
to form said aspheric, multifocal or progressive region

(21, 100); wherein the added lens curvature of said 
47

resulting lens substantially corresponds to that of the
moulding surface of said mould:
The method according to claim 5 wherein said curing
step includes raising the temperature of said resin to about

71.1°C (160°F).
A method for making a lens, as claimed in any of claims
1-6, wherein said resin has an index of refraction different

from that of said pre-formed lens.
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7, wherein
said resin composition is devoid of a thermal initiator.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
