<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659820</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Composite media with selectable radiation-transmission properties.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29B1300	B29B1308	C08K300	C08K334	C08K700	C08K718	C23C1644	C23C1644	G02B520	G02B520	G12B1700	G12B1702	H01L31036	H01L310384	H05K900	H05K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29B	B29B	C08K	C08K	C08K	C08K	C23C	C23C	G02B	G02B	G12B	G12B	H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29B13	B29B13	C08K3	C08K3	C08K7	C08K7	C23C16	C23C16	G02B5	G02B5	G12B17	G12B17	H01L31	H01L31	H05K9	H05K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Radiation-absorptive materials, suitable for fabrication 
into packages, sheets, inks, paints, decorative surface 

treatments, lotions, creams, and gels are disclosed. The 
materials exploit certain optical properties associated with 

uniform, spherical, nanosize particles to provide complete 
radiation absorption, over a selected bandwidth, at low 

concentration. One type of particle exhibits an "absorption 
edge" at a chosen wavelength, transmitting radiation whose 

wavelength exceeds the characteristic bandgap wavelength, while 
effectively absorbing all radiation with wavelengths smaller 

than that minimum. Another type of particle exhibits "optical 
resonance," which causes radiation of a characteristic 

wavelength to interact with the particles so as to produce 
self-reinforcing internal reflections that strongly enhance the 

amplitude of the radiation trapped within the particle. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KUEHNLE MANFRED R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KUEHNLE, MANFRED R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUEHNLE MANFRED R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STATZ HERMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUEHNLE, MANFRED R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STATZ, HERMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the selective absorption 
of electromagnetic radiation in small particles, and more 
particularly to solid and liquid composite materials that 
absorb strongly within a chosen, predetermined portion of the 
electromagnetic spectrum while remaining substantially 
transparent outside this region. Transparent and translucent materials such as glass, 
plastic, gels, and viscous lotions have for many years been 
combined with coloring agents to alter their optical 
transmission properties. Agents such as dyes and pigments 
absorb radiation within a characteristic spectral region and 
confer this property on materials in which they are dissolved 
or dispersed. Selection of the proper absorptive agent 
facilitates production of a composite material that blocks 
transmission of undesirable light frequencies. Beer bottles, for example, contain additives that impart 
a green or brown color to protect their contents from 
decomposition. These include iron (II) and iron (III) oxides 
in the case of glass bottles, while any of a variety of dyes 
can be employed in plastic containers. The concentration of 
these additives (in weight percent relative to the surrounding 
carrier material) is generally very heavy, in the range of 1-5%,  
 
resulting in high expense, difficult dispersion within the 
carrier, and the need to employ special mixing techniques to 
counter strong agglomeration tendencies. Most commercially useful coloring agents absorb across a 
range of frequencies; their spectra typically feature steady 
decrease from a peak wavelength of maximum absorption, or λmax. 
When mixed into a host carrier, such materials tend to produce 
fairly dark composite media with limited overall transmission 
properties, since the absorption cannot be "tuned" precisely to 
the undesirable frequencies. If used as a container, for 
example, such media provides relatively poor visibility of the 
contents to an observer. Traditional means of forming particles that may serve as 
coloring agents include chemical precipitation and mechanical 
production (e.g., so-called atomizing) processes. These 
processes frequently fail to reliably maintain uniform particle 
size due to agglomeration, and cause sedimentation during 
and/or after the particles are generated. The problem of 
agglomeration becomes particularly acute at very small particle 
diameters, where the ratio of surface area to volume becomes 
very large and adhesion forces favor agglomeration as a 
mechanism of energy reduction. While
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromagnetic radiation-absorptive material for blocking passage of selected 
radiation within a predetermined spectral band, the material comprising: 


a) a carrier material having a refractive index; and 
b) dispersed therein, a particulate material having substantially uniform particle 
size and exhibiting an absorption cross-section greater than 1 in the predetermined 

spectral band, the material having a refracting index differing from that of the carrier 
and being present in sufficient volumetric density to substantially block passage of the 

selected radiation. 
The material of claim 1 wherein the particulate material is spherical, and exhibits a real 
refractive-index component greater than 2 and an intrinsic absorption within the 

predetermined spectral band corresponding to an imaginary refractive-index component 
ranging from 0.02 to 0.5. 
The material of claim 1 wherein the particle size is chosen to minimize scattering of 
visible radiation. 
The material of claim 1 wherein the particulate material: 

i) may consist of uniformly sized spheres having a diameter that ranges from 0.03 
µm to 0.15 µm; or spheres of diameter 0.075 µm; and 
ii) is any one of: a) a rutile crystal, preferably titania; b) silicon, preferably in the 
form of spheres of radius ranging from 0.02 µm to 0.035 µm: c) silicon or germanium 

which may be doped with at least one element selected from Group III and/or Group 
V of the periodic table; or d) at least one indirect semiconductor. 
The material of claim 4 wherein the volumetric density is approximately 1.5 x 10¹¹ 
particles/cm³. 
The material of claim 1 wherein the particulate material is selected from at least one of 
the following groups: 


a) the group consisting of aluminum phosphide, aluminum indium phosphide, 
aluminum arsenide, aluminum antimonide, gallium arsenide phosphide, gallium 

antimonide, cadmium selenide, cadmium telluride, zinc telluride, silicon, germanium, 
and alloys of gallium and germanium; or 
b) the group consisting of gallium phosphide; gallium arsenide; alloys of gallium, 
aluminum and arsenic; alloys of gallium, indium and nitrogen; and alloys of aluminum 

and antimony. 
The material of claim 1 further comprising a second particulate material that exhibits 
either one of: 


a) a direct electronic bandgap whose energy corresponds to a predetermined 
wavelength threshold and which absorbs radiation of wavelength below the threshold, 

said second material being present in sufficient volumetric density to substantially 
block passage of the radiation of wavelength less than the threshold; or 
b) an indirect electronic bandgap that overlaps the predetermined spectral band. 
The material of claim 1 wherein the carrier is selected from the group consisting of 
polyethylene, polypropylene, polymethylmethacrylate, polystyrene, and copolymers thereof. 
The material of claim 1 wherein the refractive index of the particle exceeds that of the 
carrier by at least 2.5. 
A radiation-absorptive material for blocking passage of selected radiation having a 
wavelength below a predetermined threshold, the material comprising: 


a) a carrier material; and 
b) dispersed therein, a particulate material that exhibits an electronic bandgap 
whose energy corresponds to the predetermined wavelength threshold and which 

absorbs radiation of wavelength below the threshold, material being present in 
sufficient volumetric density to substantially block passage of the selected radiation. 
The material of claim 10 wherein the particulate material comprises at least one direct 
semiconductor. 
The material of claim 11 wherein the particulate material includes at least one member 
of the group consisting of zinc oxide, gallium nitride, gallium indium nitride, gallium arsenide, 

and aluminum arsenide. 
The material of claim 10 wherein the particulate material: 

a) is an alloy of two components; and/or 
b) has an average size chosen to minimise scattering of visible radiation. 
The material of claim 10 further comprising a second particulate material having 
substantially uniform particle size and exhibiting an absorption cross-section greater than 1 in 

a predetermined spectral band that overlaps the predetermined wavelength threshold, the 
material being present in sufficient volumetric density to substantially block passage of 

radiation in the predetermined spectral band. 
The material of claim 1 or claim 10 wherein the carrier and particulate materials: 

a) co-operatively function as an ink which may be a meltable color ink; 
b) co-operatively function as a paint; 
c) co-operatively function as a lotion; 
d) form a solid, which is shaped as a container; or 
e) form a solid, which functions as a colored gel. 
The material of claim 1 or 10 wherein the particles exhibit mutually repulsive 
electrostatic charge. 
A thin polymeric or glass film containing the material ofclaim 1 and/or claim 10 
suitable for lamination to a transparent substrate. 
A color pigment comprising: 

a) a spherical core; and 
b) surrounding the core, a layer of dye that absorbs electromagnetic radiation 
within a characteristic spectral band; 
 
wherein the core exhibits optical resonance in a spectral band overlapping that of the dye but 

substantially does not absorp electromagnetic radiation in that spectral band. 
The pigment of claim 18, wherein any one or more of: 

a) the dye ranges in thickness from 20 Å to 100 Å; 
b) the particle has a radius of 0.1µm and the dye is 40 Å thick; or 
c) the real refractive-index component of the core differs from that of the dye by 
at least 2.5. 
Apparatus for manufacturing particles of substantially uniform size and shape, the 
apparatus comprising: 


a) a vessel; 
b) means for supporting a supply mass of solid material, the supply mass having a 
surface; 
c) an electron beam source having an output oriented toward the surface of the 
supply mass; 
d) means for subjecting the surface of the supply mass to controlled vibration so 
as to cause separation from the surface, when heated by the electron beam source, of 

vapor droplets having uniform size and shape; and 
e) means for collecting the droplets after they have solidified. 
The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the means for subjecting the surface of the supply 
mass to controlled vibration is an ultrasound source that: 


a) produces a transverse acoustic wave across the surface; or 
b) generates a vertical ultrasound wave directed axially through the supply means. 
The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising any one of: 

a) means for heating the supply mass to a temperature close to its melting point; 
b) a cryogenic receptor, a source of inert gas which may be argon, and means for 
directing the gas into the vessel so as to sweep the vapor droplets toward the 

cryogenic receptor; or 
c) a source of reactant gas and means for introducing the reactant gas into the 
vessel. 
A method of generating particles of substantially uniform size and shape, the method 
comprising the steps of: 


a) providing a supply mass of solid material, the supply mass having a surface; 
b) subjecting the surface of the supply mass to the output of an electron beam 
source and a source of controlled vibration so as to cause separation from the surface 

of the supply mass vapor droplets having uniform size and shape; and 
c) collecting the droplets after they have solidified. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
