<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642480</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITIONS, METHODS, AND APPARATUS FOR SEPARATING OXYGEN FROM A GASEOUS MIXTURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B3548	C25B1300	C25B1304	C04B3501	B01D5332	C01B1308	B01D5332	C04B3550	C04B3500	C04B35453	C01B500	C01B1308	C04B3500	H01M812	H01M812	C04B3548	C04B3550	C01B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C25B	C25B	C04B	B01D	C01B	B01D	C04B	C04B	C04B	C01B	C01B	C04B	H01M	H01M	C04B	C04B	C01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B35	C25B13	C25B13	C04B35	B01D53	C01B13	B01D53	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C01B5	C01B13	C04B35	H01M8	H01M8	C04B35	C04B35	C01B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR LIQUIDE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
L'AIR LIQUIDE S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACKERELL RICHARD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RENLUND GARY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYAMMACH MUSTAFA A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACKERELL, RICHARD, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RENLUND, GARY, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYAMMACH, MUSTAFA, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is related to a ceramic which 
possesses particularly high oxygen ion conductivity. More 
particularly, the present invention is related to a doped 
ceramic and methods and apparatus for its use in removing 
oxygen and water from a gaseous mixture of oxygen, water and 
other relatively inert gases. In a number of applications it is important to remove 
oxygen from a mixture of gases. For example, even in purified 
gases, it is known that trace quantities of oxygen remains 
within the gas. In order to provide a very pure gas, it would 
be desirable to remove as much of the trace oxygen as possible. 
Examples of such gases include nitrogen and noble gases. Small quantities of oxygen mixed within otherwise pure 
inert gases have proven problematic in a number of contexts. 
For example, in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, it is 
important to provide an essentially oxygen-free environment 
during certain types of processing steps. A typical solution 
for the problem is to flush the processing environment with an 
inert gas. However, even when inert gas fills the processing 
environment, trace amounts of oxygen still exist and are mixed 
with the inert gases. Various processes have been attempted to remove oxygen 
from such inert gases. For example, it has been conventional 
to filter the gas in order to attempt to remove oxygen. 
Various filtering and removal processes have been employed, 
including adsorption, absorption, catalytic reactions, and 
membrane separation. Even using these processes, however, 
gases of less than ideal purity have been produced. Furthermore, 
such processes are cumbersome and difficult to use in 
large scale operations.  
 A reverse of the problem described above is involved in 
the production of commercial quantities of extremely pure 
oxygen. Problems similar to those described concerning other 
gases are also encountered in the production of pure oxygen. 
In all exiting processes, it would be desirable to provide 
oxygen of better quality using a simple and relatively inexpensive 
process. While not commonly used in gas purification, electrochemical 
devices which employ oxygen ion conducting electrolytes are 
known to exist. These electrolytes are widely used as oxygen 
sensors. Such sensors have received wide acceptance in devices 
such as automobile engines and furnaces where it is critical to 
maintain the ratio of fuel and oxygen within particular 
acceptable ranges. Some devices of this nature have also been 
employed for the purposes of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from 
a gaseous mixture comprising: 


a solid electrolyte having a first side and a second side 
said solid electrolyte comprising a ceramic oxide, a dopant 

incorporated within said ceramic oxide, a second dopant 
incorporated within said ceramic dopant; 
a first metallic coating applied to said first side of 
said electrolyte; 
a second metallic coating applied to said second side of 
said electrolyte; 
means for creating an electrical potential between said 
first side and said second side; and 
means for placing said gaseous mixture in contact with 
said first side of said electrolyte such that oxygen contained 

within said gaseous mixture passes through said electrolyte, 
but such that the remainder of said gaseous mixture remains on 

said first side of said electrolyte; 
 
   characterised in that the ratio of the mole percentages 

of said first dopant to said second dopant is in the range of 
from about 6.5:10 to about 9.5:10. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in claim 1 wherein said ceramic 

oxide is selected from the group consisting of zirconia, ceria, 
bismuth trioxide, thoria, and hafnia. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said 

first dopant comprises magnesia or yttria. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in any one of the preceding claims 

further comprising an enclosure disposed about said 
electrolyte. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a  
 

gaseous mixture as defined in claim 4 further comprising means 
for heating the interior of said enclosure. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in claim 5 wherein said means for 

heating is suitable for heating the interior of said enclosure 
to a temperature in the range of from about 650°C to about 

900°C. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in any one of claims 4 to 6 further 

comprising a second enclosure disposed about said first 
enclosure. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in any one of the preceding claims 

wherein said electrolyte is generally a hollow cylinder in 
shape having a proximal end and a distal end, said first side 

comprising the interior surface of said hollow cylinder and 
said second side comprising the exterior surface of said hollow 

cylinder. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in claim 8 further comprising 

bellows attached to the proximal end of said electrolyte, said 
bellows placing the interior of said electrolyte in 

communication with a source of mixed gas. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in claim 9 further comprising second 

bellows attached to the distal end of said electrolyte. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in any one of the preceding claims 

wherein said first metallic coating applied to said first side 
of said electrolyte is selected from the group consisting of 

silver, platinum, and palladium.  
 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in any one of the preceding claims 

wherein said second metallic coating applied to said second 
side of said electrolyte is selected from the group consisting 

of silver, platinum, and palladium. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in any one of the preceding claims 

further comprising a coating of lanthanum-strontium-manganate 
disposed over said second metallic coating. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in any one of the preceding claims 

further comprising two bulkhead fittings configured such that 
they support said electrolyte. 
An apparatus for separating oxygen and water from a 
gaseous mixture as defined in any one of the preceding claims 

wherein said means for creating an electrical potential between 
said first side and said second side comprises a DC power 

source. 
A method for removing oxygen and/or water from a mixture 
of gases utilising the apparatus according to any one of claims 

1 to 15, the method comprising the steps of: 

creating an electrical potential between said 
first side and said second side of said solid 

electrolyte; and 
placing said mixture of gases in contact with 
said first side such that oxygen is transported 

through said electrolyte but said inert gases 
remain on said first side of said electrolyte. 
A solid electrolyte permeable by oxygen ions comprising:
 
   a ceramic oxide selected from the group consisting of 

zirconia, ceria, bismuth trioxide, thoria and hafnia; a first 
dopant incorporated within said ceramic oxide; a second dopant  

 
incorporated within said ceramic oxide;
 
   
characterised in that the ratio of the mole percentages 
of said first dopant to said second dopant is in the range of 

from about 5.5:10 to about 9.5:10 and in that said first and 
second dopants are selected from the group consisting of 

magnesia, yttria, and the oxides of calcium, barium, strontium, 
lanthanum, and scandium. 
A solid electrolyte permeable by oxygen ions as defined 
in claim 17, wherein said first dopant is selected from the 

group consisting of the oxides of calcium, barium, strontium, 
lanthanum, and scandium. 
A solid electrolyte permeable by oxygen ions as defined 
in claim 17 or 18, wherein said second dopant is selected from 

the group consisting of the oxides of calcium, barium, 
strontium, lanthanum, and scandium. 
A solid oxygen permeable electrolyte as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims comprising: 


a ceramic oxide comprising the oxide of a tetravalent 
element; 
first and second dopants incorporated within said ceramic 
oxide wherein said dopants comprise oxides of bi- or tri-valent 

elements. 
A solid electrolyte as defined in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein the ionic radius of said ceramic oxide 

is within a factor of 0.75 of the ionic radius of said dopants. 
A solid electrolyte permeable by oxygen ions as defined 
in any one of the preceding claims wherein the resistivity of 

the electrolyte is in the range of from about 25 to about 100 
ohm-centimetres. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
