<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634150</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and device in connection with the production of a tooth, bridge, etc.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05B1942	G05B1942	A61C510	A61C1308	A61C1300	A61C508	A61C13003	A61C1308	A61C900	A61C13003	A61C900	A61C1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05B	G05B	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05B19	G05B19	A61C5	A61C13	A61C13	A61C5	A61C13	A61C13	A61C9	A61C13	A61C9	A61C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the production of a tooth or bridge, for 
example, an outer contour of a rotating model is scanned 

by means of a scanning device (6). The model is mounted 
in or on a rotary holder (5) for the model. The latter is 

supported by the holder such that the scanned contour, 
above a preparation line on the model, can be exposed to 

the angled scanning device. This is directed towards a 
surface situated on the model below the preparation line. 

The holder is activated for rotation and the scanning 
device is activated for contour scanning. During the 

scanning, the scanning device and the holder are assigned 
a reciprocal movement in the vertical direction. 
It is proposed that Figure 2 should accompany the 
abstract. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOBEL BIOCARE AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOBEL BIOCARE AB (REG. NO. 556002-0231)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSSON MATTS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOERNQUIST ANDERS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSSON, MATTS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOERNQUIST, ANDERS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process for
scanning, in connection with the production of a tooth,
bridge or similar product usable on the human body, an
outer contour of a rotating model by means of a scanning
device which operates at a scanning angle, e.g. 45°, relative
to the rotational axis of the model. The invention
also relates to a device for making the said process possible.
It is referred to the preambles of the following
claims 1 and 10, as well.By virtue of Swedish patent 9003967-8(468198),
which corresponds to EP 490848-A2, which discloses the features
of the preamble of claim 10, it is previously known
to carry out a scanning or reading function on a rotating
model, in which a scanning device is set at an angle (45°)
relative to the rotational axis of the model. The reading
is utilized in a computer installation for the further
processing of input data and production of the product in
cuestion, which is primarily constituted by a tooth, bridge
or other dental three-dimensional body. Through EP-AO-541500
which discloses the features of the preamble of
claim 1 it is proposed to use a rotatable device (holder)
on which a model may be secured. A sensing unit is applicable
towards the outer contour of the model under an angle.
The rotatable device is movable in the high direction relatively
the sensing unit. Said contour can in this way be
scanned with a relatively small amount of information. The entire production process in respect of formulated
or desired products must be executed such that a
relatively very high manufacturing accuracy is accomplished,
in connection with which it may be mentioned that
in many cases an accuracy of 0.01-0.05 mm is required. This
places high demands upon, inter alia, the capacity of the
reading function to be the performed with great accuracy.The reading should be able to be performed by the
average dental technician or practising dentist without the
need to acquire over-extensive special skills as regards
data-processing equipment. The invention aims to solve, inter
alia, these problems and proposes a tool which is easy
to learn to use and implement together with normal tasks
performed by the dental technician/dentist.There is a requirement for the reading to be able
to be performed with necessary accuracy on the spot, entirely
separate from the actual manufacture of the product
in question. The dentist/dental technician should be able
individually to perform a data-storage and data-transfer to
the manufacturer. The invention solves this problem too.The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Process for scanning, in connection with the production of
a tooth, bridge, etc., an outer contour (2a, 33a) of a

rotating model (2) by means of a scanning device (6) which
operates at a scanning angle (alpha) relative to the

rotational axis (2') of the model, and in which the model
is mounted in or on a rotary holder (5) for the model and

the model is supported by the holder such that the scanned
contour (2a) above a preparation line on the model can be

exposed to the angled scanning device, characterized in
that the scanning device is directed towards a surface (2e)

situated on the model below a preparation line on the
model, and in that the holder (5) then is activated for

rotation (16) and the scanning device (6) is activated for
contour scanning, during which contour scanning the

scanning device and/or the holder are assigned a movement
(15) in the vertical direction of the model.
Process according to patent claim 1, characterized in that
the model is fitted in a fixture (23) and is adjusted in

two mutually perpendicular directions (24a, 24b and 27a,
27b respectively) located in the same plane, such that the

model is centred relative to the rotational axis of the
model, in that the fixture is fitted on or in the holder

(5) which is rotatably disposed, and in that the fixture is
centred in or on the holder using centring and plumbline

members (9, 32).
Process according to patent claim 1 or 2, characterized in
that on the model (2) there is fixed, by means of a member

(28), which can be disposed parallel with the rotational
axis of the model and which interacts with the model

material at the preparation line(2c), [lacuna]
, in that the
contour is installed between the member and the rotational

axes such that it can be exposed to the scanning member 
throughout its scanning movement, i.e. no negative recesses

or scanning shadows are present, viewed in the scanning
direction (7) of the scanning device.
Process according to patent claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized
in that the contour (2a) is read by means of a reading

member exhibiting a spherical front surface (14)/probe,
which is brought to bear against the surface (2e) located

below the said preparation line (2c) and against the said
contour (2a).
Process according to any of the preceding patent claims,
characterized in that the scanning member is actuated into

contact with the said surface (2e) below the preparation
line upon the commencement of the scanning operation, in

that the scanning member is assigned bearing contact
against the contour (2a) until the scanning member is

brought into interaction with the upper part (2h) of the
model, whereupon the scanning member is assigned an action

in which the interaction of the scanning member with the
model contour (2c) ceases.
Process according to any of the preceding patent claims,
characterized in that the holder (5), during the scanning

by the scanning member, is assigned a movement in the
vertical direction (15) of the rotational axis, and in that

the holder, once the scanning member has completed its
scanning of the contour, is assigned a return movement to a

starting position.
Process according to any of the preceding patent claims,
characterized in that, upon the scanning of the contour

(2c) by the reading member, a data file is input, which is
re-created and used in a data-processing and production

procedure, following the scanning function, for the tooth,
bridge, etc. in question, which procedure can relate to

production in titanium, ceramic, etc. 
Process according to any of the preceding patent claims,
characterized in that it is utilized also on a sleeve (33)

applied to the said model, the contour (2a) of the model
first being read for establishing the inner surface of the

sleeve (33), which inner surface corresponds to the outer
contour (2a) of the model, the sleeve is then applied to

the model with great accuracy achieved, for example, with
the aid of glue or equivalent, after which the outer

contour (33) of the sleeve is read in an equivalent manner
to the contour (2a) of the model,
Process according to patent claim 8, characterized in that
the front part (14) of the reading member is brought into

contact with that surface of the model situated below the
preparation line at essentially the same place/point in the

readings of the two contours (2c and 33a respectively), any
minor adjustment to the vertical direction of the model

being able to be made between the readings of the contours.
Device for permitting the production of a tooth, bridge,
etc. according to patent claim 1, in which an outer surface

(2a) can be read on a rotating model (2) by means of a
reading device (6) which operates at a scanning angle

(alpha) relative to the rotational axis (2') of the model
and is adapted for sensing said contour of the model, a

rotatable holder (5) is arranged to support the model such
that the contour (2a) of the model above a preparation line

on the model can be exposed throughout the reading or
scanning from the angled scanning device (6) and that the

holder and the scanning device is reciprocally displaceable
in the vertical direction, characterized in that the

scanning device is adapted to be adjustable in respect of a
surface (2e) situated below a preparation line on the

model, which surface (2e) constitutes the bottom surface of
an indentation of the model below said preparation line,

and in that the holder (5) and the reading device (6) are
adapted to be actuatable for rotation and contour reading,

respectively, and said reciprocal vertical displacement 
movement, after the adjustment of the scanning device in

respect of said surface.
Device according to patent claim 10, characterized in that
the scanning device is arranged to be actuated into contact

with the model upon the commencement of the scanning and to
perform a return movement when the scanning device has

completed its contour reading, and in that the scanning
device (6) and/or the holder (5) are arranged to perform a

return movement when the said contour scanning is
completed.
Device according to patent claim 10 or 11, characterized in
that the indentation having a height (H) of no less then

about one millimetre, calculated in the vertical direction
of the model, and having a depth (D) of no greater then

about half a millimetre.
Device according to patent claim 10, 11 or 12,
characterized in that the fixture (23) is arranged to

support the model such that it rotates around a rotational
axis (2') without substantial wobbling, and in that the

fixture is configured having manually operated adjusting
members (25, 26, 28) for the alignment of the model.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
