<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611551</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Suture anchor installation system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1704	A61B1706	A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1704	A61B1706	A61F208	A61L3114	A61F208	A61L3114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61L	A61F	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61L31	A61F2	A61L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The suture anchor installation system comprises 
a suture anchor assembly (100) engaged with a suture 

anchor insertion tool (200). The suture anchor assembly 
features a two-piece suture anchor for insertion into a 

pre-drilled hole in bone and at least one suture (101) 
having at least one surgical needle (400) affixed 

thereto. The two-piece suture anchor comprises a setting 
pin (110) slidable engaged within an engagement member 

(120) having barbed legs expandable in response to 
proximal movement of the setting pin. 
The suture anchor insertion tool (200) includes 
a body portion (210) and a distally extending shaft 

portion (240). An annular region (244) on the distal end 
of the shaft portion engages the legs of the suture 

anchor engagement member. A channel (242) in the shaft 
portion aligns with a channel (212) in the body portion 

to accommodate the suture. Needle-retaining assemblies 
(220) located on the body portion of the suture anchor 

insertion tool engage the surgical needle or needles 
attached to the suture. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE DANIEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDER THOMAS W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, DANIEL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANDER, THOMAS W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a suture 
anchor installation system and, more particularly, to a 
suture anchor installation system comprising a suture 
anchor insertion tool engaging a two-piece suture anchor 
having a suture and needle assembly. 
A tool and system in accordance with the pre-characterising part of the 
independent claims which appear below are disclosed in US-A-5,002,550. During surgery, it is often necessary to attach 
muscle tissue or prosthetic implants to bone. Suture 
anchors are used in the art to facilitate such attachment 
by securing a suture to bone. Generally, an anchor is 
implanted into a hole pre-drilled into a bone mass. A 
suture engaged by the suture anchor extends from the bone 
and is used to stitch the muscle tissue or prosthetic 
device to the bone. Suture anchors find particular use 
in joint reconstruction surgery, especially during 
attachment of ligaments or tendons to bones in the knee, 
shoulder, and elbow. Several systems have been proposed in the art 
to aid the surgeon in implanting a suture anchor into a 
bone. One such system, shown in U.S. Patent No. 5,100,417 
to Cerier et al., comprises a driver having a handle and 
elongated shaft. An anchor snap fits on the end of the 
shaft over an anti-rotation pin which mates with slots in 
the anchor. A suture engaged in the anchor has its ends 
affixed to posts extending from the driver handle. The 
Cerier et al. system suffers from the disadvantage that 
the driver does not accommodate sutures having 
preattached needles. Thus, use of this system requires 
threading the suture into a needle, a time-consuming 
procedure for the surgeon.  
 
The suture anchor installation shown in above-mentioned US 
Patent No. 5,002,550 to Li 
comprises a suture anchor having a normally curved barb 
capable of being elastically deformed to a substantially 
straight configuration. The suture anchor engages a 
suture having a pair of surgical needles attached to its 
ends. The installation tool is adapted to receive the 
surgical needles in a pair of grooves formed in the 
tool's outer surface. The tool additionally provides a 
member for selectively covering and uncovering the 
needles received in the grooves. The Li suture anchor installation system uses 
shape-memory alloys to fabricate the suture anchors. 
The 
normally curved barb of the Li system protrudes from the 
installation tool during positioning of the anchor. US-A-5,100,417 discloses a system for putting a bone anchor in 
place, and the anchor includes a suture
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A suture anchor insertion tool (200) comprising: 
a body portion (210) having proximal and distal ends; 

an elongated shaft portion (240) having proximal and distal 
ends extending distally from a distal end of said body 

portion, the distal end of said shaft portion being 
dimensioned and configured to receive a two-piece suture anchor 

comprising a setting pin (110) engaged with engagement means 
having at least one suture with attached needles operatively associated 

therewith; 

at least one needle-retaining assembly (220), said 
needle-retaining assembly comprising a pair of needle-retaining 

projections (222) extending from said body 
portion; and 
means (214) co-operating with said body portion for 
retaining said at least one suture with sufficient tension 

to maintain said setting pin within said engagement means 
of said two-piece suture anchor; the tool being 


characterised by
radially outwardly open channel means (242) extending 
the length of said elongated shaft portion, said channel 

means being dimensioned and configured to receive a portion 
of said at least one suture (101) extending from said 

suture anchor. 
A suture anchor installation system comprising: 

a suture anchor insertion tool (200) comprising a body 
portion (210) having proximal and distal ends and an 

elongated shaft portion (240) having proximal and distal 
ends, said shaft portion extending distally from a distal 

end of said body portion; 
a suture anchor assembly (100) held by a distal end of 
said shaft portion, said assembly comprising a suture  

 
anchor having engagement means (120) for insertion into a 

hole in bone; 
at least one suture (101) operatively associated with 
said suture anchor; 
at least one surgical needle (400) attached to said at 
least one suture; 
a needle-retaining assembly (220) provided in said 
body portion of said insertion tool to receive said at 

least one surgical needle; and 
means (214) co-operating with said insertion tool body 
portion for retaining said at least one suture with 

sufficient tension to maintain said setting pin within said 
engagement means;
 
and 
characterised by
: 
the shaft portion (240) being formed with channel 
means (242) which extend radially-outwardly open the length 

of the elongated shaft portion with the channel means (242) 
being dimensional and configured to receive a portion of 

said suture
 
and by 
a setting pin (110) engaged within said engagement 
means, said engagement means including a body portion (121) 

having a distal end and an axially extending aperture (124) 
and at least two legs (122) extending proximally from said 

body portion, said legs being expandable in response to 
proximal movement of said setting pin, said setting pin 

being slidable within said axially extending aperture to 
expand said legs and having means for engaging a suture. 
A suture anchor installation system according to claim 2 
wherein the suture anchor (100) is fabricated from 

bioabsorbable material. 
A suture anchor installation system according to claim 3 
wherein said bioabsorbable material is a polymer selected  

 
from homopolymers and copolymers of glycolide, lactide, 

caprolactone, dioxanone, trimethylene carbonate and 
mixtures thereof. 
A suture anchor installation system according to claims 2, 
3 or 4 wherein said needle-retaining assembly comprises a 

pair of needle-retaining projections (222) extending from 
said body portion of said suture anchor insertion tool. 
A suture anchor installation system according to claims 2, 
3, 4 or 5 wherein said suture anchor further comprises at 

least one barb (123) on the outer surface of each of said 
at least two legs of said engagement means. 
A suture anchor installation system or tool according to 
any one of the preceding claims wherein said needle-retaining 

assembly further comprises first and second rails 
(226) extending from said body portion, said first and 

second rails being disposed adjacent said needle-retaining 
projections such that a needle engaged in said needle-retaining 

projections is at least partially supported on 
said first and second rails. 
A suture anchor installation system or tool according to 
any one of the preceding claims further comprising a cover 

member (500) co-operating with said body portion of said 
suture anchor insertion tool to enclose at least a portion 

thereof. 
A suture anchor installation system according to any one of 
claims 2 to 8 wherein said at least one suture (101) 

comprises a single, bioabsorbable suture having first and 
second ends, said suture being positioned within said 

suture-engaging means such that said first and second ends 
extend proximally from said suture anchor.  

 
A suture anchor installation system according to claim 9 
wherein said first and second ends of said suture are 

respectively attached to first and second surgical needles 

(400). 
A suture anchor installation system according to claim 2 
wherein said suture anchor insertion tool further comprises 

a pair of needle-retaining assemblies. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
