<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLOATING BARRIER METHOD AND APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02B1504	E02B1504	E02B1506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02B	E02B	E02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02B15	E02B15	E02B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A float boom (10) for retaining a floatable material, such as hydrocarbons, floating upon a liquid surface. This float boom (10) consists of separate and sequentially arranged buoyancy chambers (12) having depending channels (16, 17) that are interconnected via a passageway (22) such that an inflating medium is sequentially supplied to the buoyancy chambers. An automatic sealing system blocks access to each buoyancy chamber by closing the depending channel whenever the internal pressure within the channel is less than the external pressure upon the channel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OIL STOP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OIL STOP INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOANS KIP B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAZES RICHARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOANS, KIP, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAZES, RICHARD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "FLOATING BARRIER METHOD AND APPARATUS"This application is a continuation-in-part application of a previous application by the same inventor executed January 15, 1993, and bearing U.S.Serial No. filed February 18, 1993, which is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. Serial No. 07/933,721 filed August 24, 1992, which is a continua¬ tion-in-part application of U.S. Serial No. 07/752,002 filed August 29, 1991, which is a continuation applica¬ tion of U.S. Serial No. 07/638,704 (now abandoned) filed January 8, 1991, which is a continuation of U.S. Serial No. 07/424,158 filed October 19, 1989, now U.S. Patent No. 5,022,785, issued June 11, 1991. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention pertains to a floating boom or barrier for collecting and restraining floatable material, such as liquid hydrocarbons, floating on the surface of a body of water, and more particularly to a segmented, inflatable boom incorporating check valves that automatically close to prevent the unwanted or unintended release of the inflating medium.2. General BackgroundConventional floating oil booms or barriers normally comprise an elongated tubular body that is produced by the inflation of a sealed tube to which the oil-confining skirt is attached. These booms or barriers are normally 

stored on land or on a ship in a collapsed deflated state, either by folding it flat or by rolling it upon a reoi . See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,682,151 and 3,494,132 which disclose a series of inflatable plastic tubes whose ends are interconnected by sleeves. Secured to each tube is a depending hollow skirt or fin having a weighted material (for ballast), such as lead shot or chain or sand or gravel, contained in or attached to the lower longitudinal edge of the fin.Other patents, such as U.S. Patent No. 4,123,911, disclose a continuous inflatable tube one end of which is affixed to the deployment vessel. This deployment vessel supplies the tube with pressurized air or the like so as to inflate the tube in order to achieve the required degree of buoyancy necessary to float the boom. The opposite end of the tube, after it is fully deployed from the transport vessel, is then attached to either a second vessel or to a drogue or to some other means of securing this second end at sea.U.S. Patent No. 4,325,653 illustrates a collapsible boom which, in its inflated condition, incorporates double buoyancy chambers disposed on opposite sides of a central skirt. A tension wire is secured to the lower region of the skirt
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A flexible inflatable float boom for confining a material floatable on a liquid surface comprising:
(a) a plurality of sealed inflatable buoyancy chambers sequentially secured together;
(b) impervious channel means communicating with and extending downwardly from each of said buoyancy chambers for providing access to each of said buoyancy chamber;
(c) passageway means for coupling a lower end region of a said channel means of one of said buoyancy chambers with a lower end region of a said channel means of its adjacent said buoyancy chamber, said passageway means and said channel means providing for the passage of a pressurized inflating medium therethrough into said buoyancy chambers;
(d) ballast means secured to said float boom underneath said buoyancy chambers for maintaining said boom in a proper orientation when deployed; and,
(e) means for blocking access to a said buoyancy chamber whenever the internal pressure within its respective said channel means is less than the external hydrostatic pressure acting upon the said channel means.
2. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 1, wherein said channel means and said means for blocking access to a said buoyancy chamber comprise a flexible material that is biased to the closed position by external hydrostatic 



pressure .
3. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 2, wherein said channel means are located at the end regions of adjacent said buoyancy chambers, whereby said buoyancy chambers are sequentially inflated and/or deflated.
4. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 3, wherein said buoyancy chambers are elongated.
5. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 4, wherein said channel means comprise separate entry and exit channels at opposing ends of said chambers.
6. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 5, wherein said means for blocking access is located at an elevation above said passageway means.
7. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 6, wherein said sequentially secured buoyancy chambers define a first buoyancy chamber, a last buoyancy chamber and intermediate buoyancy chambers therebetween and wherein said first and last buoyancy chambers comprise an inflation valve.
8. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 7, further comprising impervious barrier means intermediate said buoyancy chamber and said ballast means for retaining the confined material on one side of the float boom.
9. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 8, further comprising a continuous flap secured atop said buoyancy chambers along said boom.
10. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 9, wherein 


said ballast means comprise a continuous weighted material extending through a sleeve secured to the boom.
11. The apparatus as set forth in CLAIM 10, wherein adjacent said float booms may be interconnected together.
12. A method for confining a material floatable on a liquid surface comprising the steps of:
(a) sequentially securing a plurality of sealed inflatable buoyancy chambers together;
(b) providing each said buoyancy chamber with flexible, impervious channel means that communicate with and extend downwardly from its respective said buoyancy chamber for providing access to the said buoyancy chamber;
(c) providing a passageway between a lower end region of a said channel means of one said buoyancy chamber with a lower end region of a said channel means of an adjacent said buoyancy chamber, said passageway and said channel means providing for the passage of an inflating medium therethrough into said buoyancy chambers;
(d) positioning said passageway at an elevation underneath the elevation of said buoyancy chamber;
(e) securing ballast means to said boom underneath said buoyancy chambers for maintaining said boom in a proper orientation when deployed;
(f) supplying a pressurized inflating medium 


to each of said buoyancy chambers via said channel means and said passageways; and,
(g) blocking access to a said buoyancy chamber whenever the internal pressure within its respective said channel means is less than the external hydrostatic pressure acting upon the said channel means.
13. The method as set forth in CLAIM 12, further comprising the step of positioning said channel means at the end regions of adjacent said buoyancy chambers.
14. The method as set forth in CLAIM 13, further comprising the step of providing said channel means as separate entry and exit channels at opposing ends of said chambers.
15. The method as set forth in CLAIM 14, further comprising the step of providing sealing means for blocking access to said buoyancy chambers at an elevation above said passageway.
16. The method as set forth in CLAIM 15, further comprising the step of sequentially securing said buoyancy chambers together, thereby defining a first buoyancy chamber, a last buoyancy chamber and inter¬ mediate buoyancy chambers therebetween and installing an inflation valve in said first and last buoyancy chambers, thereby sequentially supplying the inflating medium to said buoyancy chambers.
17. The method as set forth in CLAIM 16, further comprising the step of providing impervious barrier means 


intermediate said buoyancy chamber and said ballast means for retaining said confined material on one side of the boom.
18. The method as set forth in CLAIM 17, further comprising the step of providing a continuous flap atop said buoyancy chambers along said boom.
19. The method as set forth in CLAIM 18, further comprising the step of providing said ballast means as a continuous weighted material extending through a sleeve secured to said boom.
20. The method as set forth in CLAIM 19, further comprising the step of interconnecting adjacent float booms together.
21. A float boom for confining material floatable on a liquid surface comprising, in combination:
(a) a first elongated collapsible tube formed of fluid impervious material;
(b) said first tube defining a flat, reelable configuration when collapsed;
(c) means sealingly separating the interior of said first tube into a plurality of adjacent compartments sequentially disposed along the length of said first tube;
(d) a second elongated collapsible tube formed of fluid impervious material and defining a flat reelable configuration when collapsed;
(e) said second tube having a substantially 


smaller diameter when expanded than said first tube and having a longitudinal edge thereof secured to panel means connected to and depending downwardly from the lower portion of said first tube; and,
(f) a plurality of conduits spaced along the length of said second tube and respectively communicating between the bore of said second tube and said compart¬ ments, whereby pressured gas supplied to an end of the stored second tube produces successive inflation of said compartments; and,
(g) means for preventing access to said compartments whenever the internal pressure within each compartment's respective said conduit is less than the external pressure acting upon said conduit.
22. The apparatus of CLAIM 21, further comprising a third elongated collapsible tube formed of fluid impervious material ;
(a) said third tube defining a flat reelable configuration when collapsed;
(b) means for sealingly securing a lon¬ gitudinal edge of said third tube to said second tube; and,
(c) a selected quantity of particulate material disposed in each said chamber, said particulate material having a specific gravity substantially greater than that of water. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
