<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654790</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Memory device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C114096	H01L218242	H01L27108	G11C11401	G11C11409	H01L27108	G11C11406	G11C11406	G11C11401	H01L2170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	H01L	H01L	G11C	G11C	H01L	G11C	G11C	G11C	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C11	H01L21	H01L27	G11C11	G11C11	H01L27	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a serial access memory device in which dynamic 
memory cells and aerial registers are combined, the chip 

area occupied by the added serial registers can be reduced 
and thereby the cost of the memory chip can be reduced. 

The dynamic serial registers (SR) for reading data in 
series are provided in correspondence to the dynamic cell 

array (CA). When data are read under control of a transfer 
gate control block (X'fer CTL), the address is stored in 

an address compare block (X'fer Add). During the refresh 
of the cell array (CA) by a refresh control block (Ref 

CTL), the address of the cells being refreshed is given to 
the address compare block (X'fer Add). When both address 

match, the data of the cell array (CA) are transferred 
again to the serial registers (SR) through the transfer 

gate control block (X'fer CTL) to refresh the data of the 
serial registers. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a memory device, and
more specifically to a memory device suitable for a
semiconductor memory device provided with dynamic memory
cells, in particular.With an increase in the capacity of the semiconductor
memory device, memory devices of multibit (e.g., x 16 or
x 32 bits) construction have been required more and more.
Further, the memory devices provided with a serial access
function have been increased in order to increase the data
input/output speed.In particular, where image data are handled, a high
speed serial access memory device is indispensable.
Accordingly, in the memory device, such a construction that
data are first transferred simultaneously in parallel and
then outputted in series has been adopted recently. This
method has been developed to transfer data at high speed
by providing a parallel-serial transforming circuit in the
data input/output sections. Therefore, in the case of a
field memory or a video RAM, registers are provided to
store data for one row of the cell array simultaneously and
then output the stored data in series.On the other hand, with the advance of the memory
capacity and the number of bits (multibit), such a construction
has been adopted that the memory cells are
divided into a number of memory cell arrays and further
object memory cells are further selected from a selected
memory cell array, in order to decrease the power consumption
and increase the data transfer speed. In particular,
in the case of the dynamic type memory cells, since minute
cell data must be sensed and further amplified, it is 
indispensable to divide the cell array into cell groups
within a data sensible range. In the memory device
constructed as described above, when the serial read
function is required, it is necessary to provide registers
for parallel-serial transformation for each cell array.Fig. 5 shows a general memory construction of a 4M
video RAM of 256 k x 16 cells, by way of example. In this
memory device, each cell array is composed of 128 kbit
cells. In Fig. 5, regions B show the register sections for
parallel-serial transformation, and each register section
is composed of 256 bit registers. On the other hand, each
cell array region C includes mechanisms (e.g., sense
amplifiers) for access to cell information. As understood
by the comparison between the regions C and the regions B
in Fig. 5, the ratio of the chip area occupied by the
regions B including the parallel-serial transforming
sections to the total chip area is fairly large.Further, Fig. 6
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A memory device, comprising:

a memory cell array (CA) composed of a plurality of
memory cells arranged into a matrix pattern;
a register (SR) for transmitting and/or receiving data

to and/or from the memory cells for one row of said memory
cell array (CA), and further for outputting and/or

inputting data to or from the outside; characterized by
control means (ref. CTL; WL CTL; X'fer CTL; X'fer Add.
COMP) for, during a period wherein data transferred from the

memory cells for one row of said memory cell array (CA) to
said register are valid by stored in said register (SR), accessing the memory cells for

the same row of said memory cell array (CA) from which the
data have been transferred to said register (SR) and

further transferring the same data to said register (SR)
again, to refresh the data in said register (SR).
The memory device of claim 1, wherein each of the
memory cells for constituting said memory cell array (CA)

is of dynamic type memory cell; and said control means
(ref. CTL; WL CTL; X'fer CTL; X'fer Add, COMP) refreshes

the memory cells row by row in sequence.
The memory device of claim 2, wherein said register
(SR) is composed of a plurality of register cells required

to be refreshed in the same way as in the dynamic type
memory cell.
The memory device of claim 3, wherein the register cell
is composed of first and second transistors connected in

series between complementary first and second data output
lines, an intermediate junction point of said two transistors

being connected to any one of a supply voltage line
(Vcc) and a ground line (Vss), a control terminal of said

first transistor being connected to the second data output 
line and a control terminal of said second transistor being

connected to the first data output line, respectively.
The memory device of claim 4, wherein the first and
second transistors of the register cell are of N-channel

transistors (Fig. 1).
The memory device of claim 4, wherein the first and
second transistors of the register cell are of P-channel

transistors (Fig. 1A).
The memory device of claim 5 or 6, wherein said register
(SR) is of serial register.
The memory device of claim 3, 4, 5 or 6, wherein said control
means (ref. CTL; WL CTL; X'fer CTL; X'fer Add. COMP)

executes re-transfer operation such that a row address of
one-row data transferred from said memory cell array (CA)

to said register (SR) is stored and held as a transferred
row address of said memory cell array; a row address whose

data now being refreshed is compared with the transferred
row address during the refresh operation; and when both

match, data of the row corresponding to the transferred row
address are transferred again to said register.
The memory device of claim 8, wherein the re-transfer
operation is repeated in a time shorter than

shorter one of the data holding time of said memory cells
and that of said register cells. 
The memory device of claim 7, wherein the memory
device is composed of said single memory cell array (CA)

and said single register (SR); and data are inputted and
outputted between said memory cell array and the outside

via said single register in series.
The memory device of claim 7, wherein the memory
device is composed of said single memory cell array (CA)

and said two registers (SR); and data are inputted and
outputted between said memory cell array and the outside

in such a way that data are inputted from one of said two
registers in series and the inputted data are inputted to

the other of said two registers via said memory cell array,
and the data are outputted to the outside in series from

the other register.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
