<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651661</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED COMPOSITE IRRIGATION AND SUCTION PROBE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B100	A61M5168	A61M5168	A61M100	A61B1700	A61M3900	A61M3900	A61M100	A61B100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61B	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B1	A61M5	A61M5	A61M1	A61B17	A61M39	A61M39	A61M1	A61B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A composite suction and irrigation probe (130) is provided for performing the functions of irrigation and suction alone or simultaneously with the use of a single trumpet valve (112). In the first embodiment (figures 6 and 8) the inner cannula is attached to one probe mount end of the valve body while the outer cannula is attached to a second and opposite probe mount end. The inner cannula is inserted through a common channel of the valve body and the cannula. In the second embodiment, the inner cannula (162) is attached to the outer cannula (160) prior to attaching to the probe (130) to the valve body (112). The designated suction and irrigation ports (138 and 139) located within the common channel (186) of the valve body are isolated from each other to provide discrete and dedicated ports.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARD INC C R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
C.R. BARD, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORSEY JAMES H III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORSEY, JAMES, H., III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to an apparatus
for use in laproscopic surgery. More specifically, this
invention concerns an improved composite suction/irrigation
probe for use in conjunction with a hydrodissection apparatus.Hydrodissection procedures typically involve directing a
pressurized fluid stream at a target tissue through a probe,
followed thereafter by suction of the fluid from the operative
field through the same probe; or, through a probe connected to
a separate instrument. This procedure, as practiced with a
symmetrical valve (i.e. trumpet valve) of the type disclosed in
the U.S. Application Serial No. 07/470,771 filed on January 26,
1990, now issued as U.S. Patent No. 5,188,591 on February 23,
1993, simply involves the sequential depression of the
irrigation piston connected to the source of the hydrodissection
fluid, release of the irrigation piston, which discontinues the
flow of fluid, depression of the suction piston to effect
aspiration of fluid from the operative field, and the repetition
of the above sequence. As is thus evident, the sequential
infusion of hydrodissection fluid, followed, thereafter, by
suction through the same probe prolongs the operative
procedures. To the extent that the flow of fluid is interrupted
and/or a common channel of the same probe is used for both
infusion and aspiration of fluid, the probe tip may become
fouled with tissue fragments, blood and the like, thereby
interrupting the fluid aspiration process and possibly requiring
withdrawal of the probe from the operative field, its
replacement and thereafter, the resumption of the operative
procedure by reinsertion of the probe into the patient's body. Without belaboring the foregoing, it is apparent that in
order to maintain a clear channel in the hydrodissection
(irrigation) probe, it is desirable (if not essential) to (a)
maintain a continuous flow of hydrodissection fluid through the
probe; and (b) effect aspiration of such fluid from the
operative field through a separate probe, or separate channel
within a common probe.In the performance of a hydrodissection procedure of the
type described above, it is highly desirable to perform
concurrent infusion and aspiration of hydrodissection fluid.
This continuous circulation of fluid within the operative field
permits rapid clearing of the operative field of debris and,
thus, facilitates the operative procedure.In the event the hydrodissection procedure is performed
utilizing a valve (i.e. trumpet valve), concurrent infusion and
aspiration of fluid is not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Composite irrigation and suction probe (150) which includes a surgical valve, said
composite probe releasably attached to said surgical valve for the delivery of a

source of irrigation and/or suction, said surgical valve in combination with said
probe comprising:


a valve body (112) having a common channel (186) communicating with a
plurality of valve chambers and at least one probe attachment end (130) in fluid flow

communication with said common channel, said common channel having an
irrigation port and a suction port, said valve allowing for simultaneous suction and

irrigation,
an inner cannula (162) having a proximal end and a distal end, said inner
cannula having an internal passageway extending from said proximal end to said

distal end, said proximal end of said inner cannula disposed within said common
channel between said suction port and said irrigation port of the common channel;
an outer cannula (160) having a proximal end and a distal end, said outer
cannula having an internal passageway extending from said proximal end to said

distal end of said outer cannula, a portion of said inner cannula disposed within
said internal passageway of said outer cannula;
means for positioning said inner cannula with respect to said outer cannula;
means for releasably attaching said outer cannula to said probe attachment
end (130); and
means (120) for isolating fluid flow between said irrigation port and said
suction port.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said means for isolating is a
boss member attached to said inner cannula and disposed within the common

channel to isolate and restrict fluid flow between said suction port and said
irrigation port of the common channel.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said means for positioning is
a plurality of treads (110) disposed on portions of a protruding member (108)

attached to said inner cannula and a plurality of treads (111) disposed within an
inner surface of said outer cannula, wherein when positioning said inner cannula 

with respect to said outer cannula the threads of said inner cannula and said outer
cannula are mated together.
The combination valve and probe of claim 3, wherein said protruding member is
substantially triangular in shape.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said means for releasably
attaching said inner cannula to said outer cannula is a pin member (104) protruding

outward from said inner cannula and a slot (106) disposed within an inner surface
of said outer cannula, wherein when attaching said inner cannula to said outer

cannula said pin is removeably secured within said slot.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said means for releasably
attaching said outer cannula to said probe attachment end is an adaptor means

(102) for quick engagement and quick disengagement of an interchangeable probe
member (150) with said probe attachment end, said adaptor means having a first

end and a second end, said first end of said adaptor means operatively associated
with said probe attachment end, said second end of said adaptor means operatively

associated with said proximal end of said outer cannula.
The combination valve and probe of claim 6, further including means for providing
a sealed relationship between said proximal end of said outer cannula and said

second end of said adaptor means.
The combination valve and probe of claim 7, wherein said means for providing a
sealed relationship is an o-ring disposed around said second end of said adaptor

means.
The combination valve and probe of claim 7, wherein said means for providing a
sealed relationship is an o-ring disposed within said proximal end of said outer

cannula.
The combination valve and probe of claim 6, further including means for providing
a snap/lock relationship (135) between said second end of said adaptor means and

said proximal end of said outer cannula. 
The combination valve and probe of claim 10, wherein said means for providing a
snap/lock relationship is a collar (102) disposed around said second end of said

adaptor means and a corresponding groove disposed within said proximal end of
said outer cannula.
The combination valve and probe of claim 6, wherein said adaptor means is
constructed integral with the valve body.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, further including a cap (165) disposed
within a se
cond of said probe attachment ends.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said surgical valve is a
trumpet valve.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said inner cannula has at
least one bend.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said valve body comprises
two chambers.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said valve body comprises
two probe attachment ends.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said means for releasably
attaching said outer cannula to the probe attachment end is an interface means

(102) for quick engagement and quick disengagement of an interchangeable probe
member with said probe attachment end, said interface means constructed integral

with said valve body at said probe attachment end, said interface means operatively
associated with said proximal end of said outer cannula.
The combination valve and probe of claim 18, further including means for
providing a sealed relationship between said proximal end of said outer cannula

and said interface means.
The combination valve and probe of claim 19, wherein said means for providing a
sealed relationship is an o-ring disposed around a portion of said interface means. 
The combination valve and probe of claim 19, wherein said means for providing a
sealed relationship is an o-ring disposed within the proximal end of said outer

cannula.
The combination valve and probe of claim 18, further including means for
providing a snap/lock relationship between said interface means and said proximal

end of said outer cannula.
The combination valve and probe of claim 22, wherein said means for providing a
snap/lock relationship is a collar (102) disposed around a portion of said interface

means and a corresponding groove disposed within the proximal end of said outer
cannula.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said common channel (30) is
shaped generally to resemble an hourglass with converging cylindrical channels to

provide an interference fit and a sealed relationship between said common channel
and said inner cannula when said inner cannula is disposed within said common

channel.
The combination valve and probe of claim 1, wherein said means for isolating is
disposed on said inner cannula of said composite probe.
The composite probe of claim 1, wherein the proximal end of said inner cannula is
disposed within said common channel between said suction port and said irrigation

port of said common channel.
The composite probe of claim 1, wherein said distal end of said inner cannula is
protruding outward from the second end of said outer cannula.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
