<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612591</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Motorized rotary joint and method of constructing a modular robot utilizing same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25J900	B25J908	B25J910	B25J910	B25J912	B25J912	B25J1900	B25J1900	F16D5502	F16D5502	F16D5900	F16D5902	F16H128	F16H128	H02K700	H02K710	H02K7102	H02K7116	H02K7116	H02K720	H02K1104	H02K1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	F16D	F16D	F16D	F16D	F16H	F16H	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25J9	B25J9	B25J9	B25J9	B25J9	B25J9	B25J19	B25J19	F16D55	F16D55	F16D59	F16D59	F16H1	F16H1	H02K7	H02K7	H02K7	H02K7	H02K7	H02K7	H02K11	H02K11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A motorized rotary joint (20) for robots integrates 
a joint bearing with a power transmission, such as a 

planetary type speed reducer (22), and provides a large 
central hole (24) for passing electric and service lines 

therethrough. The rotary joint includes a built-in 
rotor (92) and stator (98) arrangement within the same joint 

housing structure, thus allowing the electric motor to 
share the same bearings and housing structure with the 

speed reducer. Preferably, the rotor also carries 
planets (42) of the reducer and the stator is either integral 

or coupled to a housing (29) of the reducer. The rotary 
joint also accommodates an encoder (32'), a circuit board (131) 

having electronic components thereon and a built-in 
brake (32'') to provide a totally integrated, intelligent 

rotary joint. A method for constructing a modular robot 
using the rotary joint is also provided, wherein several 

such rotary joints (134,136,138,140,142,144) 
are coupled to simple structural 

elements (146,148,150,152,154,156) 
by means of bolted interfaces to construct a 

multi-joint robot of an articulated structure. Such a 
modular robot has low cost, is easy to maintain and 

service, and can be readily and speedily constructed and 
reconfigured from integrated modular components. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FANUC ROBOTICS NORTH AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FANUC ROBOTICS NORTH AMERICA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKEEL HADI A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKEEL, HADI A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is related to an application 
entitled "Planetary Type Speed Reducer Having Compound 
Planets And Method Of Constructing Such Planets" having 
the same filing date and assignee as the present invention. This invention relates to motorized rotary 
joints and, in particular, to motorized hollow rotary 
joints for robots which provide bearing support and 
speed reduction. Articulated arm robots have rotary joints that 
include supporting bearings, and speed reducers connected 
to prime movers such as electric motors. Position 
feedback for the joint is usually provided by resolvers 
or encoders connected either to the motor shaft or to 
one of two arms that interface at the joint. On some 
joints brakes are required, usually on the high speed 
motor side of the reducer, to hold the robot arms from 
falling under gravity. When such components are utilized 
as independent components, cost is associated with 
the use of multiple bearing sets in the joint, motor, 
encoder, and/or brake. Additional cost is associated 
with mechanical interfaces and couplings between the  
 
components; the joint also becomes bulkier and loses its 
modularity. Occasionally some components are integrated 
into fewer modules. For example, servo motors may 
include an encoder and/or a brake as part of one motor 
module. This simplifies the assembly and maintenance of 
the robot and reduces its overall size and cost. Direct 
drive motors do not need reducers, but are limited to 
relatively low torque applications. Some other modules 
integrate the joint bearing with the speed reducer, such 
as the commercially available Cycloidal and Harmonic 
drive speed reducers; by adding a motor-brake-encoder 
module, a robot joint can be built with only two modules. While speed reducers have been used extensively 
for robot joints, they have not fully supported the 
particular needs of robot construction. For example, it 
is desirable that the robot joint be hollow to pass 
cables and service lines through the joints from a base 
to serially connected joints of the robot arm and 
finally to its end effector. It is also desirable to 
avoid the duplication of bearings at the joints wherein 
the robot joint, the speed reducer, and the motor have 
their own independent bearings. Robots are also subjected to occasional 
overloads resulting from interference with peripheral 
equipment. Such interferences could damage the robot 
and render it inoperable unless the robot joints and 
reducers have inherently high overload carrying
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A motorized rotary joint for driving a 
load coupled thereto, the joint comprising: 

   a cylindrical power transmission having a 
central hole; 

   a motor in driving engagement with the power 
transmission for driving the power transmission; 

   a hollow housing having an outside dimension 
and an inside dimension, the housing including first and 

second housing parts for housing the power transmission 
and the motor wherein one of the first and second 

housing parts is adapted to be coupled to the load; 
   first bearing means disposed between the first 

and second housing parts for allowing relative rotary 
movement between the first and second housing parts to 

drive the load; and 
   second bearing means disposed within the 

housing for rotatably supporting the power transmission 
and the motor wherein the rotary joint provides a 

central hollow core for passing service lines therethrough 
and wherein the inside dimension is relatively 

large in relation to the outside dimension. 
The joint as claimed in claim 1 wherein 
the motor is an electric motor including a stator 

supported on one of the housing parts within the housing 
and a rotor wherein the second bearing means rotatably 

supports the rotor and wherein the rotor is supported on 
the power transmission within the housing. 
The joint as claimed in claim 2 wherein 
the power transmission is a planetary type speed reducer 

 
including a carrier and wherein the carrier also supports 

the rotor. 
The joint as claimed in claim 2 further 
comprising means mounted within the housing and electrically 

coupled to the rotor for supplying electrical 
energy to the rotor. 
The joint as claimed in claim 1 or claim 
4 further comprising an encoder mounted in the housing 

for providing a feedback signal representative of the 
angular displacement between the first and second 

housing parts. 
The joint as claimed in claim 5 further 
comprising a brake mounted in the housing for braking 

the relative rotation between the first and second 
housing parts in response to a braking control signal. 
An intelligent, motorized rotary joint 
for driving a load coupled thereto, the joint comprising: 

   a cylindrical power transmission; 
   a motor in driving engagement with the power 

transmission for driving the power transmission; 
   a circuit board having electronic components 

thereon for receiving electrical power and control 
signals and driving the motor in response to the control 

signals; 
   a housing including first and second housing 

parts for housing the power transmission, the motor, and 
the circuit board wherein one of the first and second 

housing parts is adapted to be coupled to the load;
 

   first bearing means disposed between the first 
and second housing part for allowing relative rotational 

movement between the first and second housing parts to 
drive the load; and 

   second bearing means disposed within the 
housing for rotatably supporting the power transmission 

and the motor. 
The joint of claim 7 further comprising 
an encoder mounted in the housing for providing a 

feedback signal representative of the angular displacement 
between the first and second housing parts wherein 

the electrical components include means for receiving 

the feedback signal so that the electrical components 
provide closed loop control of the motor. 
The joint of claim 7 or claim 8 wherein 
the electrical components include a communication 

circuit adapted to receive the electrical control 
signals from an external programmed controller and 

provide corresponding command signals in response 
thereto. 
The joint of claim 9 wherein the electrical 
components include a programmed microcomputer and a 

motor drive circuit for controllably driving the motor, 
the programmed microcomputer processing the command 

signals to provide circuit control signals to the motor 
control circuit, the motor drive circuit driving the 

motor in response to the circuit control signals. 
The joint of claim 10 further comprising 
a brake mounted in the housing for braking the relative 

rotation between the first and second housing parts in 
 

response to a braking control signal generated by the 
electronic components. 
The joint of claim 7 wherein the transmission 
has a central hole extending completely therethrough 

and the housing is hollow, the hollow housing 
having an outside dimension and an inside dimension and 

wherein the rotary joint provides a central hollow core 
for passing service lines therethrough, and wherein the 

inside dimension is relatively large in relation to the 
outside dimension. 
A method for constructing a modular robot 
having at least one axis of rotation, the method comprising 

the steps of: 
   providing a rotary joint of claim 1 or claim 

7 for each axis of rotation; 
   providing a hollow structural module including 

a wall with a hole extending therethrough for each 
rotary joint; 

   aligning the hole of each structural module 
with the central hollow core of its corresponding joint; 

   securing each structural module to its corresponding 
rotary joint; and 

   routing at least one electrical cable through 
the hole of each structural module and each corresponding 

aligned central hollow core to energize and communicate 
electrically with each rotary joint such that the 

robot can be powered and controlled. 
The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein 
the step of aligning includes the step of disposing the 

rotary joint within its corresponding structural module. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
