<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633940</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OIL-BODY PROTEIN CIS-ELEMENTS AS REGULATORY SIGNALS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1529	A01H500	C12P2102	C12N1500	C12N510	C12N1529	C07K14415	C12N1500	A01H500	C12N510	C07K14415	C12N1582	C12N1582	C12P2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	A01H	C12P	C12N	C12N	C12N	C07K	C12N	A01H	C12N	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	A01H5	C12P21	C12N15	C12N5	C12N15	C07K14	C12N15	A01H5	C12N5	C07K14	C12N15	C12N15	C12P21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
DNA constructs comprising 5' untranslated sequences from genes active from the late globular stage through to embryo maturity are provided. These constructs may be used to obtain expression of a DNA sequence of interest during phases of embryogenesis which precede the accumulation of storage proteins.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMBIOSYS GENETICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMBIOSYS GENETICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLONEY MAURICE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLONEY, MAURICE, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to upstream DNA sequences and their use to control
expression of genes in developing plant seeds and their use.Studies in plant gene expression have yielded a number of general
conclusions concerning the elements that control expression. Plants, like other
organisms both prokaryotic and eukaryotic, contain conserved or consensus
sequences upstream (5') of the transcriptional start site of genes which appear
capable of regulating transcriptional rates. In eukaryotes, these sequences include
a motif found typically about 25 bp 5' to the transcriptional initiation site which
has the sequence TATAA/TAA/T and is referred to as a TATA box. The role of
this TATA box appears to be to define the transcriptional start for RNA
polymerase II. A second upstream sequence is referred to as a CAAT box.
Typically, this is found about.75 bases upstream of the transcriptional start and is
associated with regulating the frequency of transcriptional initiation. In plants the
consensus sequence may be either CCAAT or sometimes AGGA. However,
neither of these alternative consensus sequences need be present in all plant genes.
These sequence motifs and their DNA context within 70-90 bases upstream of the
transcriptional start are often referred to as promoters. In general, 5' of the
promoter region and most frequently within 2000 bases of it are cis-acting
elements which confer a variety of properties on the promoter and which can
modulate transcriptional activity in either a constitutive or a non-constitutive
manner. These cis-acting sequences may be referred to as enhancers (if they are
responsible for increases in transcription) or silencers (if they are responsible for 
decreases or suppression of transcription). Enhancers and silencers are frequently
the sites at which nuclear proteins bind or interact. The modulating nuclear
proteins are called trans-acting factors. They are considered to be very important
for non-constitutive or regulated expression as they may be the major determinant
of the activity of a gene in a particular tissue or organ or in response to an
external stimulus. The relationship between this protein binding and the
enhancer/silencer element may determine the transcriptional activity. The isolation
of genes which are activated by heat, light or chemicals such as endogenous
hormones or are activated in specific organs such as seeds, leaves or flowers has
permitted analysis of factors which may determine how expression is regulated. In
numerous, but not all, cases, it has been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of expressing a DNA sequence of
interest in a seed cell, said method comprising:


growing a plant capable of developing seed, wherein said
plant comprises cells containing integrated into their

genome an expression cassette comprising in the 5'-3'
direction of transcription as operably linked components,

a transcriptional regulatory region obtained from an oil
body protein gene, a DNA sequence of interest heterologous

to said regulatory region, and a transcriptional
termination region, under conditions whereby seed is

produced in which said DNA sequence is expressed under
transcriptional control of said regulatory region, with

the proviso that said heterologous DNA sequence does not
encode β-ketoacyl-ACP synthetase II.
The method according to Claim 1, wherein
said gene is expressed during a phase of embryogenesis

which precedes accumulation of storage proteins.
The method according to Claim 2 wherein said
phase is from the formation of a globular embryo through

to early cotyledonary stage.
The method according to Claim 1, wherein
said regulatory region is obtained from an oil body protein

gene from a dicotyledonous plant.
The method according to Claim 2, wherein
said phase is selected from the group consisting of

globular, heart, torpedo and cotyledonary.
The method according to Claim 4, wherein
said dicotyledonous plant is 
Brassica napus
 or 
Arabidopsis.
The method according to Claim 1, wherein
said plant is other than 
Arabidopsis
.
A chimeric DNA construct comprising: a
transcriptional regulatory region obtained from a gene 

which encodes an oil body protein fused to a DNA sequence
of interest heterologous to said regulatory region, with

the proviso that said heterologous DNA sequence does not
encode β ketoacyl-ACP synthetase II.
The DNA construct according to Claim 8,
wherein said regulatory region is obtained from an oil

body protein gene from a member of the plant family 
Brassicaceae.
The DNA construct according to Claim 8,
wherein said regulatory region is obtained from 
Brassica
napus
 or 
Arabidopsis.
An expression cassette comprising: as
operably linked components; a transcriptional regulatory

region obtained from an oil body protein gene, a DNA
sequence of interest heterologous to said regulatory

region, and a transcriptional termination region, with
the proviso that said heterologous DNA sequence does not

encode β-ketoa cyl-ACP synthetase II.
An isolated transcriptional regulatory
region obtained from an oil body protein gene.
An isolated transcriptional regulatory

region of claim 12 wherein said regulatory region is
obtained from an oil body protein gene obtained from


Brassica napus
 or 
Arabidopsis.
A plant comprising: cells containing integrated
into their genome a chimeric gene comprising a

transcriptional regulatory region obtained from an oil
body protein gene, wherein said transcriptional regulatory

region is fused to a DNA sequence of interest heterologous
to said regulatory region, with the proviso that

said heterologous DNA sequence does not encode β ketoacyl-ACP
synthetase II.
Seed comprising: cells containing integrated
into their genome, a chimeric gene comprising a

transcriptional regulatory region obtained from an oil
body protein gene, wherein said transcriptional regulatory

region is fused to a DNA sequence of interest heterologous
to said regulatory region, with the proviso that 

said heterologous DNA sequence does not encode β ketoacyl-ACP
synthetase II.
Seed according to Claim 15, wherein said
transcriptional regulatory region is from an oil-body

protein gene obtained from 
Brassica napus
 or 
Arabidopsis.
Seed according to Claim 15, wherein said
seed is dicotyledonous.
Seed according to Claim 16, wherein said
seed is an oilseed.
A method for altering seed-specific metabolism,
said method comprising: growing a plant capable of

developing seed, wherein said plant comprises cells containing
integrated into their genome an expression cassette

comprising in the 5'-3' direction of transcription,
a transcriptional regulatory region obtained from an oil

body protein gene, a DNA sequence of interest heterologous
to said regulatory region, and a transcriptional

termination region, under conditions whereby seed is
produced in which said DNA sequence is expressed under-transcriptional

control of said transcriptional regulatory
region, with the proviso that said heterologous DNA

sequence does not encode β-ketoacyl-ACP synthetase II.
The method according to claim 19, wherein
said altering is reducing or suppressing expression of

endogenous genes expressed in plant seeds.
The method according to claim 19, wherein
said transcriptional initiation region includes a silencer

element.
The method according to Claim 19, wherein a
transcribed strand of said DNA sequence is complementary

to mRNA endogenous to said cells.
A method for producing a heterologous
polypeptide in seed, said method comprising: growing a

plant capable of developing seed, wherein said plant
comprises cells containing integrated into their genome

an expression cassette comprising in the 5'-3' direction
of transcription, a transcriptional regulatory region obtained

from an oil body protein gene, a DNA sequence of 
interest heterologous to said regulatory region and

encoding said polypeptide, and a transcriptional termination
region, under conditions whereby seed is produced in

which said DNA sequence is expressed under transcriptional
control of said transcriptional regulatory region,

with the proviso that said heterologous DNA sequence does
not encode β-ketoacyl-ACP synthetase II.
A plant part, comprising a DNA construct
according to claim 8.
A plant part according to claim 24, wherein
said part is a leaf, stem, root, flower, fruit or seed.
An isolated DNA sequence consisting of: a
transcriptional regulatory region which provides for

expression of a DNA sequence of interest during a phase
of embryogenesis which precedes accumulation of storage

proteins, wherein said regulatory region is obtained from
oil body protein.
The isolated DNA according to claim 26,
wherein the nucleotide sequence of said DNA has the

nucleotide sequence from nucleotide -867 to nucleotide 1
of the genomic clone shown in Figure 2A.
A method for expressing a DNA sequence of
interest in a host plant cell during a phase of embryogenesis

which precedes accumulation of storage proteins,
said method comprising: transforming said host plant with

a construct comprising a transcriptional regulatory
region operably fused to a DNA sequence of interest heterologous

to said regulatory region, wherein said regulatory
region is obtained from an oil body protein gene;

and growing said plant under conditions whereby seed is
produced and said DNA sequence of interest is expressed

under transcriptional control of said regulatory region,
with the proviso that said heterologous DNA sequence does

not encode β ketoacyl-ACP synthetase II.
The method according to Claim 28 wherein
said host plant cell is a dicotyledonous oil seed cell. 
The method according to Claim 29, wherein
said regulatory region is obtained from an oil body protein

gene obtained from the group consisting of

(a) 
Brassica napus;
(b) Zea mays;
(c) carrot; and
(d) 
Arabidopsis.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
