<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616440</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical communication system with multiple fiber monitoring
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1008	H04B1008	H04Q1100	H04Q1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04B10	H04Q11	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical communication network includes a fiber-optic terminal 
system (FOTS) coupled to internal optical waveguides (or fibers) situated within a 

central office or terminal. These waveguides connect to external optical fibers. 
A new component is provided for optically coupling the FOTS to the 
waveguides. This component includes planar waveguides, referred to as "main 

waveguides" formed on a substrate. Each main waveguide is coupled at one end to 
the FOTS and at the other end to an internal waveguide. Monitor waveguides, also 

formed on the substrate, are used to transmit OTDR signals to the main waveguides. 
Wavelength-division multiplexers formed on the substrate are used to 
couple monitor waveguides to corresponding main waveguides with respect to 

monitor wavelengths but not with respect to signal wavelengths. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to fiber-optic communication networks, and more
particularly to those networks that include passive components for routing and
distribution of optical transmissions.Optical fiber networks are increasingly important for the distribution of
telephonic signals. One architecture of current interest for an optical fiber
communication system is conveniently described with reference to FIG. 1. That
architecture includes a fiber-optic terminal system (FOTS) 10 located at a central
office (CO) 25. The FOTS includes receivers 20 for intercepting optical fiber
transmissions coming into the CO, and transmitters 30 for initiating optical fiber
transmissions which exit the CO. The optical fibers 40 which communicate directly
with the FOTS are typically fibers internal to the CO. These fibers need to be
interconnected with fibers 50, 55 which exit the CO; i.e., with fibers in the outside
plant. The interconnections are performed through a lightguide cross-connect frame
(LGX) 60. A typical LGX is a sheet-metal frame which houses many fibers having
ends which are adapted, by appropriate connectors, to be manually interconnected.
Typically, those fibers 50 that carry outbound transmissions from the CO to the
outside plant are distinct from those fibers 55 that carry inbound transmissions from
the outside plant to receivers at the CO. Several thousand outside-plant fibers may
enter and exit a CO which serves a metropolitan area.Turning now to FIG. 2, an active star architecture may be used to
distribute transmissions between a group of fibers 70 extending over typical lengths
of 1 - 50 km from the CO to respective remote terminals (RTs) 80 and a much larger
group of fibers 90 extending from the RTs to distant terminals (DTs) 100. The DTs
may, for example, be located at individual residences, or they may be situated at
curbside enclosures each of which feeds several residences. Each RT may include a
FOTS for relaying optical fiber transmissions between fibers that carry signals into
the FOTS and fibers that carry signals out of the FOTS. Each RT may also include
an LGX for performing interconnections between the FOTS input and output fibers
and the outside plant fibers which communicate with the RT. In order to assure that the network is operating properly, it is necessary
to perform tests on the network and to monitor transmissions in the fibers of the
network. In particular, it is important to provide access points for testing and
monitoring the fibers that emerge from the CO of FIGS. 1 and 2, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical communication network which comprises:

a) a fiber-optic terminal system, hereafter, FOTS' situated at a central
office or remote terminal, the FOTS adapted for transmitting signals into, or

receiving signals from, a multiplicity of optical waveguiding bodies situated within
the central office or remote terminal, the signals having one or more signal

wavelengths;
b) means for interconnecting the multiplicity of optical waveguiding
bodies with a corresponding multiplicity of optical fibers situated substantially

outside of the central office or remote terminal;
c) means for optically coupling the FOTS to the multiplicity of
waveguiding bodies; and
d) an optical-time domain reflectometer, hereafter OTDR transmitter for transmitting, into at least some of the optical
waveguiding bodies, OTDR signals at one or more monitor wavelengths different

from the signal wavelengths;

   CHARACTERIZED IN THAT the optical coupling means comprise:

e) a substrate body having a substantially planar principal surface, a
longitudinal direction defined parallel to the surface, and a normal direction defined

perpendicular to the surface;
f) a multiplicity of longitudinally extending, planar, main optical
waveguides formed on the surface, each said main waveguide optically coupled at

one end to the FOTS and optically coupled at the other end to one of the
waveguiding bodies;
g) a multiplicity of planar monitor waveguides formed on the surface for
transmitting OTDR signals from the OTDR transmitter to at least some of the main

waveguides; and
h) a multiplicity of wavelength-division multiplexers formed on the
surface, each multiplexer adapted for optically coupling a corresponding monitor

waveguide to a corresponding main waveguide with respect to monitor wavelengths
but not with respect to signal wavelengths.
The network of claim 1, wherein each monitor waveguide extends
substantially parallel to and adjacent to the corresponding main waveguide such that

said monitor waveguide does not cross any other waveguide formed on the surface. 
The network of claim 2, wherein:

a) the multiplicity of waveguiding bodies comprises a main optical fiber
ribbon having an upstream end and a downstream end, the downstream end optically

coupled to the interconnection means;
b) the network further comprises a monitor optical fiber ribbon for
transmitting OTDR signals from the OTDR transmitter to the monitor waveguides,

the monitor ribbon comprising a multiplicity of monitor optical fibers, each of said
monitor fibers corresponding to one of the monitor waveguides;
c) the network further comprises switching means for selectively
optically coupling the OTDR transmitter to one monitor fiber at a time;
d) each main waveguide and each monitor waveguide intercepts an edge
of the substrate body, to be referred to as the "downstream edge";
e) the network further comprises a connector adapted to engage the
downstream edge of the substrate body; and
f) the connector is further adapted to optically couple the main ribbon to
the main waveguides and the monitor ribbon to the monitor waveguides.
The network of claim 1, further comprising:

a) a multiplicity of longitudinally extending, planar, spare optical
waveguides formed on the surface;
b) means for interconnecting the spare waveguides with a corresponding
multiplicity of spare optical fibers situated substantially outside of the central office

or remote terminal; and
c) switching means for alternatively optically coupling the FOTS to a
selected main waveguide or to a corresponding spare waveguide.
The network of claim 1, further comprising:

a) a multiplicity of optical detectors overlying the principal surface such
that each said detector has an optically receptive area facing the surface;
b) means for diverting a portion of electromagnetic radiation transmitted

in each main waveguide; and
c) means for deflecting the diverted radiation into the direction
perpendicular to the principal surface, such that each main waveguide is partially

optically coupled to one of the detectors.
The network of claim 5, wherein:

a) the FOTS is adapted for transmitting signals at least at two signal
wavelengths; and
b) the diverting means comprise wavelength-selective means for
directing different signal wavelengths to different detectors.
The network of claim 1, wherein the FOTS is adapted for both
transmitting signals into, and receiving signals from, the multiplicity of optical

waveguiding bodies.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
