<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626810</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR STUNNING ANIMALS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22B306	A22B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22B	A22B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22B3	A22B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for electrically stunning animals to be slaughtered, said apparatus comprising endless conveyors (6, 7) for moving animals to be stunned, a carrier (2) bearing at least one electrode (3) and a driving means (5) for driving said carrier (2) during the actual stunning operation, characterized in that the apparatus comprises a means for obtaining a raising of the carrier at the end of the stunning operation in relation to the path of the electrode during the stunning operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VANHAECKE HUBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VANHAECKE, HUBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANHAECKE HUBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANHAECKE, HUBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus for 
stunning animals. The stunning of animals, such as pigs, by 
means of an electrical current is well known in the art and 
apparatus have been developed leading to an increase of the 
production level. Such an apparatus is disclosed in the patent 
application NL-A-7705519. The apparatus comprises two 
endless conveyors, said conveyors being operable to run 
parallel to each other and at a synchronized speed and being 
positioned to form a substantially V-shaped passageway 
therebetween, as well as a pair of electrodes or set of 
electrodes which are adapted to engage the head of the 
animal to be stunned. The electrodes are furthermore adapted 
to extend downwardly to said V-shaped passageway in a spaced 
relationship to each other and mounted on a shaft to move 
them out of the passageway. The apparatus as disclosed in the NL-A-7705519 has 
the drawback that it is not possible to ensure that the 
electrodes don't bounce back on the back of the animal 
causing a variation of contact and an unevenness in the 
resistance necessary for a regular stunning. Another known stunning apparatus is disclosed in 
the DD PS 89062. Said apparatus for the electrical stunning 
or pigs comprises: a system for moving the pigs to be 
stunned; a detector for detecting the passage or a pig to be 
stunned; an electrical stunning fork actuated by a cylinder 
intended to press the fork on the pig during the stunning 
operation and to lift said fork thereafter, and a wheeled 
carriage moving along rails, said wheeled carriage bearing 
the above mentioned cylinder. The pigs, moved by the 
conveyor, move the electrodes of the wheeled carriage and 
the wheeled carriage at substantially the same speed of the  
 
conveyor. The wheeled carriage returns not fast enough to 
allow a higher production. A further apparatus is disclosed in the European 
patent specification EP-B-0019332. In this apparatus a 
driving mechanism acts on a driving element bearing 
electrodes so that the speed of forward movement of the 
driving element is about the same as the speed of movement 
of the pig to be stunned. In this latter apparatus, the 
production level is limited by the time needed for raising 
the electrodes so that they no longer contact the stunned 
pig by gliding on his back and by the time, needed 
thereafter, for returning the wheeled carriage supporting 
the electrodes back to the position for starting a stunning 
operation. Document DE-A-3029037 discloses a similar stunning installation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for electrically stunning animals to be 
slaughtered, said apparatus comprising endless conveyors 

(6,7) for moving animals to be stunned, a carrier (2) 
bearing at least one electrode (2), a driving means (5) 

for driving said carrier (2) during the actual stunning 
operation, and a means for obtaining a raising of the 

electrode(s) at the end of the stunning operation in 
relation to the path of the electrode(s) during the 

stunning operation, characterized in that said means for 
obtaining a raising of the electrode(s) comprises an organ 

(15) linked to the driving means, which is hingedly 
connected to a first supporting means (14), said organ 

(15) pivoting the driving means (5) so as to obtain a 
raising of the carrier (2), bearing the one or more 

electrodes (3), at the end of the stunning operation in 
relation to the path of the electrode(s) during the 

stunning operation. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the driving means (5) comprises, on the one hand, 

a first part (13), linked by means of the organ (15) to 
the first supporting means (14), and on the other hand, a 

second part (11) hingedly linked to a second supporting 
means (12), so as to raise or lower said first part (13) 

with respect to the endless conveyors (6,7) for moving 
the animals.  

 
Apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in 
that the organ (15) is a cylinder, one end of which is 

hingedly linked to the first supporting means (14), 
while the f
ree end of its piston rod (16) is hingedly 
linked to the first part (13) of the driving means (5) 

or conversely. 
Apparatus according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the driving means (5) is 

a cylinder (10), the piston rod (26) of which bears the 
carrier (2) bearing the electrode(s) (3). 
Apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in 
that a support (18) is mounted on the piston rod (26) of 

the cylinder (10) acting as driving means (5), the 
electrode(s) (3) being (each) hingedly linked to said 

support (18) by means of a cylinder (21) for pivoting it 
with respect to said support (18). 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the driving means (5) and the organ (15) are 

cylinders, having piston rods (26,27) linked together by 
means of a rod (25), one end of which is hinged to the 

piston rod of the driving means (5), while the other end 
of said rod is hinged to the piston rod (26) of the 

organ (15). 
Apparatus according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the carrier (2) bears two 

electrodes (3), said electrodes (3) being arranged the 
one to the other so that during a stunning operation, a 

first electrode (3) contacts the head of an animal to be 
stunned in the neighbourhood of one of his eyes, while 

the second electrode (3) contacts the head of said 
animal in the neighbourhood of one of his ears.  

 
Apparatus according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the electrode(s) (3) is/are 

connected to the carrier (2) by a means for moving at 
least partly the electrode(s) (3) away with respect to the 

carrier (2) before the end of a stunning operation 
during its raising. 
Apparatus according to claim 8, characterized in 
that the electrode(s) (3) is/are hingedly connected to the 

carrier (2) and are linked to one or more cylinders (21) 
so as to pivot one end of the electrode(s) (3) away from 

the carrier (2) during its raising at the end of a 
stunning operation. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in 
that the second supporting means (12) to which a second part 

(11) of the driving means (5) is hingedly linked 
comprises an element (27) for raising or lowering said 

second part (11) with respect to the endless conveyors 
(6,7) for moving the animals. 
Apparatus according to claim 10, characterized in 
that it comprises a means for detecting the height of an 

animal to be stunned, and a means acting on the organ 
(15) and on the element (27) so as to adapt the level of 

the carrier at the beginning of a stunning operation in 
relation to the detected height. 
Apparatus according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the apparatus is provided 

with a means (44) for compressing an animal to be 
stunned before said animal is moved by the conveyor 

(6,7) towards the electrode(s) (3).  
 
Apparatus according to claim 12, characterized in 
that the compressing means comprises two rollers (44) 

having a polygonal cross-section and defining there 
between a passageway for the animal to be stunned. 
Process for electrically stunning animals to be 
slaughtered by using an apparatus according to claim 8 

or 9, in which an animal to be stunned is moved towards 
two electrodes (3); while moving, the head of said animal is 

contacted with two electrodes (3) for stunning it and, while 
moving the animal, said electrodes are removed 

progressively from said head at the end of a stunning 
operation, so as to reduce progressively the contact of 

the animal against the electrodes. 
Process according to claim 14, characterized in 
that at the end of a stunning operation, the carrier 

bearing the electrodes is lifted with respect to the 
conveyor of the animal, while the electrodes are pivoted 

so as to displace away from the carrier one end of the 
electrodes, whereby the contact between the animal and 

the electrodes is progressively reduced. 
Process according to claim 15, characterized in 
that the electrodes are pivoted at the end of a stunning 

operation from a substantially horizontal position to a 
substantially vertical position. 
Process according to claim 16, characterized in 
that the electrodes (3) after being pivoted into a 

substantially vertical position so as to reduce the 
contact animal-electrodes are pivoted into a 

substantially horizontal position so as to ensure no 
longer contact between the electrodes and the stunned 

animal, while moving.  
 
Process according to claim 17, characterized in 
that the pivotement of the electrodes (3) into an 

inclined or substantially horizontal position is made 
around a shaft into the forward direction of the stunned 

animal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
