<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612191</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR CORRELATING RF USAGE IN A TRUNKED COMMUNICATION NETWORK.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M1500	H04M1500	H04W8402	H04W8408	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M15	H04M15	H04W84	H04W84	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method are disclosed for correlating rf 
communications in a multi-site, trunked rf communication system 

(100) which includes a plurality of site controllers (102) for 
controlling radio unit rf communications in corresponding 

geographical site areas and at least one multi-site coordinator 
(200) for monitoring messages from each site controller (102) 

and establishing and removing rf communication channels. 
Information from the multi-site coordinator (200) including 

channel assignments and channel drops generated for each 
communication originated from or received by each radio unit is 

obtained from the multi-site coordinator (200). RF 
communication resources used by each radio unit are then 

correlated and used to generate bills detailing for each radio 
unit specific instances and types of rf communication resources 

used. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON GE MOBILE COMMUNICAT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON GE MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZDANOWSKI THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZDANOWSKI, THOMAS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system for 
correlating radio frequency (rf) usage to particular call 
communications. In particular, the present invention 
relates to a system for correlating rf resources to 
individual rf communications in a distributed, multi-site 
trunked communications system. There are known systems which provide billing and 
accounts receivable information for land-line telephone as 
well as cellular telephone communications. These systems 
are straightforward and can readily monitor the caller, 
callee, the time and date a call is made, and the duration 
of the call. At the end of each billing period, each 
telephone subscriber, whether based on the land-line or 
cellular telephone network, is provided with a bill, which 
includes among things an itemized list of calls made 
during the billing period and provides a total cost to the 
subscriber for the use of the telephone system and the 
particular communication resources. There are also billing/accounts receivable products 
such as the GE-MARC V·E system manager which provide 
necessary software and database support (see e.g. in GE 
publication LBI-30337 ©May 1989) required to generate 
billing records for a single site controlled trunked rf 
communications system. An example of such a single site 
trunked communication system is disclosed in commonly 
assigned U.S. Patent No. 4,905,302, entitled "Trunked  
 
Radio Repeater System" which is incorporated herein by 
reference. Although trunked communication systems provide 
much more efficient use of available bandwidth, they are 
considerably more complicated and therefore harder to 
monitor for billing purposes than land-based or cellular 
systems. Trunked communication systems are even more 
complicated when multiple transmitting sites are 
established to provide rf communications to all geographic 
locations with a given locality. An example of such a 
multi-site trunked communications system is described, for 
example, in U.S. application serial number 07/658,844, 
filed February 22, 1991, entitled "Distributed Multi-Site 
Coordinator Architecture" (attorney docket 46-418), the 
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. 
In these multi-site systems, prior billing systems such as 
the GE-MARC V·E system manager could only calculate rf 
usage on a per rf site basis. No capability is available 
to correlate individual calls and conversations to 
specific subscribers or a group of subscribers. Accordingly, it is desirable that the present 
invention provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for correlating rf communications in a 
multi-site, trunked rf communications system including a 

plurality of sites controlling radio unit rf 
communications in corresponding geographical site areas 

and at least one multi-site coordinator for monitoring 
messages from each site and establishing and removing rf 

communication channels, comprising: 
   obtaining information from the multi-site coordinator 

including corresponding channel assignments and channel 
drops generated for each communication originating from or 

received by each radio unit, and 
   correlating rf communication resources used by each 

radio unit. 
The method according to claim 1, wherein the rf 
communication resources are correlated to individual radio 

units based on the channel assignments and channel drops 
obtained for each radio unit. 
The method according to claim 1 further 
comprising: 

   generating bills detailing for each radio unit 
specific instances and types of rf communication resources 

used based on the correlating step. 
The method according to claim 3, wherein the 
specific instances of rf communication resources includes 

for each communication the date and time, the number of 
site areas involved, the duration, the rate of service for 

the particular air-time used, and the total cost. 
The method according to claim 3, wherein the 
specific types of rf communication resources includes for 

each communication whether the communication was a voice 
or data communication, an encrypted or unencrypted 

communication, and an individual or group communication. 
The method according to claim 1 wherein the 
correlating step includes: 

   generating individual call detail records for each 
radio unit communication based on the channel assignments 

and channel drops, each call detail record defining 
whether the call involves radio unit to radio unit 

communications or radio unit and land-line communications, 
a call starting date and time of day, the call type caller 

and callee identification, elapsed time, cumulative 
airtime, number of sites and landline telephone number. 
The method according to claim 1 wherein a 
dispatch console is connected to the multi-site 

coordinator and generates call communications to radio 
units in plural site areas and the obtaining step further 

includes: 
   obtaining channel primitives to the dispatch console 

indicating channel assignments and channel drops for 
console originated call communications. 
The method according to claim 1 wherein the 
obtaining step further includes: 

   obtaining telephone digit sequence information for 
radio unit communications involving land-line 

communications. 
The method according to claim 1, further 
comprising: 

   generating call detail records for each communication 
based on the correlating step; 

   converting the call detail records into a format 
compatible with standard formats used in the telephone 

billing industry; 
   generating bills detailing for each radio unit 

specific instances and types of rf communication resources 
used based on the correlating step. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the 
correlating step further includes: 

   determining air time used for each call communication. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein before the 
correlating step the method further includes: 

   processing each channel assignment and channel drop 
associated with each call communication to generate a call 

detail record for each call communication, and 
   storing the call detail record in memory. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein before the 
correlating step the method further includes: 

   determining whether the channel assignment and 
channel drop information for each call communication 

included an interconnection with a land-line telephone 
network, and 

   associating the telephone number of the 
interconnection with a call detail record generated to 

record a corresponding call communication. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein before the 
correlating step, the method further includes: 

   determining whether each call communication is a 
clear voice, data, or encrypted type of call 

communication, and 
   associating the determined type of call communication 

in a call detail record generated for that call 
communication. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein before the 
correlating step the method further includes: 

   determining whether the call communication involves 
only individual radio units or a group of radio units, 

   generating identification numbers for each individual 
radio unit and group involved in the call communication,

 
   wherein the correlating step includes correlating the 

use of rf communication resources with the individual and 
group identification numbers. 
A method for correlating rf communications in a 
multi-site, trunked rf communications system including a 

plurality of sites controlling individual and group radio 
unit rf communications for corresponding site areas and at 

least one multi-site coordinator for monitoring messages 
from each site and establishing and removing rf 

communication channels, comprising: 
   obtaining information from the multi-site coordinator 

including corresponding channel assignments and channel 
drops generated for each communication originating from or 

received by each radio unit, and 
   correlating rf communication resources used by each 

radio unit based on the channel assignments and channel 
drops obtained for each radio unit and for each group of 

radio units involved in each communication. 
The method according to claim 15 further 
comprising: 

   generating bills detailing, for each radio unit and 
each group of radio units involved in a communication, 

specific instances and types of rf communication resources 
used based on the correlating step. 
A system for monitoring trunked rf 
communication, comprising: 

   plural rf sites for controlling trunked rf 
communications from and to radio units within geographical 

site areas corresponding to the sites; 
   a multi-site coordinator, connected to the plural rf 

sites, for monitoring control messages from each site 
regarding channel assignments and channel drops for each 

call communication and establishing and removing rf 
communication channels for call communications involving 

radio units in plural site areas; and
 

   a correlation unit, connected to the multi-site 
coordinator, for correlating rf communication resources 

used for individual call communications originating from 
or received by each radio unit. 
The system according to claim 17, wherein the 
correlation unit generates a call detail record for each 

call communication which indicates the rf communication 
resources used for each call c
ommunication. 
The system according to claim 18, wherein each 
call detail record is generated based on channel 

assignment and channel drop information for an associated 
call communication. 
The system according to claim 17, wherein the 
multi-site coordinator includes: 

   a plurality of microprocessor-controlled nodes each 
corresponding to and coupled with the plurality of sites 

through a data link and trunked audio link; 
   an audio bus, connected to each node, for conveying a 

plurality trunked communications between the sites; 
   a message bus, connected to each node, for conveying 

channel assignment and channel drop messages from each 
node. 
The system according to claim 20, wherein the 
multi-site coordinator includes: 

   a central activity node for monitoring messages on 
the message bus and collecting as raw data records those 

messages relating to rf channel usage. 
The system according to claim 21, wherein the 
correlation unit receives the raw data records from the 

central activity node over a high speed data link and 
converts the raw data records into individual call detail 

records for each call communication. 
The system according to claim 21, wherein the 
raw data records include channel slot assignment and drop 

messages generated by a primary node corresponding to a 
call communication originated by a caller radio unit from 

a primary site controller and channel assignment messages 
generated by a secondary node corresponding to a secondary 

site controller for a called radio unit when a receive 
channel has been assigned by the secondary site controller. 
The system according to claim 23, further 
comprising: 

   a dispatch console, 
   a console interface node provided, connected to the 

audio and message networks, for coupling call 
communications originated from the dispatch console to one 

or a group of radio units, wherein the central activity 
node monitors channel assignments and drops involving the 

dispatch console. 
The system according to claim 17, further 
comprising: 

   means for calculating and printing bills for each 
radio unit; 

   means for converting call detail records into a 
format acceptable by the means for calculating, wherein 

each bill details specific items relating to rf usage by 
each radio unit. 
The system according to claim 25, wherein each 
bill includes the date, time, type, duration, number of 

sites and total cost of each call in which the radio unit 
was involved. 
The system according to claim 18, wherein each 
call detail record includes for each radio unit 

communication whether the call involves radio unit to 
radio unit communications or radio unit and landline 

communications, a call starting date and time of day, 
 

whether the call is individual or group, caller and callee 
identification, elapsed time, cumulative airtime, number 

of channel assignments, number of sites, and landline 
telephone number. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
