<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A fast comparator circuit.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R19165	G01R19165	G11C11409	G11C11409	H03K300	H03K3356	H03K508	H03K508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G11C	G11C	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R19	G01R19	G11C11	G11C11	H03K3	H03K3	H03K5	H03K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit for comparing an input signal (V
IN
) having a first voltage to a 
reference signal (V
REF
) having a second voltage to determine whether the input 
signal voltage is greater than or less than the reference signal voltage essentially 

employs only four transistors (two inverters) (202,204). First and second 
complimentary transistors (M1, M3) are coupled in series to form the first inverter 

(202).Third and fourth complimentary transistors (M2,M4) are coupled in series to 
form the second inverter (204). Between the first and second complimentary 

transistors is a first node (1) and between the third and fourth transistors is a second 
node (2). The first and third transistors are coupled to together at a third node (4). 

The second and fourth transistors are coupled together at a fourth node (3). In a first 
phase of operation, the circuit receives the input voltage and the reference voltage. 

The input voltage and the reference voltage are applied to the first and second nodes 
using two switches (MS1,MS2) until the first and second nodes have sampled the 

voltages (via parasitic capacitance). In a second phase of operation, the circuit 
operates as an amplifier. The two inverters amplify the difference in voltages at the 

first and second nodes by passing increasing current from the third node to the fourth 
node, which passes through both inverters. Next, in a third phase of operation, the 

circuit operates as a latch. A high logic voltage (V
DD
) is applied to the fourth node 
(3) and a low logic voltage (V
SS
) is applied to the third node (4). At this point, if the 
input voltage is greater than the reference voltage, then the first node (1) is pulled-up 

to V
DD
 and the second node (2) is pulled down to V
SS
. If the input voltage is less 
than the reference voltage, then the first node (1) assumes the voltage V
SS
 and the 
second node (2) is pulled-up to V
DD
. Finally, in a fourth phase of operation, the 
circuit outputs can be measured by sensing the voltages at the first and second nodes 

(in this phase, the outputs of the circuit). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VISWANATHAN THAYAMKULANGARA R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VISWANATHAN, THAYAMKULANGARA R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a fast comparator circuit. A comparator is a circuit that compares two input voltages and makes a 
decision as to which of the two inputs is greater. Figure 1 illustrates a simplified 
block diagram of a standard fast comparator 100. Fast comparator 100 includes an 
input amplifier 102 and a latch 104. Fast comparator 100 compares an input voltage 
VIN to a reference voltage VREF and produces complimentary outputs Q and 
Q where: 
when Q=1,Q=0, then VREF<VIN, and when Q=0,Q=1, then VREF>VIN. It is convenient to think of a comparator as an ideal switching circuit for which 
any small differential input voltage, however small, results in a sudden change at the 
output. In reality, the switching performance of a comparator 100 depends on the gain 
properties of the amplifier 102. Smaller input signals tend to cause a greater 
propagation delay and a slower rise or fall time at the output of comparator 100. So 
the amplifier is a very important element of the fast comparator 100. Once the amplifier 102 completes amplification, an amplified differential 
voltage VREF-VIN can be latched by the latch 104. The amplifier 102 must provide 
sufficient amplification of the differential voltage or the latch 102 will make a wrong 
decision due to noise at the input of the latch. On an IC chip, comparators 100 are widely used for many different 
applications. For example, comparators 100 are used in flash converters with one flash 
converter typically having 100 or more comparators. Therefore, there is a need to reduce the size of conventional comparators so 
that they occupy less area (e.g., real estate) on a chip. There is also a need to reduce 
the number of transistors a comparator 100 employs to reduce their power consumption 
and increase their speed.  The present invention significantly reduces the area and power requirements of 
a comparator by combining the latch and amplification stages of conventional 
comparators into one circuit. The circuit compares an input signal having a first voltage to a reference signal 
having a second voltage to determine whether the input signal voltage is greater than 
or less than the reference signal voltage. In a preferred embodiment, the circuit is essentially comprised of four 
transistors (two inverters). First and second complimentary transistors are coupled in 
series to form the first inverter. Third and fourth complimentary transistors are 
coupled in series to form the second inverter. Between the first and second 
complimentary
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A circuit for comparing an input signal having a first voltage to a reference 
signal having a second voltage to determine whether the input signal voltage is greater 

than or less than said reference signal voltage, comprising: 
   a first inverter comprising a first pair of complementary transistors coupled in 

series forming a first node therebetween; 
   a second inverter comprising a second pair of complementary transistors 

coupled in series forming a second node therebetween; 
   said first pair of complementary transistors having gates coupled to said second 

node; 
   said second pair of complementary transistors having gates coupled to said first 

node; 
   said first and second inverters coupled in parallel between third and four nodes; 

   a first transistor coupled between a first power supply voltage and said third 
node; 

   a second transistor coupled between a second power supply voltage and said 
fourth node; 

   means for applying the input signal and the reference signal to said first and 
second nodes for a first discrete time period; 

   means for controlling gate voltage of said first and second transistors to: 

a) permit said first and second inverters to amplify a voltage difference 
between the input signal and the reference signal during a second 

discrete time period; and 
b) permit said first and second inverters to force one of said first and 
second nodes to said first power supply voltage and the other to said 

second power supply voltage during a third discrete time period based 
on said amplification of said voltage difference; and 
 
   means for sensing voltage across said first and second nodes after said third 

discrete time period to determine whether the input signal voltage is greater than or 
less than said reference signal voltage. 
A circuit for comparing an input signal having a first voltage to a reference 
signal having a second voltage to determine whether the input signal voltage is greater 

than or less than the reference signal voltage, comprising: 
   first and second transistors coupled in series to form a first inverter; 

   third and fourth transistors coupled in series to form a second inverter, 
      wherein between said first and second transistors is a first node and 

between said third and fourth transistors is a second node; 
      wherein said first and third transistors are coupled to together to form 

a third node and said second and fourth transistors are coupled together 
to form a fourth node; 


(a) in a first phase of operation, means for applying the input signal to said first 
node and applying the reference signal to said second node; 
(b) in a second phase of operation, means for passing current from said third 
node to said fourth node thereby amplifying any difference in voltage between said 

first and second nodes; 
(c) in a third phase of operation, means for applying a logic high voltage (VDD) 
to said third node and applying a logic low voltage (VS
S) to said fourth node; 
      wherein if the input voltage is greater than the reference voltage, then 

the first node is pulled-up to VDD and the second node is pulled down 
to VSS, and 

      wherein if the input voltage is less than the reference voltage, then the 
first node is pulled down to VSS and said second node is pulled-up to 

VDD; and
(d) in a fourth phase of operation, means for measuring voltages at said first 
and second nodes. 
The circuit of claim 2, wherein said applying means are first and second 
switches, wherein said first switch is coupled between said input signal and said first 

node, and said second switch is coupled between said reference signal and said second 
node. 
The circuit of claim 3, wherein said switches are transistors. 
The circuit of claim 2, wherein said passing current means is a current source 
and a current sink, wherein said current source is coupled to said third node and said 

current sink is coupled to said fourth node. 
The circuit of claim 5, wherein said current source is a P-channel device 
operating at voltage level below a threshold of said P-channel device and said current 

sink is an N-channel device operating at a voltage below threshold of said N-channel 
device. 
The circuit of claim 2, wherein said applying means are first and second 
switches, wherein said first switch is coupled between VDD and said third node and 

wherein in said second switch is coupled between VSS and said fourth node. 
The circuit of claim 7, wherein said first switch is a P-channel device operating 
at a voltage level greater than a threshold of said P-channel device and said second 

switch is an N-channel device operating at a voltage level greater than a threshold of 
said N-channel device. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
