<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627061</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POT BURNER FOR LIQUID FUEL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B300	F02B306	F23D500	F23D504	F23D516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F23D	F23D	F23D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B3	F02B3	F23D5	F23D5	F23D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a burner for combusting vapourized liquid fuel, such as diesel oil, which is introduced into a preferably, essentially cylindrical combustion chamber through a fuel delivery inlet, which is preferably located at the bottom of the burner. The combustion chamber is open at the end opposite to the bottom of the burner, and the burner includes ignition means, such as an ignition coil, for initial ignition of vapourized fuel. The combustion chamber is provided with holes through which air of combustion is delivered to the combustion chamber, and at least one essentially disk-shaped annulus or like member extends peripherally around the combustion chamber and projects radially inwards from the wall of said chamber. The invention is mainly characterized in that at least one body (7) is placed preferably centrally in the combustion chamber (4) and extends from the bottom (3) to an upper part (8) of the combustion chamber and functions to assist in complete combustion of the fuel delivered to the burner.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SVENSSON KENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SVENSSON, KENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SVENSSON KENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SVENSSON, KENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Pot burner for liquid fuel.The present invention relates to a burner for burning vapourized liquid fuel, such as diesel oil, which is intended to be introduced into a preferably, essentially cylindrical combustion chamber through a fuel delivery inlet, which is preferably located at the bottom of the burner, said combustion chamber being open at its end opposite to the bottom of the burner. The burner in- eludes ignition means, such as an ignition coil, for initial ignition of vapourized fuel, and the combustion chamber includes holes through which air of combustion is delivered to the combustion chamber, in which at least one essentially disk-shaped annulus or the like extends peripherally around the combustion chamber and extends radially inwards from the wall of said chamber.Burners of this general kind are known to the art. One problem of burners of this kind resides in effectively vapourizing the fuel, which is normally delivered at a predetermined rate of flow per unit of time and will thus accumulate in the combustion chamber if not vapour¬ ized. Another problem resides in achieving an effective mixture of vapourized fuel and combustion air, so as to achieve complete combustion in the absence of soot formations. Still another problem is one of achieving quiet combustion in the absence of pulsations.The present invention provides a burner with which these problems are solved in a very simple and effective manner. The burner also includes complementary construc¬ tive features, which result in a highly effective and operationally reliable burner.The invention thus relates to a burner for burning vapourized liquid fuel, such as diesel oil, which 

comprises a preferably cylindrical combustion chamber to which fuel is delivered through a chamber inlet, prefer¬ ably located at the bottom of the chamber, said chamber being open at the end opposite to said bottom, and further comprising an ignition means, such as an igni¬ tion coil, for initial ignition of vapourized fuel, and wherein holes are provided in the combustion chamber for the delivery of air of combustion thereto, and wherein the combustion chamber includes at least one essentially disk-shaped annulus or the like which extends circum- ferentially around the combustion chamber and projects radially inwards from the chamber wall.The burner is mainly characterized in that at least one body is placed preferably centrally in the combustion chamber and extends from the bottom of the chamber to an upper part thereof and functions to assist in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A burner for burning vapourized liquid fuel, such as diesel oil, which is intended to be introduced into a preferably, essentially cylindrical combustion chamber through a fuel delivery inlet, which is preferably located at the bottom of the burner, said combustion chamber being open at its end opposite to the bottom of the burner, wherein the burner includes ignition means, such as an ignition coil, for initial ignition of vapou¬ rized fuel, and the combustion chamber includes holes through which air of combustion is delivered to the combustion chamber, and wherein at least one essentially disk-shaped annulus or the like extends peripherally around the combustion chamber and projects radially inwards from the wall of said chamber, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by at least one body (7) which is placed preferably centrally in the combustion chamber (4) and which extends from said bottom (3) to an upper part (8) of the combustion chamber and functions to assist in complete combustion of the fuel delivered to the burner.
2. A burner according to Claim 1, c h a r a c - t e r i z e d in that the burner includes at least one, preferably essentially disk-shaped annulus (11) or corresponding device (11) which extends from the combus¬ tion chamber wall (10) radially inwards to the immediate vicinity of said body (7) or essentially into the imme- diate vicinity of said body and therewith partitions-off the combustion chamber at a given level, preferably at a level substantially above the centre of the vertical axis of the chamber; and in that the annulus (11) is provided with holes (11') through which gas is intended to pass. 


3. A burner according to Claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d by a first annulus (9) which is mounted in the upper part of the combustion chamber, said upper part forming a combustion zone, and which extends around said body (7) , such as to define a space between the body and the annulus.
4. A burner according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by at least one further annulus (12) which encircles the body (7).
5. A burner according to Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a ring of air-supply holes (13) is provided in the vicinity of preferably each annulus (9, 11, 12) and at least in the vicinity of said first annulus (9) .
6. A burner according to Claim 5, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d in that the holes (13) of respective rings of holes are located above respective annuli in the immediate vicinity of the upper surface (14) there¬ of.
7. A burner according to Claim 5 or 6, c h a r a c - t e r i z e d in that at least some, preferably all, of the holes (13) of respective rings of holes extend horizontally but not radially and define a given inlet angle, preferably an angle of about 40°, with the tan¬ gential direction of the combustion chamber wall (10) .
8. A burner according to Claim 5, 6 or 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that at least some of the holes of the ring of holes which lies nearest the bottom (3) of the burner (1), for instance each alternate hole, defines a given inlet angle, preferably an angle of about 40° , with the tangential direction of the 


combustion chamber wall (10) and are directed downwards to define a given angle, preferably an angle of about 60°, to a horizontal plane which extends transversely to the vertical axis of the combustion chamber (4).
9. A burner according to Claim 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said further annu- lus/annuli (12) is/are provided with a circle of holes (15) which extend circumferentially therearound.
10. A burner according to Claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the bottom (3) includes an opening (16) which is preferably located adjacent the combustion chamber wall (10) and through which a flame monitor in the form of a detector (17), such as an infrared detector, is able to detect whether the burner is ignited or not.
11. A burner according to Claim 10, c h a r a c - t e r i z e d in that the detector (17) is housed in a pipe (18) or similar conduit which extends downwardly from the bottom opening (16).
12. A burner according to Claim 10 or 11, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by an air delivery hole (20) which is located adjacent the bottom opening (16) and which functions to sustain a pilot flame (21), said detector being intended to monitor the status of said pilot flame.
13. A burner according to Claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the bottom of the burner slopes inwardly so that non-vapour- ized fuel will collect in the center of the burner. 



14. A burner according to Claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or 13, c h a r a c e r i z e d in that fuel is delivered in the vicinity of the bottom of the burner, preferably in the vicinity of the flame monitor opening. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
