<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653780</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Wafer flow architecture for production wafer processing.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2100	H01L2100	H01L2102	H01L2102	H01L21302	H01L21306	H01L2167	H01L21677	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for controlling the flow of semiconductor wafers within a semiconductor 
wafer processing facility. This method includes a wafer storage and preparation area 
(10)
 
and a wafer metrology and etch area 
(12)
, both of which are monitored and/or controlled 
by a master controller 
(14)
. The wafer storage and preparation area 
(10)
 is typically kept 
at a class 10 clean room level and is comprised of a wafer storage area 
(16)
 and a wafer 
preparation area 
(18)
. The wafer metrology and etch area 
(12)
 is typically kept at a class 
1000 clean room level and is comprised of an I/O cassette module 
(22)
, a wafer pre-aligner 

(24)
, a wafer router 
(26)
, a wafer metrology instrument 
(28)
, and a wafer etching 
instrument 
(30)
. The semiconductor wafers are transported, either manually or 
automatically, between the wafer storage area 
(16)
 and the wafer preparation area 
(18)
, as 
well as between the wafer storage and preparation area 
(10)
 and the wafer metrology and 
etch area 
(12)
, within wafer storage cassettes 
(20)
. The semiconductor wafers are 
individually transported between the I/O cassette module 
(22)
, the wafer pre-aligner 
(24)
, 
the wafer metrology instrument 
(28)
, and the wafer etching instrument 
(30)
 by the wafer 
router 
(26)
. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARDOPEE GEORGE J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCHUGH THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUMOLA PETER B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POULTNEY SHERMAN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRUSAK JOSEPH P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARDOPEE, GEORGE J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCHUGH, THOMAS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUMOLA, PETER B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POULTNEY, SHERMAN K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRUSAK, JOSEPH P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to the production of processed 
semiconductor wafers and, in particular, relates to an apparatus and method for 
controlling the flow of semiconductor wafers through a wafer processing facility. In one instance wherein the present invention concept is particularly practical, 
silicon-on-insulator (SOI) semiconductor wafers are generally subjected to both metrology 
and chemical etching processes prior to being subjected to thin film patterning processes 
for circuit formation. During a typical SOI semiconductor wafer metrology process, a 
metrology instrument measures the thickness of the active material layer of an SOI 
semiconductor wafer. This thickness is measured and recorded so that the surface of the 
SOI wafer may later be thinned and smoothed via a localized chemical etching process. 
Such a metrology instrument is described in a related patent application entitled, 
Apparatus and Method for Measuring the Thickness of Thin Films, U.S. Patent 
Application Serial No. 07/804,872, filed on December 6, 1991. During a typical 
chemical etching process, a chemical etching instrument induces the removal of specific 
amounts of material at specific locations along the surface of the SOI semiconductor 
wafer in order to achieve a desired thickness in the active material layer of the SOI 
semiconductor wafer. The amount and the location of the removed material is determined 
from recorded metrology process data. The material is removed as a result of a chemical 
reaction that occurs between the surface material of the SOI wafer and a plasma generated 
chemical etchant. Such a chemical etching instrument is described in a related patent 
application entitled, System for Removing Material from a Wafer, U.S. Patent 
Application Serial No. 07/696,897, filed on May 7, 1991. Before the SOI wafer is subjected to either the above-described metrology process 
or the above-described chemical etching process it must be registered to both the 
metrology instrument and the chemical etching instrument, respectively, in a consistent  
 
manner to ensure that the SOI wafer is properly processed. That is, the position of the 
SOI wafer in the metrology instrument, and hence the recorded metrology data, must 
directly correlate with the position of the SOI wafer in the chemical etching instrument, 
and hence the intensity and location of the material removing chemical reaction. An 
apparatus for ensuring such consistent registration is described in a related patent 
application
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for controlling the flow of semiconductor wafers through a 
semiconductor wafer processing facility, said apparatus comprising: 

   a cassette module for storing a plurality of semiconductor wafers in an identifiable 
manner; 

   a wafer metrology instrument for measuring material layer thicknesses in said 
plurality of semiconductor wafers; 

   a wafer etching instrument for removing material from said plurality of 
semiconductor wafers to achieve a desired material layer thickness as measured by said 

wafer metrology instrument; 
   means for routing said plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette 

module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument; and 

   a master controller for controlling the flow of said plurality of semiconductor 
wafers between said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer 

etching instrument by controlling and networking the operations of said cassette module, 
said wafer metrology instrument, said wafer etching instrument, and said wafer routing 

means to achieve said desired material layer thickness in each of said plurality of 
semiconductor wafers in an efficient and organized manner. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising an alignment mechanism 
for orienting said plurality of semiconductor wafers into a position that allows for proper 

acceptance by said wafer metrology instrument and said wafer etching instrument. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 2, further comprising registration means for 
properly registering said plurality of semiconductor wafers to said wafer metrology 

instrument and said wafer etching instrument. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein said cassette module, said wafer 
metrology instrument, said wafer etching instrument, and said wafer routing means form 

a gastight enclosure that is maintained at a soft vacuum level. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said cassette module is comprised of 
an accessible gastight cavity that is capable of storing a cassette holding said plurality of 

semiconductor wafers. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein said accessible gastight cavity may 
be independently isolated from said gastight enclosure, and wherein said accessible 

gastight cavity may be independently vented up and pumped down to said soft vacuum 
level. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein said cassette module is provided with 
a mechanism for moving said cassette so as to provide said wafer routing means with 

access to all of said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein said mechanism is controlled by said 
master controller. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said wafer metrology instrument is 
comprised of an accessible gastight cavity and instrumentality for measuring the thickness 

of the outer material layers of said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 9, wherein said master controller controls the 
operation of said wafer metrology instrument and records said outer layer thickness 

measurements for use by said wafer etching instrument. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 10, wherein said accessible gastight cavity may 
be independently isolated from said gastight enclosure. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said wafer etching instrument is 
comprised of an accessible gastight cavity containing instrumentality for removing 

material from the outer layers of said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein said master controller controls the 
operation of said wafer etching instrument. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein said accessible gastight cavity may 
be independently isolated from said gastight enclosure. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said wafer routing means is 
comprised of an accessible gastight cavity containing instrumentality for transporting said 

plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette module, said wafer metrology 
instrument, and said wafer etching instrument. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 15, wherein said instrumentality is comprised of 
a robotic arm centrally located between said cassette module, said wafer metrology 

instrument, and said wafer etching instrument. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein said master controller controls the 
operation of said robotic arm. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein said accessible gastight cavity may 
be independently isolated from said gastight enclosure. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said master controller is comprised 
of electronic computing and storage means for electronically controlling and networking 

the operations of said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, said wafer 
etching instrument, and said wafer routing means. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein said master controller stores said 
material layer thickness measurements taken by said wafer metrology instrument and 

supplies them to said wafer etching instrument. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein said master controller performs 
fault isolation and other diagnostics for said semiconductor wafer processing facility. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein said master controller stores the 
processing records on said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein said master controller records the 
processing status on said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a wafer storage area for 
storing a cassette of said plurality of semiconductor wafers before and after processing. 
The apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a wafer preparation area 
for cleaning and inspecting said plurality of semiconductor wafers before and after 

processing. 
A method for controlling the flow of semiconductor wafers through a 
semiconductor wafer processing facility, said method comprising the steps of: 

   storing a plurality of semiconductor wafers in an identifiable manner in a cassette 
module;

 
   measuring material layer thicknesses in said plurality of semiconductor wafers with 

a wafer metrology instrument; 
   removing material from said plurality of semiconductor wafers with a wafer 

etching instrument so as to achieve a desired material layer thickness as measured by said 
wafer metrology instrument; 

   routing said plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette module, said 
wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument; and 

   controlling the flow of said plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette 
module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument by 

controlling and networking the operations of said cassette module, said wafer metrology 
instrument, said wafer etching instrument, and said wafer routing means to achieve said 

desired material layer thickness in each of said plurality of semiconductor wafers in an 
efficient and organized manner. 
The method as defined in claim 26, further comprising the step of storing said 
plurality of semiconductor wafers in a cassette before and after processing. 
The method as defined in claim 26, further comprising the step of cleaning and 
inspecting said plurality of semiconductor wafers before and after processing. 
The method as defined in claim 26 further comprising the steps of: 

   predicting a material layer thickness of each one of said plurality of semiconductor 
wafers; 

   remeasuring, subsequent to said material removal step, said material layer 
thickness of each one of said plurality of semiconductor wafers; 

   comparing said predicted material thickness with said remeasured material layer 
thickness for each of said plurality of semiconductor wafers; and 

   adjusting said wafer etching instrument based upon said comparison of said 
predicted and said remeasured material thicknesses. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
