<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615770</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for managing and monitoring cardiac rhythm using active time as the controlling parameter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N100	A61N100	A61N1365	A61N1365	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cardiac rhythm management device is described in which the 
rate controlling parameter of a rate adaptive pacemaker is the 

heart's total active time. The active time is evaluated using the 
intraventricular impedance technique, the active time being the 

length of the interval between the onset of contraction and the 
point where a line passing through two points on the fast filling 

segment of the impedance wave form reaches the impedance level 
corresponding to the end-diastole impedance of the preceding beat. 

The approach results in a upper rate limit corresponding to the 
maximum heart rate that does not compromise circulatory function, 

e.g., result in a decrease in cardiac output, or an increase in 
cardiac workload without an associated increase in cardiac output. 

The application also teaches the use of the heart's total active 
time as an indication of hemodynamic instability for triggering a 

defibrillation. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
I. Field of the Invention. This invention relates generally
to cardiac rhythm management devices including bradycardia
pacemakers, cardioverters and defibrillators, and more particularly
to a device in which the heart's Active Time is used as a
controlling variable.II. Discussion of the Prior Art. Beginning in about 1976, a
variety of cardiac pacemakers have been developed and disclosed in
which a physiologic or a non-physiologic sensor is used to produce
a signal which is intended to be proportional to the level of work
or exercise being performed by the patient. Specifically, in 1977,
Dr. Mario Alcidi, in U.S. Patent 4,009,721, described a system in
which blood pH is sensed and a control signal proportional thereto
is developed for altering the rate of an implanted pacemaker.
That device has not proven to be commercially successful because it
is difficult to implement. Stable pH electrodes are not generally
available. The measurement is not related directly to exercise
level and any feedback of information as to hemodynamic instability
is too slow.The Cook et al. Patent No. 4,543,954 describes a system in
which blood temperature becomes the rate controlling parameter for
an implanted pacemaker. While blood temperature is found to
increase during exercise and emotional stress, the main problems in
using temperature as a rate controlling parameter are that the
response to the onset of exercise is too slow and temperature
change is found not to be proportional to the exercise level.
Again, no hemodynamic feedback information is provided when this
approach is utilized. The Richards Patent No. 4,228,803 discloses the idea of using
the QT interval of the electrocardiogram as the rate control
parameter. This interval is found to decrease with increases in
exercise. While it has been shown useful for some patients, the
technique suffers from the problem that the T-wave is difficult to
sense and the interval itself changes between sensed and paced
beats, providing only relative values. Beta blockage results in
inhibition of catecholamine response and therefore reduction of the
stimulus-to-T-wave change. The approach also does not provide any
hemodynamic feedback relating to the effect of the heart rate
change on the circulatory system.Still another variety of rate adaptive pacemaker incorporates
a pressure sensor for detecting blood pressure changes. See U.S
Patent No. 4,899,752 to Cohen. Such a sensor is used to measure
the rate of increase of the intraventricular pressure. Increased
pressure gradient is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cardiac rhythm management device having a variable rate pulse
generator and further comprising:


(a) means (26,30) for measuring intracardiac impedance variations
due to changes in blood volume of the heart;
(b) means (32-40) for detecting the occurrence of a natural or
stimulated cardiac depolarization signal;
(c) means (32-40) for computing from said impedance variations the
total active time of a cardiac cycle, said total active time being the

interval starting with the occurrence of a detected natural or stimulated
cardiac depolarization signal and ending with the completion of the

filling phase of the heart with the ventricles assumed to be refilled at
their fast filling rate;
(d) means (32-40) for producing a control signal related to said total
active time; and
(e) means for applying said control signal to said variable rate pulse
generator (42) for controlling the rate at which cardiac stimulating

signals are issued by the pulse generator.
The cardiac rhythm management device of claim 1 further
including:


(a) means (32-40) for detecting hemodynamic instability reflected in
whether the R-to-R interval of a patient is below a predetermined

percentage of the computed total active time; and
(b) means (42) responsive to the detecting of hemodynamic instability
for initiating a stimulated cardiac depolarization signal.
The device as in Claim 2 wherein the pulse generator is a
defibrillator.
A demand cardiac pacer including a variable rate pulse generator
(42) for generating cardiac stimulating pulses at a rate falling between

lower and upper rate limits in the absence of intrinsic cardiac activity,
pacing lead means (12) for coupling said pulse generator to the heart

(10), said pacing lead means having means (16) for sensing said intrinsic
cardiac activity and means (14) for applying said stimulating pulses to

the heart and means (16, 24) for sensing a change in physiologic demand
coupled to said pulse generator for varying the rate at which said

stimulating pulses are produced between said lower and an upper rate
limits, said pacer comprising:


(a) means (26-40) for sensing the start of a cardiac contraction;
(b) second sensing means (32-40) for sensing the end of the filling
phase of the ventricles with the ventricles being filled at their fast filling

rate;
(c) means (32-40) responsive to said first and second sensing means
for measuring the total active time elapsing between the start of a cardiac

contraction and the end of said filling phase;
(d) means (32-40) for producing a control signal proportional to said
total active time; and
(e) means (32-40) responsive to said control signal for setting said
upper rate limit.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
