<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616751</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VOICE COIL ACTUATOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K1503	H02K1503	H02K3318	H02K3318	H04R900	H04R902	H04R904	H04R906	H04R3100	H04R3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K15	H02K15	H02K33	H02K33	H04R9	H04R9	H04R9	H04R9	H04R31	H04R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A voice coil actuator (50) includes a magnetic flux conductive material core (52, 52'), having a backplate (53) and a magnet (54), and an electrical current conductive coil (56, 56'). The core (52, 52') has a first surface (58, 58', 58'') and a continuous channel (60) disposed in said first surface (58, 58', 58''). The channel (60) has a pair of opposing walls (62, 64). The magnet (54) is disposed in intimate contact with a first one of said walls (62, 64) and spaced from a second one of said walls (62, 64) so that a gap remains between the magnet (54) and the second one of the walls (62, 64). The magnet (54) has a first face (94) of a first magnetic polarity facing the first one of the walls (62, 64) and a second face (96) of a second, opposite magnetic polarity facing the gap. The magnet (54) is further spaced from a bottom (76) of the channel (60) so that magnetic flux is substantially normal from the second face (96) across said gap to the second one of the walls (62, 64).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AURA SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AURA SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BULGATZ DENNIS C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUART KEITH O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BULGATZ DENNIS C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUART KEITH O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VOICE COIL ACTUATORFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to electromagnet actuators and more particularly to a novel voice coil actuator and a speaker constructed therefrom.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn a typical voice coil actuator, an electrical current conductive coil is suspended at a zero current bias position within a magnetic field formed in a gap of a permanent magnet core. It is highly desirous that the flux path of the field within this gap be optimally radial with respect to the axis of the coil so that when an externally applied current conducts through the coil, the coil will be displaced axially from its zero current bias position in an amount linearly proportional to such current. However, as will be seen from the following discussion, the flux path is, in the known prior art voice coil actuator, is not at an ideal radial orientation with respect to the coil.Referring to prior art Fig. 1, there is shown a long coil actuator 10 which is one particular type of prior art voice coil actuator. The construction of its core 12 is based on an axially polarized cylindrical magnet 14 which has a first end face 16 at a first magnetic polarity and a second end face 18 at a second, opposite magnetic polarity. The first end face 16 of the magnet 14 is coaxially mounted on a disk shaped base plate 20 of the core 12. The base plate 20 is formed from magnetic flux conductive material and has a diameter commensurate with the outer diameter of the magnet 14. Mounted on the base plate 20 coaxiallySUBSTITUTESHEET 

 within the magnet 14 is a rod 22 of magnetic flux conductive material wherein the rod 22 has a diameter less than the inner diameter of the magnet 14 so that a space therebetween remains. The distal free end 24 of the rod 22 is elevationally commensurate with the second end face 18 of the magnet 14. Completing the core 12 construction, a ring shaped first pole piece 26 and a disk shaped second pole piece 28 are coaxially mounted respectively to the second end face 18 of the magnet 14 and the distal end 24 of the rod 22. Each pole piece 26,28 is formed from magnet flux conductive material. The first pole piece 26 has an inner diameter less than the inner diameter of the magnet 14 and the second pole piece 28 has a diameter greater than the diameter of the rod 22 with each of these diameters being selected so that a gap remains between the respective facing sides 30,32 of each pole piece 26,28.A coil 34 is mounted to the above core 12 construction and coaxially suspended
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 THE CLAIMS
I claim:
1. A voice coil actuator comprising: a magnetic flux conductive material core having a first surface and a continuous channel disposed in said first surface, said channel having a pair of opposing walls; a magnet disposed in intimate contact with a first one of said walls and spaced from a second one of said walls so that a gap remains between said magnet and said second one of said walls, said magnet having a first face of a first magnetic polarity facing said first one of said walls and a second face of a second, opposite magnetic polarity facing said gap, said magnet further being spaced from a bottom of said channel so that magnetic flux is substantially normal from said second face across said gap to said second one of said walls; and an electrical current conductive coil moveably suspended in said gap such that an electrical current in said coil develops a magnetic force on said coil in a direction substantially normal to said magnetic flux to displace said coil in response to said magnetic force.
2. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein current in said coil is substantially parallel to the plane of said first surface.
3. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein said core is cylindrically shaped and said channel 


 is coaxial within said core.
4. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein said coil has a length less than a height of said gap such that said coil is disposed fully in said gap in the range of a total stroke of said coil.
5. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 1 wherein said magnet has an upper edge in a plane of said first surface .
6. A voice coil actuator comprising: a cylindrically shaped, magnetic flux conductive material core having a first surface and an annular channel coaxially disposed in said first surface, said channel having an inner wall, an outer wall and a bottom wall; a cylindrical radially polarized magnet mounted in intimate contact to said inner wall and spaced from said outer wall such that a gap remains between said magnet and said outer wall, said magnet having an upper edge in a plane of said first surface and a lower edge spaced from said bottom wall such that magnetic flux is substantially radially confined within said gap; and an electrical current conductive coil moveably suspended coaxially within said gap such that an electrical current in said coil develops an axial magnetic force on said coil linearly proportional to said current.
7. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 6 wherein said coil has an axial length less than a height of said gap such that said coil is disposed fully in said gap
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 in the range of a total stroke of said coil.
8. A voice coil actuator comprising: a cylindrical magnetic flux conductive material first member having a first surface and a second surface, said first surface having a bore therein to form a first cylindrical wall and a bottom wall; a magnet flux conductive rod disposed coaxially in said bore to form a second cylindrical wall spaced from said first wall and having a first end and a second end, said second end being mounted to said bottom wall, said rod having an axial length commensurate with a depth of said bore; a cylindrical radially polarized magnet mounted in intimate contact to said second wall and spaced from said first wall such that a gap remains between said magnet and said first wall, said magnet having an upper edge coextensive with said first end of said rod and a lower edge spaced from said bottom wall such that magnetic flux is substantially radially confined within said gap; and an electrical current conductive coil moveably suspended coaxially within said gap such that an electrical current in said coil develops an axial magnetic force on said coil linearly proportional to said current.
9. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 8 wherein said coil has an axial length less than a height of said gap such that said coil is disposed fully in said gap in the range of a total stroke of said coil.
10. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 8 


wherein said second surface has a coaxial opening therethrough and said first end of said rod has a coaxial matching threaded bore, said voice coil actuator further including a threaded fastener received through said opening and engaged with said threaded bore, said threaded fastener having a head engaging said second surface.
11. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 10 wherein said opening in said second surface has a counter bore, said head being disposed in said counter bore.
12. A voice coil actuator as set forth in claim 11 wherein said counter bore is frustoconical and said head has a matching frustoconical surface.
13. A speaker comprising: a cylindrically shaped, magnetic flux conductive material core having a first surface and an annular channel coaxially disposed in said first surface, said channel having an inner wall, an outer wall and a bottom wall; a cylindrical radially polarized magnet mounted in intimate contact to said inner wall and spaced from said outer wall such that a gap remains between said magnet and said outer wall, said magnet having an upper edge in a plane of said first surface and a lower edge spaced from said bottom wall such that magnetic flux is substantially radially confined within said gap; an electrical current conductive coil moveably suspended coaxially within said gap such that an electrical current in said coil develops an axial magnetic force on said coil linearly proportional to said current;
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 a speaker cone driven by said coil; and a resilient expandable member attached to said first surface and said coil to suspend said coil in said gap and to bias said coil in a zero current bias position.
14. A speaker as set forth in claim 13 wherein said coil has an axial length less than a height of said gap such that said coil is disposed fully in said gap in the range of a total stroke of said coil.
15. A speaker comprising: a cylindrical magnetic flux conductive material first member having a first surface and a second surface, said first surface having a coaxial bore therein to form a first cylindrical wall and a bottom wall; a magnet flux conductive rod disposed coaxially in said bore to form a second cylindrical wall spaced from said first wall and having a first end and a second end, said second end being mounted to said bottom wall, said rod having an axial length commensurate with a depth of said bore; a cylindrical radially polarized magnet mounted in intimate contact to said second wall and spaced from said first wall such that a gap remains between said magnet and said first wall, said magnet having an upper edge coextensive with said first end of said rod and a lower edge spaced from said bottom wall such that magnetic flux is substantially radially confined within said gap; an electrical current conductive coil moveably suspended coaxially within said gap such that an electrical current in said coil develops an axial magnetic force on
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


said coil linearly proportional to said current; a speaker cone driven by said coil; and a resilient expandable member attached to said first surface and said coil to suspend said coil in said gap and to bias said coil in a zero current bias position.
16. A speaker as set forth in claim 15 wherein said coil has an axial length less than a height of said gap such that said coil is disposed fully in said gap in the range of a total stroke of said coil.
17. A speaker as set forth in claim 15 wherein said second surface has a coaxial opening therethrough and said first end of said rod has a coaxial matching threaded bore, said voice coil actuator further including a threaded fastener received through said opening and engaged with said threaded bore, said threaded fastener having a head engaging said second surface .
18. A speaker as set forth in claim 17 wherein said opening in said second surface has a counter bore, said head being disposed in said counter bore.
19. A speaker as set forth in claim 18 wherein said counter bore is frustoconical and said head has a matching frustoconical surface.
20. A core for a voice coil actuator comprising: a magnetic flux conductive material structure including a first member, a second member in a spaced apart relationship to said first member and an interconnecting
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 member to carry said first member and said second member; a first magnet carried by said structure and arranged such that magnetic flux is developed in a closed loop path across a gap between said first member and said second member and within each of said first member, said second member and said interconnecting member; and a second magnet carried by said structure and arranged such that magnetic flux developed by said second magnet has a polarity selected to confine within said gap said flux developed by said first magnet and to be additive within said gap with said flux developed by said first magnet.
21. A core as set forth in claim 20 wherein said first member and said second member are cylindrical and coaxially disposed with respect to each other.
22. A core as set forth in claim 21 wherein said first magnet is a cylindrical radially polarized magnet disposed on said first member in a spaced relationship to said second member within said gap.
23. A core as set forth in claim 22 wherein said second magnet is a cylindrical axially polarized magnet disposed on said interconnecting member substantially beneath said gap.
24. A core for a voice coil actuator comprising: a magnetic flux conductive material structure including a first member, a second member in a spaced apart relationship of said first member and said second member; a first magnet carried by said structure and arranged
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 such that magnetic flux is developed in a closed loop path across a gap between said first member and said second member and within each of said first member, said second member and said interconnecting m,ember; and a second magnetic flux conductive material structure adjacent said gap to focus said flux from one of said first member and said second member into said gap.
25. A core as set forth in claim 24 wherein said second member are cylindrical and coaxially disposed with respect to each other.
26. A core as set forth in claim 25 wherein said first magnet is a cylindrical radially polarized magnet disposed on said first member in a spaced relationship to said second member within said gap.
27. A core as set forth in claim 26 wherein said second structure an annular ring disposed in said gap in coaxial untainted contact with said magnet.
28. A core for a voice coil actuator comprising: a magnetic flux conductive material back plate including a base, an inner member and an outer member in a spaced apart relationship to said inner member, said base having at least a first surface, each of said inner member and said outer member extending from said first surface; a first magnet disposed on a first one of said inner member and said outer member and spaced form a second one of said inner member and said outer member, said first magnet having a first pole of a first magnetic polarity
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 proximal said first one of said inner member and said outer member and a second pole of a second magnetic polarity distal said first one of said inner member and said outer member; a second magnet disposed intermediate said inner member and said outer member on said surface and spaced from at least said second one of said inner member and said outer member, said second magnet having a first pole of said first magnetic polarity proximal said first surface and a second pole of said second magnetic polarity distal said first surface; and a magnetic flux conductive material front plate disposed adjacent said second pole of each of said first magnet and said second magnet and spaced from said second one of said inner member and said outer member such that a gap remains between said front plate and said second one of said inner member and said outer member.
29. A core as set forth in claim 28 wherein said front plate has a top face elevationally commensurate with said surface of said back plate.
30. A core as set forth in claim 29 wherein said back plate has surface which is elevationally higher at said first one of said inner member and said outer member then at said second one of said inner member and said outer member.
31. A core as set forth in claim 30 wherein said front plate is trapezoidal in cross section.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 32. A core as set forth in claim 28 wherein said inner member has a first conical bore at one end thereof.
33. A core as set forth in claim 32 wherein said inner member has a second conical bore at the other end thereof.
34. A core as set forth in claim 28 wherein said bore has an outer frustoconical surface .
35. A core as set forth in claim 28 where in said inner member and said outer member are cylindrical and coaxially disposed, said first magnet is a radically polarized cylindrical magnet and said second magnet is an axially polarized cylindrical magnet .
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
