<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656821</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DRY ABRASIVE BELT CLEANER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B700	B08B700	B24B5500	B24B5508	B24C100	B24C102	B24C300	B24C308	B24C310	B24C312	B24C332	B24C900	B24C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	B24B	B24B	B24C	B24C	B24C	B24C	B24C	B24C	B24C	B24C	B24C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B7	B08B7	B24B55	B24B55	B24C1	B24C1	B24C3	B24C3	B24C3	B24C3	B24C3	B24C9	B24C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus (10) is provided for cleaning of dirty, clogged sandpaper, particularly large, industrial size sandpaper belts (190) used in furniture making operations. The apparatus (10) includes a drum (58) adapted to support a belt (190), together with blasting means (16) adjacent the drum (58) for creating a stream of particulates directed toward a portion of the belt (190) for cleaning purposes. Positioning means (18) is also provided for selectively changing the relative orientation of the blasting means (16) and the belt (190) in order to successively clean different portions of the belt (190). Preferably, a laterally reciprocal nozzle (108) is employed for creating the particulate stream, and the belt (190) is intermittently shifted via a pneumatic mechanism (158) to present successive portions of the belt (190) for cleaning thereof. Dislodged material and dust is conveyed from the apparatus (10) through a port (42), whereas the particulate cleaning media is collected in a lower hopper (50) for recirculation to the nozzle (108).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZINTEXX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZINTEXX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COWELL RONALD O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHROEDER DAVID W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMPSON STEVEN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COWELL, RONALD, O.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHROEDER, DAVID, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMPSON, STEVEN, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DRY ABRASIVE BELT CLEANERBackground of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThe present invention is broadly concerned with an apparatus for cleaning of sandpaper, and a correspond¬ ing method, which finds particular utility in the context of furniture making operations where large, industrial- sized sandpaper belts are frequently used. Broadly speaking, the apparatus of the invention includes means for supporting sandpaper in a cleaning position, together with blasting means for creating a stream of particulates directed toward the sanding surface of the paper in order dislodge accumulated sanding material; the apparatus further includes positioning means for selectively alter¬ ing the relative spatial orientation of the blasting means and sanding surface, in order to direct the particulate stream toward different portions of the sanding surface.2. Description of the Prior ArtFurniture makers employ large sanding machines for finishing wood surfaces. Typically, this equipment makes use of large endless-belt sandpaper, which may have either cloth or paper as a substrate with grit applied to the outer surface of the substrate. During sanding operations it frequently occurs that the sanding surfaces of the belts become clogged with sanded material or dust. This problem is particularly acute during the sanding of soft woods. It is well known that accumulation of dust detracts from the efficiency of the sandpaper to the point that, unless the belts are cleaned, they are effectively useless. Cleaning of sandpaper belts has been attempted in the past, but only in the case of belts made from cloth 

substrates. Such prior techniques have generally involved a water rinse or washing of the belts, followed by drying. The washing procedures are only partially effective, and moreover complete drying of the belts can be difficult, particularly in humid weather. Moreover, these prior methods cannot be used with belts made using paper sub¬ strates, inasmuch as the paper will either be destroyed or distorted by contact with water.There is accordingly a decided need in the art for an improved method and apparatus designed to effec¬ tively clean sandpaper of accumulated dust, and which is applicable both to cloth and paper-based sandpapers.Summary of the Invention The present overcomes the problems outlined above, and provides an improved sandpaper cleaning appara¬ tus which completely eliminates water treatment and instead relies upon a pneumatic technique for the physical dislodgement of accumulated dust. Broadly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. An article of manufacture for cleaning sandpaper comprising: means for supporting sandpaper in a cleaning position, the sandpaper presenting a sanding surface and being subject to accumulation of sanded material thereon; blasting means for creating a stream of particulates directed toward a portion of the sanding surface for dislodging sanded material therefrom; and positioning means including: means for selectively altering the relative spatial orientation of said blasting means and said sanding surface, for selectively directing said stream toward specific portions of said sanding surface, and means for incrementally shifting said sanding surface in order to present said respective sanding surface portions to said blasting means.
2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, includ¬ ing shifting means operably coupled with said blasting means for selective relative movement between said blast¬ ing means and said sanding surface. 


 3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 2, said blasting means including a nozzle, there being conduit means operably coupling said nozzle with a supply of said particulates, said shifting means including structure for selective translatory movement of said nozzle relative to said sanding surface.
4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 3, said structure being operable for reciprocal side-to-side movement of said nozzle, there being limit switch means for defining the limits of said side-to-side movement.
5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, said positioning means including apparatus for selective movement of said sandpaper in order to present respective portions of said sanding surface to said blasting means for cleaning of the respective portions.
6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 5, said sandpaper-moving apparatus including an elongated drum adapted to receive said sandpaper, and means for axially and incrementally shifting said drum in order to present said respective sanding surface portions to said blasting means. 


 7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 6, includ¬ ing hold-down means for pressing said sandpaper against said drum.
8. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, includ¬ ing means for collecting material cleaned from said sandpaper.
9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8, said material-collecting means including a material port, and means for creating a vacuum within said port for removal and collection of said cleaned material.
10. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, includ- ing structure defining a hopper for said particulates, there being a conduit operably interconnected between said nozzle and hopper for conveyance of said particulates from the hopper to the nozzle.
11. Apparatus as set forth in claim 10, said hopper being located beneath said blasting means for collection of particulates after impingement thereof on said sanding surface, whereby said particulates may recirculated to said nozzle. 


 12. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, said sandpaper being in the form of an endless belt including a flexible substrate and grit applied to the outer surface of said substrate to define said sanding surface, said sandpaper-supporting means including an elongated drum adapted to receive said endless belt thereover.
13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12, said substrate being paper.
14. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12, said substrate being cloth.
15. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, said particulates being selected from the group consisting of ground walnut shells and glass beads.
16. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, includ¬ ing a housing enclosing said sandpaper supporting means and blasting means, said housing including an openable door for placement and removal of sandpaper. 

17. A method of cleaning sandpaper presenting a sanding surface subject to accumulation of sanded material thereon, said method comprising the steps of; placing said sanding surface in a cleaning position; creating a stream of particulates for dislodging said sanded material from said sanding surface; directing said stream for impingement of said par¬ ticulates against said sanding surface in order to clean said material therefrom; and incrementally shifting said sandpaper to present specific portions of said sanding surface to said stream.
18. The method as set forth in claim 17, including the step of causing relative movement between said stream and sanding surface for sequentially cleaning different portions of said sanding surface.
19. The method as set forth in claim 18, including the step of moving said stream from side-to-side between the side margins of said sandpaper surface.
20. The method as set forth in claim 18, including the step of incrementally shifting said sandpa- per to present said different portions of said sanding surface. 


 21. The method as set forth in claim 17, including the step of collecting said sanded material after dislodgement thereof from said sanding surface.
22. The method as set forth in claim 17, including the step of accumulating said particulates after impingement thereof upon said sanding surface, and reusing said accumulated particulates in said stream. 

23. An article of manufacture for cleaning sandpaper comprising: means for supporting sandpaper in a cleaning position, the sandpaper presenting a sanding surface and being subject to accumulation of sanded material thereon; blasting means for creating a stream of particulates directed toward a portion of the sanding surface for dislodging sanded material therefrom; and positioning means for selectively altering the rela¬ tive spatial orientation of said blasting means and said sanding surface, for selectively directing said stream toward different portions of said sanding surface, in order to clean the entire sanding surface, said positioning means including apparatus for selective movement of said sandpaper in order to present respective portions of said sanding surface to said blast¬ ing means for cleaning of the respective por- tions, said sandpaper-moving apparatus including an elongated drum adapted to receive said sand¬ paper, and means for axially and incrementally shifting said drum in order to present said respective sanding surface portions to said blasting means. 


 24. Apparatus as set forth in claim 23, includ¬ ing hold-down means for pressing said sandpaper against said drum. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
