<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633680</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A trellis coded modulation scheme with low envelope variation for mobile radio.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L2718	H04L2718	H04L2720	H04L2720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital radio communication system employs an encoder (94) 
for creating a set of encoded bits for each set of input bits. 

A mapper (96) in the transmitter (90) employs a modulation 
scheme which is constrained in the maximum phase angle 

difference between subsequently transmitted symbols. A 
constellation having a number of redundant symbols within the 

constrained maximum phase angle is chosen. An iterative search 
is performed to assign each of these symbols to a set of 

encoded bits such that the resultant coded scheme provides 
optimal bit error rate (BER) performance for the channel type. 

Configuring the encoder (94) and mapper (96) in this manner 
reduces the transmitted power envelope variation of the 

transmitted signal, thereby reducing the linearity requirements 
on a transmitter amplifier (101). Since transmitted power 

envelope variation is reduced, battery life of a mobile unit is 
extended. This manner of configuration also retains significant 

separation between transmitted sequences, resulting in 
substantial resistance to interference. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON GE MOBILE COMMUNICAT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON GE MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMESH RAJARAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMESH, RAJARAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is related to U.S. Patent applications "A 
Modulation Scheme with Low Envelope Variation for Mobile 
Radio" by Rajaram Ramesh (Atty. Docket No. RD-22,412) filed 
concurrently with this application; "Trellis Coding Technique to 
Improve ACIPR in Land Mobile Radio Systems Under Peak Power 
Constraints" by Sandeep Chennakeshu, Amer A. Hassan and 
John B. Anderson Serial No. 07/898,670, filed 6/15/92; and 
"Improved Trellis Coding Technique to Increase Adjacent 
Channel Interference Protection Ratio in Land Mobile Radio 
Systems Under Peak Power Constraints" by Sandeep 
Chennakeshu, Rajaram Ramesh, Amer A. Hassan, John B. 
Anderson, Ser. No. 07/975,201, filed 6/12/92; all assigned to the 
present assignee and hereby incorporated by reference. This invention relates to land mobile radio systems and 
more specifically to a method for minimizing adjacent channel 
interference by constraining transmitted power envelope 
variations for mobile radio systems without sacrificing 
transmitted range. Conventional land mobile radio (LMR) channels employ 
narrow-band frequency division multiplexed (FDMA) systems for 
base stations to communicate with mobile radio units. Each base 
unit/mobile unit communicating pair employs a different 
frequency band.  Speech communication may be executed by digitizing the 
speech, and transmitting the encoded speech information. Other 
digital information may be desired to be communicated between a 
base and mobile radio unit. Currently, there is an immediate need for an increase in 
capacity of LMR systems in the U.S. for such applications as 
public safety trunking. The trend is to increase capacity by 
splitting each existing 25 KHz channel used in LMR systems into 
two 12.5 KHz channels. However, this causes adjacent channel 
interference (ACI). ACI is interference introduced at a receiver 
from a transmitter broadcasting at a frequency corresponding to 
an adjacent channel and is sometimes called adjacent channel 
'splatter'. This interference is increased by intermodulation and 
harmonic distortions caused by non-linearities in the radio 
frequency (RF) amplifier in the transmitter. The need for capacity in land mobile radio (LMR) systems 
can be met by improving spectral efficiency (to values greater than 
1 bit/sec/Hz). However, the achievable spectral efficiency is limited 
by stringent adjacent-channel interference protection 
specifications. Continuous phase modulation (CPM) schemes such as 4-level 
digital FM can meet the current adjacent channel 
interfer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of configuring a digital radio transmitter having a 
encoder and mapper to transmit in an additive white Gaussian 

noise (AWGN) channel comprising the steps of: 

a) selecting an encoder capable of being in a plurality of encoder 
states, the encoder capable of providing a set of l encoded bits 

for each set of input bits; 
b) selecting a maximum constrained angle Θ being a maximum 
allowable phase angle transition for a symbol transmission; 
c) selecting a set of constellation symbols within the maximum 
constrained angle Θ; 
d) assigning each possible set of encoder bits to a desired 
constellation symbol; 
e) adapting said mapper to provide a symbol assigned to a set of 
encoder bits, when provided therewith; 
f) selecting a generator polynomial for said encoder; 
g) determining all possible closed paths Pi, where a closed path 
is a set of encoder state transitions over time each associated 

with a symbol,and which have the same initial and final 
state; 
h) determining an accumulated Euclidian distance d2ij between 
all possibl
e pairs of closed paths (Pi, Pj) where 
i≠j  

; 
i) determining a minimum accumulated Euclidian distance 
 

being the lowest value of d2ij between any two closed paths; 
j) repeating steps "g" through "i" for all possible generator 
polynomials; 
k) determining a largest minimum accumulated distance 
 

being the largest value of 
 

and 
l) adapting the encoder to employ the generator polynomial 
associated with the largest minimum accumulated distance 

 
in encoding subsequent data to result in a transmitted 

 
signal having reduced envelope variation and maximum 

distance between subsequent transmitted symbols. 
The method of configuring a digital radio transmitter of claim 1 
wherein the accumulated Euclidian distance d2ij is calculated as: 

 
where sin - sjn is a distance between complex symbols from an 

nth symbol time period for paths Pi and Pj, respectively, and 
N is the total number of symbols transmitted for each path. 
A method of configuring a digital radio transmitter having a 
encoder and mapper to transmit in a fading channel comprising 

the steps of: 

a) selecting an encoder capable of being in a plurality of encoder 
states, the encoder capable of providing a set of encoded bits 

for each set of input bits; 
b) selecting a maximum constrained angle Θ (in radians) 
according to: 

 
where k is a positive integer and l is the number of encoded 

bits, Θ being a maximum allowable phase angle transition for 
a symbol transmission; 
c) selecting a set of constellation symbols within the maximum 
constrained angle Θ which is less than π radians; 
d) assigning each possible set of encoder bits to a desired 
constellation symbol; 
e) adapting said mapper to provide a symbol assigned to a set of 
encoder bits, when provided therewith; 
f) selecting a generator polynomial for said encoder; 
g) determining all possible closed paths Pi, where a closed path 
is 2 set of encoder state transitions over time each associated 

 
with a symbol, and which have the same initial and final 

state; 
h) determining a Hamming distance 
 

between all possible 
pairs of closed paths (Pi, Pj) where 

i≠j  
; 
i) determining a minimum Hamming distance 
 

being the 
lowest values of 

 
between pairs of closed paths; 
j) repeating steps "g" through "i" for all possible generator 
polynomials; 
k) determining generator polynomials having a largest 
minimum Hamming distance 

 
being the largest value of 


l) choosing a generator polynomial having the largest minimum 
Hamming distance 

 
and 
l) adapting the encoder to employ the chosen generator 
polynomial in encoding subsequent data to result in a 

transmitted signal having reduced envelope variation and 
maximum distance between subsequent transmitted symbols. 
The method of configuring a digital radio transmitter of claim 3 
wherein the maximum constrained angle Θ with l=3 and the 

maximum constrained angle Θ thereby being defined by:Θ=7π/k radians 
 

which k is integer to result in 2k total constellation symbols. 
The method of configuring a digital radio transmitter of claim 3 
wherein the Hamming distance 

 
is the count of occurrences 

where sin ≠ sjn for n=1,2,3,...N, 
where sin is the symbol transmitted at an nth time period for 

path Pi, sjn is the symbol transmitted at the nth time period for 
path Pj, and N is the total number of symbols transmitted for 

each path. 
The method of configuring a digital radio transmitter of claim 3 
wherein the step of choosing choosing a generator polynomial 

comprises the steps of: 

a) selecting a generator polynomial from those associated with 
the largest minimum Hamming distance 


b) selecting the Hamming paths PH each having the largest 
minimum Hamming distance 


c) determining a product distance 
 

between all possible 
pairs of Hamming paths (PHi, PHj) where 

i≠j  
; 
d) determining a minimum product distance 
 

being the 
lowest values of 

 
between pairs of Hamming paths; 
e) repeating steps "b" through "d" for all remaining generator 
polynomials associated with a largest minimum Hamming 

distance 
 

and 
f) choosing a generator polynomial associated with a largest 
value of the minimum product distance 
The method of configuring a digital radio transmitter of claim 6 
wherein the product distance 

 
is calculated as: 

 
where the product is taken for n such that sin ≠ sjn and sin - sjn is 

a distance between complex symbols from an nth symbol time 
period for remaining Hamming paths PHi and PHj, 

respectively, and N is the total number of symbols transmitted 
for each path. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
