<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637470</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Backing layer for acoustic transducer array.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B800	A61B800	B06B106	B06B106	H04R1700	H04R1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	B06B	B06B	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	A61B8	B06B1	B06B1	H04R17	H04R17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides an acoustic transducer for 
transmitting acoustic wave energy in response to an 

electrical signal and for converting the received 
acoustic wave energy into an electric signal. The 

transducer includes an array of piezoelectric elements 
(52), a backing layer (30) attached at a rearward face of 

the piezoelectric elements, a circuit element (54) spaced 
apart from the piezoelectric elements (52) by the backing 

layer (30), and at least one electrical conductor (24) 
for each of the piezoelectric elements (52) to connect 

the elements to the circuit element (54). The backing 
layer (30) comprises a plurality of layers (10) of 

acoustic attenuating material integrally formed into a 
laminate structure. The electrical conductors (24) 

extend along a surface of each of the layers (10) and 
have a predetermined pitch. Each of the layers (10) has 

a thickness substantially equivalent to the pitch of the 
electrical conductors (24). Individual piezoelectric 

elements (52) are formed on the upper surface (32) of the 
laminate structure (30), and conductive pads (46) are 

formed on the lower surface (34) of the laminate 
structure. The electrical conductors (24) provide 

electrical connection through the backing layer (30) 
between the piezoelectric elements (52) and the 

associated conductive pads (46). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENSTEIN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREENSTEIN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to acoustic transducer 
arrays, and more Particularly, to a laminated backing 
layer for use with such arrays to electrically connect 
the array to a circuit element and to substantially 
eliminate spurious acoustic reflections caused by the 
array. Ultrasonic imaging systems are widely used to 
produce images of internal structure of a specimen or 
target of interest. A diagnostic ultrasonic imaging 
system for medical use forms images of internal tissues 
of a human body by electrically exciting an acoustic 
transducer element or an array of acoustic transducer 
elements to generate short ultrasonic pulses that are 
caused to travel into the body. Echoes from the tissues 
are received by the acoustic transducer element or 
elements and are converted into electrical signals. 
circuit element, such as a printed circuit board, 
flexible cable or semiconductor, receives the electrical 
signals. The electrical signals are amplified and used 
to form a cross-sectional image of the tissues. These 
imaging techniques provide a safe, non-invasive method of 
obtaining diagnostic images of the human body. The acoustic transducer which radiates the 
ultrasonic pulses is provided with a plurality of 
piezoelectric elements arranged in an array with a 
predetermined pitch. The array is generally one or two-dimensional. 
By reducing the pitch of the piezoelectric 
elements in the array, and increasing the number of 
elements, the resolution of the image can be increased. 
An operator of the imaging system can control the phase  
 
of the electronic pulses applied to the respective 
piezoelectric elements in order to vary the direction of 
the output ultrasonic wave beam or its focus. In this 
way, the operator can "steer" the direction of the 
ultrasonic wave in order to illuminate desired portions 
of the human body without needing to physically 
manipulate the position of the transducer. When one of the piezoelectric elements is energized, 
acoustic waves are transmitted both from the front 
surface facing the imaging target and the rear surface of 
the element. It is desirable that the acoustic energy 
from the rear surface be substantially attenuated so that 
the image resolution is not adversely affected. If not 
attenuated, the rearward travelling acoustic signals can 
reflect off the circuit element and return to the 
transducer surface, causing a degradation of the desired 
electrical signal. To remedy this situation, a backing layer of an 
acoustically attenuating material is disposed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A backing layer for interfacing an acoustic 
transducer array having a plurality of transducer 

elements (52), each of which has a first acoustic 
impedance and a rear face, with an electric circuit 

element (54) having a contact (56) for each transducer 
element, the backing layer comprising: 

   a plurality of layers (10) of acoustic 
attenuating material integrally formed into a block (30) 

having a first face (32) and a second face (34), the 
block (30) having an acoustic impedance at the first face 

(32) which is of a value relative to the first acoustic 
impedance such that a selected portion of the element 

acoustic energy at the rear face is coupled into the 
block (30); 

   at least one electrical conductor (24) for each 
of the transducer elements (52), the conductors (24) 

extending between the first (32) and second (34) faces 
and having a predetermined pitch, the conductors (24) for 

adjacent transducer elements (52) being electrically 

isolated from one another; 
   a plurality of first electrical contacts (36) 

disposed at the first face (32) for effecting electrical 
connection between the rear face of each transducer 

element and the corresponding at least one electrical 
conductor (24); and 

   a plurality of second electrical contacts (46) 
disposed at the second face (34) for effecting electrical 

connection between the circuit element contact (56) for 
the transducer element (52) and the corresponding at 

least one electrical conductor (24). 
The backing layer of Claim 1 wherein the 
electrical conductors (24) are disposed on a surface of 

each of the layers (10). 
The backing layer of Claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
first electrical contacts (36) are disposed in a pattern 

substantially matching the rear face of the transducer 
array. 
The backing layer of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein 
the second electrical contacts (46) are disposed in a 

pattern substantially matching the electric circuit 
contacts (56). 
The backing layer of any one of the preceding 
claims wherein the electrical conductors (62) are 

separated by ground conductors (64), the electrical 
conductors (62) being electrically isolated from the 

ground conductors (64). 
The backing layer of any one of the preceding 
claims wherein selected ones of the layers (10) further 

include electrical shielding (76) to electrically isolate 
electrical conductors (24) of adjacent ones of the layers 

(10). 
A method for fabricating an acoustic transducer 
having a plurality of piezoelectric elements (52) aligned 

in a matrix, the method comprising the steps of: 
   providing a laminate structure (30) comprising 

a plurality of layers (10) of an acoustic attenuating 
material, each of the layers (10) having a plurality of 

electrical conductors (24); 
   disposing electrical contacts (46) on a bottom 

surface (34) of the laminate structure (30) electrically 
connected to respective ones of the electrical conductors 

(24), the electrical contacts (46) capable of connection 
to an external power source; and 

   disposing the piezoelectric elements (52) on a 
top surface (32) of the laminate structure (30), the 

 
piezoelectric elements (52) being electrically connected 

to respective ones of the electrical conductors (24). 
The method for fabricating an acoustic 
transducer of Claim 7 wherein the step of providing a 

laminate structure further comprises the steps of: 
   providing an electrically conductive coating 

(22) on a surface of each layer (10); 
   patterning each of the coated surfaces to form 

the electrical conductors (24); and 
   combining the plurality of layers (10) together 

into the laminate structure (30), the electrical 
conductors (24) extending between the top (32) and bottom 

(34) surfaces. 
The method for fabricating an acoustic 
transducer of Claim 7 or 8 wherein the step of disposing 

electrical contacts (46) on a bottom surface (34) of the 
laminate structure (30) further comprises the steps of: 

   applying an electrically conductive coating 
(38) to the bottom surface (34); and 

   patterning the electrically conductive coating 
(38) to provide the electrical contacts (46). 
The method for fabricating an acoustic 
transducer of Claim 7, 8 or 9 wherein the step of 

disposing the piezoelectric elements (52) on a top 
surface (32) of the laminate structure (30) further 

comprises the steps of: 
   applying an electrically conductive coating 

(36) to the top surface (32) and bonding a piezoelectric 
layer (48) onto the electrically conductive coating (36); 

and 
   patterning both the electrically conductive 

coating (36) and the piezoelectric layer (48) to provide 
the piezoelectric elements (52). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
