<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631281</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Speed independent, air bearing slider.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B560	G11B560	G11B2121	G11B2121	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B21	G11B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air bearing slider has both front and rear pads extending 
from a generally planar body, both pads having faces opposed to 

a recording medium and separated by a gap that is substantially 
in excess of any fly height of the slider. Both surfaces 

exhibit extremely small taper angles that enable "inlet 
throttling" of air beneath the slider. Such inlet throttling 

provides the slider with a fly height that is substantially 
independent of relative speed changes between the slider and a 

recording medium. A preferred embodiment includes front and 
rear pads that are convex in the direction of movement of the 

recording medium e.g. are "forward swept". Such convexity 
enables substantial resistance to fly height changes in 

response to skew alteration. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRONE ROBERT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRIKS FERDINAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHANNA VIJAYESHWAR D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRONE ROBERT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRIKS FERDINAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHANNA VIJAYESHWAR D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to magnetic head, gas bearing 
slider assemblies, and more particularly, to an air bearing 
slider assembly that exhibits a fly height that is 
substantially independent of speed variations of the recording 
media. Over more than three decades, various gas bearing slider 
designs (e.g. air bearing sliders) have been created in an 
attempt to solve the problem of fly height variations. While 
there is no generally agreed upon single "figure of merit" for 
an air bearing slider, it is undeniable that it should, at 
least, have the following qualities: low stiction; low take-off 
and landing speeds; a low sensitivity of fly height to skew 
angle variations (i.e. angle between the central axis of the 
slider and the axis of movement of the recording media); and a 
low sensitivity of fly height to disk speed variations and to 
manufacturing errors, such as crown (a non-planarity of the 
slider). For magnetic recording purposes, constancy of 
recording gap is important, even in the presence of disturbing 
mechanical excitations, e.g., disk roughness, spindle run-out, 
aerodynamic buffeting, etc. The prior art evidences a number of techniques for attempting 
to overcome the aforementioned effects and disturbances. U.S. 
Patent 3,197,751 to Felts shows a flying magnetic head assembly 
wherein a generally planar slider has a recording head mounted 
behind its lagging edge. The recording head is positioned so 
that it penetrates an air film over the disk and maintains that 
position irrespective of moderate variations of angle of attack  
 
between the slider and the disk surface. The leading edge of 
the slider is rounded or beveled to provide a "ski nose" to 
enable air to be compressed beneath the slider. U.S. Patent 3,573,768 to Harris illustrates an air bearing 
slider that includes a pair of stepped regions, one upstream 
from another. The two level steps enable a low stiction line 
contact between the slider body and the recording surface when 
the recording surface is at rest. Further, as a result of the 
height difference between the steps, no taper is required of 
the step surfaces. The distance between the front and rear 
steps is indicated as being approximately equal to the desired 
flying height of the slider. Harris states that this distance 
should be approximately 50 microinches. Chang et al. in U.S. Patent 5,021,906 disclose a programmable 
air bearing slider which includes the separated front and rear 
air bearing surfaces, separated by a central non-air bearing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An air bearing slider for supporting a transducer over a 
moving recording surface, said air-bearing slider 

comprising: 
a slider body having a major surface opposed to said 

recording surface, said slider body also having leading 
and trailing edges oriented along a direction of motion of 

said recording surface; 
front pad means depending from said major surface and 

substantially adjacent said leading edge of said slider 
body and having a leading edge substantially transverse to 

said direction of motion of said recording surface,, said 
front pad means exhibiting a face opposed to said 

recording surface; 
rear pad means depending from said major surface and 

substantially adjacent said trailing edge of said slider 
body and having a leading edge, said rear pad means 

exhibiting a face opposed to said recording surface, said 
leading edge of said rear pad means separated from a 

trailing edge of said front pad means by a distance that 
is substantially greater than a fly height of said air 

bearing slider, said faces of said front pad means and 
rear pad means having taper angles that provide an inlet 

throttling effect for said air bearing slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1, wherein said 
taper angles of said front pad means and rear pad means do 

not exceed approximately one milliradian. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 2, wherein said 
taper angles of said front pad means and rear pad means 

are in a range of approximately 100 to 500 microradians. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1, wherein said 
faces of said front pad means and rear pad means have 

different surface areas. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 4, wherein said 
face of said rear pad means has a surface area that is 

less than the surface area of said face of said front pad 
means. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 5, wherein said 
surface area of said face of said rear pad means has a 

surface area that is approximately 75% of the surface area 
of said face of said front pad means. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1, wherein said 
faces of said front pad means and rear pad means are 

parallel, said front pad means further having a layer of 
bearing material resident thereon, said front pad means 

thus being non-co-planar with said rear pad means. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 7 wherein said 
front pad means and rear pad means each have bearing 

material layers resident on their respected faces, said 
bearing material resident on said front pad means 

exhibiting a greater thickness than said bearing material 
resident on said rear pad means, thereby rendering said 

front pad means and rear pad means non-co-planar. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 7 wherein both 
said front pad means and rear pad means have bearing 

material layers resident on said faces thereof, said 
bearing material resident only on lagging portions of said 

faces. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 7, wherein said 
layer of bearing material resident on said front pad means 

only covers a frontal portion of said face of said front 
pad means, a terminating edge of said layer in combination 

 
with an exposed portion of said face of said front pad 

means providing an area for development of a sub-ambient 
pressure to load said air bearing slider when in flight 

over a moving recording surface. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1 wherein said 
distance between said leading edge of said rear pad means 

and said trailing edge of said front pad means is 
approximately one half of a longitudinal length of said 

slider body along said direction of motion of said 
recording surface. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1, which is 
symmetrical about a center line, and wherein at least said 

front pad means or rear pad means exhibits a convex 
curvature of its leading and trailing edges, said convex 

curvature being symmetrical with respect to said center 
line and oriented in a direction of movement of said 

recording surface in relation to said air bearing slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 12 wherein both 
said front pad means and rear pad means exhibit said 

convex curvature of leading and trailing edges. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1 wherein at 
least a portion of said front pad means or rear pad means 

exhibits a convex curvature of its leading and trailing 
edges, said convex curvature oriented in a direction of 

movement of said recording surface in relation to said air 
bearing slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1 wherein said 
taper angles αp of said faces of said front pad means 

and rear pad means are both less than αp*, where 
µ=dynamic gas viscosity U =disk speed pa =ambient pressure hi =inlet gap 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 15 wherein a 
channel is formed in said front pad means to provide added 

roll stability for said air bearing slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1 further 
comprising: 

side pad means disposed between said front pad means and 
said rear pad means for increasing roll stiffness of said 

slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1, wherein said 
front pad means includes a first front pad and a second 

front pad, said first front pad and said second front pad 
being shaped and positioned so as to define a channel 

between said first front pad and said second front pad. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 18, wherein 
said rear pad means includes a single rear pad, said rear 

pad having a surface which tapers to a point in a 
direction toward the leading edge of said slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 19, wherein 
said rear pad has a width less than that of said slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 20, wherein 
said face of said rear pad is hexagonal in shape. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 18 further 
comprising: 

side pad means disposed between said front pad means and 
said rear pad means for increasing roll stiffness of said 

slider. 
The air bearing slider recited in claim 22, wherein said 
side pad means comprises a first side pad and a second 

side pad, said first side pad and said second side pad 
being shaped and positioned so as to define a channel 

between said first side pad and said second side pad. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 23, wherein 
said first side pad and said second side pad have faces 

which taper to a point in a direction towards the leading 
edge of said slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 24 wherein said 
face of said rear pad is pentagonal in shape. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 24 wherein said 
side pads are disposed so as to be closer to said rear 

pads than said front pads. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 26 wherein said 
side pads have a face which is hexagonal in shape. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said front pad means includes two front pads separated by 

a first channel extending along the length of said slider; 
and 

said rear pad means includes two rear pads seperated by a 
second channel extending along the length of said slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 28 wherein said 
channels are positioned so that a first of said front pads 

is wider than a second of said front pads; and a first of 
said rear pads is wider than a second of said rear pads. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 1, wherein 
said rear pad means includes a single rear pad; 

said front pad means includes two front pads sized, shaped 
and positioned to define a channel in the longitudinal 

direction of said slider between said front pads, each of 
said pads having a step disposed at a rear portion of the 

pad extending outwardly from the face of the pad. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 30, wherein 
said step has a leading edge swept backward towards side 

edges of said slider. 
An air bearing slider comprising: 
front pad means and rear pad means, both extending from a 

generally planar body and having faces opposed to a 
recording medium and separated by a gap that is 

substantially larger than a fly height of said air bearing 
slider, said faces being disposed in parallel orientation 

but not co-planar. 
An air bearing slider as recited in claim 32, wherein 
said planar faces of said front pad means and said rear 

pad means each exhibiting a taper αp angle no greater than 
αp*, wherein: 

µ=dynamic gas viscosity U =disk speed pa =ambient pressure hi =inlet gap 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 33, which is 
symmetrical about a center line, and wherein at least said 

front pad means or rear pad means exhibits a convex 
curvature of its leading and trailing edges, said convex 

curvature being symmetrical with respect to said center 
line and oriented in a direction of movement of a 

recording surface in relation to said air bearing slider. 
The air bearing slider as recited in claim 34 wherein both 
said front pad means and rear pad means exhibit said 

convex curvature of leading and trailing edges. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
