<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656850</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HELICOPTER ROTOR BLADE HAVING A REPLACEABLE ANHEDRAL TIP
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64C2746	B64C2732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64C	B64C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64C27	B64C27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A replaceable tip portion (20) for a helicopter rotor blade (14) is selectively swept, tapered and anhedral. The tip portion is formed of an upper and lower composite tip skin layer (35), each tip skin layer having bonded thereto a honeycomb core (38). A channel (recess) (40) is formed in the honeycomb for receiving a rotor spar tip end (30), removably attached (60) to the rotor spar. The honeycomb core is attached to the upper and lower tip skin layers in halves, and is machined along the rotor blade chord plane (70) prior to assembly of the halves on the rotor spar. A composite tip cap (50) is fixed to the extreme tip end of the removable anhedral tip portion, the mating surface of the tip cap which is joined to the removable tip is machined to provide a precise joint.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PURSE JEFFRY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REINFELDER WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PURSE, JEFFRY, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REINFELDER, WILLIAM, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to helicopter 
rotor blades, and more particularly to an improved 
blade having a replaceable composite anhedral tip. It is well known in the helicopter art to use 
a rotor blade having a tip of selected sweep, 
taper, and anhedral form to improve the blade 
performance. For example, in commonly owned U.S. 
Patent Nos. 4,324,530 and 4,334,828, rotor blades 
are disclosed having a swept tip portion 
characterized by a moderate leading edge sweep and 
unswept extreme tip edge. Both rotor blades 
utilize a constant span anhedral in order to 
displace the trailing edge vortices which form the 
rotor wake downwardly away from the following 
blade in order to improve hover performance of a 
helicopter on which the blades are fitted. It is also well known in the helicopter art 
to provide a sacrificial or removable tip cap to 
be attached to the extreme end of a rotor blade. 
This extreme end of the blade is subject to the 
greatest aerodynamic forces and also suffers the 
greatest results of wear and abrasion during rotor 
operation. Therefore, it has been found that a 
replaceable tip cap will often allow the repair of 
a damaged rotor blade without removal of the rotor 
blade to the original manufacturer for repair. A problem associated with the aforementioned 
removable tip cap is that because of its size it 
is hard to manufacture to the precise measurements  
 
required to be fitted on the end of the rotor 
blade. Therefore, hands-on work to file or 
otherwise size the tip cap is often required to 
prepare it for attachment to the end of a rotor 
blade. Additionally, if a rotor blade is damaged 
other than to the tip cap, the entire blade must 
be returned to the manufacturer for repair. The 
most frequent blade damage is to the tip portion 
caused during handling of the helicopter wherein 
the tip portion of the rotor blade strikes a fixed 
object in a hangar or on a landing strip. 
Additionally, the entire tip portion of the rotor 
blade is subject to a high degree of wear and 
abrasion during operation of the helicopter, and 
this frequently leads to the requirement to have 
the rotor blade repaired prior to continued 
operation. Objects of the invention include provision of 
an improved helicopter rotor blade having a 
replaceable anhedral tip portion. Another object of the present invention is to 
provide a helicopter rotor blade having an 
anhedral tip portion which is replaceable at the 
depot level and a tip cap portion which is 
replaceable at the field level. A
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A replaceable tip portion (20) for a rotary wing 
aircraft blade (14), the blade having a root portion 

(16) adapted to be connected to a helicopter rotor 
hub (12) for rotation therewith about an axis of 

rotation (13), a central portion (18) of aerodynamic 
shape connected to and extending outwardly from said 

root portion (16), a structural spar (30) extending 
along the blade longitudinal axis from said root 

portion (16) to a tip end, and a blade skin (35) 
covering said spar and a blade structural core (38) 

for defining said central portion aerodynamic shape, 
the replaceable tip portion being characterized by: 


an upper tip skin layer (35a); 
a lower tip skin layer (35b); 
a replaceable tip structural core (38) disposed 
between said upper and lower tip skin layers; 
a recess (40) formed in said-replaceable tip 
structural core for receiving said spar tip end; and 
fastening means (60) for securely fastening said 
spar tip end within said recess, thereby fastening 

said replaceable tip portion to said blade. 
The replaceable tip portion according to claim 1 
further comprising adhesive disposed between said 

spar tip end (30) and said recess (40) for fastening 
said tip portion (20) to said blade (14). 
The replaceable tip portion according to claim 1 
wherein a flap of said upper and lower tip skin 

layers (35a, 35b) extends radially inward from the 
tip portion beyond the structural core (38) disposed 

therebetween, said flaps being adhesively attached to 
said blade central portion.  

 
The replaceable tip portion according to claim 1 
wherein the density of said replaceable tip structural 

core (38) varies from a leading edge of said tip 
portion to a trailing edge of said tip portion from a 

high density to a lower density. 
The replaceable tip portion according to claim 1 
wherein said tip portion (20) is selectively swept, 

tapered and anhedral. 
The replaceable tip portion according to claim 2 
further comprising a composite tip cap (50) fixed to 

an extreme tip end of said tip portion. 
A rotary wing aircraft blade, comprising: 

a root portion (16) adapted to be connected to a 
helicopter rotor hub (12) for rotation therewith 

about an axis of rotation (13); 
a central portion (18) of aerodynamic shape 
connected to and extending outwardly from said root 

portion (16); 
a structural spar (30) extending along the blade 
longitudinal axis from said root portion (16) to a 

spar tip end; 
a blade skin (35) covering said spar and a blade 
structural core for defining said central portion 

aerodynamic shape;
 
   being characterized by: 
an upper tip skin layer (35a); 
a lower tip skin layer (35b); 
a replaceable tip structural core (38) disposed 
between said upper and lower tip skin layers (35a, 

35b) in a replaceable tip portion (20) of said blade; 
a recess (40) formed in said replaceable tip 
structural core for receiving said spar tip end 

(30); and  
 
fastening means (60) for securely fastening said 
spar tip end within said recess, thereby fastening 

said replaceable tip portion to said blade. 
The rotary wing aircraft blade according to claim 
7 further comprising adhesive disposed between said 

spar tip end (30) and said recess (40) for fastening 
said replaceable tip portion (20) to said blade (14). 
The rotary wing aircraft blade according to claim 
7 wherein a flap of said upper and lower tip skin 

layers (35a, 35b) extends radially inward from said 
tip portion (20) beyond the structural core disposed 

therebetween, said flaps being adhesively attached to 
said blade central portion. 
The rotary wing aircraft blade according to claim 
7 wherein the density of said replaceable tip 

structural core (38) varies from a leading edge of 
said tip portion to a trailing edge Of said tip 

portion from a high density to a lower density. 
The rotary wing aircraft blade according to claim 
7 wherein said tip portion (20) is selectively swept, 

tapered and anhedral. 
The rotary wing aircraft blade according to claim 
7 further comprising a composite tip cap (50) fixed 

to an extreme tip end of said tip portion (20).  
 
A method for manufacturing a replaceable tip 
portion (20) for a rotary wing aircraft blade (14), 

comprising the steps of: 

providing an upper tip skin mold (65) and a 
lower tip skin mold (66), each mold having a lay-up 

surface for forming a tip skin surface; 
laying-up a plurality of ply layers (35a, 35b) 
in each mold, each ply layer comprising composite 

fibers in a matrix of binder; 
curing said ply layers to form an upper tip skin 
(35a) and a lower tip skin (35b); 
attaching structural core material (38) to said 
upper tip skin and to said lower tip skin thereby 

forming an upper tip portion and a lower tip portion; 
forming a recess (40) in said structural core 
material having an inside diameter which corresponds 

to the shape of a rotor spar tip end (30); and 
machining said core material along a rotor blade 
chord plane (70); 
said machined core providing tight tolerance 
control in the assembly of said upper and lower tip 

portions of said replaceable tip portion. 
The method according to claim 13 wherein said 
lay-up surfaces substantially provide the desired 

final exterior shape of said tip portion. 
The method according to claim 14 wherein said 
upper and lower tip portions are selectively swept, 

tapered and anhedral. 
The method according to claim 13 further 
comprising the step of debulking said ply layers 

prior to curing said upper and lower tip skin. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
