<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0690811</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A BAG OR POUCH FOR CONTAINING A FLUID
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D3024	B65D3024	B65D7552	B65D3316	B65D3324	B65D7558	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D30	B65D30	B65D75	B65D33	B65D33	B65D75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bag or pouch made from a pair of flat walls formed by flexible sheet material, such as plastic films. The walls are sealingly interconnected so as to define between the opposite walls a storage chamber (20) for containing a fluid. A fluid discharge passage (17) communicates with the storage chamber (20) at a junction position (21) and is arranged outside the storage chamber, and the bag or pouch is such that the opposite wall parts defining the discharge passage are moved into mutual sealing contact at at least one sealing position when fluid has been filled into the storage chamber. In order to improve the self-sealing effect of the bag, the storage chamber (20) extends beyond the junction position (21) in a direction towards an outlet end (22) of the discharge passage (17). This means that the angle  alpha  is an acute angle. Alternatively or additionally, at least one restriction may be defined in the discharge passage (17), preferably at or closely adjacent to the sealing position.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLUM KEMI PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLUM KEMI PRODUKTION A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRYDENLUND LARS HOLM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HYLDGAARD JORGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRYDENLUND, LARS, HOLM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HYLDGAARD, JORGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a bag or pouch made from a 
pair of flat walls formed by flexible sheet material and 
sealingly interconnected so as to define between the opposite 
walls a storage chamber for containing a fluid and at least 
one fluid discharge passage communicating with the storage 
camber at a junction position and arranged outside the 
storage chamber, which means that the opposite wall parts 
defining the fluid discharge passage do not extend in-between 
the opposite wall parts defining the storage chamber. The bag 
or pouch is such that the opposite wall part defining the 
discharge passage are moved into mutual sealing contact at at 
least one sealing position when fluid has been filled into 
the storage chamber. This means that when the bag or pouch 
has been distended by gaseous or liquid fluid filled into the 
storage chamber, the stresses generated in the opposite walls 
of the bag or pouch cause the fluid discharge passage to 
seal. DE-A-26 47 399, DE-A-40 07 128, and DE-B-12 07 856 disclose 
bags or pouches of a type similar to that described above. In 
these known bags, however, the opposite flexible wall parts 
defining the discharge passage therebetween are located 
between the opposite wall parts defining the storage chamber 
so that the pressure of a fluid contained within the storage 
chamber tends to press the opposite wall parts of the discharge 
passage into mutual sealing engagement. When a gaseous 
or liquid product contained in these bag-like containers is 
to be discharged a thin tube or a similar elongated object 
has to be inserted through the discharge passage in order to 
open the same. Norwegian patent No. 96,943 and US patent No. 3,149,772 
disclose a bag or pouch of the above type defining a storage 
chamber and a discharge passage arranged outside the storage 
chamber.  
 EP-A-0 226 290 discloses a similar dispenser pouch having a 
storage chamber or reservoir with a lower tapered-down neck 
communicating with a fluid discharge passage. The neck is 
adapted to retain a pre-measured charge of the liquid contained 
in the pouch. The present invention relates to a bag or pouch of the above 
type having an improved self-sealing effect so that the 
discharge passage may be reliably sealed even when the discharge 
passage is relatively broad and also when the product 
contained in the storage chamber is a gas, a gas mixture, or 
a low viscosity liquid having a small surface tension. The 
bag or pouch according to the invention is self-sealing even 
when it is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bag or pouch made from a pair of flat walls formed by 
flexible sheet material and sealingly interconnected so as to 

define between the opposite walls a storage chamber 
(14,15;20) for containing a fluid and a fluid discharge 

passage (17) communicating with the storage chamber at a 
junction position (21) and arranged outside the storage 

chamber, the bag or pouch being such that the opposite wall 
parts defining the discharge passage are moved into mutual 

sealing contact at at least one sealing position when fluid 
has been filled into the storage chamber,
characterized
 in that at least at one side of 
the fluid discharge passage (17) and adjacent to the junction 

position (21) the storage chamber (14,15;20) is defined by a 
sealing line (23,25) which together with the longitudinal 

axis (12) of the discharge passage (17) defines an angle (α) 
which is smaller than 90° so that adjacent to the discharge 

passage (17) the storage chamber (14,15;20) extends beyond 
the junction position (21) in a direction towards an outlet 

end (22) of the discharge passage. 
A bag or pouch made from a pair of flat walls formed by 
flexible sheet material and sealingly interconnected so as to 

define between the opposite walls a storage chamber 
(14,15;20) for containing a fluid and a fluid discharge 

passage (17) communicating with the storage chamber, the bag 
or pouch being such that the opposite wall parts defining the 

discharge passage are moved into mutual sealing contact at at 
least one sealing position when fluid has been filled into 

the storage chamber,
characterized
 in that at least one restriction 
(24) is defined in the discharge passage (17) so as to cause 

a substantial local restriction of the width of the discharge 
passage.  

 
A bag or pouch according to claim 1, wherein at least one 
restriction (24) is defined in the discharge passage (17) so 

as to cause a substantial local restriction of the width of 
the discharge passage. 
A bag or pouch according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the restriction 
(24) is defined in the discharge passage (17) at or 

closely adjacent to the sealing position. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1, 3 or 4, 
wherein said angle (α) is defined at each side of the fluid 

discharge passage (17). 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 2-4, wherein 
the part of the storage chamber (20) adjacent to the junction 

position (21) is defined by sealing lines converging towards 
the junction position, the restriction (24) being positioned 

substantially at the intersection of the extensions of the 
converging sealing lines. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-6, wherein 
the storage chamber comprises a main chamber (14) and an 

outlet chamber or metering chamber (15) which are interconnected 
by a connecting passage (16), the discharge passage 

(17) communicating with the outlet chamber (15) at a position 
substantially opposite to the connecting passage (16). 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-7, wherein 
the storage chamber (20) comprises two or more aligned chamber 

sections (30), adjacent chamber sections being interconnected 
by a communication passage (32). 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-8, further 
comprising means (13, 18) for suspending the bag or pouch 

such that the fluid discharge passage (17) and at least the 
adjacent part of the storage chamber (14,15;20) may depend 

freely from the suspension means.  
 
A bag or pouch according to claims 7 and 9, wherein the 
suspension means comprises a pair of through openings (18) 

defined in the opposite walls (13) at opposite sides of the 
connecting passage (16). 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-10, 
wherein at least one further self-sealing passage extending 

between the storage chamber and the ambient atmosphere is 
defined between the opposite walls of the pouch. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-11, 
wherein the opposite walls are made from different sheet 

materials and/or are of different thicknesses. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-12, 
wherein the opposite walls are polyethylene films having a 

thickness of 50-250µ, or other plastic films having a similar 
stiffness. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-13, 
further comprising a restriction (24) defined in the discharge 

passage (17) at a position having a distance from the 
outlet end (22) of the discharge passage (17) being less than 

half the axial length of the discharge passage and preferably 
0-10 mm from the outlet end of the discharge passage. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-14, 
wherein the minimum width of the discharge passage (17) is 

between 2 and 100 mm, preferably between 3 and 30 mm. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-15, 
wherein the axial length of the discharge passage (17) is at 

least 1½ times the minimum width of the discharge passage. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-16, 
wherein the discharge passage (17) has a closed outlet end 

adapted to be cut so as to open the discharge passage.  
 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-17 filled 
with a gaseous fluid or a liquid fluid of low viscosity. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-18, 
which is substantially symmetrical about the longitudinal 

axis (12) of the discharge passage. 
A bag or pouch according to any of the claims 1-19, 
wherein the fluid discharge passage (17) defines a substantially 

rectilinear flow path extending from the junction 
position to the outlet opening of the discharge passage. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
