<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618501</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Index print which indicates that an image stored on an image bearing medium was not properly recorded.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B2732	G03B2732	G03B2747	G03B2747	G03D1500	G03D1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03D	G03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B27	G03B27	G03B27	G03B27	G03D15	G03D15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An index print (10) of a plurality of visible 
positive images which represents respective recorded 

images recorded on an image bearing medium (50). The index 
print (10) includes a print sheet (66) having a plurality of 

predetermined successive spaces with the visible 
positive images being printed on the predetermined 

spaces. The index print (10) is characterized in that at 
least one of the predetermined successive spaces 

includes a visible indicator in or adjacent the space 
for indicating that the recorded image to be 

represented at that space by a visible positive image 
was not properly recorded on the image bearing medium (50). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANICO JOSEPH ANTHONY C O EAST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANICO, JOSEPH ANTHONY, C/O EASTMAN KODAK CO.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
image presentation and, more specifically, to an index 
print which indicates that an image stored on an image 
bearing medium was not properly recorded. U.S. Patent No. 4,805,039, which issued on 
February 14, 1989 in the names of Otake et al, 
discloses an index print on which are printed, as 
small-size positive images in parallel rows, a 
plurality of scenes recorded on an image bearing medium 
such as, for example, a photographic film, a still 
video floppy, a video cassette or a video disc. The 
small positive images are preferably arranged in the 
same order they were taken and frame numbers are 
printed in juxtaposition with the respective positive 
images. To produce such an index print from 
photographic film, a plurality of strips of negatives 
are copied onto photographic paper in a reduced size 
with the negative strips inserted in a negative sheath. 
For a magnetic or optical image bearing medium having a 
very large number of images, a lesser plurality of 
scenes are read out and edited in such a manner as to 
arrange them in a representative sample and thereafter 
print them on the index print. The index print provides a positive, easily 
identifiable record of the images on the image bearing 
medium and allows an outline of the contents recorded 
on the image bearing medium to be obtained at a glance. 
Further, the index print facilitates a quick, simple 
identification and order-of-exposure sequencing of the 
images on the image bearing medium for the purposes of  
 
selecting those which a customer might wish to view or 
have duplicated. The index print is particularly 
useful when the image bearing medium is not configured 
in a way that permits the customer to directly view the 
stored images (e.g. when film negatives are returned in 
a cartridge or the images are stored in an electronic 
data storage device. Periodically the image bearing medium will 
contain images which were not properly recorded. 
Improper recording may be due to poor exposure density 
and/or color variation. For example, with silver 
halide film, the film may be underexposed, overexposed, 
double exposed, outdated or stored in poor conditions 
(e.g. high temperatures). Other problems could be the 
failure to use a flash in low light conditions or to 
remove the lens cap from the camera. With the index print disclosed in Otake all 
images selected for printing on the index print are 
apparently printed regardless of whether or not the 
images were properly recorded on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An index print of a plurality of visible 
positive images representing respective recorded images 

recorded on an image bearing medium, wherein said index 
print comprises a print sheet having a plurality of 

predetermined successive spaces with said visible 
positive images printed on said predetermined spaces, 

and is characterized in that: 
   at least one of said predetermined successive 

spaces includes visible indicator means in or adjacent 
said space for indicating that the recorded image to be 

represented at that space by a visible positive image 
was not properly recorded on the image bearing medium, 

said indicator means including text or symbols 
indicating why the recorded image to be represented at 

that space was not properly recorded. 
The index print of claim 1 wherein said 
indicator means is located in said at least one 

predetermined successive space. 
The index print of claim 1, further 
characterized in that: 

   said at least one predetermined successive space 
includes a visible positive image which was not 

properly recorded on the image bearing medium, said 
text or symbols being overlayed on or located adjacent 

to said visible positive image. 
A method of producing an index print of 
a plurality of visible positive images representing 

respective recorded images recorded on an image bearing 
medium, wherein said method comprises the step of 

printing on a print sheet, in a plurality of 
predetermined successive spaces on the print sheet, the 

plurality of visible positive images, and is 
characterized by the step of: 

   indicating at least one of said predetermined 
successive spaces, with visible indicator means in or 

adjacent said space, that the recorded image to be 
 

represented at that space by a visible positive image 
was not properly recorded on the image bearing medium, 

said indicating step being effective to produce text or 
symbols at said at least one predetermined successive 

space indicating why the recorded image to be 
represented at that space was not properly recorded. 
The method of claim 4 wherein said 
indicating step is effective to locate said text or 

symbols in said at least one predetermined successive 
space. 
The method of claim 4, further 
characterized by the step of: 

   creating a visible positive image of an image 
which was not properly recorded on the image bearing 

medium at said at least one predetermined successive 
space, said indicating step being effective to locate 

said text or symbols adjacent said visible positive 
image. 
Apparatus for producing an index print 
of a plurality of visible positive images representing 

respective recorded images recorded on an image bearing 
medium, said apparatus comprising means for printing on 

a print sheet, in a plurality of predetermined 
successive spaces on the print sheet, the plurality of 

visible positive images, characterized by: 
   means for indicating at least one of said 

predetermined successive spaces, with visible indicator 
means in or adjacent said space, that the recorded 

image to be represented at that space by a visible 
positive image was not properly recorded on the image 

bearing medium, said indicating means being effective 
to produce text or symbols at said at least one 

predetermined successive space indicating why the 
recorded image to be represented at that space was not 

properly recorded. 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said 
indicating means is effective to locate said text or 

 
symbols in said at least one predetermined successive 

space. 
The apparatus of claim 7, further 
characterized by: 

   means for creating a visible positive image of an 
image which was not properly recorded on the image 

bearing medium at said at least one predetermined 
successive space, said indicating means being effective 

to locate said text or symbols adjacent said visible 
positive image. 
Apparatus for producing a print of a 
visible positive image representing an image which was 

not properly recorded on an image bearing medium, said 
apparatus comprising: 

   means for automatically determining why the image 
recorded on the image bearing medium was not properly 

recorded; 
   means for printing on a print sheet the visible 

positive image; and 
   means for indicating on said print sheet, with 

visible indicator means, that the recorded image 
represented on said print sheet by said visible 

positive image was not properly recorded on the image 
bearing medium, said indicating means being effective 

to produce text or symbols indicating why the recorded 
image was not properly recorded. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said 
text or symbols are located adjacent said visible 

positive image on said print sheet. 
The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said 
text or symbols are superimposed over said visible 

positive image on said print sheet. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
