<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0782090</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for parametric signature verification
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K900	G06K900	G06T700	G06T700	G07C900	G07C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06T	G06T	G07C	G07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	G06K9	G06T7	G06T7	G07C9	G07C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A signature verification method operates by comparing the numerical
values of parameters evaluated on a trial signature with stored reference data derived

from previously entered reference signatures. The parameters include global
features of the signature, and also include a stroke-direction code (SDC) of the

signature. An SDC is derived by subdividing the signature into a sequence of time-ordered,
spatially oriented line segments, each segment extending between a pair of

discrete points along the signature. Each line segment has a stroke-direction value.
The SDC is the ordered sequence of these stroke-direction values.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASHI RAMANUJAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON WINSTON LOWELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURIN WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASHI, RAMANUJAN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON, WINSTON LOWELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURIN, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the automatic verification of handwritten 
human signatures. The automatic verification of a signature is a useful way to identify a 
human being for purposes, e.g., of establishing his authority to complete an 
automated transaction, or gain control of a computer, or gain physical entry to a 
protected area. Signatures are particularly useful for identification because each 
person's signature is highly unique, especially if the dynamic properties of the 
signature are considered in addition to the shape of the signature. Even if skilled 
forgers can accurately reproduce the shape of signatures, it is unlikely that they can 
reproduce the dynamic properties as well. Numerous practitioners have addressed the problem of signature 
verification. Some of them have concentrated on analysis of the static shapes 
embodied in signatures, whereas others have concentrated on analysis of dynamic 
properties. For example, a verification method that involves analyzing the dynamic 
properties of signatures is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,901,358, issued to L. 
Bechet on February 13, 1990. That patent discloses a verification method based on 
signals that represent the speed of the stylus, moving in the x (i.e., horizontal) and y 
(i.e., vertical) spatial directions in the plane of the tablet that receives the signature. 
Each speed signal is broken into standardized, short segments, and each segment is 
compared with a corresponding segment of a previously obtained reference 
signature. In a contrasting approach, U.S. Patent No. 4,024,500, issued to 
N. M. Herbst, et al. on May 17, 1977, discloses the use of the speed signal to 
separate the signature into segments, followed by shape analysis of the segments. A 
third approach is described in U.S. Patent No. 5,111,512, issued to J. C. Fan, et al. on 
May 5, 1992. In that approach, a model signature is used as a reference for shape 
analysis. The model signature is constructed by affine invariant averaging of 
reference signature segments. (Affine invariant averaging treats signature segments 
as equivalent if they differ only by, e.g., scale, rotation, or translation.) In a speed-based 
segmentation method, each signature to be segmented is compared to a 
selected reference signature through the use of dynamic time warping. (Dynamic 
time warping is a scheme by which one signal is non-linearly stretched or  
 
compressed in time to best match another signal.) However, when a person's (hereafter, an "entrant's") signature is 
verified
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for encoding the handwritten signature of a person, 
comprising: 


(a) digitally sampling the trajectory of a stylus thereby to provide a 
i digitized signature record; 
(b) storing said record in a digital memory; 
(c) digitally processing said record, thereby to derive a numerical value 
for each of a plurality of global features of the signature; and 
(d) storing said numerical values in a digital memory, 
 
CHARACTERIZED IN THAT the digital processing step further 

comprises: 

(e) subdividing the signature into a time-ordered sequence of oriented 
links; 
(f) assigning to each link a quantized stroke-direction value 
corresponding to the respective orientation of that link, thereby to obtain for the 

signature as a whole an ordered sequence of stroke-direction values, said sequence to 
be referred to as a stroke-direction code (SDC); and 
(g) storing the SDC in a digital memory. 
The method of claim 1, wherein steps (a)-(g) are repeated for each of a 
plurality of signatures provided by the same person, thereby to provide, in a digital 

memory: (i) a reference set of feature vectors, each of said feature vectors consisting 
of the numerical global-feature values relating to a respective one of the signatures; 

and (ii) a reference set of SDCs, each said SDC relating to a respective one of the 
signatures. 
The method of claim 2, further comprising: 

averaging the feature vectors, thereby to derive an average and a 
deviation measure of each of the respective global features over the feature-vector 

reference set; and 
storing the averages and the deviation measures in a digital memory. 
The method of claim 3, further comprising: 

digitally processing the reference set of SDCs, thereby to derive an 

average or representative SDC over said reference set, to be referred to as the SDC 
template; and 
storing the SDC template in a digital memory. 
The method of claim 4, wherein the average or representative SDC is 
defined as that one member of the SDC reference set that lies closest to a centroid of 

said set. 
The method of claim 5, wherein the step of digitally processing the 
SDC reference set further comprises: 


evaluating a distance function, to be referred to as the SDC distance, 
between each pair of SDCs in the SDC reference set; and 
identifying as the average or representative SDC that one SDC that has 
the least mean-square distance to all of the other SDCs in the SDC reference set. 
The method of claim 6, wherein the distance-function-evaluating step 
is performed by dynamic programming. 
The method of claim 1, further comprising, before the step of 
subdividing the signature: 


taking a Fourier transform of the signature, thereby to derive a sequence 
of Fourier descriptors; and 
normalizing the Fourier descriptors for size, position, and orientation. 
A method for verifying the handwritten trial signature of a person, 
comprising: 


(a) digitally sampling the trajectory of a stylus, thereby to provide a 
digitized signature record; 
(b) storing said record in a digital memory; 
(c) digitally processing said record, thereby to derive a numerical value 
for each of a plurality of global features of the signature; and 
(d) in a digital data-processing unit, comparing said numerical global-feature 
values to global-feature reference data retrieved from a digital memory; 
 
CHARACTERIZED IN THAT the method further comprises: (e) subdividing the signature into a time-ordered sequence of oriented 

links; 

(f) assigning to each link a quantized stroke-direction value 
corresponding to the respective orientation of that link, thereby to obtain for the trial 

signature as a whole an ordered sequence of stroke-direction values, said sequence to 
 

be referred to as a trial stroke-direction code (SDC); and 
(g) comparing said trial SDC to SDC reference data retrieved from a 
digital memory. 
The method of claim 9, wherein the global-feature reference data 
comprise the mean value and standard deviation of each of the respective global 

features taken over a plurality of reference signatures provided by the person during 
a registration procedure, and step (d) comprises: 


determining a difference between each numerical global-feature value 
and the corresponding one of said mean values; and 
combining said differences, thereby to obtain a global-feature error 
value. 
The method of claim 10, wherein the SDC reference data comprise 
an average or representative SDC taken over said plurality of reference signatures, to 

be referred to as an SDC template; and the step of comparing the trial SDC to SDC 
reference data comprises: 

   by dynamic programming, determining a distance, to be referred to as 
the SDC error value, between the trial SDC and the SDC template. 
The method of claim 11, further comprising: 

combining the global-feature error value with the SDC error value, 
thereby to obtain a total error; 
comparing the total error to a threshold; and 
if the total error is smaller than the threshold, activating an electric 
circuit, thereby to indicate that the trial signature is verified. 
The method of claim 12, wherein: 
   each difference between a numerical global-feature value and the 

corresponding mean value is normalized to the corresponding standard deviation 
before combining said differences. 
The method of claim 8, further comprising, before the step of 
subdividing the signature: 


taking a Fourier transform of the signature, thereby to derive a sequence 
of Fourier descriptors; and 
normalizing the Fourier descriptors for size, position, and orientation. 
The method of claim 11, further comprising: 

comparing the global-feature error value with a first threshold; 
comparing the SDC error value with a second threshold; and 
if the global-feature error value is less than the first threshold, and also 
the SDC error value is less than the second threshold, activating an electric circuit, 

thereby to indicate that the trial signature is verified. 
Apparatus comprising: 

a digital memory for receiving and storing digitized human signatures 
from a signature digitizing device; and 
a global feature extractor in receiving relationship to said memory, for: 
(i) deriving, from each digitized signature received from said memory, numerical 

values of at least two global features of said digitized signature, and (ii) storing said 
values in a data storage device as a global feature vector; 
 
CHARACTERIZED IN THAT said apparatus further comprises: 


a stroke-direction coder, in receiving relationship to said memory, for: 
(i) deriving, from each digitized signature received from said memory, an ordered 

sequence of numerical stroke-direction values, to be referred to as an SDC vector, 
and (ii) storing said values in a data storage device. 
Apparatus of claim 16, further comprising: 

an averager for: (i) receiving plural global feature vectors and deriving 
from said vectors an average global feature vector, and (ii) storing said average 

global feature vector in a data storage device; and 
a processing element for: (i) receiving plural SDC vectors and deriving 
from said vectors an average or representative SDC vector, and (ii) storing said 

average or representative SDC vector in a data storage device. 
Apparatus of claim 17, wherein said processing element comprises: 
   a correlating element for deriving, by dynamic programming methods, a 

distance between each pair of said plural SDC vectors. 
Apparatus of claim 18, wherein said processing element further 
comprises:

 
   a selection element for identifying, from said distances, that SDC vector 

that lies nearest a centroid of said plural SDC vectors. 
Apparatus of claim 16, further comprising: 

a first error element for: (i) comparing the global feature vector of a 
designated signature to a stored global feature reference vector, and (ii) deriving a 

first error measure of discrepancy between said compared feature vectors; 
a second error element for: (i) comparing the SDC vector of a 
designated signature to a stored average or representative SDC vector, and (ii) 

deriving a second error measure of distance between said compared SDC vectors; 

and 
a threshold element for: (i) applying a threshold condition to said first 
and second error measures, and (ii) if said threshold condition is satisfied, activating 

an electric circuit, thereby to indicate that the designated signature has been verified. 
Apparatus of claim 20, wherein the threshold element comprises: 

means for combining the first and second error measures into a total 
error; and 
means for declaring that the threshold condition is satisfied if the total 
error is less than a numerical threshold value. 
Apparatus of claim 20, wherein the threshold element comprises: 

means for comparing the first error measure to a first numerical 
threshold value; 
means for comparing the second error measure to a second numerical 
threshold value; and 
means for declaring that the threshold condition is satisfied if the first 
error measure is less than the first numerical threshold value and the second error 

measure is less than the second numerical threshold value. 
Apparatus of claim 20, wherein the second error element comprises 
means for applying dynamic programming methods for deriving said second error 

measure of distance. 
A signature coding system, comprising: 
a signature digitizer; 
a digital signature memory for receiving digitized human signatures 
from the signature digitizer; 
a global feature extractor in receiving relationship to said signature 
memory, for deriving, from each digitized signature received from said memory, 

numerical values of at least two global features of said digitized signature, and 
storing said values as a global feature vector; 
an averager for receiving plural global feature vectors and deriving from 
said vectors an average global feature vector; and 
a reference memory for storing each said average global feature vector, 
 
CHARACTERIZED IN THAT the system further comprises: 


a stroke-direction coder, in receiving relationship to said signature 
memory, for deriving, from each digitized signature received from said memory, an 

ordered sequence of numerical stroke-direction values, to be referred to as an SDC 
vector, and storing said SDC vector; and 
a processing element for: receiving plural SDC vectors and deriving 
from said vectors an average or representative SDC vector, and storing said average 

or representative SDC vector in said reference memory. 
A signature verification system, comprising: 

a signature digitizer; 
a digital signature memory for receiving digitized human signatures 
from the signature digitizer; 
a global feature extractor in receiving relationship to said signature 
memory, for deriving, from each digitized signature received from said memory, 

numerical values of at least two global features of said digitized signature, and 
storing said values as a global feature vector; 
a first error element for: (i) comparing the global feature vector of a 
designated signature to a stored global feature reference vector, and (ii) deriving a 

first error measure of discrepancy between said compared feature vectors; and 
a threshold element for: (i) applying a threshold condition to at least 
said first error measure, and (ii) if said threshold condition is satisfied, activating an 

electric circuit, thereby to indicate that the designated signature has been verified; 
 
   CHARACTERIZED IN THAT the system further comprises: 


a stroke-direction coder, in receiving relationship to said signature 
memory, for deriving, from each digitized signature received from said memory, an 

ordered sequence of numerical stroke-direction values, to be referred to as an SDC 
 

vector, and storing said SDC vector; and 
a second error element for: (i) comparing the SDC vector of a 
designated signature to a stored average or representative SDC vector, and (ii) 
deriving a second error measure of distance between said compared SDC vectors; 
wherein 
said threshold element comprises means for applying the threshold 
condition to the first and second error measures in combination. 
A wallet card, comprising: 

a digital solid-state memory chip; and 
impressed as a bit pattern in said chip, an ordered sequence of numbers, 
each said number representing, in quantized units, a direction of a line segment 

connecting a consecutive pair of points along a representative signature of a person. 
A wallet card, comprising: 

a magnetic strip for digital storage of data; and 
impressed as a bit pattern in said strip, an ordered sequence of numbers, 
each said number representing, in quantized units, a direction of a line segment 

connecting a consecutive pair of points along a representative signature of a person. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
