<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615641</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LABEL GENERATION APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J530	B41J530	G09F300	G09F302	G06K100	G09F300	B41J3407	G09F302	B41J2100	B41J2100	G06K112	B41J3407	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	G09F	G09F	G06K	G09F	B41J	G09F	B41J	B41J	G06K	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J5	B41J5	G09F3	G09F3	G06K1	G09F3	B41J3	G09F3	B41J21	B41J21	G06K1	B41J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The label generation apparatus of this invention enables the user to define a label of various sizes, shapes and characteristics, wherein each label in a series of labels includes unique indicia that individually identify each label according to any predefined sequence. These labels also contain template fields that vary according to the indicia printed thereon or any other predefined ordering. The label generation apparatus includes a template generation capability (111) that enables the user to define a label format having one or more writable indicia fields. These one or more writable indicia fields can be used to provide each label with individual identifying indicia according to any predetermined sequence. The label generation apparatus also includes an indicia generation capability (112) that produces the individual identification according to various characteristics that are specified by the user of this apparatus.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENGINEERED DATA PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENGINEERED DATA PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENADE DANIEL ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON MACK EVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENADE, DANIEL, ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, MACK, EVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the creation of 
labels and, in particular, to apparatus for 
generating a series of labels, each of which is 
individually identified by certain unique indicia 
and template fields printed thereon. It is a problem in the field of label making 
to inexpensively and efficiently produce labels 
that are individually identifiable. The art of 
label making can be classified into two categories. 
The first category is the generation of a large 
number of identical labels, such as that found on 
the vast majority of articles available for retail 
purchase. The generation of these identical labels 
requires the creation of a permanent printing 
master which is repetitively used to generate 
identical labels in large numbers. The second type 
of label generation is the creation of a number of 
printed labels or documents that contain varying 
indicia printed thereon, where the variation in 
indicia is according to a well defined and commonly 
used numbering scheme. An example of this is the 
printing of checks or bank drafts where the series 
of checks are printed in sequential order according 
to a fixed numbering scheme. The generation of 
these printed documents requires the creation of a 
permanent or semi-permanent printing master that  
 
identifies the depositor and the depositor's account number, which information is printed 
on every check in the series. The varying indicia are the check numbers in the series, 
and this indicia is obtained by the use of a standard set of printing masters that are 
used for all similarly numbered checks printed by the bank. Thus, in this application, 
only a small number of permanent printing masters are required to be able to print all 
checks for all depositors since the numbering scheme typically runs from 100 to 9,999. 
In addition, the template or background information on these labels is fixed for all labels, 
regardless of the indicia printed thereon. Nowhere is there available apparatus for printing items with arbitrarily varying 
indicia according to any predetermined ordering as well as arbitrarily varying template 
fields according to any predetermined ordering. To accomplish this would require the 
generation of custom printing masters for each item that is to be printed. To accomplish 
this would require tremendous expense and is totally impractical using the printing 
systems that are presently available in the printing art. WO-A-8910601 discloses apparatus for generating a series of labels in which 
each label in the series
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for automatically producing a set of labels, said set consisting 
of a plurality of labels, all of which uniquely identify a single entity, each label in said set 

of labels containing a combination of indicia and template fields that is individual to said 
label, comprising: 


means (111) for defining a set of label templates, said set of label 
templates consisting of a plurality of label templates, each label template having at least 

one writable indicia field; 
means (112) for automatically generating a single set of indicia, said 
single set of indicia including at least one indicia that uniquely identifies said single 

entity; 
means (113) for automatically aggregating a subset of indicia from said 
generated single set of indicia for each of said label templates, each said subset of 

indicia including at least one indicia that uniquely identifies said single entity; 
means (111) for automatically generating data representative of each of 
said label templates and a corresponding subset of indicia, said data defining said set 

of labels; and 
means (113), responsive to said automatically generating means (111), 
for producing said set of labels. 
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising:
 
   means (103*-107*), responsive to said producing means (113) producing 

said set of labels, for automatically printing said set of labels on to label media (300). 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said producing means (113) comprises: 

means (113) for inserting each of said subsets of indicia, individual to 
each label in said set of labels, into said one or more indicia fields of said corresponding 

label template for each label in said set of labels;
 
and 
means (103*-107*) for automatically printing each of said individually  
 

identified labels in said set of labels on to label media (300). 
The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising:
 
   means (204,207,209,211) responsive to said inserting means (113) for 

converting said label template data and said inserted indicia into printing control signals 
defining each of said individually identified labels. 
The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising:
 
   means (1407) for transmitting said printing signals to said automatically 

printing means (103*-107*). 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said automatically printing means (103*-107*) 
comprises:
 
   computer controlled printing apparatus for converting said printing control 

signals to printed indicia and templates on said label media (300). 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said defining means (111) comprises:
 
   means (204) for delimiting boundaries of said indicia fields 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said defining means (111) further 
comprises:
 
   means (204) for generating label media registration marks (r). 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said indicia generating means (112) 
comprises:
 
   means (205,206,208,210) for replicating at least one indicia in each of 

said subsets of indicia to produce both a human readable and a corresponding machine 
readable indicia in each of said subsets of indicia. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said indicia generating means (112) 
comprises:
 
   means (205,206,208,210) for replicating at least one indicia in each of  

 
said subsets of indicia to produce two indicia which are duplicate in content but different 

in form. 
The apparatus of claims 2 or 3 further comprising:
 
   means (220) for dividing said label media (33) into individual labels. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said indicia generating means (112) 
comprises:
 
   means (1403) for automatically generating n sets of indicia, wherein each 

set of indicia is ordered according to a user-defined ordering, where n is a positive 
integer at least equal to 1. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said data generating means (111) 
comprises:
 
   means (1405) for storing m sets of data, each of said m sets of data 

defining a label template having at least one writable indicia field, where m is a positive 
integer greater than 1. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said producing means (113) 
comprises:
 
   means (1406), responsive to said generating means (112) and said m 

sets of stored data, for producing m individually identified labels for each of said n sets 
of indicia received from said generating means (112). 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said producing means (113) 
comprises:
 
   means (1404) for aggregating, for each of said m sets of stored data, a 

plurality of indicia from each of said n sets of indicia. 
The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said producing means (113) further 
comprises:
  
 

   means (1404) for combining said aggregated indicia and a corresponding 
one of said m sets of stored data to produce an individually identified label. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said defining means (111) comprises:
 
   means (201-203) for defining a sheet template consisting of a matrix of 

n*m label templates, each containing at least one writable indicia field and at least one 
variable template field, where n is a positive integer at least equal to 1 and m is a 

positive integer greater than 1. 
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said generating means (112) 
comprises:
 
   means (205-212) for generating n*m sets of indicia, each of said sets of 

indicia corresponding to both human readable and machine readable entries in said 
indicia fields on one of said labels in said set of labels, according to a predetermined 

label identification ordering to individually identify each label. 
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said generating means (112) 
comprises:
 
   means (205-212) for generating n*m sets of indicia, each of said sets of 

indicia corresponding to entries in said indicia fields on one of said labels in said set of 
labels where said entries consist of two indicia which are duplicate in content but 

different in form, according to a predetermined label identification ordering to 
individually identify each label. 
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said generating means (112) 
comprises:
 
   means (205-212) for generating k*(n*m) sets of indicia, each of said sets 

of indicia corresponding to entries in said indicia fields on one of said labels in said sets 
of labels, according to a predetermined label identification ordering to individually 

identify each label, where k is a positive integer greater than 1.  
 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said defining means (111) comprises:
 
   means (213-220) for defining a label set template comprising an n*m 

pattern of individual label templates, each of which includes k writable information fields 
and at least one variable template field, where n is a positive integer at least equal to 

1, m is a positive integer greater than 1, and k is a positive integer greater than 1. 
The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said indicia generating means (112) 
comprises:
 
   means (205-212) for generating an ordered sequence of n*m indicia, each 

of said n*m indicia consisting of k characters. 
The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said producing means (113) 
comprises:
 
   means (1404) for inserting the k characters of each successive one of 

said n*m indicia in the corresponding writable information fields of successive individual 
label templates. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said generating means (112) comprises:
 
   means (205-212) for generating n*m sets of indicia, each of said sets of 

indicia corresponding to both human readable and machine readable entries in said 
indicia fields on one of said labels in said set of labels, according to a predetermined 

label identification ordering to individually identify each label, where n is a positive 
integer at least equal to 1 and m is a positive integer greater than 1. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said generating means (112) includes:
 
   means (205-212) for generating n*m sets of indicia, each of said sets of 

indicia corresponding to entries in said indicia fields on one of said labels in said set of 
labels where said entries consist of two indicia which are duplicate in content but 

different in form, according to a predetermined label identification ordering to 

individually identify each label, where n is a positive integer at least equal to 1 and m 
is a positive integer greater than 1.  

 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said producing means includes
 
   means for automatically printing said set of labels on to label 

media. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said producing means comprises: 

means for inserting each of said subsets of indicia, individual to each label in 
said set of labels, into said at least one writable indicia field for each label in said set of 

labels; and 
means for automatically printing each of said individually identified labels in said 
set of labels on to label media. 
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: 

means for color coding at least one of said aggregated indicia according to a 
predetermined color to indicia correspondence; and 
wherein said means for automatically generating data generates data including 
said color coding of said at least one aggregated indicia. 
A method of automatically producing a set of labels, said set consisting of a 
plurality of labels, all of which uniquely identify a single entity, each label in said set of 

labels containing a combination of indicia and template fields that is individual to said 
label, comprising the steps of: 


defining a set of label templates, said set of label templates consisting of a 
plurality of label templates, each label template having at least one writable indicia field; 
automatically generating a single set of indicia, said single set of indicia including 
at least one indicia that uniquely identifies said single entity; 
automatically aggregating a subset of indicia from said generated single set of 
indicia for each of said label templates, each said subset of indicia including at least one 

indicia that uniquely identifies said single entity; 
automatically generating data, representative of each of said label templates and 
a corresponding subset of indicia, said data defining said set of labels; and 
automatically producing, in response to said data generated, said set of labels. 
The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of:
 
   automatically printing said set of labels on to label media. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said step of producing comprises: 

inserting each of said subsets of indicia, individual to each label in said set of 
labels, into said one or more indicia fields of said corresponding template for each label 

in said set of labels; and 
automatically printing each of said individually identified labels in said set of 
labels on to label media. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said step of defining comprises:
 
   delimiting boundaries of said indicia fields. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said step of defining further comprises:
 
   generating label media registration marks. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said step of generating comprises:
 
   replicating at least one indicia in each of said subsets of indicia to produce both 

a human readable and a corresponding machine readable indicia in each of said 
subsets of indicia. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said step of generating comprises:
 
   replicating at least one indicia in each of said subsets of indicia to produce two 

indicia which are duplicate in content but different in form. 
The method of claim 31 further comprising the step of:
 
   converting said label template data and inserted indicia into printing control 

signals defining each of said individually identified labels. 
The method of claim 36 further comprising the step of:
 
   transmitting said printing control signals to a printing apparatus.  

 
The method of claim 37 wherein said step of printing comprises:
 
   converting, in a computer controlled printing apparatus, said printing control 

signals to printed indicia and templates on said label media. 
The method of claim 30 further comprising the step of:
 
   dividing said label media into individual labels. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said step of indicia generating comprises:
 
   automatically generating n sets of indicia, wherein each set of indicia is ordered 

according to a user-defined ordering, where n is a positive integer at least equal to 1. 
The method of claim 40 wherein said step of data generating comprises:
 
   storing m sets of data, each of said m sets of data defining a label template 

having at least one writable indicia field, where m is a positive integer greater than 1. 
The method of claim 41 wherein said step of producing comprises:
 
   producing, in response to said step of generating and said m sets of stored data, 

m individually identified labels for each of said n sets of indicia. 
The method of claim 42 wherein said step of producing comprises:
 
   aggregating, for each of said m sets of stored data, a plurality of indicia from 

each of said n sets of indicia. 
The method of claim 43 wherein said step of producing further comprises:
 
   combining said aggregated indicia and a corresponding one of said m sets of 

stored data to produce an individually identified label. 
The method of claim 29, wherein said step of defining comprises:
 
   defining a sheet template consisting of a matrix of n*m label templates, each 

containing at least one writable indicia field and at least one variable template field,  
 

where n is a positive integer at least equal to 1 and m is a positive integer greater than 
1. 
The method of claim 45 wherein said step of generating includes:
 
   generating n*m sets of indicia, each of said sets of indicia corresponding to both 

human readable and machine readable entries in said indicia fields on one of said 
labels in said set of labels, according to a predetermined label identification ordering to 

individually identify each label. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said step of generating includes:
 
   generating n*m sets of indicia, each of said sets of indicia corresponding to 

entries in said indicia fields on one of said labels in said set of labels where said entries 
consist of two indicia which are duplicate in content but different in form, according to 

a predetermined label identification ordering to individually identify each label, where 
n is a positive integer at least equal to 1 and m is a positive integer greater than 1. 
The method of claim 29 wherein said step of generating includes:
 
   generating k* (n*m) sets of indicia, each of said sets of indicia corresponding to 

entries in said indicia fields on one of said label in said set of labels, according to a 

predetermined label identification ordering to individually identify each label, where n 
is a positive integer at least equal to 1, m is a positive integer greater than 1 and k is 

a positive integer greater than 1. 
The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of: 

color coding at least one of said aggregated indicia according to a predetermined 
color to indicia correspondence; and 
wherein said step of automatically generating data generates data including said 
color coding of said at least one aggregated indicia. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
