<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633561</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multichannel rotary magnetic head apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B553	G11B553	G11B556	G11B556	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a small-sized 
multichannel rotary magnetic head apparatus suitable for 

use in digital video-tape-recorders for public welfare. 
This rotary magnetic head apparatus is comprised of a 

motor 1, a rotating drum 8 mounted on a rotating shaft 2 
of the motor 1, a head base 9, a plurality of magnetic 

heads 10a to 10d mounted on the head base 9, and a fixed 
or stationary drum 4 located coaxially with the rotating 

drum 8 and the head base 9. The magnetic heads 10a to 

10d are mounted on the lower surface of the head base 9, 
and adjustment of the difference in the levels of the 

magnetic heads is made by bringing level difference 
adjusting screws 16 screwed into the rotating drum 8 

into contact with the upper surface of the head base 9. 
The level difference adjusting screws 16 may be provided 

on the head base 9 itself. Further, in addition to the 
level difference adjusting screws 16, screws for 

adjusting the distance between the adjacent magnetic 
heads may be provided. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASUDA KENMEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ONO SEIJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MASUDA, KENMEI,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ONO, SEIJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a rotary magnetic 
head apparatus, and a method and apparatus for 
manufacturing the same and, more particularly, to 
arrangement of a rotary magnetic head apparatus for 
mounting more than four pieces of magnetic heads on a 
small diameter rotary drum with a high degree of 
precision, and a method and apparatus suitable for 
manufacturing such rotary magnetic head apparatus. In recent years, development of digital video-tape-recorders 
for public welfare is under way. In 
order to put digital video-tape-recorders for public 
welfare to practical use, it is necessary to miniaturize 
such VTR apparatuses and increase the recording time, 
for which purposes, it becomes indispensable to reduce 
the diameter of the drum thereof, increase the number of 
magnetic heads which can be mounted on the drum, and 
narrow the recording track width. While ordinary video-tape-recorders for public 
welfare are arranged such that a plurality of substrates 
(head bases), each having a magnetic head mounted 
thereon, are mounted on a rotary drum, as described, for 
example, in Japanese Patent Laid-Open Application No. 
SHO 59-79422, it is difficult to adopt such arrangement  
 
in video-tape-recorders for public welfare from special 
point of view, since reduction in the diameter of the 
drum and increase in the number of magnetic heads to be 
mounted on the drum are indispensable for them, as 
aforementioned. To cope with such a problem, 
arrangements as described in Japanese Patent Laid-Open 
Application Nos. HEI 2-257415 and HEI 4-186513 wherein 
one piece of head base having a required number of 
magnetic heads mounted thereon is assembled with a 
rotary drum as an integral unit thereof, and another 
arrangement as described in Japanese Patent Laid-Open 
Application No. HEI 4-205810 wherein one piece of head 
base having a required number of magnetic heads formed 
as an integral unit thereof is assembled integrally with 
a rotary drum have been proposed. Furthermore, the above-mentioned Japanese 
Patent Laid-Open Application No. SHO 59-79422 describes 
techniques wherein each head base is formed with a slit 
to enable the magnetic head mounting portion to be 
subjected easily to elastic deformation, and after 
mounting the head bases provided with magnetic heads on 
the rotary drum, tapered screws screwed into the rotary 
drum are brought into contact with the respective 
magnetic head mounting portions to thereby adjust the 
positions of the magnetic heads in the direction of 
thrust and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
comprising, 

   a rotative drum, 
   a plurality of magnetic heads, 

   a head base on which the magnetic heads are 
mounted, 

   a rotating shaft to which the rotative drum 
and the head base are fixed to be rotated, 

   a stationary drum arranged substantially 

concentrically with the rotative drum, and 
   magnetic head adjusting means for adjusting a 

positional relationship between the magnetic heads in a 
direction substantially parallel to an axial direction 

of the rotating shaft. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 1, wherein the head base has a 

movable part on which at least one of the magnetic heads 
is arranged and a base part, and the magnetic head 

adjusting means changes a positional relationship 
between the movable part and the base part so that a 

position of the at least one of the magnetic heads on 
the movable part is adjusted in the direction. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 2, wherein the magnetic head 

adjusting means has a force generator for generating a 
force between the movable part and the base part in the 

 
head base to change the positional relationship 

therebetween. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 1, wherein the magnetic head 

adjusting means has a force generator for generating a 
force, and the force is applied to the head base from an 

outside of the head base to deform the head base at 
least partially, so that a position of the at least one 

of the magnetic heads on the head base is adjusted in 
the direction. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 1, further comprising another 

magnetic head adjusting means for adjusting another 
positional relationship between the magnetic heads in 

another direction substantially perpendicular to the 
axial direction of the rotating shaft. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 5, wherein the head base has a 

movable part on which at least one of the magnetic heads 
is arranged and a base part, and the another magnetic 

head adjusting means changes a positional relationship 
between the movable part and the base part so that a 

position of the at least one of the magnetic heads on 
the movable part is adjusted in the another direction. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 6, wherein the another magnetic head 

adjusting means has a force generator for generating a 
 

force between the movable part and the base part in the 
head base to change the positional relationship 

therebetween. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 5, wherein the another direction is a 

substantially radial direction of the stationary and 
rotative drums. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 5, wherein the another direction is a 

substantially circumferential direction of the 
stationary and rotative drums. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 5, wherein the another direction is a 

combination of radial and circumferential directions of 
the stationary and rotative drums. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 1, wherein the rotating shaft is 

fitted into the head base. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 1, wherein a part of the head base on 

which at least one of the magnetic heads is mounted is 
swingable about an axis substantially perpendicular to 

the direction to adjust the positional relationship. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 5, wherein a part of the head base on 

which at least one of the magnetic heads is mounted is 
swingable about an axis substantially parallel to the 

 
direction to adjust the another positional relationship. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 1, wherein a part of the head base on 

which at least one of the magnetic heads is mounted is 
elastically movable in the direction to adjust the 

positional relationship. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 5, wherein a part of the head base on 

which at least one of the magnetic heads is mounted is 
elastically movable in the another direction to adjust 

the another positional relationship. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 5, wherein the positional 

relationship is adjusted independently from the another 
positional relationship. 
A rotational-type magnetic head device 
according to claim 4, wherein the head base has a 

surface on which the magnetic heads is mounted, and 
another surface through which the force by force 

generator is applied to the head base, and the surface 
is opposed to the another surface. 
A method for producing a rotational-type 
magnetic head device in which a head base with at least 

one magnetic head thereon is rotated, comprising the 
steps of, 

   mounting the magnetic head onto the head base, 
   measuring a positional relationship between 

 
the head base and the magnetic head, 

   moving the magnetic head with respect to the 
head base substantially by a difference between the 

measured positional relationship and a predetermined 
positional relationship between the magnetic head and 

the head base, and 
   fixing the magnetic head to the head base 

after the positional relationship becomes substantially 
identical to the predetermined positional relationship. 
A method according to claim 18, wherein the 
magnetic head is moved in substantially radial and 

circumferential directions of the magnetic head device. 
An apparatus for producing a rotational-type 
magnetic head device in which a head base with at least 

one magnetic head thereon is rotated, comprising, 
   means for mounting the magnetic head onto the 

head base, 
   means for measuring a positional relationship 

between the head base and the magnetic head, 
   means for moving the magnetic head with 

respect to the head base substantially by a difference 
between the measured positional relationship and a 

predetermined positional relationship between the 
magnetic head and the head base, and 

   means for fixing the magnetic head to the 
head base after the positional relationship becomes 

substantially identical to the predetermined positional 
 

relationship. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
