<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641700</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Proportional control of a permanent magnet brake
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60T1300	B60T1374	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60T	B60T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60T13	B60T13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A brake control apparatus for controlling the 
application of braking force to a permanent magnet brake 

(25) of the type wherein a permanent magnet (57) creates a 
magnetic flux path for applying a braking force and an 

electromagnet (55) provides a continuously variable flux in 
opposition to the permanent magnet (57). Braking force is 

controlled in response to a braking command signal from an 
operator controlled floor pedal or hand grip (150) which 

varies in relation to the amount of braking desired. A 
control circuit (50) responsive to the braking command 

signal causes braking force to be generated in direct 
proportion to the amount of braking desired. The control 

circuit (50) applies pulses of current to the electromagnet 
(55), the pulse width of which varies from a minimum pulse 

width representing maximum braking to a maximum pulse width 
representing no braking. The pulses are monitored to 

insure proper operation. The current in the pulses is used 
as an indication of brake temperature and is used to control 

the pulse width of any given desired brake torque. A 
tachometer (160) monitors the direction and speed of rota-tion 

of the braked wheel and an anti-skid algorithm modifies 
the pulses applied to prevent wheel lockup. The brake 

is fail safe since removal of current to the electromagnet 
(55) either by operation of the control circuit (50) or by 

an emergency removal of power will cause the permanent 
magnet to apply full braking torque. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CROWN EQUIP CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CROWN EQUIPMENT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMMEYER NED E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARMAN JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMMEYER, NED E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARMAN, JOHN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a brake control
apparatus and particularly to a proportional control
circuit for a permanent magnet brake of the type wherein
a permanent magnet creates a magnetic flux path for
applying braking force and an electromagnet provides a
continuously variable magnetic flux in opposition to the
permanent magnet. This invention has particular
application to wheeled vehicles such as materials
handling vehicles.The brakes of many materials handling vehicles
are spring applied and are released by the application of
either hydraulic pressure or by means of an electric
solenoid in opposition to the force of the spring. In
those brakes, the amount of braking force is controlled
by the spring force applied to the brake shoes. One
example of a control system for a brake of this type is
shown in U.S. Patent No. 5,205,620. A materials handling
vehicle, a turret stockpicker, includes brakes on the
pair of load wheels which are adjusted to have one level of
braking force, while brakes on the pair of steered wheels
are adjusted to have a second, usually lower, level of
braking force. Either pair of brakes may be applied
individually or all together to provide three different
levels of braking according to the vehicle speed.Another brake is shown in U.S. Patent No.
5,057,728. Here, the brake element itself includes two
sets of springs and wherein a pair of electromagnets
control which spring sets are applied at any given time
thereby to provide a three step control over braking
force. EP-A-0 412 786 discloses a vehicle brake controller including a
variable pulse-width modulator operating at a constant frequency and
with a variable pulse width to provide control pulses to a MOSFET
element which actuates vehicle brakes. The controller further includes
a visual indicator which displays different colours to representatively
indicate the amount of current applied to the brakes, and also to
indicate whether an operable connection exists between the electronic
controller and the vehicle brakes.Proportional control of braking force for spring actuated brakes is
difficult because of the variable gap between the brake armature and
the solenoid 
or electromagnetic coil acting on the armature, and also the variable
forces applied by the spring to the armature. It would be desirable,
however, to provide a proportional control of braking force on a
material handling vehicle.This invention relates to an electric brake control apparatus
providing proportional control over braking force. Specifically, this
invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A brake control apparatus for controlling the application of braking
torque to a permanent magnet brake of the type having a permanent

magnet (57) to create a magnetic flux path for applying a maximum
braking torque and an electromagnet (55) to provide a magnetic flux

path in opposition to the permanent magnet (57) to release completely
said braking torque, the improvement being characterized by:-


means (150) for generating a braking command signal which
varies continuously in relation to the amount of braking desired from

zero braking to maximum braking,
circuit means responsive to said braking command signal for
controlling the width and/or frequency of pulses applied to said

electromagnet (55) whereby the braking torque may be controlled in
direct proportion to the amount of braking torque desired, said circuit

means including:-

means (70) for applying pulses of current to said electromagnet
(55),
means (80,90) for applying a first predetermined width and/or
frequency of pulses to said electromagnet (55) when no braking torque

is desired, which first predetermined width and/or frequency of pulses causes the
magnetic flux produced by said permanent magnet (57) to be

counteracted by a magnetic flux of opposite polarity from said
electromagnet (55), and
means (90) for modifying the width and/or frequency of pulses
applied to said electromagnet (55) by a continuously variable amount

thereby to change the effective magnetic flux generated by said
electromagnet (55) as said braking command signal increases from

zero braking until maximum braking torque is obtained,
means (100) for sensing the presence of said pulses of current to
said electromagnet (55), and
means (60,90) responsive to said sensing means (100) for 
removing all current to said electromagnet (55) upon the failure of said

sensing means (100) to detect the presence of said pulses of current.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said modifying
means (90) includes means for increasing the width and/or frequency

of pulses applied to said electromagnet (55) to increase the magnetic
flux of a polarity opposite that of said permanent magnet (57) as said

braking command signal increases from zero to maximum braking.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said modifying
means (90) includes means for decreasing the width and/or frequency

of pulses applied to said electromagnet (55) to decrease the magnetic
flux of a polarity opposite that of said permanent magnet (57) as said

braking command signal increases from zero to maximum braking, thus
allowing the flux from said permanent magnet (57) to apply a

continuously increasing braking torque.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein said apparatus is
used on a wheel (15) of a vehicle, said apparatus further including

means (160) for sensing the speed of the wheel (15), anti-skid means
responsive to said wheel speed sensing means (160) for controlling the

application of said pulses to said electromagnet (55) for preventing the
onset of wheel lockup.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, further including means (105)
for sensing the magnitude of the current flowing through said

electromagnet (55) during said pulses as an indication of the
temperature of said electromagnet (55), and means (70,90) responsive

to said current sensing means (105) for adjusting the pulse width to
compensate for changes in resistance of said electromagnet (55) due

to temperature.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said current sensing
means (105) and said pulse width adjusting means (70,90) includes a

microprocessor (90), said microprocessor (90) providing control signals
for controlling the frequency and duration of said pulses and for 

providing a sampling pulse at a predetermined time interval after the
beginning of each of said pulses, and means for monitoring the current

level at said predetermined time interval after the beginning of each
pulse and for providing a representation of said current level to said

microprocessor (90) as an indication of the actual temperature of said
electromagnet (55).
An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein said microprocessor
(90) for controlling the frequency and duration of said pulses includes

an algorithm.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, further including a look-up
table for modifying the frequency and duration of said pulses in

response to said current sensing means (105).
An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, 7, or 8, wherein said
apparatus includes a fail safe circuit (60) for removing current from

said electromagnet (55) upon the occurrence of a stop signal on a
direct communications wire or a signal from said microprocessor (90).
An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, 7, 8, or 9, wherein a
malfunction of said microprocessor (90) will cause said brake to fully

engage.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, 7, 8, or 9, wherein the
absence of regular application of said pulses to said electromagnet

(55) will cause said brake to fully engage.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the
deviation of any power supply voltage beyond predetermined limits will

cause said brake to fully engage.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
