<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647151</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR TREATMENT OF ANGINA
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N1365	A61N1365	A61N1362	A61N1362	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stimulator for providing stimulus pulses to the SA nodal fat pad, in response to heart rate exceeding a predetermined level, in order to reduce the ventricular rate. The device is also provided with a cardiac pacemaker to pace the ventricle in the event that the stimulus pulses reduce the heart rate below a predetermined value. The device is also provided with a feedback regulation mechanism for controlling the parameters of the stimulation pulses applied to the AV nodal fat pad, as a result of their determined effect on heart rate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARDY GUST H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARDY, GUST, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to implantable stimulators 
generally and more particularly to implantable nerve 
stimulators and pacemakers. It is known that stimulation of the vagus nerve can 
reduce the sinus rate, as well as prolong the AV conduction 
time or, if stimulation energies are high enough, induce A-V 
block. Use of vagal nerve stimulation to treat 
supraventricular arrhythmias and angina pectoris is 
disclosed in the article "Vagal Tuning" by Bilgutay et al., 
Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Vol. 56, No. 
1, July, 1968, pp. 71-82. It is also known that stimulation 
of the carotid sinus nerve produces a similar result, as 
disclosed in the article "Carotid Sinus Nerve Stimulation in 
the Treatment of Angina Pectoris and Supraventricular 
Tachycardia" by Braunwald et al., published in California 
Medicine, Vol. 112, pp. 41-50, March, 1970. The nervous system regulating the rhythm of the 
heart also includes a number of highly ganglionated plexi or 
"fat pads" at various locations on the heart, including fat 
pads associated with the SA and AV nodes. The fat pad 
associated with the SA node is locatesi overlying the right 
pulmonary vein entrance in dogs, and is located along the 
anterior AV groove in most humans. The fat pad associated 
with the AV node is located at the junction of the inferior 
vena cava and the inferior left atrium in dogs, and is 
located along the posterior AV groove in most humans. As set forth in "Functional Anatomy of the Cardiac 
Efferent Innervation", by Randall et al, in Neurocardiology, 
edited by Kulbertus et al, Futura Publishing Co., 1988, 
direct surgical excision of the fat pad associated with the 
SA node affects the functioning of the SA node without 
significantly affecting the AV node. Similarly, excision of 
the fat pad associated with the AV node affects functioning  
 
of the AV node without significantly affecting the SA node. As set forth in the article "Parasympathetic 
Postganglionic Pathways to the Sinoatrial Node", Bluemel et 
al, Am. J. Physiol. 259, (Heart Circ. Physiol. 28) H1504-H1510, 
1990, stimulation of the fat pad associated with the 
SA node results in slowing of the sinus rate without the 
accompanying prolongation of A-V conduction time which 
normally results from vagal nerve stimulation. The article 
also indicates that stimulation of the fat pad associated 
with the AV node is believed to produce corresponding 
effects limited to the AV node, i.e. extension of the A-V 
conduction time without concurrent slowing of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical medical stimulator, comprising: 

electrode means (206;616) for delivery of 
electrical stimulation to the fat pad 

associated with the sinus node of a human 
heart; 
pulse generator means (332) for 
generating stimulus pulses and for providing 

said stimulus pulses to said electrode means 
(206;616); 
means (312) for sensing the rate at which 
said human heart is beating; 
means (312) for defining a first heart 
rate; and 
initiating means (324) responsive to said 
sensing means for initiating the operation of 

said pulse generator means (332) in response 
to the rate of said human heart exceeding said 

first heart rate; and 
 
   wherein said means for sensing the rate 

at which said human heart is beating comprises 
means for sensing atrial depolarizations (404) 

of said human heart; characterized in that
 
   said pulse generator means (332) is 

responsive to said means for sensing atrial 
depolarizations and delivers said stimulus 

pulses synchronized to said atrial 
depolarizations and comprises means for 

delivering said stimulus pulses during the 
refractory period of the atrium of said human 

heart. 
A stimulator according to claim 1 further 
comprising means for defining a second heart rate and 

means for pacing said human heart when the rate of said 

human heart falls below said second heart rate.  
 
An electrical medical stimulator according to 
claim 2, wherein said pacing means comprises means for 

pacing the atrium of said human heart. 
An electrical medical stimulator according to 
claim 2 or 3, further comprising: 


means for defining a third heart rate above 
said second rate and below said first rate, 

such that said pulse generator means (332) 
provides said stimulus pulses to said 

electrode means (206) only when the rate of 
said human heart is above said third rate. 
An electrical medical stimulator according to 
claim 1 or claim 2 or claim 3 or claim 4 further 

comprising: 

means (324) responsive to said sensing means 
and to said pulse generator means for determining 

the effect of said stimulus pulses on the rate of 
said human heart and means for adjusting the 

amplitude of said stimulus pulses as a function of 
the determined effect of said stimulus pulses. 
A stimulator according to claim 5 wherein said 
determining means (324) comprises means for comparing 

the rate of said human heart following delivery of said 
stimulus pulses to a predetermined upper rate, and 

wherein said adjusting means is responsive to the 
failure of delivered stimulus pulses to reduce the rate 

of said human heart below said upper rate and in 
response thereto increments the amplitude of said 

stimulus pulses. 
A stimulator according to claim 6 wherein said 
determining means (324) compares the rate of said human 

heart following delivery of said stimulus pulses to an 
intermediate heart rate less than said upper rate and,  

 
in response to delivery of said stimulus pulses 

resulting in a reduction of the rate of said human heart 
below said intermediate rate decrements the amplitude of 

said stimulus pulses. 
A stimulator according to claim 7 further 
comprising means for pacing said human heart when the 

rate of said human heart falls below a predetermined 
pacing rate, below said intermediate rate. 
A stimulator according to claim 1 or claim 2 
or claim 3 or claim 4 or claim 5 or claim 6 or claim 7 

or claim 8 further comprising deactivating means 
responsive to said sensing means for terminating the 

operation of said pulse generator means (332) in 
response to the rate of said human heart persistently 

falling below a defined rate below said first heart 
rate. 
An electrical medical stimulator according to 
claim 1 or claim 2 or claim or claim 4 or claim 5 or 

claim 6 or claim 7 or claim 8, further comprising: 

sensor means (330) for sensing a physiologic 
parameter other than heart rate; 
means (328) for defining a first sensor 
threshold; and 
 
   wherein said initiating means (324) is responsive 

to an output of said sensor means exceeding or falling 
below said first sensor threshold for initiating the 

operation of said pulse generator means. 
A stimulator according to claim 10 further 
comprising means for defining a second sensor 

threshold different from said first sensor 
threshold; and 


deactivating means responsive to an output of 
said sensor means exceeding or falling below said  

 
second sensor threshold or terminating the 

operation of said pulse generator means. 
An electrical medical stimulator according to 
claim 1 or claim 2 or claim 3 or claim 4 or claim 5 or 

claim 6 or claim 7 or claim 8 further comprising: 

sensor means (330) for sensing a physiologic 
parameter other than heart rate; and 
means responsive to said sensor means for 
controlling the operation of said pulse generator 

means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
