<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630030</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tank-type arrester
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01T100	H01T100	H01C102	H01C1026	H01C106	H01C712	H01C106	H01T400	H01T420	H01C712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01T	H01T	H01C	H01C	H01C	H01C	H01C	H01T	H01T	H01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01T1	H01T1	H01C1	H01C1	H01C1	H01C7	H01C1	H01T4	H01T4	H01C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arrester in shape of tank has a cylindrical 
grounding tank (3) as an outer casing to be arranged 

vertically in which an insulating medium (2) is enclosed. 
In the grounding tank, a non-linear element group (1) is 

disposed, the non-linear element group being formed by 
vertically stacking a plurality of non-linear resisting 

elements in series at a substantially axially central 
portion of the grounding tank. A shield (6) having an 

umbrella-like shape is disposed on a high potential side of 
the non-linear element group. A shielding unit (10) is 

operatively connected to a low potential side of the 
umbrella-shaped shield through a support member (7). The 

shielding unit comprises at least one shielding member (10a 
or 10b) having a spherical shape provided with a spherical 

surface portion facing an inner side wall of the grounding 
tank. When two shielding members are disposed, they are 

positioned axially symmetrically with respect to the 
non-linear element group, which comprises a single column 

or a plurality of symmetrically arranged columns (1a-1d) of 
non-linear resisting element stacks standing upwards along 

the central axis of the grounding tank. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an arrester in 
shape of a tank having a non-linear resistor the main 
component of which is zinc oxide element. An arrester, or lighting arrester, using a zinc 
oxide element has excellent characteristics, such as 
current-voltage linearity, discharge withstand current 
rating characteristics and chemical stability, and thus, it 
has been widely used in place of a conventional arrester 
utilizing series gaps and a silicon carbide non-linear 
resistor. In recent years, an arrester having further 
protective characteristics for use in a high potential 
system, such as 275 kV or 500 kV, has been developed and 
employed. An arrester of the type described above is in a 
trend that the average stress (charging rate) in a system 
voltage always applied is raised for use. In order to 
ensure and maintain reliability for a long time, 
development of technology for uniformly assigning voltage 
for the purpose of uniforming assigning voltage for each 
zinc oxide element becomes significantly important. A conventional tank-shape arrester will be first  
 
described with reference to Figs. 7 and 8. A non-linear element group 1 formed by stacking 
zinc oxide elements in series is accommodated in a 
cylindrical grounding tank 3 which is placed in a vertical 
attitude and in which an insulating medium 2, such as SF6 
gas, exhibiting excellent insulating characteristics is 
enclosed, the non-linear element group 1 being disposed 
coaxially with the grounding tank 3. An axial end, i.e. the 
top end in the illustration, of the non-linear element 
group 1 is connected to a bus-line from a transforming 
station side through a high-potential conductor 5 supported 
by an insulating spacer 4. In the tank-shape arrester, a 
shield 6 having an umbrella-like shape is further disposed 
in the high potential side of the non-linear element group 
1 and a ground potential portion is connected to the low 
potential side of the non-linear element group 1. Two or 
more annular ring-shaped shields 8 are disposed on the low 
potential side of the umbrella-shaped shield 6 through a 
plurality of, for example, four, connection support members 
7 each having a narrow width in the circumferential 
direction so that voltage assignment to the zinc oxide 
elements in the non-linear element group 1 is uniformed. Another example of conventional tank-shape 
arrester is shown in Fig. 8, in which a circular arc-shaped 
shield 9 is, in place of the annular shield, connected to 
the shield 6 through a connection
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An arrester in shape of a tank which comprises: 

a cylindrical grounding tank (3) to be arranged 
vertically in which an insulating medium (2) is enclosed; 
a non-linear element group (1) disposed inside 
the grounding tank, said non-linear element group bein
g 
formed by vertically stacking a plurality of non-linear 

resisting elements in series at a substantially axially 
central portion of the grounding tank; 
a shield (6) having an umbrella-like shape 
disposed on a high potential side of the non-linear element 

group; 
a ground potential portion connected to a low 
potential side thereof; and 
a shielding means (10a, 10b) operatively 
connected to a low potential side of the umbrella-shaped 

shield through a support means (7a, 7b), 
 
   characterized in that said shielding means 

comprises at least one shielding member (10a, 10b) having a 
spherical shape provided with a spherical surface portion 

facing an inner side wall of the grounding tank (3) and 
that said non-linear element group (1) comprises at least 

one stack of the non-linear resisting elements. 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said  
 

shielding member has a flat portion facing the non-linear 
element group (1). 
An arrester according to claim 2, wherein said 
shielding means has a hemispherical surface portion facing 

the inner side wall of the grounding tank and the flat 
surface portion facing the non-linear element group. 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said 
shielding means includes two shielding members (10a, 10b) 

disposed axially symmetrically with respect to the 
non-linear element group. 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said 
non-linear element group comprises a single column (1) of 

non-linear resisting element stack standing upwards along 
the central axis of the grounding tank (3). 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said 
non-linear element group comprises a plurality of parallel 

columns (1a-1d) arranged symmetrically with respect to a 
central axis of the grounding tank. 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said 
shielding means (10a, 10b) has a solid structure.  

 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said 
shielding means (10a, 10b) has a hollow structure. 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said 
shielding means (10a, 10b) is formed of a plastic material 

which is plated with a metal. 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said 
shielding means (10a, 10b) is formed of a light metal. 
An arrester according to claim 1, wherein said 
shielding means (10a, 10b) is positioned at a vertical 

level of 1/2 to 1/3 length of the longitudinal length of 
said non-linear element group (1) from a bottom thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
