<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638991</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for sampling of electrical signals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C2702	H03D100	G11C2700	H03D122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	H03D	G11C	H03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C27	H03D1	G11C27	H03D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method and apparatus for sampling of an electrical signal 
(4) in order to obtain at least one signal weighted 

together from two or more samples, in which in a first step 
the electrical signal is connected to a number of 

capacitors (C1, C2) connected in parallel. In a second 
step, one capacitor is disconnected from the electrical 

signal at each time of sampling (6, 7, 8, 9) and in a third 
step, when the sampling is completed, the capacitors are 

connected together. In this manner, one or more signals 
weighted together are generated in dependence of the charge 

of the capacitors when they are disconnected from the 
electrical signal and of the capacitances of the 

capacitors. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARVIDSSON ERIK RAGNAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARVIDSSON, ERIK RAGNAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and an apparatus
for sampling of electrical signals according to the
preamble of claim 1 and claim 8 respectively.In fields such as radar engineering and telecommunication,
information exists in the form of carrier frequency
signals. In order to extract the information the signal
must be demodulated, which is most often achieved by down-mixing
to the frequency 0, so-called baseband or "zero-IF"
systems. Often the down-mixing is performed in two steps,
first from high frequency to an intermediate frequency and
thereafter to the baseband.In the above systems, the information exists both in the
amplitude of the signal and in its phase. A simple envelope
detection is therefore not sufficient. For this reason the
last down-mixing is performed in two mixers in which one of
them is supplied with the intermediate frequency signal and
a reference signal and the second with the intermediate
frequency signal and the reference signal phase-shifted
90°. The frequency of the reference signal is then equal to
the centre frequency of the intermediate frequency.The result is two orthogonal signals which can be regarded
as a complex representation of the baseband signal in which
both amplitude and phase information are preserved. As a
rule, these signals are called I- (In-phase) and Q-(Quadrature)
signals. As modern signal processing almost exclusively uses digital
technology, the I- and Q-signals are converted into digital
form in an analogue/digital converter, after which the
signal processing, for example filtering, is performed.In many applications, and especially in radar applications,
the requirements for amplitude equality and phase orthogonality
between the I- and Q-signals are very high. This
implies that some kind of automatic, active calibration
procedure usually is used. The calibration procedure
consumes signal processing capacity and also requires
certain additional equipment. It is therefore desirable to
eliminate the need for calibration.One method of eliminating the calibration need is to
perform the analogue/digital conversion directly on the
inter-mediate frequency signal and thereafter split up the
obtained signal samples into one I- and one Q-value by
means of digital filters. Examples of apparatus which
utilize this method are described in the patent documents
EP-109121 and UK2176362.Even this method has drawbacks. The use of the method is
thus limited due to limitations in the conversion rate of
the analogue/digital converters in combination with
accuracy.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for sampling of an electrical signal (4) in
order to obtain at least one signal summed together from

two or more weighted samples, having a sampling operation comprising a plurality of sampling times, 
characterized in

that the method comprises the steps of

connecting the electrical signal (4) to a number of
capacitors (C1, C2) connected in parallel,
at each time of sampling (6, 7, 8, 9) disconnecting
one capacitor from the electrical signal,
when the sampling operation is completed, connecting the
disconnected capacitors (C1, C2) together, by means

of which the said at least one signal summed together from two or more weighted samples is
generated in dependence of the charge of the

capacitors when they are disconnected from the
electrical signal and of the capacitance of the

capacitors.
Method according to claim 1, 
characterized
in
 that the capacitances of the capacitors (C1,
C2) are related to each other as the weight coefficients

for said two or more weighted samples.
Method according to claim 2, 
characterized
in
 that at each time of sampling (6, 7, 8, 9)
the capacitor (C1, C2), the capacitance of which corresponds

to the weight-coefficient for the sample related to
the time of sampling, is disconnected. 
Method according to any of claims 1-3, 
characterized in

that at the connection when the
sampling is completed, the disconnected capacitors (C1, C2)

are connected in parallel whereby the capacitors (C2), the
related sample of which is to be weighted together with a

negative sign, are connected in parallel with reversed
polarity.
Method according to any of claims 1-4, 
characterized in

that at the connection of the
capacitors (C1, C2), these capacitors are connected in

groups separated from each other, whereby for each group of
capacitors a signal weighted together in dependence on the

charges and the capacitances of the capacitors being part
of the group is generated.
Method according to claim 5, 
characterized
in
 that the capacitors which are disconnected
at the first and every second thereafter following times of

sampling (6, 8) are part of a first group of capacitors and
that the capacitors which are disconnected at intermediate

times of sampling (7, 9) are part of a second group of
capacitors.
Method according to claim 6, 
characterized
in
 that the time between two times of sampling
following on from each other corresponds to 1/4 of the

period of the sampled signal (4).
Method according to any of claims 1-3,

characterized in
 that at the connection when the
sampling is completed, the disconnected capacitors (C1, C2)

are connected in parallel whereby the capacitors (C1), the
related sample of which is to be weighted together with a

positive sign, are connected in parallel for themselves and
the capacitors (C2), the related sample of which is to be 

weighted together with a negative sign, are connected in
parallel for themselves.
Apparatus for sampling of an electrical signal (4)
in order to obtain at least one signal summed together

from two or more weighted samples, having a sampling operation comprising a plurality of sampling times, 
characterized in

that the apparatus comprises switching means (S1-S5) connected
to a number of capacitors (C1, C2) and that the

switching means are arranged to in

an initial stage connect the capacitors in parallel
to the electrical signal,
a second stage at each time of sampling (6, 7, 8,
9) disconnect one capacitor from the electrical

signal,
a third stage connect the disconnected capacitors
together and to form at least one signal summed together from two or more weighted samples

in dependence on the charge of the
capacitors when they are disconnected from the

electrical signal and of the capacitance of the
capacitors.
Apparatus according to claim 9, 
characterized
in
 that the capacitance of the capacitors
(C1, C2) relates to each other as the weight coefficients

for said two or more weighted samples.
Apparatus according to claim 10, 
characterized
in
 that the switching means (S1-S5) are
arranged, during the second stage, at each time of sampling

(6, 7, 8, 9) to disconnect the capacitor (C1, C2), the
capacitance of which corresponds to the weight coefficient

for the sample related to the time of sampling. 
Apparatus according to claim 10 or 11, 
characterized in

that the switching means (S1-S5) are
arranged, during the third stage, to connect the disconnected

capacitors in parallel, whereby the capacitors, the
related sample of which is to be weighted with a negative

sign, are connected in parallel with reversed polarity.
Apparatus according to any of claims 9 - 12,

characterized in
 that the switching means
(S1-S5) are arranged to connect the capacitors in groups

separated from each other and that for each group of
capacitors a signal weighted together in dependence of the

charge and capacitance of the capacitors being part of the
group, is generated.
Apparatus according to claim 13, 
characterized
in
 that the capacitors which are disconnected
at the first and every second thereafter following time of

sampling (6, 8) are part of a first group of capacitors,
and that the capacitors which are disconnected at the

intermediate times of sampling (7, 9) are part of a second
group of capacitors.
Apparatus according to claim 14, 
characterized
in
 that the time between two times of
sampling following on from each other corresponds to 1/4 of

the period of the sampled signal (4).
Apparatus according to any of claims 9-11, 
characterized in

that at the connection when the
sampling is completed, the disconnected capacitors (C1, C2)

are connected in parallel whereby the capacitors (C1), the
related sample of which is to be weighted together with a

positive sign, are connected in parallel for themselves and
the capacitors (C2), the related sample of which is to be 

weighted together with a negative sign, are connected in
parallel for themselves.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
