<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630540</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMMUNICATIONS BUS AND CONTROLLER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1240	H04L1264	H04L1240	H04L1264	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RACAL DATACOM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RACAL-DATACOM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOAL JOHN HILL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWTON MARK KENDAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOAL, JOHN HILL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWTON, MARK KENDAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Many communications buses and controllers have been
developed using a number of communications modes on either
parallel or serial buses depending on suitability for given
applications.Isochronous or Circuit Switched Services and Packet or
Framed services are already widely used and Asynchronous Transfer
Mode (ATM) or Cell services are being introduced. These three
communications modes are briefly characterised as follows.Isochronous Services require guaranteed synchronous access
to the bearer - e.g. receipt or delivery of an octet at precisely
125 µsecs. Their most typical usage is to convey voice
information at 64 Kb's, however they are often used for data
services to take advantage of the flexible and cost-effective
switching and routing capabilities incorporated in the globally
connected telephony networks. Historically these services were
very prone to errors and thus voice services were typically noisy
and data often unreliable. More recently network bearers have
become much less error prone.Cells are employed in the so called Asynchronous Transfer
Mode (ATM) technology embodied in CCITT's B-ISDN, Bell Corp's
Switched Multi-Megabit Data Service (SMDS), and IEEE 802.6
Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) standard. Cells are comprised of
fixed length packets or frames, 53 octets long, of which 48
octets are user data created by a source user and then rapidly
routed on the fly through ATM switches to their destination. To
assure that acceptable end user service delay criteria are met,
cells require either Deterministic Guaranteed Access to match
some maximum value, or Statistical Access with a tolerable
Quality of Service, or some combination of these.Packet Services are by comparison with Isochronous and Cell
services very delay tolerant, and typically an end user's real
time usage of such services is very peaky. By serially
multiplexing the needs of many users a more consistent level of 
traffic is usually supported over a fixed bandwidth channel.
Thus a Packet bearer service must offer a Multi-User (and
therefore arbitrated) statistically queued (and therefore
delayed) Service. Packet services grew out of a need for more
reliable transfer of data in spite of poor lines. Information
integrity remains a major requirement of Packet services.These three services can be ranked in terms of their access
priority demands as: Isochronous, Cell and Packet. Thus
Isochronous must take precedence over Cell, and Cell over Packet.The invention provides a communications controller and a
communications system comprising
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A communications controller (4) for controlling the writing of
signals to and the reading of signals from a framed, time-division-multiplexed,

synchronous bus (2) comprising an information channel and
an allocate or access-control channel, the controller being a state

machine switchable between states corresponding to first and second
modes of communication on the bus and the information channel

having a bandwidth and being pre-allocated for communication in the
second mode, wherein an allocated or access-control signal is

asserted on the allocate or access-control channel if the
information channel is being used for communication in the second

mode, the controller being responsive to the allocated or
access-control signal to inhibit communication in the first mode

using the bandwidth of the information channel when the allocated
or access-control signal is asserted and not to inhibit

communication in the first mode using the bandwidth of the
information channel when the allocated or access-control signal is

not asserted.
A controller according to claim 1, in which a service
qualification signal is associated with the allocate or access

control signal to identify the mode of communication required on
the bus.
A controller according to claim 1 or 2, in which the
allocated or access-control signal is asserted on the allocate or

access- control channel at a short time before the start of
communication in the second mode.
A controller according to claim 1, 2 or 3, in which the
information and allocate or access-control channels are time-division-multiplexed

channels.
A controller according to claim 1, 2 or 3, in which the
information and allocate or access-control channels are carried on

separate bus lines. 
A controller according to claim 5 for coupling to a bus which
comprises a control line, an allocate or access-control line and an

information line, in which signals on the information line are
interpreted as control signals when a control signal is asserted on

the control line and as data signals when no control signal is
asserted on the control line.
A controller according to any preceding claim, in which the
first mode is packet communication and the second mode is ATM cell

communication.
A controller according to any of claims 1 to 6, in which the
first mode is packet communication and the second mode is

isochronous communication.
A controller according to any of claims 1 to 6, in which the
first mode is packet communication and the second mode includes

both isochronous and cell communications, the isochronous and cell
communications being allocated mutually exclusive channels.
A controller according to any preceding claim, in which each
cell is transmitted in a cell channel comprising a contiguous

series of slots within a channel within a frame.
A controller according to claim 10, in which a specified cell
channel within a frame is pre-allocated to the controller.
A controller according to claim 11, in which the
pre-allocation is controlled by a bus master coupled to the bus in

response to a request by the controller.
A controller according to claim 11 or 12, in which the
pre-allocated cell channel is exclusive to the controller. 
A controller according to any of claims 11 to 13, in which
the controller, if it does not transmit a cell in a cell channel

allocated to it, asserts a signal in the allocate or access-control
channel to indicate that the slots of the cell channel are

available for packet communication.
A controller according to any preceding claim, in which a
slot or slots are allocated in a frame to the controller for

isochronous circuit communication.
A controller according to claim 15, in which the controller,

if it does not transmit isochronous circuit data in a slot
allocated to it for such communication, asserts a signal in the

allocate or access-control channel to indicate that the slot is
available for packet communication.
A controller according to any preceding claim, comprising
means for storing a foreground template and a background template,

the foreground template defining the read and/or write access of
the controller to each slot of each frame, and means for swapping

the foreground template for the background template in response to
a swap signal on the bus.
A controller according to claim 17, in which the background
template is updated in response to data received by the controller

from a bus master coupled to the bus.
A controller according to claim 18, in which background
template data is transferred on the bus in a packet channel to

assure data integrity despite bus transmission errors. 
A communications system comprising at least one controller (4) as
defined in any preceding claim, coupled to a bus (2).
A communications system comprising a framed, time-division
multiplexed, synchronous bus (2) having an information channel and an

allocate or access-control channel and two or more engines (10, 11, 12) each
coupled to the bus by means of a communications controller (4) for

controlling the writing of signals to and the reading of signals
from the bus, each controller being a state machine switchable

between states corresponding to different modes of communication on
the bus, in which communication in a first mode is inhibited to

allow communication on the information channel in a second mode for
which the information channel has been pre-allocated, a

communications controller asserting an allocated or access-control
signal on the allocate or access-control channel on transmission in

the second mode in the information channel to signal to other
controllers on the bus the inhibition of communication in the first

mode.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
