<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652761</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXTRACT AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION FOR TREATMENT OF CALCIUM OXALATE STONE DISEASE AND VIRAL INFECTIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K36185	A61K3673	A61M136	A61M136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K36	A61K36	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A compound for the treatment of calcium oxalate kidney stone disease and viral infections caused by enveloped viruses which can be extracted and purified from leaves of the plant (Eriobotrya japonica) is disclosed. The compound has the following characteristics: inhibits calcium oxalate crystal growth (in vitro); inhibits renal calcium oxalate crystal deposition in rats which are fed ethylene glycol, causes rats which are fed ethylene glycol and said compound to excrete less oxalate in their urine as compared to rats which are fed ethylene glycol without said compound; shows little or no loss in activity when exposed to an aqueous solution of pH 1.5 for 14 hours; shows increased activity when exposed to an aqueous solution of pH 12.7 for 15 hours; is polyanionic; is stable when heated in an aqueous solution (at pH of extract) at 98  C for 3 hours; water-soluble; insoluble in heptane, hexane, chloroform/methanol mix, diethyl ether, and ethanol/aqueous mix; binds to DEAE-A-25 Sephadex at pH 8.6; is eluted from the DEAE-A-25 Sephadex with 2 M Nacl; and prevents cytopathogenicity of enveloped viruses such as herpes simplex virus. The present invention is also directed to a method for the treatment of calcium oxalate stone disease wherein the compound is administered, preferably for a prolonged period of time, to a patient suffering from or prone to calcium oxalate stone disease. The present invention is also directed to a method for the treatment of viral infection.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEGHENY SINGER RES INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEGHENY-SINGER RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSTELLO JEREMIAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSTELLO, JEREMIAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EXTRACT AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION FOR TREATMENT OF CALCIUM OXALATE STONE DISEASE AND VIRAL INFECTIONSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Technical FieldThe present invention relates to the treatment of calcium oxalate stone disease and viral infections.Description of Background ArtCalcium oxalate is the most common constituent of urinary calculi and relatively large crystals of this salt are frequently found in freshly voided urine from patients with recurrent calcium-containing stones. The rate of crystal growth and aggregation of calcium oxalate will determine whether or not a particle large enough to be trapped at some narrow point in the urinary tract can be formed within the transit time of urine through the urinary system. The chance of a particle being trapped depends partly on the size of the particle. The rate of crystal growth may determine to a large extent the subsequent rate of growth of this nidus into a stone. It is well known that several urinary constituents (e.g., pyrophosphate, glycosaminoglycans, citrate) can inhibit the rate of growth and/or aggregation of seed crystals of calcium oxalate -in vitro.Considerable research effort has been and is being expended in an attempt to identify or synthesize 

compounds that act as inhibitors of calcium oxalate crystal growth and which could be used for treatment of patients suffering from recurrent kidney stone disease. Hydrochloro-thiazide, sodium potassium phosphate, and potassium citrate are drugs available for the treatment of calcium oxalate stone disease and reported to reduce its recurrence. These and other drugs available have not been shown to dissolve or remove kidney stones/fragments. The development of drugs more effective in preventing calcium oxalate stone formation and to dissolve kidney stones/fragments is still needed. Since recurrence of stone disease is believed to be largely due to such remnant stone fragments in the kidney, following lithotripsy or other stone removal procedures, their dissolution could dramatically reduce recurrence rates.Similarly, extensive work is being done to identify compounds that will inhibit the pathogenicity of viruses and prevent and/or treat viral infections. While some anti-viral agents are presently available, there is a great need for additional compounds that would be more active and more specific in preventing or treating various viral infections.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide an extract for treatment of calcium oxalate stone
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 1. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a purified composition effective for inhibiting the cytopathogenic effects of enveloped viruses, said purified composition having the following properties: inhibits calcium oxalate crystal growth in vitro; inhibits renal calcium oxalate crystal deposition in rats which are fed 1% ethylene glycol; is anionic and binds to anion exchange resin DEAE-A25 at pH 8.6; is soluble in water; is stable when heated in an aqueous solution (at pH of extract) of 98°C for at least three hours; retains activity when exposed to an aqueous solution of pH 1.5 for 14 hours; retains or shows increased activity when exposed to an aqueous solution of pH 12.7 for 15 hours; has a purity level of at least 50,000 Units of activity (against calcium oxalate crystal growth) per gram of solid matter; and inhibits the cytopathogenic effects of enveloped viruses; and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 


 2. The purified composition of claim 1 in an amount effective for inhibiting the cytopathogenic effects of herpes simplex virus.
3. A purified extract fraction obtained from cells of the plant Eriobotrva iaponica, said extract fraction having the following properties: (1) inhibits the cytopathogenic effects of an enveloped virus; (2) elutes from Sephadex G-75 following elution of an extract fraction having maximum activity against calcium oxalate crystal growth; (3) is precipitated with ethanol from an aqueous solution of the extract after treatment with alkali; (4) is precipitated with ethanol from an alkali treated supernatant, which has been processed by: (i) lyophilizing the supernatant; (ii) resuspending the lyophilisate in water to the original concentration; (iii) treating the resultant aqueous solution with alkali; (iv) and titrating the alkali treated solution to the original extract pH with HCl; (5) retains activity against said enveloped virus when exposed to an aqueous solution at pH 12.72 for 17 hours.
4. The purified extract fraction of claim 3, wherein said enveloped virus is herpes simplex virus.
5. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the purified extract fraction of claim 3 in an amount effective for inhibiting the cytopathogenic effects of an enveloped virus, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 


 6. • A pharmaceutical composition comprising the purified extract fraction of claim 3 in an amount effective for inhibiting the cytopathogenic effects of herpes simplex virus, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
7. A method for inhibiting the cytopathogenic effects of an enveloped virus comprising administering to a patient who has been diagnosed as having said enveloped virus an effective amount of the composition of claim 1.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said enveloped virus is herpes simplex virus.
9. A method for inhibiting the cytopathogenic effects of an enveloped virus comprising administering to a patient who has been diagnosed as having said enveloped virus an effective amount of the purified extract fraction of claim 3.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said enveloped virus is herpes simplex virus.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein said composition is administered by following the steps of (1) withdrawing a sample of blood from a patient with said enveloped virus infection; (2) incubating said sample of blood with said composition; and (3) transferring said incubated blood back into said patient.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein said purified extract fraction is administered by following the steps of (1) withdrawing a sample of blood from a patient with said enveloped virus infection; (2) incubating said sample of blood with said composition; and (3) 


transferring said incubated blood back into said patient.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein said steps (1) to (3) are repeated at least once.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein said steps (1) to (3) are repeated at least once.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein said composition is administered orally.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein said purified extract fraction is administered orally.
17. The method of claim 7, wherein said composition is administered intravenously.
18. The method of claim 9, wherein said purified extract fraction is administered intravenously.
19. The method of claim 7, wherein said composition is administered into the spinal fluid.
20. The method of claim 9, wherein said purified extract fraction is administered into the spinal fluid.
21. The method of claim 7, wherein said composition is administered topically.
22. The method of claim 9, wherein said purified extract fraction is administered topically. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
