<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630011</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bi-directional reel-to-reel tape drive.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1546	G11B1546	G11B1554	G11B1566	G11B1567	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	G11B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Air entrainment effects are avoided in a bi-directional, reel-to-reel 
tape transport in which magnetic tape (22) can be moved in either of 

two opposing directions (23) for data recording thereon. Control of tape 
position is implemented in a servo algorithm that uses tachometer inputs 

to determine parameter values for generating reel motor drive currents. 
A fine-line tachometer (12, 18) is mounted on each of two reels (11, 17) 

in the tape drive (10) and multiplexing selects the fine-line output from 
the tachometer on the reel supplying tape for use in the servo algorithm. 

At least one of the tachometers is preferably of the type which generates 
an index line (15) once each revolution of the motor to which it is 

mounted. This tachometer is coupled to the reel to which the tape is 
initially threaded and the index line is used to indicate that the motor 

is at a predetermined threading position for this operation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARCIA JOE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HU PAUL YU-FEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSKI JOHN ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARCIA, JOE L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HU, PAUL YU-FEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSKI, JOHN ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to motion and positional control of magnetic 
tape in a reel-to-reel tape drive in which the magnetic tape can be 
transported bi-directionally for recording and playback of information in 
either tape direction. The control of magnetic tape motion and position in reel-to-reel 
tape drives is described in detail in U. S. Patent Nos. 4,015,799, and 
4,125,881, both incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. U. S. Patent 4,015,799 relates to the use of a finely graduated 
("fine line") tachometer on an idler roller engaging a magnetic tape to 
measure the amount of tape being advanced during a complete revolution of 
each tape reel shaft in a reel-to-reel tape drive system. The amount of 
tape advanced is converted to the radius of each reel once each 
revolution of each reel. Reel radius is then used to determine drive 
currents for each reel motor so as to provide a precise control of tape 
position and motion. U. S. Patent 4,125,881 describes a reel-to-reel tape drive in which 
magnetic tape is moved from one reel to another, passing a read/write 
head. A fine-line tachometer is mounted on one reel shaft to provide a 
fine-line tachometer reading in the form of a number of pulses per 
revolution. A second tachometer on the second reel shaft provides a 
single pulse per revolution of the second reel. The single pulse is used 
to gate the counting of fine-line tachometer pulses for each revolution 
of the second reel. A servo algorithm uses the gated per-revolution 
fine-line tachometer count to determine the reel radii based upon the 
actual length and thickness of the magnetic tape whose position and 
motion the servo system controls. Motor acceleration currents of a 
magnitude corresponding to the reel radii are generated to drive the reel 
motors. Both of these incorporated patents are concerned with unidirectional 
tape drives in which magnetic tape is written and read in one 
direction. No recording occurs during movement of the tape in the 
opposite direction, which is used only for rewinding and repositioning 
the tape. However, in a bi-directional tape drive in which the magnetic 
tape can be recorded in either direction, the tape servo algorithm of the  
 
'881 patent cannot accurately determine the radius of the tape reel and 
position of data on the tape when the direction of tape writing is 
reversed. The limitation in the servo algorithm of the '881 patent stems from 
air entrainment between the outermost layers of tape on the take-up reel. 
It has been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for controlling the motion of a magnetic tape when the 
tape is located in a tape drive, the apparatus including: 

   a first reel assembly rotatable in a first direction for supplying 
a magnetic tape and rotatable in a second direction for taking up the 

magnetic tape; 
   a second reel assembly rotatable in the first direction for taking 

up magnetic tape supplied by the first reel assembly and rotatable in the 
second direction for supplying magnetic tape to the first reel assembly; 

   a first fine-line tachometer coupled to the first reel assembly; 
   a second fine-line tachometer coupled to the second reel assembly; 

   a control unit coupled to the first and second reel assemblies for 
rotating the first and second reel assemblies in the first direction and 

in the second direction for tape data recording in response to fine-line 
tachometer pulses; and 

   means coupled to the first and second fine-line tachometers and to 
the control unit for providing fine-line tachometer pulses from the first 

fine-line tachometer in response to rotation of the first and second reel 
assemblies in the first direction and for providing fine-line tachometer 

pulses from the second fine-line tachometer in response to rotation of 
the first and second reel assemblies in the second direction. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, further including: 
   means in the first fine-line tachometer for generating an index 

signal upon each revolution of the first reel assembly; 
   means in the second fine-line tachometer for generating an index 

signal upon each revolution of the second reel assembly; and 
   means coupled to the first and second fine-line tachometers and to 

the control unit for providing index signals from the first fine-line 
tachometer to gate fine-line tachometer pulses in the control unit in 

 
response to rotation of the first and second reel assemblies in the 

second direction and for providing index signals from the second fine-line 
tachometer to gate fine-line tachometer pulses in the control unit 

in response to rotation of the first and second reel assemblies in the 
first direction. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, further including: 
   a tape engagement device on the first reel assembly for receiving 

an end of a magnetic tape at a threading location; 
   means in the first fine-line tachometer for generating an index 

signal when the tape engagement device is positioned at the threading 
location; and 

   means in the control means and responsive to the index signal for 
rotating the first reel assembly to place the tape engagement device at 

the threading location. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein each 
fine-line tachometer includes: 

   a rotatable code wheel with a circular array of fine tachometer 
indicia; 

   an index indicator in the code wheel; and 
   sensor means responsive to rotation of the code wheel for 

generating a stream of fine tachometer pulses in response to the fine 
tachometer indicia and for generating a single index pulse once each 

rotation of the code wheel in response to the index indication. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of Claims 3 or 4, further comprising: 

   a threading mechanism for advancing an end of a magnetic tape to 
the threading location; 

   and wherein the means coupled to the fine-line tachometers generate 
an index signal when the tape engagement device is positioned at the 

threading location. 
Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the 
fine-line tachometers each include: 

   a rotatable code wheel with fine tachometer indicia; 
   an index indicator in the code wheel; and 

   sensor means responsive to rotation of the code wheel for 
generating a stream of fine tachometer pulses in response to the fine 

tachometer indicia and a single index pulse upon each rotation of the 
code wheel in response to the index indicator. 
A reel-to-reel tape drive including apparatus for controlling the 
motion of a magnetic tape as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 6. 
A method for controlling the motion of a magnetic tape when it is 
located in a tape drive which includes a first reel assembly with a fine-line 

tachometer and a second reel assembly with a fine-line tachometer, 
the first reel assembly being rotatable in a first direction to supply 

magnetic tape and being rotatable in a second direction to take up 
magnetic tape, the second reel assembly being rotatable in the first 

direction to take up magnetic tape from the first reel assembly and being 
rotatable in the second direction to supply magnetic tape to the first 

reel assembly, the method including the steps of: 
   recording data on a magnetic tape wound on the first and second 

reel assemblies by rotating the first and second reel assemblies in the 
first direction in response to fine tachometer pulses produced by the 

fine-line tachometer of the first reel assembly; 
   reversing the directions of the first and second reel assemblies 

for recording data on the magnetic tapes; and 
   recording data on the magnetic tape by rotating the first and 

second reel assemblies in the second direction in response to fine 
tachometer pulses generated by the fine-line tachometer of the second 

reel assembly. 
A method as claimed in Claim 8, wherein the fine-line tachometer of 
the first reel assembly includes means for generating an index pulse upon 

 
each revolution of the first reel assembly and the fine-line tachometer 

of the second reel assembly includes means for generating an index pulse 
upon each revolution of the second reel assembly, the method further 

including the steps of: 
   gating fine tachometer pulses for controlling rotation of the first 

and second reel assemblies in the first direction in response to index 
pulses generated by the fine-line tachometer of the second reel assembly; 

and 
   gating fine tachometer pulses for controlling rotation of the first 

and second reel assemblies in the second direction in response to index 
pulses produced by the fine-line tachometer of the first reel assembly. 
A method for threading a magnetic tape in a tape drive including a 
reel assembly, means on the reel assembly for receiving a magnetic tape 

when the reel assembly is rotated to a threading location, and a fine-line 
tachometer coupled to the reel assembly, the fine-line tachometer 

including means for generating fine-line pulses in response to rotation 
of the reel assembly, the method including the steps of: 

   providing, from the tachometer, an index pulse upon each revolution 
of the reel assembly; 

   aligning the tachometer with respect to the reel assembly so that 
the index pulses are produced when the reel assembly rotates to the 

threading location; 
   securing the fine-line tachometer to the first reel assembly; 

   rotating the reel assembly to the threading location in response to 
fine tachometer pulses and the index pulse generated by the fine-line 

tachometer; and then, 
   advancing a tape to the means for engaging. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
