<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1099021</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AN ARRANGEMENT FOR CLEANING CONTAMINATED CONDENSATE INCLUDING A COMBINED STRIPPER/CONDENSER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09F300	C09F302	D21C1100	D21C1106	D21C1110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09F	C09F	D21C	D21C	D21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09F3	C09F3	D21C11	D21C11	D21C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a method for cleaning unclean condensate, emanated when producing cellulose pulp including evaporation of spent liquor under utilization of a cleaning plant having several condensers, coupled in series, characterized in that process steam from the last evaporation stage and unclean condensate are introduced into a combined stripper/condenser, the process steam and the condensate being brought to flow in opposite directions so that direct heat exchange occurs, resulting in that volatile compounds of the condensate are separated and are taken up by the steam under simultaneous indirect cooling, resulting in condensation of the main part of the process steam, that the remaining process steam is gradually flowing furtheron, the process steam being successively cooled indirectly, resulting in that water and turpentine are first condensed and collected and that methanol is condensed, collected condensate being separated from turpentine, which is removed from the plant and is reintroduced to the stripper/condenser and that methanol is removed from the plant, that principally cleaned condensate is collected at the bottom of the combined stripper/condenser and is removed from the plant or is further purified. The invention also relates to a cleaning plant.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAPSEA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAPSEA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUNDGREN ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUNDGREN, ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Method and arrangement for cleaning contaminated condensate including a combined stripper/condenserTechnical fieldThe invention relates to a method and a plant for cleaning of contaminated condensate emanated from pulp production of semichemical and chemical cellulose pulp including at least evaporation of spent liquor. When producing chemical cellulose pulps any known lignocellulose material , for instance wood in form of chips, are dissolved under utilisation of an acid or alkaline process. What is happening during the cooking is that the main part of the lignin of for instance the wood, and especially the lignin which mainly forms the middle lamella between the uncountable wood fibres goes in solution in the cooking liquid so that the fibres after the digestion end, for example after blowing of the cook according to the batchwise cooking method are separated from each other and form a cellulose pulp. Besides a large part of for instance the lignin content of the wood, a considerable part of the hemicellulose of the wood goes into solution. How much is determined by the pulping degree, which in general is represented as cooking yield in percent. Also a minor part of the wood cellulose content can go into solution. Example of an acid cooking process is the sulphite process and an example of the alkaline cooking process is the sulphate process.Other known alkaline cooking processes are the polysulfide pulping process and processes of soda type (sodium hydroxide) process, where catalysts like some type of quinones compounds can be used. Within the concept sulphate method is for example utilisation of high sulfidity pulping to counter current cooking where white liquor (primarily a mixture of sodium hydroxide and sodium sulphide) is added after a certain time during the cooking phase and utilisation of a chemical treatment of lignocellulose material, prior to the sulphate pulping process. The sulphite method or- process can be divided after the base used in the cooking liquor, as calcium, magnesium, ammonium and sodium. There are sodium and magnesium cooking liquors, which are usually recovered and therefore are actual in this case. After pulping the lignocellulose material, the cooking liquor is separated from the fibres. The spent cooking liquor mentioned as black liquor or spent liquor is mentioned as thin liquor in connection with recovery, the main part of thin liquor being water. The dry solid content in thin liquor ( lignin, hemicellulose, cellulose, residual chemicals, etc.) is for instance within
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Method for purification of unclean condensate, emanated when producing semichemical or chemical cellulose pulp including at least evaporation of spent liquor under utilisation of a cleaning plant having several in series coupled condensers, characterised in, that the main part of vapour generated at the last evaporation stage, i.e. process steam from the last evaporation stage which has the lowest steam pressure, and contaminated condensate are fed into a combined stripper and condenser, the process steam and the unclean condensate being forced to flow in opposite direction so that direct heat exchange takes place and heat is emitted from the steam to the condensate resulting in that volatile compounds in the condensate separate from the condensate and are taken up by the flow of process steam at the same time as indirect cooling occurs resulting in condensation of the main part of the process steam, that the rest of the process steam flows to another condensers, the remaining process steam being cooled down indirectly leading to that contaminated water and tuφentine will be condensed and so collected together and, that methanol thereafter will be condensed, at which the first mentioned collected condensate separate the main part of the tuφentine content which is removed from the plant and the residual condensate leads back to the combined stripper/condenser and that condensed methanol is removed from the plant and primary cleaned condensate collects at the bottom of the combined stripper/condenser and is removed from the plant or will be further purified.
2. Method according to claim 1 , characterised in, that all process steam from the last stage of the evaporation plant, i.e. process steam extracted from the evaporation stage, which has the lowest steam pressure, is introduced into the combined stripper/condenser.
3. Method according to claims 1 - 2, characterised in, that the unclean condensate is introduced into a space above and in connection with the combined stripper/condenser, and that process steam is introduced into a space under and in connection with the combined stripper/condenser, and that the unclean 


 condensate flows in the direction from the top and downwards through the combined stripper/condenser, while the process steam flows in the opposite direction.
4. Method according to claim 3, characterised in, that de-aeration steam from one or more evaporation stages is introduced into a space above or in connection with the combined stripper/condenser.
5. Method according to claims 1 - 3, characterised in, that the primary cleaned condensate is forced to flow downwards through an underlying extension of the combined stripper/condenser and is heated indirectly by steam from de- aeration of one or more evaporation stages, which de-aeration steam is introduced at the under part of the extension, resulting in that the remaining volatile compounds of the condensate is separated from the condensate in gas state and flows upwards and is mixed with the upwards flowing, newly introduced process steam and that a highly purified condensate is collected at the extensions bottom and is removed from the plant.
6. Method according to claim 5, characterised in, that de-aeration steam is completed with admission steam of variable energy content so that the cleanliness of the condensate can be controlled in detail.
7. Method according to claims 5 - 6, characterised in, that remaining part of the indirectly heating de-aeration steam is discharged at the upper part of the underlying extension, and is introduced into the purification plant in the space above and in connection with the combined stripper/condenser.
8. Method according to claims 1 - 7 characterised in, that inert gases and eventually evil smelling sulphur containing gases are removed from the plant by means of an arrangement for creating negative pressure which is connected to the discharge end of the plant.
9. Method according to claims 1 - 8, characterised in, that purification occurs in four stages including four condensers, where the first cleaning stage is performed in a combined stripper/condenser. 

10. Method according to claims 1 - 9, characterised in, that the methanol is collected at the bottom of the last condenser in series, and that the methanol is removed from the plant, a fraction of the removed methanol recirculate above and in connection to the last condenser but one in series.
11. Method according to claims 1 - 


 in, that at least one coolant is supplied to the first condenser, i.e. the combined stripper/condenser at the upper section thereof and is removed at increased temperature from the lower part of the unit alternatively at approximately its centre section.
12. Plant for cleaning of unclean, contaminated, condensate emanated from pulp production of chemical or semi-chemical pulp including at least evaporation of spent liquor, comprising several in series condensers, coupled in series, characterised in, A first unit in form of a combined stripper and condenser, (4,51) having several insertions
(50), through which process steam and unclean, contaminated condensate flowing counter current and in direct contact with each other, which insertions are surrounded by a space intended for through-flow by a coolant and a space connected to the unit on its topside (3) and underside (7,67), which last mentioned space simultaneously serves as a bottom of the unit, means for supply of contaminated condensate to a space at the top side (1,2,47) of the unit, means (6,60) for supply of process steam to the space (7,67) at the underside of the unit, means (8,49) for supply of coolant at one end of the unit and means (9,65) for removal of heated coolant at the opposite end of the unit, means (18,19,68) for removal of primary cleaned condensate from the bottom (7,44,67) of the unit, further condensers (5,11,13,52,53,54) for residual, not condensed process, having several insertions (50) through which only process steam and steam generated from condensate, flow, which insertions are surrounded by a closed space intended for through flow by a coolant, resulting in condensation in series of contaminated water and tuφentine in a mixture and methanol and a space (3,10,12,67,71,69) connected to respective condenser on their top sides and bottom sides, means (8,49,14) for supply of coolant at one end of the condensers and means ( 9,65, 15) for removal of heated coolant at the opposite end of the condensers means ( 26,21,37,22) for removal of the above mentioned mixed condensate from the space (10,71) at the underside of a condenser, and 


 means (20,23) for separation of the main part of the tuφentine content of the mixed condensate and means (24) for removal of tuφentine from the plant, and means ( 25,27,28,29,2) for transport of the remaining condensate back to the space (3) in the first unit where the unclean condensate is introduced, means (32,31 ,33,70) for removal of condensed methanol from the space at the bottom at the underside of the subsequent condenser (13,54) out of the plant.
13. Plant according to claim 12, characterised in; that insertion consist of tubes (50).
14. Plant according to claim 12, characterised in; that insertion consist of lamellae.
15. Plant according to claims 12 - 14, characterised in; that the plant also comprises means (36) for supply of de-aeration steam from one or more evaporation stages to the space (3) at the first unit where contaminated condensate is supplied.
16. Plant according to claims 12 - 14, characterised in; that the first unit in the form of a combined stripper/condenser is completed with a downwards extension (38) having insertions (50) through which principally cleaned condensate flows, which insertions (50) are surrounded of a closed space intended for through-flow by primarily de-aeration steam from one ore more evaporation stages counter current with the primary cleaned condensate, the extension is completed with a bottom (44) from which high-grade cleaned condensate is removed by previously mentioned means (18,19) and means (39,40,41,42,43,36) for supply of mentioned steam and removal of remaining steam from the indirect heating.
17. Plant according to claim 16, characterised in; that the insertion consist of tubes (50).
18. Plant according to claims 12 - 17, characterised in; that at the lower part of the last condenser in series (13) is a device (17) arranged for creating of a negative pressure inside of the insertions of the condensers and connecting spaces and for removal of mainly inert gases and eventually evil smelling sulphur containing gases. 

19. Plant according to claims 12 - 18, characterised in; that the number of the condensers (4,5,11 ,13,51 ,52,53,54) is four with the first one as a combined stripper and condenser (4,51).
20. Plant according to claims 12 - 19, characterised in; that there are means (34,35) for the methanol which is removed from the plant, and for recirculation of that methanol to the space (12) above the last condenser but one in series.
21. Plant according to claim 13, characterised in; that means for increased contact surface between the condensate and the stripper steam is inserted inside the tubes (50).
22. Plant according to claim 21 , characterised in; that means consist of two joined elongated elements which in cross section form a cross, or a folded sheet iron creating a wave pattern.
23. Plant according to claim 22, characterised in; the means is twisted along its longitudinal axis giving a spiral pattern. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
