<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1099920</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cryogenic system for producing oxygen-enriched air
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25J304	F25J304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25J	F25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25J3	F25J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for producing enriched air wherein a
multistage compressor is integrated with a cryogenic

air separation plant and serves to compress feed air
for the plant while also compressing both air and

oxygen fluid from the plant to produce the enriched
air


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to cryogenic air
separation and, more particularly, to the production of
enriched air.FR-A-2753638, which is considered as the closest prior art, discloses in figure 3 a system
wherein a feed air stream is compressed by a compressor, with a first portion of the
compressed feed air being passed into a cryogenic air separation plant from which an
oxygen stream is withdrawn and mixed with a second portion of the compressed feed air in
order to form oxygen enriched air. In this system, oxygen enriched air is provided at the
operational pressure of the air separation plant.Many industrial processes, such as combustion and
chemical oxidation, require enriched air as a process
input. Often the enriched air is required by the
industrial process at a relatively high pressure,
typically at a pressure much higher than that at which
an air separation plant operates. This creates an
inefficiency.Accordingly it is an object of this invention to
provide a system for producing enriched air, especially
relatively high pressure enriched air, which employs a
cryogenic air separation plant and which operates with
improved efficiency over conventional systems for
providing enriched air.The above object, is
attained by the present invention,
one aspect of which is a
method for producing oxygen enriched air
according to claim 1.  Another aspect of the invention is an
apparatus for producing oxygen enriched air
according to claim 6.As used herein the term "oxygen fluid" means a
fluid having an oxygen concentration of at least 40
mole percent, preferably at least 80 mole percent, most
preferably at least 95 mole percent. As used herein the term "column" means a
distillation or fractionation column or zone, i.e. a
contacting column or zone, wherein liquid and vapor
phases are countercurrently contacted to effect
separation of a fluid mixture, as for example, by
contacting of the vapor and liquid phases on a series
of vertically spaced trays or plates mounted within the
column and/or on packing elements such as structured or
random packing. For a further discussion of
distillation columns, see the Chemical Engineer's
Handbook, fifth edition, edited by R. H. Perry and
C. H. Chilton, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York,
Section 13, The Continuous Distillation Process.The term "double column" is used to mean a higher
pressure column having its upper portion in heat
exchange relation with the lower portion of a lower
pressure column. A further discussion of double
columns appears in Ruheman "The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for producing oxygen enriched air (32) comprising:

(A) passing feed air (2) to a multistage compressor (102) comprising an initial
stage (60) and a final stage (61), compressing the feed air in the multistage

compressor to produce compressed feed air(66), and passing a first portion (6) of
the compressed feed air from a position between the initial stage and the final

stage into a cryogenic air separation plant (120);
(B) separating compressed feed air (12, 16) in the cryogenic air separation plant (120)
by cryogenic rectification to produce oxygen fluid(26);
(C) passing oxygen fluid (26) from the cryogenic air separation plant to the multistage
compressor (102) at a position between the initial stage (60) and the final stage

(61), and mixing oxygen fluid (26) within the multistage compressor with a
second portion (28) of the compressed feed air (66) to produce oxygen enriched

air(67); and
(D) further compressing the oxygen enriched air (67) within the multistage
compressor (102) and recovering further compressed oxygen enriched air (32)

from the multistage compressor.
The method of claim 1 wherein the oxygen fluid (26) is passed from the cryogenic air
separation plant (120) to the multistage compressor (102) at the same stage of

compression as the first portion (6) of the feed air (66) was taken for passage into the
cryogenic air separation plant.
The method of claim 1 wherein the feed air (2) is compressed through at least two
stages (60, 62, 63, 64) of the multistage compressor (102) to produce the compressed

feed air (66).
The method of claim 1 wherein the oxygen enriched air (67) is further compressed
through at least two stages (63, 64, 65, 61) of the multistage compressor (102).
The method of claim 1 further comprising compressing another feed air stream (40) and
passing a portion (44) of said stream into the cryogenic air separation plant (120), and

combusting another portion (48) of said stream with fuel (50) to produce hot gas (52)
and thereafter expanding the hot gas in a turbine (134). 
Apparatus for producing oxygen enriched air (32) comprising:

(A) a multistage compressor (102) comprising an initial stage (60) and a final stage
(61), and means for passing feed air (2) to the initial stage of the multistage

compressor;
(B) a cryogenic air separation plant (120) and means for passing feed air (6) from the
multistage compressor (102) to the cryogenic air separation plant, said means

communicating with the multistage compressor downstream of the initial stage
(60);
(C) means for passing oxygen fluid (26) from the cryogenic air separation plant (120)
to the multistage compressor (102) at a point upstream of the final stage (61); and
(D) means for recovering oxygen enriched air (32) from the final stage (61) of the
multistage compressor (102).
The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the means for passing oxygen fluid (26) to the
multistage compressor communicates with the multistage compressor (102) at the same

stage of compression as where the means for passing feed air (6) to the cryogenic air
separation plant (120) communicates with the multistage compressor.
The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the multistage compressor comprises a plurality of
intermediate stages (62, 63; 64, 65) between the initial stage (60) and the final stage

(61).
The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a gas turbine having a gas turbine
compressor (130), a combustor (132) and a turbine (134), means for passing feed air

(40) to the gas turbine compressor, means for passing feed air (44) from the gas turbine
compressor to the cryogenic air separation plant (120), means for passing feed air (48)

from the gas turbine compressor to the combustor, and means for passing hot gas (52)
from the combustor to the turbine.
The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising means for passing nitrogen (36) from the
cryogenic air separation plant (120) to the combustor (132).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
