<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1066620</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DATA PATH CLOCK SKEW MANAGEMENT IN A DYNAMIC POWER MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F110	G06F110	G06F112	G06F112	G06F132	G06F132	G09G518	G09G518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G09G5	G09G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A clock gating apparatus that is cost efficient and allows power conservation is presented. The clock gating apparatus is implemented to allow data paths, that are used to process data, to be enabled or disabled as desired while preventing the clock-skew problem. The clock gating apparatus includes a plurality of clock gating circuits, wherein one clock gating circuit is implemented for each data path. In a first embodiment, while all the data paths propagate data in a first direction and eventually merge together at a node, the clock gating circuits are connected together in a cascaded fashion to propagate a clock signal in a second direction opposite from the first direction. In a second embodiment, parallel data paths that are mutually exclusive of each other propagate data in a first direction and the clock gating circuits are connected together in a cascaded fashion to propagate a clock signal in a second direction opposite from the first direction.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TJANDRASUWITA IGNATIUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TJANDRASUWITA, IGNATIUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TJANDRASUWITA IGNATIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TJANDRASUWITA, IGNATIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DATA PATH CLOCK SKEW MANAGEMENT IN A DYNAMIC POWER MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe invention generally relates to computer systems, and more particularly relates to computer power management through the use of clock gating circuitry.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION With the advances of semiconductor and computer technology, computer systems are becoming faster and at the same time smaller in size. Desk-top and even lap-top computer systems now possess processing speeds of main-frame computers that used to fill up a small room. Even hand-held computer systems such as personal digital assistants (PDA), which are becoming more popular, are getting more powerful. As computer systems become more miniaturized and inexpensive, more demands are constantly being required of them as well. For instance, they are being asked to perform more time-consuming and complex tasks involving graphics and video processing.At the same time, as computer systems become more powerful and more miniaturized, power-conservation also presents a difficult challenge to overcome. Because of their small size, hand-held computer systems are powered by battery which have limited operating duration. Since more power is required for faster and more powerful processors, innovative solutions are required to conserve power and thereby extend the battery operating duration.Within each computer system are many integrated circuits designed to perform different functions such as a memory controller, a hard disk controller, a graphics/video controller, a communications controller, and other peripheral controllers. As is well-known, each of these integrated circuits is supplied a clock signal to be used as a timing reference in synchronizing the operation of the integrated circuit. In general, power consumption increases as a result of the integrated circuit being clocked. Periodically, an integrated circuit is not needed and is idle insofar as system functionality is concerned. At other times, while a sub-circuit (e.g., combination logic and data path) that performs data processing and transferring in the integrated circuit is still running, other sub- circuits in the integrated circuit are idle. Because these circuits continue to receive a clock signal, their respective internal circuits continue to be exercised and consume significant power, even while they remain idle. Accordingly, to conserve power, the clock signal to idle circuits is disabled through the use of clock gating circuitry.Referring now to Figure 1 illustrating a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A clock gating apparatus coupled to a plurality of data paths connected to each other, the data paths processing data such that all data propagates in a first direction, the clock gating apparatus comprising clock gating circuits connected to predetermined locations on the data paths and connected to each other in a cascading fashion such that a clock signal propagates in a second direction opposite that of the first direction, each clock gating circuit coupled to a corresponding one of the data paths allowing the clock gating circuit to enable or disable the corresponding data path as desired.
2. The clock gating apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the data paths are parallel data paths that eventually merge together into a single data paths.
3. The clock gating apparatus of claim 2, wherein data propagates along a plurality of the parallel data paths at any given time.
4. The clock gating apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the data paths diverge from a common node and data propagates along only one of the data paths at any given time.
5. The clock gating apparatus of claim 1 , wherein each of the clock gating circuits comprising: a latch circuit receiving as input data from the corresponding data path, the latch circuit providing an output that is connected to a subsequent data path in the first direction; and a logic-gate receiving the cascaded clock signal and a control signal as inputs, the logic- gate providing an output to the latch circuit and a subsequent clock gating circuit in the second direction.
6. The clock gating apparatus of claim 5, wherein the latch circuit is a D-type latch.
7. The clock gating apparatus of claim 5, wherein the logic-gate is an AND-gate and the control signal is an enable signal.
8. The clock gating apparatus of claim 7, wherein the logic-gate is an OR-gate and the control signal is a disable signal.
9. The clock gating apparatus of claim 3, wherein the data paths are for graphics, video, and cursor data processing.
18 

10. The clock gating apparatus of claim 4, wherein the data paths are for Thin Film Transistors (TFT) and Super Twisted Nematic (STN) liquid crystal displays (LCD).
11. A computer system comprising: a central processor; memory coupled to the central processor; a memory controller coupled to the central processor; a display controller coupled to the central processor, the display controller comprising a clock gating apparatus coupled to a plurality of data paths connected to each other, the data paths processing data such that all data propagates in a first direction, the clock gating apparatus comprising clock gating circuits connected to predetermined locations on the data paths and connected to each other in a cascading fashion such that a clock signal propagates in a second direction opposite that of the first direction, each clock gating circuit coupled to a corresponding one of the data paths allowing the clock gating circuit to enable or disable the corresponding data path as desired
12. The computer system of claim 11 , wherein the data paths are parallel data paths that eventually merge together into a single data paths.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein data is propagated along any number of the parallel data paths at any given time.
14. The computer system of claim 11 , wherein the data paths diverge from a common node and data is propagated along only one of the data paths at any given time.
15. The computer system of claim 11 , wherein each of the clock gating circuits comprising: a latch circuit receiving as input data from the corresponding data path, the latch circuit providing an output to a subsequent data path in the first direction; and a logic-gate receiving the cascaded clock signal and a control signal as inputs, the logic- gate providing an output to the latch circuit and a subsequent clock gating circuit in the second direction.
16. In a circuit having a plurality of data paths coupled to each other for processing data such that data propagates in a first direction, a method to conserve power comprising the steps of: in a clock gating apparatus having a plurality of clock gating circuits connected to
19 


predetermined locations on the data paths and connected together such that the clock gating circuits are cascading in a second direction opposite to that of the first direction, each of the clock gating circuits connected to a corresponding data path, propagating a clock signal in the second direction; and enabling only the data paths in use by enabling the corresponding clock gating circuits.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the data paths are parallel data paths that eventually merge together into a single data paths.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein any number of the parallel data paths is enabled at any given time.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the data paths diverge from a common node and only one of the data paths is enabled at any given time.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein each of the clock gating circuits comprising: a latch circuit receiving as input data from the corresponding data path, the latch circuit providing an output that is connected to a subsequent data path in the first direction; and a logic-gate receiving the cascaded clock signal and a control signal as inputs, the logic- gate providing an output to the latch circuit and a subsequent clock gating circuit in the second direction
20 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
