<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1169000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOLDING WHEELCHAIR WITH A POSITIONING ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G500	A61G504	A61G508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61G	A61G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G5	A61G5	A61G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A foldable wheelchair includes a pair of side frames each of which have generally horizontal upper and lower members which are connected by generally vertical front and back legs. A pair of cross arms are located between the side frames and each arm has a base portion connected to a lower side frame member. A top portion of each cross arm is connected to an upper side frame member through a positioning link. The side frames are laterally and vertically positioned with respect to each other by a pair of positioning braces each located on a base portion of a different cross brace. Each brace contacts the top portion of the remaining cross brace and thus positions the side frame. The wheelchair has a removable rigid seat to permit access to the cross braces so the wheelchair can be folded.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FOLDING WHEELCHAIR WITH A POSITIONING ASSEMBLYFIELD OF INVENTIONFoldable wheelchairs including power wheelchairs usually contain a cross brace structure. The cross brace assembly of the present invention is self-supporting and has a positioning assembly so that the side frames of the wheelchair can be laterally and vertically positioned with respect to one another.BACKGROUND OF INVENTION Foldable wheelchairs have been known for some time, and the advantages are numerous with respect to managing the wheelchair when it is not in use, or for transportation of the chair. Mostly this feature has been provided for relatively light-weight, manual wheelchairs. However, the same feature is an advantage for power wheelchair users who need to transport, and even occasionally to store their wheelchair. U.S. Patent No. 4,840,390 relates to a folding mechanism for a power wheelchair which is used with a sling-type seat. However, many users prefer or even require rigid seating as provided by a van seat or a captain's seat structure. Thus, the purpose of the present invention is to provide a folding arrangement which when opened will provide a frame structure that can be used to support a rigid seat assembly such as a van seat or a recliner structure. The current invention is suitable for use on a power wheelchair; however, it is envisioned that it could also be used on a foldable manual wheelchair. 

 SUMMARY OF INVENTIONA positioning brace located on the base portion of one cross arm of a wheelchair supports the top portion of the remaining cross brace while a positioning link acts to position an upper horizontal and lower horizontal member of a side frame in a generally upright position. A corresponding position brace and positioning link are located on the other cross bar as well.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG. 1 is a top perspective view of a collapsible mid-wheel drive power wheelchair which can utilize the cross brace assembly in accordance with the present invention;FIG. 2 is a top perspective view of a front-wheel drive wheelchair chassis showing the present cross brace assembly;FIG. 3 is a front elevation view showing the positional brace located on a pair of cross arms of a foldable wheelchair; FIG. 4 is a top view of the cross brace of FIG. 3; FIG. 5 is a top perspective view of the cross brace assembly of the present invention in an open position and attached to the side frame member of a front-wheel drive wheelchair; FIG. 6 is a front-view of the cross brace assembly in a folded position; andFIG.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS
1 . A cross brace assembly for use on a wheelchair having a seat and at least two wheels and having a first frame member opposing a second side member, each of said side frames respectively having a top portion which supports a portion of a wheelchair seat and having a second lower portion which supports at least one of the wheels of the wheelchair, said cross brace assembly comprising; a pair of cross arms having an intermediate pivot point each of said arms having a lower end connected to the lower portion of one of said side frame members so as to pivot about an axis concentric with said lower portion of said side frame member and further including; a support attached to one of said cross arms and which supports the other of said cross arms when the cross brace assembly is in an open position.
2. A cross brace assembly as set forth in claim 1 , wherein said cross brace assembly further comprises two positioning links each of which is pivotally connected with respect to a respective one of the top portion of said side frame members at one end and having an opposing end which engages a respective one of said cross arms.
3. A cross brace assembly as set forth in claim 2, wherein each of said cross arms has one of said supports and wherein each of said 


supports has at least a vertical portion which extends upward from a lower portion of a respective one of said cross arms and an engagement area which contacts an upper portion of the other of said cross arms.
4. A cross brace assembly as set forth in claim 3, wherein the upper portions and lower portions of said cross arms are separated by said pivot point.
5. A cross brace assembly as set forth in claim 4, wherein said pivot point includes a space assembly which maintains the longitudinal axes of said cross arms in a parallel position.
6. A cross brace assembly as set forth in claim 5, wherein said pivot point comprises a first and second coved washer separated by a low friction washer bearing.
7. A collapsible wheelchair comprising; a first and second side frame assembly each having a top frame member and a lower frame member, which in combination in an open position support a rigid seat, and a cross brace assembly interconnecting side frame assemblies and comprising; first and second cross arms each of which has a lower portion pivotally connected to a respective one of said lower side frame 


members, and an upper portion located upward of a scissoring-type pivot point between said cross arms; each of said cross arms having a support member which supports an upper end of the other of said cross arms when said cross brace assembly is in an open position.
8. A collapsible wheelchair as set forth in claim 7, wherein said cross brace assembly further comprises first and second positioning links each respectively engaging an upper portion of said side frame assembly and an upper portion of one of said cross arms.
9. A cross brace assembly as set forth in claim 8, wherein each of said supports has a vertically oriented component and a support surface, said support surface facing upward relative to the surface on which the chair rests and when the chair is in an open position engaging a surface of the respective cross arm facing downward relative to the surface on which the chair rests.
10. A wheelchair, comprising; a wheelchair frame including two side frames, each side frame having a generally horizontal lower member and a generally horizontal upper member; 


 a pair of cross arms, each cross arm at a base portion thereof connected to the remaining said lower side frame member, the top portion of each cross arm being connected to a positioning link; each said positioning link being connected to a different upper side frame member; at least one said cross arms at the base portion thereof having a positioning brace for locating the top portion of the remaining cross brace so that the same corresponding side frame is substantially vertically positioned and laterally positioned at a predetermined distance with respect to the remaining side frame. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
