<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1210391</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PAVEMENT PATCH MATERIAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L9500	C08L9500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L95	C08L95	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The pavement patch composition of the present invention comprises a lightweight aggregate (14) and highly modified polymer asphalt binder (12). The composition is formed by heating the binder to a flowable state, mixing the flowable binder with a lightweight aggregate, and then allowing it to cool into a solid form. The pavement patch composition (10) is used to repair voids in pavement, such as pot holes, cracks and depressions. It is applied by heating solid pavement patch composition to a flowable state and applying it to the void, or on a surface in need of repair, and then allowed to cool. The resulting patch is self-adhering, strong and flexible. The formulation of the pavement patch composition may be adjusted for specific use in a cold climate, a moderate climate, a warmer climate, or for use in various traffic applications.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRAFCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRAFCO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEHOVITS JAMES G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKISON ROBERT LOWEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEHOVITS, JAMES, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKISON, ROBERT, LOWEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PAVEMENT PATCH MATERIAL Field of the Invention The invention relates to compositions for use in patching and filling voids in pavement or concrete and to methods of making and applying the compositions.Background of the Invention Typical compositions which are used to patch and fill voids such as cracks, depressions, potholes, deteriorated joints, and other defects in pavements are composed of an asphaltic binder or adhesive, and a mineral aggregate.Mineral aggregate is generally defined as various sources of rock, gravel, sand, crushed stone, or cinders that are used in asphalt or concrete compositions to provide the bulk of the composition and to support the loads imposed by traffic. The specific gravity of typical aggregate ranges from approximately 2.5 to 2.8.The binders used in typical patching mixes are various types of asphalt products. For hot mix patching mixes, asphalt cement is used. For cold applied patching mixes, either emulsified (water based) or cutback (solvent cut) asphalt is used. The function of the binder is to hold the aggregate fraction together to provide a durable product with load carrying capabilities. The specific gravity of typical asphalt binders is approximately 0.99 to 1.04.Asphalt binders change in stiffness or consistency with variations in temperature. At low temperatures, (typically below 32° Fahrenheit (F)), asphalt binders are stiff and brittle. At high temperatures, (above 100° to 150° F) asphalt binders are fluids. The changes in stiffness of asphalt binders are gradual softening with temperature increases, and gradual stiffening with temperature decreases. Typical asphalt binders, when tested for softening point in accordance with ASTM D36, "Test Method for Softening Point of Bitumen (Ring and Ball Apparatus)" have values ranging from approximately 100° F for very soft materials to approximately 130° F for very stiff materials. The softening point temperature for asphalt binders indicates the approximate temperature at which it reaches a flowable thick liquid consistency.Soft asphalts become brittle at lower temperatures then stiffer asphalts. 

 In patching mixtures, typical proportions of asphaltic binder and aggregate are approximately 5 to 10 percent binder by total weight of the mixture, and 90 to 95 percent aggregate fraction. Due to the differences in specific gravity of the asphalt binder and aggregate, the proportions by volume are different from those indicated by weight. By volume, the proportion of binder typically is 12 to 23 percent and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims What is claimed:
1. A pavement patching composition comprising: (a) a lightweight aggregate; and, (b) a polymer modified asphalt binder.
2. The composition of claim 1 wherein the composition comprises;
(a) approximately 30% to approximately 70% of the lightweight aggregate, by weight; and, (b) approximately 30 % to approximately 70% of the polymer modified asphalt binder.
3. The composition of claim 1 wherein the lightweight aggregate has a specific gravity no greater than 2.2.
4. The composition of claim 3 wherein the lightweight aggregate has a specific gravity between 1.1 and 1.8.
5. The composition of claim 4 wherein the lightweight aggregate comprises an expanded coarse aggregate and a lightweight sand.
6. The composition of claim 5 wherein the composition has at least 8% by weight of expanded coarse aggregate and at least 42% by weight of lightweight sand.
7. The composition of claim 4 wherein the lightweight aggregate comprises an expanded aggregate having a specific gravity of between 1.1 and 1.5.
8. The composition of claim 4 wherein the lightweight aggregate comprises sand having a specific gravity of between 1.2 and 1.8. 

9. The composition of claim 8 wherein the sand comprises a lightweight sand having a specific gravity of between 1.32 and 1.66.
10. The composition of claim 8 wherein the sand comprises a lightweight sand, the lightweight aggregate consists only of the lightweight sand, and the composition comprises at least 50% by weight of the lightweight sand.
11. The composition of claim 8 wherein the lightweight aggregate further comprises an expanded aggregate.
12. The composition of claim 11 wherein the expanded aggregate is selected from the group consisting of expanded shale and expanded clay.
13. The composition of claim 12 wherein the expanded aggregate comprises a lightweight coarse aggregate having a specific gravity of between 1.16 and 1.33.
14. The composition of claim 1 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder has a penetration of between 20 and 500.
15. The composition of claim 14 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder comprises a polymer and a surfactant.
16. The composition of claim 15 wherein the polymer comprises an elastomer or a plastomer.
17. The composition of claim 16 wherein the polymer comprises at least one of styrene-butadiene-styrene block co-polymer, styrene-isoprene-styrene block copolymer, styrene-ethylene butylene-styrene block co-polymers, styrene butadiene rubber, butadiene-acrylonitrile, butadiene, natural isoprene, synthetic isoprene, polychloroprene, butyl rubber, butene polymers, isobutyl polymers, and ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer. 

18. The composition of claim 16 wherein the composition is comprised of between 4% and 12% by weight of polymer.
19. The composition of claim 16 wherein the surfactant comprises at least one of polyamines and polyalkylene glycols.
20. The composition of claim 19 wherein the surfactant comprises 30% to 60% polyamines and polyalkelene glycols.
21. The composition of claim 15 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder further comprises a processing oil.
22. The composition of claim 21 wherein the processing oil comprises a napthenic oil.
23. The composition of claim 22 wherein the napthenic oil has an Aniline Point of between 150° and 175° F and a Saybolt viscosity of between 1125 SUS and 1325 SUS at 100° F.
24. The composition of claim 21 wherein the processing oil comprises a paraffinnic oil or an aromatic oil.
25. The composition of claim 15 wherein the polymer modified asphalt further comprises an air blown asphalt.
26. The composition of claim 25 wherein the air blown asphalt comprises an ASTM D 312 Type III or Type IV asphalt. 


27. The composition of claim 15 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder further comprises at least one of a wax, a resin, a reclaimed rubber, and an antioxidant.
28. The composition of claim 1 wherein the composition comprises;
(a) approximately 50% to 55% of the lightweight aggregate, by weight; and
(b) approximately 45% to 50% of the polymer modified asphalt binder, by weight.
29. The composition of claim 28 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder comprises:
(a) an asphalt; and
(b) a polymer.
30. The composition of claim 29 wherein the asphalt binder further comprises:
(a) a surfactant;
(b) a processing oil; and
(c) an air blown asphalt.
31. The composition of claim 1 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder comprises between approximately 78 % and approximately 88 % by weight asphalt having an ASTM D 5 Penetration value of between 50 and 200, between approximately 3% and approximately 10% by weight of a processing oil, between approximately 4% and approximately 12% by weight of polymer, and as much as approximately 1 % by weight of a surfactant.
32. The composition of claim 31 wherein the lightweight aggregate comprises at least 80% by weight of a lightweight sand and no more than 20% by weight of an expanded lightweight coarse aggregate. 

33. The composition of claim 31 wherein all of the lightweight aggregate consists of a lightweight sand.
34. The composition of claim 1 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder comprises between approximately 60% and approximately 90% by weight asphalt having an ASTM D 5 Penetration value of between approximately 50 and approximately 200, no more than approximately 5% by weight of a processing oil, between approximately 4% and approximately 12% by weight of polymer, no more than approximately 1 % by weight of a surfactant, and no more than approximately 30% by weight of an air blown asphalt.
35. The composition of claim 34 wherein the lightweight aggregate comprises at least 80% by weight of a lightweight sand and no more than 20% by weight of an expanded lightweight coarse aggregate.
36. The composition of claim 34 wherein all of the lightweight aggregate consists of a lightweight sand.
37. The composition of claim 1 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder comprises between approximately 60% and approximately 95% by weight asphalt having an ASTM D 5 Penetration value of between approximately 50 and approximately 200, between approximately 4% and approximately 12% by weight of polymer, no more than approximately 1 % by weight of a surfactant, and no more than approximately 30% by weight of an air blown asphalt.
38. The composition of claim 37 wherein the lightweight aggregate comprises at least 80% by weight of a lightweight sand and no more than 20% by weight of an expanded lightweight coarse aggregate.
39. The composition of claim 37 wherein all of the lightweight aggregate consists of a lightweight sand. 

40. The composition of claim 1 wherein the composition comprises:
(a) approximately 46 % by weight polymer modified asphalt binder with the polymer modified asphalt binder comprised of approximately 90% by weight asphalt having an ASTM D 5 penetration of approximately
50 to 70, approximately 9% by weight of polymer, and approximately 1 % by weight of a surfactant; and
(b) approximately 54 % by weight of the lightweight aggregate with the lightweight aggregate comprised of approximately 82 % by weight of a lightweight sand and approximately 18% of a lightweight coarse aggregate.
41. The composition of claim 1 wherein the polymer modified asphalt binder comprises an asphalt and a polymer wherein the polymer is selected from the group consisting of:
(a) styrene-butadiene-styrene block co-polymer;
(b) styrene-isoprene-styrene block co-polymer;
(c) styrene-ethylene butylene-styrene block co-polymers;
(d) styrene butadiene rubber; (e) butadiene-acrylonitrile;
(f) butadiene;
(g) natural isoprene; (h) synthetic isoprene; (i) polychloroprene; (j) butyl rubber;
(k) butene polymers;
(1) isobutyl polymers; and,
(m) ethylene vinyl acetate. 

42. The composition of claim 1 wherein the composition comprises:
(a) between 30% and 70% of binder by total weight of the composition comprising:
(1) an asphalt having a penetration value between 20 and 500; (2) polymer;
(3) surfactant;
(b) at least 8% by weight of expanded lightweight coarse aggregate having a specific gravity of no greater than 1.5; and,
(c) at least 42% by weight of lightweight sand having a specific gravity of no greater than 1.8.
43. The composition of claim 1 wherein the composition comprises:
(a) between 45 % and 50% of binder by total weight of the composition comprising: a. an asphalt having a pen value of between 20 and 500; b. one or more polymers selected from the group consisting of; i. styrene-butadiene-styrene block co-polymer; ii. styrene-isoprene-styrene block co-polymer; iii. styrene-ethylene butylene-styrene block co-polymers; iv. styrene butadiene rubber; v. butadiene-acrylonitrile; vi. butadiene; vii. natural isoprene; viii. synthetic isoprene; ix. polychloroprene; x. butyl rubber; xi. butene polymers; xii. isobutyl polymers; and, xiii. ethylene vinyl acetate. c. surfactant; and,
(b) the lightweight aggregate comprising: 


 a. at least 8% by weight of expanded aggregate; and, b. at least 42% by weight of sand.
44. A method of making a pavement patch composition comprising the steps of: (a) providing a source of a highly modified polymer asphalt binder;
(b) adding a light-weight aggregate to the modified polymer asphalt binder, to form a pavement patch composition; and
(c) heating the pavement patch composition to a temperature of between approximate 350 °F and approximately 410 °F.
45. A method as defined in claim 44 wherein the pavement patch composition comprises:
(a) approximately 30% to 70% light weight aggregate, by total weight of the composition; and, (b) approximately 30 % to 70% polymer asphalt binder, by total weight of the composition.
46. A method as defined in claim 44 wherein the pavement patch composition comprises: (a) approximately 45% to 50 % light weight aggregate, by total weight of the composition; and,
(b) approximately 50% to 55% polymer asphalt binder, by total weight of the composition.
47. A method of making a pavement patch composition as defined in claim 44, wherein the step of adding comprises heating clay or shale to a temperature of approximately 2000 °F, wherein the heating step expands the clay or shale and produces a lightweight aggregate.
48. A method of repairing a void in pavements comprising the steps of: (a) providing a pavement patch composition; 


 (b) heating the pavement patch composition to a temperature of between approximate 375°F and approximately 410 °F;
(c) preparing the void;
(d) pouring the pavement patch composition into the void; (e) leveling the pavement patch composition to a desired height; and
(f) allowing the pavement patch composition to cool.
49. A method as defined in claim 48 wherein the pavement patch composition is formulated for use in a climate having a temperature range not greater than approximately 100°F (38°C).
50. A method as defined in claim 48 wherein the pavement patch composition is formulated for use in a climate having a temperature range of approximately 110°F (43°C)- 0°F (18°C).
51. A method as defined in claim 48 wherein the pavement patch composition is formulated for use in a climate having a temperature range between approximately 120°F (49°C)-20 °F (-7°C).
52. A method as defined in claim 48, wherein a recessed pavement surface defines the void and further comprising, after the pouring step, self-adhering the pavement patch material to the void
53. A method as defined in claim 48, wherein the lightweight aggregate comprises not greater than 100 weight percent expanded lightweight aggregate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
