<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1061490</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Digital interconnection of electronics entertainment equipment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08C1916	G08C1928	H04B120	H04B120	H04L1228	H04L1228	H04L1240	H04L1240	H04L1264	H04L1264	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08C	G08C	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08C19	G08C19	H04B1	H04B1	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and systems are disclosed for setting up a universal remote
control (10) for operation with a system having devices to be controlled such as

a TV (12), VCR (14) and/or electronics appliances, wherein the devices are
preferably interconnected. One method includes the steps of having the devices

to be controlled provide a listing of the capabilities of each device, recognizing
a single set of standard abstract feature indicators; processing said indicators

and mapping said indicators into specific IR codes and keys according to said
list of capabilities of said controlled device. One embodiment is optimized for

use with a virtual remote control (10), wherein only icons corresponding to
related capabilities is displayed on a touch screen of the virtual remote control

(1).

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSAL ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSAL ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONWAY JAMES N JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYES PATRICK H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNS GREGORY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONWAY, JAMES N., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYNES, PATRICK H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNS, GREGORY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In an electronic system, such as an entertainment system, to be remotely
operated, it is advantageous for a remote control to be able to configure itself to match
the capabilities of the particular appliance to be controlled at that particular time by the
remote control. In those devices known as universal remote controls, this capability
is particularly useful since such remote controls have a generally generic keypad layout
that can be used to control different remotely operable devices. Corresponding U.S.
Patent Application Serial No. 09/121,229 filed on July 23, 1998 in the name of
Universal Electronics Inc. and entitled "Universal Remote Control System With Device
Activated Setup," which is incorporated herein by reference, discloses a method
wherein a newly installed consumer electronic appliance activates the setup of an
existing universal remote control by transmitting to the remote control a signal
identifying the type of appliance just installed and the infrared ("IR") remote control
format to which it responds.It has been found that additional information is required after the device
activated setup; that is, even after the device activated setup identification process has
taken place, the exact capabilities of the device to be remotely controlled are still not
completely known to the remote control. For example, while the device may have
identified itself as a Sony TV responding to Sony's infrared control format, the remote 
control still does not know whether this particular model of Sony TV is equipped with
picture-in-picture, surround sound, or other features which are not necessarily available
on every model of TV set Sony builds and/or sells.Methods have been considered to expand the code used during the device
activated setup to allow unique identification of each specific model of every
manufacturer's range of devices. However, for practical purposes, storing a cross-reference
to every possible permutation and combination of features within a preprogrammed
universal remote control is not feasible, either from a memory space or
a non-obsolescence standpoint. The present invention is directed to, among other
objects, providing a viable solution to the problem.Various methods and systems in which the invention is embodied are
provided for setting up a universal remote control for operation with a system
having devices to be controlled such as a TV, VCR and/or electronics
appliances, wherein the devices are preferably interconnected.One method includes the steps of having the devices to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for setting up a control unit for operation with a device to be
controlled comprising the steps of:


transmitting from said control unit to said device a request for
configuration information;
receiving from said device a set of function indicators, each of said
indicators corresponding to at least one function to be controlled from a listing

of controllable functions;
utilizing at least one of said function indicators to configure said control
device; and
storing the resulting configuration information for use.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of storing the resulting
configuration information comprises storing the information in the control unit.
The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the set of function indicators
is a single set of respective standard feature indicators, each standard feature

indicator having a corresponding icon.
The method of any one of the preceding claims further comprising the
step of duplicating on said control device only those functions which are

utilized by said device to be controlled.
The method of any one of the preceding claims further comprising the
step of displaying on said control unit an icon corresponding to a respective

function of said device to be controlled.
The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step of
transmitting from said control unit comprises the step of conveying

configuration information between the control unit and the device to be
controlled via an encoding scheme and a communications protocol, wherein the

step of conveying preferably comprises utilizing an industry standard protocol.
The method of any one of the preceding claims further comprising
defining a set of available functions of each device to be controlled and

assigning a unique numeric identifier to each of said functions.
The method claim 7 further including the step of grouping related
available functions under a single designator.
The method of claim 7 or claim 8 including the step of reserving at least
one code for indicating that data following is a definition of a new infrared code

and corresponding key annotation.
The method of any of the preceding claims comprising transmitting from
said device the set of function indicators.
The method of claim 10, wherein the step of transmitting a set of
function indicators from said device comprises utilizing an extension of the

infrared transmission protocol.
A control unit for operation with a device to be controlled comprising:

means for transmitting from said control unit to said device a request for
configuration information;
means for receiving from said device a set of function indicators, each of
said indicators corresponding to at least one function to be controlled from a

listing of controllable functions, and
means for utilizing at least one of said function indicators to configure
said control device.
A control unit as claimed in claim 12, comprising means for storing the
configuration information for use.
A control unit as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13, comprising:

means for selecting a device to be controlled,
means for selectively displaying the control functions that are available
for that device and
means responsive to a user selection of one of the functions for sending a
control signal to the selected device.
A control unit as claimed in claim 14, wherein the means for selectively
displaying the function available comprise an LCD, preferably a touch screen

LCD, that is operable to receive control commands from a user.
A control unit for selectively controlling a plurality of devices comprising

means for selecting a device to be controlled,
means for selectively displaying control functions that are available for
that device and
means responsive to a user selection of one of the functions for sending a
control signal to the selected device.
A control unit as claimed in claim 16, comprising means for storing the
functions that are available for use.
A control unit as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17, further comprising:

means for transmitting from said control unit to said device a request for
configuration information;
means for receiving from said device a set of function indicators, each of
said indicators corresponding to at least one function to be controlled from a

listing of controllable functions, and
means for utilizing at least one of said function indicators to configure
said control device.
A control unit as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein the means
for selectively displaying the function available comprise an LCD, preferably a

touch screen LCD, that is operable to receive control commands from a user.
A control system for electronically controlled devices, the system
comprising:


a bus, preferably a standard bus, connecting said electronically
controlled devices;
a control unit providing a user interface; and
an interface adaptor communicating with said bus, said adaptor including
a signal transceiver, a bus interface unit, and a microcontroller connected to

control two-way communications between said signal transceiver and said bus
interface unit to selectively obtain capability information from one of the

electronically controlled devices connected to the bus.
The system of claim 20, wherein the capability information obtained
includes function capability information.
The system of claim 20 or claim 21, wherein the interface adapter is
mechanically and electrically connected to the bus.
The system of any one of claims 20 to 22, wherein the bus is a high speed
digital serial bus.
The system of any one of claims 20 to 23, wherein the bus utilizes a
communication standard.
The system of any one of claims 20 to 24, wherein said interface adaptor
provides remote configuration services to the control unit corresponding to

multiple devices connected to said bus, wherein said unit is adapted to
communicate with the electronically controlled devices via the interface

adapter.
The system of any one of claims 20 to 25, wherein said remote control unit
is further adapted to communicate directly with the electronically controlled

devices.
The system of any one of claims 20 to 25, wherein said control unit is
adapted to issue user commands to one of said electronically controlled devices

through said interface adapter, preferably wherein the one of said electronically
controlled devices includes a transceiver connected to receive communication

and the control unit is further adapted to communicate directly with a second
electronically controlled device utilizing the transceiver of said first device.
The system of any one of claims 20 to 27, wherein the control unit is an
infrared remote control and the interface adaptor is adapted to communicate

with the infrared remote control via infrared transmissions.
The system of any one claims 20 to 27, wherein the control unit is an RF
remote control and the interface adaptor is adapted to communicate with the RF

remote control via RF transmissions.
A method for controlling electronically controlled devices by a control unit
comprising the steps of:


interconnecting said devices using a standard bus to enable
communication between said devices;
connecting an interface adaptor to said bus, wherein the interface adapter
has the capability of communicating with a control unit;
soliciting information from said devices on said bus; and
communicating the solicited information via a two-way communication
link between the control unit, wherein the interface adaptor provides a go-between

for said communication.
The method of claim 30, wherein the step of soliciting information

comprises the step of soliciting capability information.
A control system comprising:

a plurality of devices connected via a bus conforming to a first standard,
wherein the devices communicate according to a second standard;
an adapter in operable communication with the bus for receiving from a
target device data defining a plurality of functions supported that device; and
a control unit, preferably a remote control, in operable communication
with the adapter to send and receive data.
The system of claim 32, wherein the target device is operable to configure
the control unit.
The system of claim 32 or claim 33, wherein the control unit comprises a
display, and wherein the target device data displays at least one of a plurality of

associated icons on the display of the control unit.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 35, wherein the control unit
comprises at least one configured function defined by the target device data and

a display displaying an icon with at least one configured function.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 35, wherein the adapter is attached to
the bus.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 36, wherein the bus is a serial bus.
The system of claim 37, wherein the adapter is attached to the serial bus and
solicits data from the target device.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 38, wherein the adapter comprises
means to identify itself to the target device as a unit having display and control

input capabilities.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 39, comprising a two-way wireless
link connecting the adapter and the control unit.
The system of claim 40, wherein the wireless link includes a radio frequency
(RF) link or an infrared (IR) link.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 41, wherein the adapter is housed in
one of the plurality of devices connected via the bus.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 42, wherein the adapter comprises a
transceiver, and wherein the control unit is hand-held universal input device,

preferably comprising a dynamical graphical user interface.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 43, wherein the control unit
comprises means for receiving the status of the target device from the target

device through the adapter.
The system of any one of claims 32 to 44, wherein the control unit
comprises means for directly controlling the target device.
A control system for controlling devices connected through a bus, the
system comprising:


an adapter communicating with one of the devices; and
a remote control in communication with the one of the devices via the
adapter, wherein the remote control is configured by the one of the devices by

communicating context determined data to the remote control.
The system of claim 46, wherein the adapter is attached to the bus.
The system of claim 46 or claim 47, wherein the remote control comprises a
display and includes means for generating an icon that can be dynamically

altered in response to communications with one of the devices.
A control unit for selectively controlling a device or a plurality of devices
comprising:


means for selectively displaying control functions that are available for
each device, and
means responsive to a user selection of one of the functions for sending a
control signal to the selected device.
A control unit as claimed in claim 49, wherein the means for selectively
displaying the function available comprise an LCD, preferably a touch screen

LCD, that is operable to receive control commands from a user.
A control unit as claimed in claim 49 or claim 50, comprising means for
selecting one of the devices, wherein, when a device is selected, the means for

selectively displaying only displays control functions that are available for the
selected device.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
