<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1190791</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polycrystalline diamond cutters with working surfaces having varied wear resistance while maintaining impact strength
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22F706	B22F706	B23B2714	B23B2714	C04B3552	C04B3552	C04B3702	C04B3702	C04B4145	C04B4145	C04B4153	C04B4153	C04B4181	C04B4181	C04B4191	C04B4191	E21B1000	E21B1000	E21B1042	E21B1043	E21B1046	E21B1056	E21B10567	E21B10573	E21B1060	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22F	B22F	B23B	B23B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22F7	B22F7	B23B27	B23B27	C04B35	C04B35	C04B37	C04B37	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	E21B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a polycrystalline diamond or diamond-like element (10) with greatly improved
wear resistance without loss of impact strength. These elements are formed with a

binder-catalyzing material in a high-temperature, high-pressure (HTHP) process. The
PCD element has a body with a plurality of bonded diamond or diamond-like crystals

forming a continuous diamond matrix that has a diamond volume density greater than
85%. Interstices among the diamond crystals form a continuous interstitial matrix

containing a catalyzing material. The diamond matrix table is formed and integrally
bonded with a metallic substrate containing the catalyzing material during the HTHP

process. The diamond matrix body has a working surface, where a first portion (80) of the
interstitial matrix in the body adjacent to the working surface is substantially free of the

catalyzing material, and a second portion (82) of the interstitial matrix in the body adjacent to
the working surface contains the catalyzing material. The first portion of the interstitial

matrix and the second portion of the interstitial matrix have substantially the same
impact strength


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMCO INT UK LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMCO INTERNATIONAL (UK) LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFIN NIGEL DENNIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES PETER RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHIAS TERRY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFIN, NIGEL DENNIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES, PETER RAYMOND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHIAS, TERRY R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to superhard polycrystalline material elements for wear,
cutting, drawing, and other applications where engineered superhard surfaces are needed.
The invention particularly relates to polycrystalline diamond and polycrystalline
diamond-like (collectively called PCD) elements with greatly improved wear resistance
and methods of manufacturing them.Polycrystalline diamond and polycrystalline diamond-like elements are known, for
the purposes of this specification, as PCD elements. PCD elements are formed from
carbon based materials with exceptionally short inter-atomic distances between
neighboring atoms. One type of diamond-like material similar to PCD is known as
carbonitride (CN) described in U.S Patent No. 5,776,615. In general, PCD elements are
formed from a mix of materials processed under high-temperature and high-pressure into
a polycrystalline matrix of inter-bonded superhard carbon based crystals. A common
trait of PCD elements is the use of catalyzing materials during their formation, the
residue from which, often imposes a limit upon the maximum useful operating
temperature of the element while in service.A well known, manufactured form of PCD element is a two-layer or multi-layer
PCD element where a facing table of polycrystalline diamond is integrally bonded to a
substrate of less hard material, such as tungsten carbide. The PCD element may be in the
form of a circular or part-circular tablet, or may be formed into other shapes, suitable for
applications such as hollow dies, heat sinks, friction bearings, valve surfaces, indentors,
tool mandrels, etc. PCD elements of this type may be used in almost any application
where a hard wear and erosion resistant material is required. The substrate of the PCD
element may be brazed to a carrier, often also of cemented tungsten carbide. This is a
common configuration for PCD's used as cutting elements, for example in fixed cutter or
rolling cutter earth boring bits when received in a socket of the drill bit, or when fixed to 
a post in a machine tool for machining. These PCD elements are typically called
polycrystalline diamond cutters (PDC).There are numerous variations in the methods of manufacture of these PDC
elements. For example various ranges of average diamond particle sizes may be utilized
in the manufacture to enhance wear properties as shown in U.S. Patents Nos, 4,861,350;
5,468,268; and 5,505,748 all herein incorporated by reference for all they disclose. Also,
methods to provide a range of wear resistance across or into
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A PCD element comprising a body of bonded diamonds integrally formed with a
metallic substrate, the body having a working surface and at least an 85% by volume

diamond density, wherein a first volume of the body adjacent to the working surface
contains a catalyzing material, a second volume of the body adjacent to the working

surface is substantially free of the catalyzing material, and wherein the first volume and
the second volume have substantially the same impact strength.
The PCD element of Claim 1, wherein the second volume extends to a depth of at
least about 0.1 mm from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 2, wherein the second volume extends to a depth of
between about 0.2 mm and 0.3 mm from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 1, wherein the first volume of the body contacts the
substrate and has an average thickness greater than 0.15 mm.
The PCD element of Claim 1, wherein a majority of the catalyzing material
remaining in the second volume of the body adheres to surfaces of diamond crystals.
The PCD element of Claim 1, wherein an amount of catalyzing material within the
second volume of the body continuously decreases with distance from the first volume.
The PCD element of Claim 1 wherein the first volume comprises more than 30% of
the body remote from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 7 wherein the substrate is tungsten carbide with an iron
group binder material.
The PCD element of Claim 1 comprising a preform cutting element having a facing
table and a cutting surface, wherein the working surface comprises a portion of the

cutting surface.
The PCD element of Claim 9, wherein the cutting element is mounted upon a
cutting face of a fixed cutter rotary drill bit.
The PCD element of Claim 9, wherein the cutting element is mounted upon a body
of a rolling cutter drill bit.
The PCD element of Claim 1, wherein the body comprises diamond crystals and an
interstitial matrix, and wherein the part of the interstitial matrix located within the second

volume is substantially free of the catalyzing material, and the interstitial matrix where
the body contacts the substrate contains the catalyzing material and has an average

thickness greater than 0.15 mm.
The PCD element of Claim 12, wherein the second volume extends to a depth of at
least about 0.1 mm from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 13, wherein the second volume extends to a depth of
between about 0.2 mm and 0.3 mm from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 12 wherein the first volume comprises more than 30%
of the body remote from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 12, wherein a majority of diamond crystals located
within the second volume of the body have a surface which is substantially free of

catalyzing material.
The PCD element of Claim 12, wherein a majority of the catalyzing material
remaining in the second volume of the body adheres to surfaces of the diamond crystals.
The PCD element of Claim 12, wherein the diamond crystals in the second volume
remote from the first volume have less catalyzing material adhering to their surfaces than

the diamond crystals in the second volume which are adjacent to the first volume.
The PCD element of Claim 12, wherein an amount of catalyzing material within the
second volume of the body continuously decreases with distance from the first volume.
The PCD element of Claim 14 comprising a preform cutting element having a facing
table and a cutting surface, wherein the working surface comprises a portion of the

cutting surface.
The PCD element of Claim 20, wherein the cutting element is mounted upon a
cutting face of a fixed cutter rotary drill bit.
The PCD element of Claim 20, wherein the cutting element is mounted upon a body
of a rolling cutter drill bit.
The PCD element of Claim 12, comprising a cutting element with a cutting surface
adapted for use as a cutting insert in a machining operation, wherein the working surface

comprises a portion of the cutting surface.
The PCD element of Claim 12, comprising a drawing die, wherein the working
surface comprises a portion of the drawing die contact surface.
The PCD element of Claim 12 wherein the substrate is tungsten carbide with an iron
group binder material.
A preform cutting element comprising a body of a superhard polycrystalline material
comprising a plurality of partially bonded superhard crystals integrally formed with a

metallic substrate, a plurality of interstitial regions among the superhard crystals and a
catalyzing material, the body having at least an 85% by volume diamond density and a

cutting surface, wherein the interstitial regions adjacent to at least a first portion of the
cutting surface are substantially free of the catalyzing material, the interstitial regions

adjacent to a second portion of the cutting surface contain the catalyzing material, and
the interstitial regions where the body contacts the substrate contain the catalyzing

material and have an average thickness greater than 0.15 mm, and wherein the first
portion of the cutting surface and the second portion have substantially the same impact

strength.
The preform cutting element of Claim 26, wherein the cutting element is mounted
upon a cutting face of a fixed cutter rotary drill bit.
The preform cutting element of Claim 26, wherein the cutting element is mounted
upon a body of a rolling cutter drill bit.
The preform cutting element of Claim 26, comprising a cutting element with the
cutting surface adapted for use as a cutting insert in a machining operation.
The preform cutting element of Claim 26 wherein the substrate is tungsten carbide
with an iron group binder material.
A PCD element comprising a diamond containing body integrally formed with a
metallic substrate, the body having at least an 85% by volume diamond density and an

interstitial matrix, a first portion of the interstitial matrix in the body adjacent to a
working surface is substantially free of the catalyzing material, a second portion of the

interstitial matrix in the body adjacent to a working surface contains the catalyzing
material, and the interstitial matrix where the body contacts the substrate contains the

catalyzing material and has an average thickness greater than 0.15 mm, and wherein the
first portion of the interstitial matrix and the second portion of the interstitial matrix have

substantially the same impact strength.
The PCD element of Claim 31, wherein the interstitial matrix in the body adjacent to
the working surface is substantially free of the catalyzing material to a depth of at least

about 0.1 mm from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 32, wherein the first portion of the interstitial matrix in
the body adjacent to the working surface is substantially free of the catalyzing material to

a depth of between about 0.2 mm and 0.3 mm from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 31, wherein the first portion of the interstitial matrix in
the body adjacent to the working surface of the body has a diamond density higher than

elsewhere in the body.
The PCD element of Claim 31, wherein a majority of the catalyzing material
remaining in the second portion of the interstitial matrix in the body adjacent to the

working surface adheres to surfaces of diamond crystals.
The PCD element of Claim 31, wherein an amount of catalyzing material within the
first portion of the interstitial matrix in the body adjacent to the working surface

continuously decreases with distance from the remaining interstitial matrix.
The PCD element of Claim 31 comprising a preform cutting element having a
facing table and a cutting surface, wherein the working surface comprises a portion of

the cutting surface.
The PCD element of Claim 37, wherein the cutting element is mounted upon a
cutting face of a fixed cutter rotary drill bit.
The PCD element of Claim 37, wherein the cutting element is mounted upon a body
of a rolling cutter drill bit.
The PCD element of Claim 37 wherein the substrate is tungsten carbide with an iron
group binder material.
A PCD element comprising a body integrally formed with a metallic substrate, the
body comprising a plurality of bonded diamond crystals having surfaces and a catalyzing

material, the body having at least an 85% by volume diamond density, wherein at least
30% of the crystals in the body contact the catalyzing material and the surfaces of a

majority of the remaining crystals that are within at least a 0.1 mm depth from a working
surface are substantially free of the catalyzing material, wherein the body has a

substantially uniform impact strength.
The PCD element of Claim 41, wherein said majority of the crystals in the body are
within between about 0.2 mm and 0.3 mm depth from the working surface.
The PCD element of Claim 41 wherein the substrate is tungsten carbide with an iron
group binder material.
A method of manufacture of a PCD element comprising a body integrally formed
with a metallic substrate, the body comprising bonded diamond crystals and a catalyzing

material, by treating the body to render a volume thereof substantially free of the
catalyzing material while permitting the catalyzing material to remain in at least some of

the remaining volume of the body, and while permitting the substrate to remain

substantially unaffected when treating the body, and while also providing the body with a
substantially uniform impact strength.
The method of Claim 44, wherein the volume is rendered substantially free of
catalyzing material by leaching the catalyzing material from the second volume.
The method of Claim 44, wherein the volume is rendered substantially free of
catalyzing material by converting the catalyzing material in the second volume to a form

in which it does not have a catalyzing effect.
The method of Claim 44, wherein the volume is rendered substantially free of
catalyzing material by reacting the catalyzing material to form a substance which does

not have a catalyzing effect.
The method of Claim 44, wherein the volume is rendered substantially free of
catalyzing material by electrical discharge.
The method of Claim 44, wherein the volume is rendered substantially free of
catalyzing material using a galvanic process.
The method of Claim 44, wherein the volume is rendered substantially free of
catalyzing material using an evaporation process.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
