<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1101290</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING DIFFERENTIAL MULTISTAGE DETECTION IN THE REVERSE LINK OF A CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1707	H04B1707	H04J1302	H04J1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04J13	H04J13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The differencing multistage detector receives signals from a plurality of users in a cell of a communications system and reduces the effect of multiple access interference to a signal from a desired user caused by interference from other users in the cell. The differencing multistage detector includes a plurality of stages, each stage including an interference canceller for removing intra-cell interference caused by the other users in the cell and producing an estimation output vector, wherein except for a first stage, the estimation output vector of a current stage is based on both a decision of the interference canceller of the current stage and the output from an interference canceller of a previous stage. The estimation output vector of a current stage is produced by combining the output from an interference canceller of a previous stage and the decision of the interference canceller of the current stage. Except for the first stage each interference canceller calculates an estimate of multi-user interference by computing a product of a cross-correlation of the received signals and a difference signal thereby reducing the number of multiplication operations required.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA NETWORKS OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AAZHANG BEHNAAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAVALLARO JOSEPH R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
XU GANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AAZHANG, BEHNAAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAVALLARO, JOSEPH R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
XU, GANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING DIFFERENTIAL MULTISTAGE DETECTION IN THE REVERSE LINK OF A CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION5 1. Field of the Invention.This invention relates in general to a multistage detector in wireless communication systems, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for providing differencing multistage detection in the reverse link of a Code Division Multiple Access communication system.10 2. Description of Related Art.Cellular systems have had a direct effect on the lives of millions over the past few years. For the first time, people are able to make and receive phone calls without being tied to a specific location. Mobile phones, as part of the cellular systems, have allowed people to break the tie between15 location and access to communication. Mobile phones have also allowed people to reach another who is in move. With the development in cellular systems, people are allowed to reach another who is mobile in anywhere at anytime.The first generation of mobile communication systems were born in20 the early 1980s. The marriage of radio and telephone technologies gave birth to mobile phones and triggered a turning point in telecommunications. Adding radio access to a telephone network meant that for the first time in history, the concept of a telephone being at a fixed point in the network was no longer valid. The benefits of being able to make and receive telephone 

calls anywhere had appeal to business people - the original market. In the first generation of cellular networks, analog wireless technology were used for the user connection (called the "air interface"). Every voice channel had its own narrow frequency band, using a technology called Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA).However, as the demand for mobile phones grew and grew, regularly exceeding forecasts, it became obvious that the available radio spectrum would not be adequate to accommodate the expected numbers of mobile phone users. The digital technology became the solution to the problem. The answer lay in new digital wireless technologies that allow larger numbers of mobile subscribers to be supported within a given frequency allocation. Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) technology is used in which a broader frequency channel is divided into intermittent time-slots, i.e. several calls share the same frequency channel at any one time. The digital technology also offered other important benefits. It provided better voice quality and improved security
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A differencing multistage detector for receiving signals from a plurality of users in a cell of a communications system, the differencing multistage detector reducing the effect of multiple access interference to a signal from a desired user caused by interference from other users in the cell, comprising: a first stage including a first stage interference canceller for receiving signals from the plurality of users, the first stage interference canceller removing intra-cell interference caused by the other users in the cell and producing a first stage estimated hard decision for each user in the cell;
N subsequent stages, wherein each of the N subsequent stages include including a subtractor at the input for subtracting a received hard decision of a previous stage from the estimated hard decision of each user produced in the previous stage to produce a difference signal for each user, the difference signal being provided to an Nth stage interference canceller for removing intra-cell interference caused by the other users in the cell by processing the difference signal for each user to produce an Nth estimated hard decision for each user in the cell; wherein the interference cancellers produce an estimated hard decision for each user by multiplying the input to the interference cancellers by user cross-correlation values and channel coefficient values, and wherein the difference signal eliminates multiplication operations to be performed by the Nth stage interference canceller. 

2. The differencing multistage detector of claim 1 wherein control between stages is handled by a handshaking protocol.
3. The differencing multistage detector of claim 1 wherein the input to each stage is in two's compliment form.
4. The differencing multistage detector of claim 1 wherein each
Nth subsequent interference canceller calculates an estimate of multi-user interference by computing a product of a cross-correlation of the received signals and the difference signal.
5. The differencing multistage detector of claim 4 wherein the difference signal comprises 0, +2, or -2.
6. The differencing multistage detector of claim 5 wherein the computing of the product is omitted when the difference signal is 0, and the computing of the product is performed by storing the cross-correlation of the received signals in a register and shifting the bits one place forward when the difference signal is +2 and one place forward with a sign change when the difference is -2.
7. The differencing multistage detector of claim 1 wherein the interference canceller is a parallel interference canceller. 

8. A differencing multistage detector for receiving signals from a plurality of users in a cell of a communications system, the differencing multistage detector reducing the effect of multiple access interference to a signal from a desired user caused by interference from other users in the cell, wherein the differencing multistage detector includes a plurality of stages, each stage including an interference canceller for removing intra-cell interference caused by the other users in the cell and producing an estimation output vector, wherein except for a first stage, the estimation output vector of a current stage is based on both a decision of the interference canceller of the current stage and the output from an interference canceller of a previous stage.
9. The differencing multistage detector of claim 8 wherein the estimation output vector of a current stage is produced by combining the output from an interference canceller of a previous stage and the decision of the interference canceller of the current stage.
10. The differencing multistage detector of claim 8 wherein except for the first stage each interference canceller calculates an estimate of multiuser interference by computing a product of a cross-correlation of the received signals and a difference signal.
11. The differencing multistage detector of claim 10 wherein the difference signal comprises 0, +2, or -2. 

12. The differencing multistage detector of claim 11 wherein the computing of the product is omitted when the difference signal is 0, and the computing of the product is performed by storing the cross-correlation of the received signals in a register and shifting the bits one place forward when the difference signal is +2 and one place forward with a sign change when the difference is -2.
13. The differencing multistage detector of claim 8 wherein the interference canceller is a parallel interference canceller.
14. The differencing multistage detector of claim 8 wherein control between stages is handled by a handshaking protocol.
15. The differencing multistage detector of claim 8 wherein the input to each stage is in two's compliment form. 

16. A base station, comprising at least one antenna for providing a radio interface to a mobile station; and at least one transceiver, coupled to the at least one antenna, for processing signals for the mobile station, the transceiver further comprising a transmitter and a receiver, wherein the receiver further comprises: a differencing multistage detector for receiving signals from a plurality of users in a cell of a communications system, the differencing multistage detector reducing the effect of multiple access interference to a signal from a desired user caused by interference from other users in the cell, wherein the differencing multistage detector includes a plurality of stages, each stage including an interference canceller for removing intra-cell interference caused by the other users in the cell and producing an estimation output vector, wherein except for a first stage, the estimation output vector of a current stage is based on both a decision of the interference canceller of the current stage and the output from an interference canceller of a previous stage.
17. The base station of claim 16 wherein the estimation output vector of a current stage is produced by combining the output from an interference canceller of the previous stage and the decision of the interference canceller of the current stage. 

18. The base station of claim 16 wherein except for the first stage each interference canceller calculates an estimate of multi-user interference by computing a product of a cross-correlation of the received signals and a difference signal.
19. The base station of claim 18 wherein the difference signal comprises 0, +2, or -2.
20. The base station of claim 19 wherein the computing of the product is omitted when the difference signal is 0, and the computing of the product is performed by storing the cross-correlation of the received signals in a register and shifting the bits one place forward when the difference signal is +2 and one place forward with a sign change when the difference is -2.
21. The base station of claim 16 wherein the interference canceller is a parallel interference canceller.
22. The base station of claim 16 wherein control between stages is handled by a handshaking protocol.
23. The base station of claim 16 wherein the input to each stage is in two's compliment form. 

24. A method for providing differencing multistage detection in the reverse link of a code division multiple access communication system, comprising: receiving signals from a plurality of users in a cell of the code division multiple access communication system; processing the received signals through a plurality of stages, each stage including an interference canceller for removing intra-cell interference caused by the other users in the cell; and producing an estimation output vector for each stage, wherein except for a first stage, the estimation output vector of a current stage is based on both a decision of the interference canceller of the current stage and the output from an interference canceller of a previous stage.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the producing the estimation output vector of a current stage comprises combining the output from an interference canceller of the previous stage and the decision of the interference canceller of the current stage.
26. The method of claim 24 wherein the producing the estimation vector further comprises calculating except for the first stage an estimate of multi-user interference for each interference canceller by computing a product of a cross-correlation of the received signals and a difference signal.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the difference signal comprises 0, +2, or -2. 

28. The method of claim 27 wherein the computing of the product comprises omitting the computing when the difference signal is 0, and the computing of the product comprises storing the cross-correlation of the received signals in a register and shifting the bits one place forward when the difference signal is +2 and one place forward with a sign change when the difference is -2.
29. The method of claim 24 wherein the interference canceller is a parallel interference canceller.
30. The method of claim 24 further comprises controlling data transfer using a handshaking protocol.
31. The method of claim 24 wherein the input to each stage is in two's compliment form. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
