<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1018000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHANOL CONCENTRATION SENSOR FOR AQUEOUS ENVIRONMENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2749	G01N2749	G01N3318	G01N3318	G01N33483	G01N33497	H01M804	H01M804	H01M810	H01M810	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	H01M8	H01M8	H01M8	H01M8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An analyte concentration sensor that is capable of fast and reliable sensing of analyte concentration in aqueous environments with high concentrations of the analyte. Preferably, the present invention is a methanol concentration sensor device (410) coupled to a fuel metering control system (420) for use in a liquid direct-feed fuel cell.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALIFORNIA INST OF TECHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUN WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARAYANAN SEKHARIPURAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VALDEZ THOMAS I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHUN, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARAYANAN, SEKHARIPURAM, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VALDEZ, THOMAS, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Methanol Concentration Sensor for Aqueous EnvironmentsOrigin of Invention The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract, and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96-517 (35 USC 202) in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.Field This disclosure generally relates to analyte concentration sensors and in particular fuel concentration sensors for use with a liquid direct-feed fuel cell.Background The liquid direct-feed fuel cell is a device that generates electrical energy from the oxidation of organic fuels. Jet Propulsion Laboratory "JPL" developed a liquid direct-feed fuel cell using a solid-state electrolyte, preferably a solid polymer cation exchange electrolyte membrane. The subject matter of this implementation is described in U.S. Patent No. 5,599,638, U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 08/569,452 (Patent Pending), and U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 08/827,319 (Patent Pending) the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference to the extent necessary for proper understanding.FIG. 1 illustrates a typical structure of a JPL fuel cell with an anode 110, a solid electrolyte membrane 120, and a cathode 130. An anode 110 is formed on a first surface 140 of the solid electrolyte membrane 120 with a first catalyst for electro-oxidation. A cathode 130 is formed on a second surface 145 thereof opposing 

the first surface 140 with a second catalyst for electro- reduction. The anode 110, the solid electrolyte membrane 120, and the cathode 130 are hot press bonded to form a single multi-layer composite structure, referred to herein as a membrane electrode assembly "MEA" 150. An electrical load 160 is connected to the anode 110 and the cathode 130 for electrical power output.A fuel pump 170 is provided for pumping an organic fuel and water solution into an anode chamber 180. The organic fuel and water mixture is withdrawn through an outlet port 190 and is re-circulated. Carbon dioxide formed m the anode chamber 180 is vented through a port 1100 within tank 1120. An oxygen or air compressor 1130 is provided to feed oxygen or air into a cathode chamber 1140.Prior to use, the anode chamber 180 is filled with the organic fuel and water mixture. The cathode chamber 1140 is filled with air or oxygen either at ambient pressure or in a pressurized state. During operation, the organic fuel in the anode chamber 180 is circulated past the anode 110. Oxygen or air is pumped into the cathode chamber 1140 and circulated past the cathode 130. When an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for detecting an analyte concentration in an aqueous environment, comprising: a sensor element formed to produce a sensor response, wherein said sensor element including an anode, a solid electrolyte membrane and a cathode, wherein both the anode and the cathode are immersed in a liquid analyte solution and wherein said sensor element is capable of chemically reacting with said analyte solution; an electrical power supply having a positive terminal and a negative terminal, wherein said positive terminal is connected electrically to said anode and said negative terminal is connected electrically to said cathode; an analyte concentration sensing device, detecting a response of said sensor element to said analyte, said device being connected electrically to said sensor element and said power supply and detecting an amount of power consumed thereby.
2. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said sensor response has a magnitude that is proportional to a concentration of said analyte solution.
3. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said electrical power supply delivers a constant voltage.
4. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said electrical power supply delivers a voltage sufficient to supply a threshold high anode potential for said sensor element. 

5. An apparatus as in claim 4, wherein said threshold potential is in excess of 0.3 volts.
6. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said analyte concentration sensing device includes an ammeter or any other current measuring circuit.
7. An apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a membrane electrode assembly mounted in supports, said supports having two members mounted such that one member is in contact with the anode and that the other member is in contact with the cathode.
8. An apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said supports function to expose the sensor element to the analyte solution.
9. An apparatus as in claim 8, wherein said supports are plates with at least one aperture.
10. An apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said supports function as current collector.
11. An apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said supports are made of graphite or graphite-bonded resins, conductive or metallized plastics, coated-metals, e.g. titanium with platinum, gold or titanium nitride, or noble metal coated stainless steel, such as stainless steel-coated with gold or platinum.
12. An apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a fuel metering control system which operates to supply 


an amount of analyte to keep the analyte concentration at a specified level.
13. An apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said fuel metering control system uses a pre-stored mathematical relation or a lookup table to determine the closest analyte concentration corresponding to said sensor response .
14. An apparatus as m claim 12, further comprising a reference element formed to compensate for temperature dependence of said sensor response.
15. An apparatus as in claim 14, wherein said reference element includes a thermocouple.
16. An apparatus as in claim 15, wherein said thermocouple is positioned within said analyte solution and is coupled to said fuel metering control system.
17. An apparatus for detecting an analyte concentration in an aqueous environment, comprising: a first sensor element formed to produce a sensor response, wherein said first sensor element including a first anode, a first solid electrolyte membrane and a first cathode, wherein both said first anode and said first cathode are immersed m an analyte solution at a certain temperature; a second reference element formed to produce a reference response indicating a temperature, wherein said reference element is connected electrically to said first sensor element, said reference element including a second anode, a second solid electrolyte membrane and a second 


cathode, wherein both said second anode and said second cathode are immersed in a reference solution at the same temperature as said analyte solution; a power supply connected to said first sensor element and said second sensor element; and an analyte concentration sensing device, detecting a response of said sensor element to said analyte, said device being connected electrically to said first sensor element, said second reference element and said power supply and detecting an amount of power consumed thereby.
18. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said sensor response has a magnitude that is proportional to a concentration of said analyte .solution.
19. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said power supply delivers a constant voltage.
20. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said power supply delivers a voltage sufficient to supply a threshold high anode potential for said sensor element.
21. An apparatus as in claim 20, wherein said threshold potential is in excess of 0.3 volts.
22. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said analyte concentration sensing device includes an ammeter or any other current measuring, circuit .
23. An apparatus as in claim 22, wherein said ammeter or other current measuring circuit is connected electrically in series with said first sensor element, said second reference element, and said power supply. 

24. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said first sensor element further comprising a first membrane electrode assembly mounted in supports, said supports having two members mounted such that one member is in contact with the first anode and that the other member is in contact with the first cathode.
25. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said second reference element further comprising a second membrane electrode assembly mounted in supports, said supports having two members mounted such that one member is in contact with the second anode and that the other member is in contact with the second cathode.
26. An apparatus as in claim 17, further comprising a fuel metering control system which operates to supply an amount of analyte to keep the analyte concentration at a specified level.
27. An apparatus as in claim 26, wherein said fuel metering control system uses a pre-stored mathematical relation or a lookup table to determine the closest analyte concentration corresponding to said sensor response .
28. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said power supply is a constant voltage power supply or a "potentiostat".
29. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said electrical power supply is a constant voltage power supply or a "potentiostat". 

30. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said analyte solution is methanol or other organic solution including oxidizable materials such as formic acid, formaldehyde, dimethoxymethane, trioxane, trimethoxymethane, dimethyl carbonate, acetic acid, ethanol, acetaldehyde, or oxygenated hydrocarbons such as ethers and furans .
31. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said analyte solution is methanol or other organic solution including oxidizable materials such as formic acid, formaldehyde, dimethoxymethane, trioxane, trimethoxymethane, dimethyl carbonate, acetic acid, ethanol, acetaldehyde, or oxygenated hydrocarbons such as ethers and furans .
32. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said reference solution is methanol or other organic solution including oxidizable materials such as formic acid, formaldehyde, dimethoxymethane, trioxane, trimethoxymethane, dimethyl carbonate, acetic acid, ethanol, acetaldehyde, or oxygenated hydrocarbons such as ethers and furans . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
