<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1997000461</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COVERSLIP PICK-UP AND LAYDOWN APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H308	B65H308	B65H3700	B65H3700	G01N128	G01N128	G02B2132	G02B2132	G02B2134	G02B2134	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	G01N	G01N	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H3	B65H3	B65H37	B65H37	G01N1	G01N1	G02B21	G02B21	G02B21	G02B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coverslip pick-up and transfer head (10) comprises a pair of spaced suction cups (26) which are angled downwardly and outwardly. A spring loaded plunger (13) in an extended condition extends below the suction cups such that when a cover slip (16) is held by the suction cups it is flexed in a concave shape. A solenoid (15), when energised, retracts the plunger against the spring force. In use a coverslip magazine (17) containing a stack of coverslips is raised under the head causing the plunger to retract until the suction cups contact the coverslips. Vacuum is applied to the suction cups and the magazine lowered whereby the coverslip is held by the suction cups and flexed into a concave shape. The solenoid is energised momentarily causing the plunger to retract and extend thereby delivering a gentle flexural pulse to the coverslip causing any further coverslip adhered to the underside of the top coverslip to be released and returned to the magazine. A coverslip laydown head (19) includes a pivotal lever (23) which is spring biased to provide a progressive force along the coverslip as it is layed on a slide at an ever decreasing angle to thereby cause mountant on the slide to spread evenly over the slide with a uniform wavefront.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUSTRALIAN BIOMEDICAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELLIOTT STUART STANLEY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUSTRALIAN BIOMEDICAL CORPORATION LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELLIOTT, STUART, STANLEY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLIOTT STUART STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLIOTT, STUART, STANLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE: COVERSLIP PICK-UP AND LAYDOWN APPARATUSThis invention relates to an instrument for automatically applying coverslips to microscopic specimen slides in the field of histology and pathology. More particularly the invention relates to a method and apparatus, within such an instrument, for reliably lifting and separating a single glass coverslip from a stack of coverslips. In an alternative form the invention relates to a method and apparatus for mounting a coverslip onto a slide in a manner which produces a higher percentage of acceptable samples than has been previously achievable.A machine of the kind in question is described in Applicant's earlier patent application No. PCT/AU95/00035 and the present invention relates to improvements in the lifting and separating apparatus and the laydown apparatus described in the earlier application.Whilst the laydown apparatus described in the earlier application achieved a relatively high percentage of void free coverslipped slides this result has been achieved at the expense of excess mountant, which is undesirable for obvious reasons. Furthermore, whilst the method and apparatus for picking up coverslips from the top of a stack of coverslips, as described in the earlier application, is generally successful in separating a single coverslip from the stack the number of steps involved in the method and the fact that in some cases the coverslips are bonded together so strongly in the stack that more than one is picked up at a time is deleterious to the machine operation and causes inconvenience to the user.Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved coverslip laydown method and apparatus which uses less mountant and which results in a higher percentage of void free coverslipped slides. A further object of the invention is to provide an improved method and apparatus for removing a single coverslip from a stack of coverslips.Thus the invention provides a method of laying a coverslip on a slide including placing the coverslip over the slide with a first end of the coverslip in contact with the slide and the plane of the coverslip at an acute angle to the plane of the slide, moving the coverslip towards the slide whilst maintaining the other end of said coverslip at said angle whereby said coverslip is caused to curve away from 

said slide as it is progressively brought into contact with the slide, and providing an additional pressure between said coverslip and slide commencing at said first end and moving towards said other end as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A method of laying a coverslip on a slide including placing the coverslip over the slide with a first end of the coverslip in contact with the slide and the plane of the coverslip at an acute angle to the plane of the slide, moving the s coverslip towards the slide whilst maintaining the other end of said coverslip at said angle whereby said coverslip is caused to curve away from said slide as it is progressively brought into contact with the slide, characterised in that, an additional pressure is provided between said coverslip and slide commencing at said first end and moving towards said other end as the coverslip is brought into contact with the o slide to progressively squeeze the coverslip against the slide.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said method facilitates mounting of the coverslip on the slide, characterised in that, the method further includes first applying a small quantity of mountant in a thin strip along the longitudinal central axis of the slide in a direction from said first end towards said s other end, said progressive squeezing of the coverslip against the slide creating a greater curvature of the coverslip and a uniformly advancing wavefront in the mountant.
3. A method according to claim 2, characterised in that, said small quantity of mountant comprises less than 50 ml of mountant. 0 4. A method according to claim 3, characterised in that, said small quantity of mountant is about 30 ml of mountant.
5. Apparatus for laying a coverslip on a slide, said apparatus comprising a laydown head adapted for movement towards and away from a slide, and holding means on said head for holding said coverslip, characterised in that, said holding 5 means holds said coverslip such that the plane of the coverslip is inclined relative to the plane of said slide, a pivotally mounted pressure pad on said head, the location of the holding means and pressure pad being such that when a coverslip is held by the holding means adjacent one end of the coverslip and the head is moved towards said slide, the other end of the coverslip contacts the slide and the plane of 0 the coverslip is at an acute angle to the plane of the slide, further movement of the head towards the slide causes the coverslip to curve away from said slide as it is 


 progressively brought into contact with the slide, and said pressure pad provides additional pressure between said coverslip and slide commencing at said other end and moving towards said one end.
6. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said holding means is a 5 suction cup, characterised in that, said pressure pad is mounted at the end of a spring biased pivotal arm.
7. Apparatus according to claim 6, characterised in that, a latch is provided on said head to latch said arm in a pivoted position as the head moves towards said slide. o 8. Apparatus according to claim 7, characterised in that, said suction cup is inclined relative to said axis and said pressure pad is formed of Teflon.
9. Apparatus according to claim 8, characterised in that, said head is rotatable through 180° from a laydown position to a substantially inverted position which enables the head to receive a coverslip, said rotation also actuating said latch s to release said arm from said pivoted position.
10. A method of lifting an separating a single coverslip from a stack of coverslips comprising raising the ends of a top coverslip of the stack whilst applying a downward force midway between said ends thereby flexing the coverslip and subsequently moving the top coverslip from the stack, characterised in that, said 0 method further includes momentarily removing and restoring said downward force to provide a flexural pulse to said top coverslip.
11. A method according to claim 10, characterised in that, said raising of the ends of the top coverslip is effected by angled suction cups and said downward force is provided by a spring load plunger having a solenoid to overcome the spring 5 force.
12. A coverslip transfer head for picking up a coverslip from the top of a stack from coverslips, characterised in that, said transfer head comprises a plunger arranged between two spaced suction cups such that when the plunger is in an extended position over a stack of coverslips the plunger extends vertically o downwardly beyond the lowermost position of the suction cups, said suction cups being inclined outwardly and downwardly relative to the vertical axis of the plunger 


such that when a coverslip is held by the two suction cups and the plunger is extended the coverslip is flexed in a concave configuration, and a solenoid and a spring associated with said plunger for moving said plunger in opposite directions, respectively.
13. A coverslip transfer head as defined in claim 12, characterised in that, said spring forces the plunger into said extended position and said solenoid withdraws said plunger against the force of said spring to a retracted position wherein the plunger is above the level of a plane tlirough said suction cups. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
