<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999018010</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISPENSING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8314	B65D8314	B65D8316	B65D8316	B65D8328	B65D8328	B65D8342	B65D8342	B65D8344	B65D8344	B65D8358	B65D8358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dispensing apparatus for dispensing a product from a container under pressure of a propellant by means of a composite piston (138). The apparatus has a valve (104) operated by means of an actuator (108) and a lever (166). The actuator cooperates with the valve and lever by means of a screw thread arrangement (110), such that turning actuator relative to the lever varies the flow rate of product out of the apparatus. The valve is a hollow cylindrical tube (104) which is open at one end and closed at the second end, either permanently or by means of a flap valve (112) which allows insertion of the product. A number of ports (116) are arranged around the circumference of the tube (104) adjacent to the second end to allow product to flow through the valve when the lever is operated. The composite piston (138) comprises a first piston (140a) coupled to a second piston (140b) by mutually engageable central stems (142a, b) and enclosing between the pistons a viscous substance which contacts the inside wall of the container to provide an effective seal. The piston arrangement of the apparatus stays together without the need for "necking in" the can and the apparatus can be filled with product by the manufacturer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRUTIN BERNARD D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROCEP LUSOL HOLDINGS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRUTIN, BERNARD, DEREK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROCEP LUSOL HOLDINGS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRUTIN BERNARD DEREK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRUTIN, BERNARD, DEREK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
DISPENSING APPARATUSThis invention relates to dispensing apparatus. Particularly, but not exclusively it relates to dispensing apparatus for dispensing viscous materials from a container under pressure of a propellant.Known dispensing apparatus commonly includes a valve mechanism fitted to a container which is refilled with a product, for example mastic or sealant, which is to be dispensed. Examples are disclosed in Patent document EP-B-0243393 (Rocep Lusol Holdings Limited) . However, known arrangements have several disadvantages.For example, the cost of components used in the manufacture of such known apparatus is high. This is particularly true in relation to the cans used as containers in such apparatus. Further, automatic assembly of such apparatus is complicated and costly.Yet another disadvantage is that the product must be filled into the dispensing apparatus during manufacture of the apparatus. This involves the product manufacturer supplying the product in bulk to the apparatus manufacturer who then returns the filled 

apparatus to the product manufacturer for sale. This is costly and inconvenient. As a result of the foregoing, the overall costs associated with presently available dispensing apparatus are high.Known dispensing apparatus, such as that disclosed in EP-B-0089971 (Rocep Lusol Holdings Limited) , include piston arrangements which are designed to prevent propellant gas in the apparatus from coming into contact with the product to be dispensed. Commonly, these piston arrangements consist of a pair of pistons with sealant therebetween. However, known arrangements can be costly to manufacture and have the significant disadvantage that after filling of the apparatus, and during storage, the sealant expands causing the pistons to separate from one another. This problem has to be addressed by "necking in" the can (ie locally reducing the diameter of the can) below the piston assembly to prevent separation. It would be desirable to have a piston arrangement which would stay together without the need for "necking in" the can.It would also be desirable to have dispensing apparatus such that a manufacturer can fill the apparatus with product himself, after the apparatus has been assembled and/or pressurised, and to have dispensing apparatus which is refillable.According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided dispensing apparatus for dispensing a product from a container under pressure of a propellant, said apparatus comprising a product chamber within the container and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Dispensing apparatus for dispensing a product from a container under pressure of a propellant, said apparatus comprising a product chamber within the container and a valve adjacent to the product chamber, characterised in that the valve allows product flow into and out of the product chamber.
2. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein the product chamber contains a piston, situated between the propellant and the valve.
3. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 1 or 2 , wherein the valve is operated by means of an actuator and a lever.
4. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 3, wherein the actuator and the lever co-operate by means of a screw thread arrangement, such that turning of the actuator relative to the lever varies the flow rate of product out of the apparatus.
5. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 4, wherein the actuator is adapted to be turned between a "lock- off" position in which operation of the lever does not cause the valve to be opened, and a fully on position, in which operation of the lever causes the valve to be opened to produce a maximum flow rate of product.
6. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein indicating means is provided to demonstrate to a user that the actuator is in the "lock off" position.
7. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein said indicating means is a groove or substantially 


axial slot in the external wall of the actuator.
8. Dispensing apparatus according to any preceding Claim, wherein the container is made substantially from tin plate or aluminium.
9. Dispensing apparatus for dispensing a product from a container under pressure of a propellant, said apparatus comprising a product chamber within the container, a piston slidably located within said product chamber and a valve adjacent to the product chamber, wherein the valve is operated by means of an actuator and a lever.
10. Dispensing apparatus according to any one of Claims 1 to 9 , wherein said valve comprises a substantially hollow cylindrical tube open at the first end and having one or more ports arranged around the circumference of the tube adjacent to the second end.
11. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 10, wherein the area of said ports is greater than the cross-sectional area of said cylindrical tube.
12. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 10 or 11, further comprising a boss or cap member, said valve being located within said boss or cap member such that said valve can slide longitudinally within said boss or cap member, said valve being provided with a shaped end profile at said second end adapted to abut a corresponding portion of the boss or cap member to close said valve.
13. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein said container is provided with a circular aperture, wherein said boss or cap member is adapted to 


fit to said circular aperture, said valve and actuator being attached to said cap member.
14. Dispensing apparatus according to Claim 13, wherein said cap member comprises a curled lip portion adapted to be secured to the rim of said circular aperture .
15. Dispensing apparatus according to any one of Claims 10 to 14, wherein the second end of said cylinder is closed.
16. Dispensing apparatus according to any one of Claims 10 to 14, wherein the second end of said cylinder is provided with a flap valve adapted to allow insertion of a product into said container when said product chamber is not pressurised and adapted to close when said product chamber is pressurised.
17. Composite piston for use in dispensing apparatus, said composite piston comprising a first piston, a second piston and a coupling means, the coupling means movably coupling the first and second pistons to each other and permitting limited relative movement between the first and second pistons in a direction substantially parallel to the direction of movement of the composite piston.
18. Composite piston according to Claim 17, wherein the first and second pistons interlock in use defining a piston sealant chamber.
19. Composite piston according to Claim 18, wherein the piston sealant chamber is open circumferentially .
20. Composite piston according to any one of Claims 17 


to 19, wherein the coupling means comprises a projection on one of the first and second pistons and a recess in the other of the first and second pistons, and the projection engages in the recess to couple the pistons to each other.
21. Composite piston according to Claim 20, wherein the projection and the recess include mutually engageable ratchet formations which permit movement of the pistons relative to each other in one direction only.
22. Composite piston according to Claim 20 or 21, wherein the recess is a central aperture in one of the pistons and the projection is a central projection on the other piston arranged to engage the recess.
23. Composite piston according to any one of Claims 17 to 22, wherein the pistons are manufactured from a flexible, resilient material, such as plastic.
24. Composite piston according to any one of Claims 17 to 23, wherein the composite piston also includes a viscous substance which in use contacts the inside wall of a container adjacent the composite piston and is adapted to facilitate sealing of the composite piston against the inside walls of the container and/or reduce friction between the composite piston and the inside walls of the container.
25. Composite piston according to Claim 24, wherein the piston assembly is provided with expansion means for accommodating expansion of the sealant, in use.
26. Composite piston according to Claim 25, wherein said expansion means comprises thinned portions 


provided on the first and/or second piston, said thinned portions forming pockets which are adapted to expand in a balloon- like manner to accommodate sealant expansion in use.
27. Dispensing apparatus according to any one of Claims 2 to 16, wherein the piston is a composite piston according to any of Claims 17 to 26.
28. Container for dispensing a product therefrom, the container comprising a composite piston according to any of Claims 17 to 26 movably mounted within the container and an outlet through which the product is dispensed, the container walls and the composite piston defining a product chamber within the container, and movement of the composite piston within the container towards the outlet expelling product through the outlet.
29. Container according to Claim 28, wherein the composite piston comprises viscous material located between the first and second pistons and adapted to be forced into engagement with the inside wall of the container by a compression force which acts between the first and second pistons to cause the second piston to move towards the first piston.
30. Container according to Claim 29, wherein the composite piston further comprises a wall engaging skirt which abuts against an inside wall of the container.
31. Container according to Claim 30, wherein a wall- engaging skirt is provided on both the first and the second pistons. 

32. Container according to any one of Claims 28 to 31, wherein the container is a pressure pack dispenser which comprises a propellant system which pushes the piston towards the outlet.
33. Container according to any one of Claims 28 to 31, wherein the container is adapted for use in combination with a mechanical actuating device which pushes the composite piston towards the outlet of the container.
34. Container for use in dispensing apparatus, said container comprising a hollow cylindrical portion and a boss portion, said cylindrical portion being open at one end for attachment of a sealing dome and having a curled in portion at the other end for engagement with a corresponding flange provided on the boss portion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
