<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1996014030</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXPANDABLE STENT USING SLIDING MEMBERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F290	A61F292	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a lumen support device (10), or stent, used to open or expand a body lumen. The stent (10) incorporates elongated parallel stent components (23) with circumferential members (20), fingers, which weave into paired slots (30) of an adjacent stent component. This weave-like interlocking configuration enables the stent (10) to expand radially without yielding or plastically deforming the material of which the stent is fabricated. The weave-like mechanism allows for uniform, smooth expansion without change in longitudinal dimensions for the complete assembly. Once assembled, the plurality of parallel elongated stent components form a cylindrical configuration.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORDENBACHER PAUL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORDENBACHER, PAUL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ΈXPANDABLE STENT USING SLIDING MEMBERSBackground of the InventionThis invention relates to intraluminal stent implants for maintaining support of a body lumen. It comprises an improvement and alternate design to stents which are generally cylindrical in shape and have a plurality of metal elements joined to permit flexing of the stent along the longitudinal axis allowing it to conform to the curves of the inner wall of the targeted lumen.An important use of metal stents is found in situations where part of the vessel wall or stenotic plaque blocks or occludes blood flow in the vessel. Normally a balloon catheter is utilized in a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedure to enlarge the occluded portion of the vessel. However, the dilation of the occlusion can form flaps, fissures and dissections which threaten re-closure of the dilated vessel or even perforations in the vessel wall. Implantation of stents can provide support for such problems and prevent reclosure of the vessel or provide patch repair for a perforated vessel. The stent overcomes the natural tenancy of the vessel walls of some patients to collapse, thereby maintaining a more normal flow of blood through that vessel than would be possible if the stent were not in place. An example of prior developed metal stents has been described in the article of Stignart, et al. titled "Intra vascular Stents To prevent Occlusion and Restenosis after Transluminal Angioplasty", published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Vol. 316, No. 12, Mar. 19, 1981, pages 701-706. This stent is the form of a "Chinese finger handcuff" metallic mesh which can be expanded and compressed in diameter. The stent is made by cutting desired lengths from an elongated tube of metal mesh and, accordingly, has the disadvantage that metal prongs from the cutting process remain at the longitudinal ends thereof. The inherent rigidity of the metal used to form the stent together with these terminal prongs make navigation of the blood vessels to the locus of the lesion difficult as well as risky from the standpoint of injury to healthy tissue along the passage to the target vessel. When the stent is permanently placed in a vessel, the continuous stress from the flow of the fluid within the vessel could cause the prongs to damage the vessel walls adjacent to the lesion. 

 Another type of metal stent involves a tube of stainless wire braid. During insertion, the tube is positioned along a delivery device, such as a catheter, in extended form, making the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is as follows:
1. A radially expandable stent for implantation within a body lumen comprising: a plurality of elongated stent components, wherein the stent components are arranged longitudinally and substantially parallel to each other; a plurality of circumferential members substantially perpendicularly affixed to the stent components; and a plurality of paired slots positioned along the stent components, the paired slots being parallel relative to the elongated stent components, and wherein the circumferential members of one component are slidably received into the paired slots of an adjacent component forming a weave-like interlocking configuration, and wherein the radially expandable stent has a generally cylindrical body with open proximal and distal ends; the stent being radially expandable to engage the lumen walls by sliding the circumferential members through the paired slots to separate the components from each other diametrically.
2. A stent as in claim 1 wherein the plurality of elongated stent components comprises: a first stent component with a longitudinal backbone having a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of opposingly paired circumferential members perpendicularly affixed to the first stent component and spaced therealong; a plurality of paired slots linearly positioned and spaced along the longitudinal backbone of the first stent component, the paired slots and the circumferential members alternating in position relative to each other starting with a paired slot at the proximal end of the first stent component; a second stent component with a longitudinal backbone having a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of opposingly paired circumferential members perpendicularly affixed to the second stent component and spaced therealong; a plurality of paired slots linearly positioned and spaced along the longitudinal backbone of the second stent component, the paired slots and the circumferential members alternating in position relative to each other starting with a 


pair of the circumferential members at the proximal end of the second stent component; and a third stent component including a longitudinal backbone having paired slots linearly positioned along the longitudinal backbone.
3. A stent as in claim 2 wherein the stem's potential diameter is increased by adding additional series components, wherein a series comprises the first stent component, the second stent component and the third stent component.
4. A stent as in claim 3 wherein the paired slots comprise two parallel slots linearly disposed along the backbone of the stent components.
5. A stent as in claim 4 further comprising an arresting mechanism preventing disengagement of the circumferential members from each corresponding paired slot.
6. A stent as in claims 5 wherein the stent is made from a material selected from a group consisting of elgiloy alloy, stainless steel, biodegradable plastic, nonbiodegradable plastic and nitinol alloy.
7. A stent as in claim 6 wherein the arresting mechanism comprises a lip at the end of at least one circumferential member which engages the corresponding paired slot when the stent is expanded.
8. A stent as in claim 6 wherein the arresting mechanism comprises a raised portion on at least one circumferential member which engages the corresponding paired slot when the stent is expanded.
9. A stent as in claim 8 wherein the circumferential member includes a plurality of the raised portions.
10. A stent as in claim 6 wherein the arresting mechanism comprises a lip and catch arrangement which engages with the corresponding paired slot restricting movement in either direction when the stent is expanded. 


11. A stem as in claim 6 wherein the arresting mechamsm comprises an arrowhead element incorporated in at least one of the circumferential members, engaging the corresponding paired slot therewith when the stent is expanded.
12. A stent as in claim 11 wherein the circumferential member includes a plurality of the arrowhead elements.
13. A stent as in claim 6 wherein the arresting mechanism comprises an element of increasing width toward the distal end of the circumferential member and which engages a corresponding paired slot when the stent is expanded.
14. A stent as in claim 1 wherein the plurality of elongated stent components comprises: a first stent component with a zig-zag longitudinal backbone having a set of first edge members linearly arranged and a set of second edge members linearly arranged, the first edge members and the second edge members being parallel and positioned on opposite sides of the zig-zag backbone; a plurality of circumferential members extending perpendicular and outwardly from the first edge members of the zig-zag backbone of the first stent member; a plurality of paired slots positioned in the second edge members of the zig-zag backbone of the first stent member, the paired slots being parallel to each other and linear relative to the backbone of the first stent component, the backbone of the first stent component having a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the first edge members and the second edge members alternate in position along the backbone of the first stent component, starting at the proximal end with a second edge member; a second stent component with a zig-zag longitudinal backbone having a set of first edge members linearly arranged and a set of second edge members linearly arranged, the first edge members and the second edge members being parallel and positioned on opposite sides of the zig-zag backbone; 


 a plurality of circumferential members extending perpendicular and inwardly from the first edge members of the zig-zag backbone of the second stent component; a plurality of paired slots positioned in the second edge members of the zig-zag backbone of the second stent component, the paired slots being parallel to each other and linear relative to the backbone of the second stent component, the backbone of the second stent component having a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the first edge members and the second edge members alternate in position along the backbone of the second stent component, starting at the proximal end with a first edge member; wherein the circumferential members of the first stent component are slidably receivable into the corresponding paired slots of the second stent component and the circumferential members of the second component are slidably receivable into the corresponding paired slots of the first stent component.
15. A stent as in claim 14 wherein the stem's potential diameter is increased by adding an additional series of stent components, wherein a series comprises the first stent component, and the second stent component.
16. A stent as in claim 15 wherein the paired slots comprise two parallel slots linearly positioned along the backbone of the stent components.
17. A stent as in claim 16 further comprising an arresting mechanism preventing disengagement of the circumferential members of the first stent component from each corresponding paired slot of the second stent component.
18. A stent as in claims 17 wherein the stent is made from a material selected from a group consisting of elgiloy alloy, stainless steel, biodegradable plastic, nonbiodegradable plastic and nitinol alloy.
19. A stent as in claim 18 wherein the arresting mechanism comprises a lip at the end of at least one circumferential member of the first component which engages the corresponding paired slot of the second component when the stent is expanded. 


20. A stent as in claim 18 wherein the arresting mechanism comprises a raised portion on the end of at least one circumferential member of the first component which engages the corresponding paired slot of the second component when the stent is expanded.
21. A stent as in claim 20 wherein the circumferential member include a plurality of the raised portions.
22. A stent as in claim 18 wherein the arresting mechamsm comprises a lip and catch arrangement wherein at least one circumferential member of the first component engages the corresponding paired slot of the second component restricting movement in either direction when the stent is expanded.
23. A stent as in claim 18 wherein the arresting mechanism comprises an arrowhead element incorporated in at least one of the circumferential members of the first stent component engaging the corresponding paired slot of the second stent component therewith when the stent is expanded.
24. A stent as in claim 23 wherein the circumferential member includes a plurality of the arrowhead elements.
25. A stent as in claim 18 wherein the arresting mechanism comprises an element of increasing width toward the distal end of at least one circumferential member of each first stent component and which engages the corresponding paired slot of each second stent component when the stent is expanded. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
