<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999018000</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IDENTIFICATION DEVICE FOR CONTAINERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D134	B65D134	B65D2520	B65D2520	G09F308	G09F316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D1	B65D1	B65D25	B65D25	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A container and lid (11) primarily intended for food use has a flange (13) extending at least around one of the container and the lid (11), but preferably has respective flanges (13) extending around both the container and the lid. A colour coded identifying device (10) is in the form of a generally U-shaped clip (17) and is connectable to the flange (13) of the container or the lid. The clip has a pair of arms (19) between which the flange (13) is received, at least one of the arms (19) defining an abutment face (21) which is engageable with a corresponding abutment (24) on the flange (13) so that when the clip (17) is connected to the flange, it is retained thereon during all normal use of the container and lid.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROWE ANTHONY PETER VARNEY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEWART PLASTICS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROWE, ANTHONY, PETER, VARNEY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEWART PLASTICS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWE ANTHONY PETER VARNEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWE, ANTHONY, PETER, VARNEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IDENTIFICATION DEVICE FOR CONTAINERSThis invention relates to containers and particularly (but not exclusively) to containers for food useConcerns about health and food safety often focus on maintaining separate certain kinds of foods and the importance of not contaminating one kind of food (for example, uncooked meat) with another kind (such as cooked meat) Particularly in the catering and restaurant businesses, there is a special need to ensure that certain foods are kept separate and in particular are not stored together but this is rendered difficult, in practice, by the use of food containers Such containers may be labelled to show what they currently contain but the labels often become detached from the containers or the writing on the labels becomes illegible Furthermore, even after washing, containers which have been used for one type of food may still result in unwanted contamination if then used for another type of food There is thus a recognised need to be able to designate a container to be exclusively for a certain kind of food Such a designation, in theory, should be permanent but, in practice, it is desirable to permit a change in designation though perhaps with some difficulty, to ensure that the designation remains physically associated with the container, for all normal use of that container Using differently-coloured lids is one method for indicating an intended use of a container but unless a lid is permanently attached to a container, it is very easy for the lids for a number of containers to become mixed up On the other hand, if a lid is permanently attached, then it cannot be replaced by another of a different colour, if the intended use of the container is to change Moreover, since a container manufacturer has no control over the intended use of the container, a large number of different iids would have to be supplied with each container to permit the purchaser sufficient flexibility in use - and this is relatively expensive and also would require significant storage space, for all of the lids Having regard to the recognised problem of the desirability of clearly and unambiguously identifying a container as being for a particular food stuff, one aspect of the present invention provides a container having a base, a 

side wall upstanding from the base and an outwardly-projecting flange extending at least part-way around the side wall, the container further comprising a device to identify the intended use of the container which device is in the form of a generally U-shaped clip
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A container having a base, a side wall upstanding from the base and an outwardly-projecting flange extending at least part-way around the side wall, the container further comprising a device to identify the intended use of the container which device is in the form of a generally U-shaped clip connectable to the flange, the clip having a pair of arms with a throat therebetween and into which the flange is receivable, the flange defining a first abutment face and at least one arm of the clip having a second abutment face engageable with said first abutment face when the clip is connected to the flange so as to retain the clip to the flange during all normal use of the container.
2. A container as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the container side wall defines an opening to the interior of the container and there is a lid for the opening releasably connectable to the container to close the opening. 3. A container as claimed in claim 2, wherein a second flange is formed around the lid and a second device to identify the intended use of the container with which the lid is to be used is provided for the second flange, which second device is of substantially the same form as the first-mentioned device. 4. A container having a base, a side wall upstanding from the base and defining an opening, a lid releasably connectable to the container to close the opening, and an outwardly-projecting flange extending at least part-way around the lid, the container further comprising a device to identify the intended use of the container which device is in the form of a generally U- shaped clip connectable to the flange of the lid, the clip having a pair of arms with a throat therebetween and into which the flange is receivable, the flange defining a first abutment face and at least one arm of the clip having a second abutment face engageable with said first abutment face when the clip is connected to the flange so as to retain the clip to the flange during all normal use of the lid. 

5. A container as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the first abutment face is defined by at least some of the walls of an aperture formed through the flange.
6. A container as claimed in claim 5, wherein the aperture is in the form of a substantially round hole.
7. A container as claimed in claim 5, wherein the aperture is in the form of a slot running substantially parallel to an adjacent edge of the flange.
8. A container as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the first abutment face is defined by a groove formed in the thickness of the flange and running parallel to an adjacent edge of the flange.
9. A container as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the second abutment face is defined by a barb formed on the inwardly directed surface of one of the arms of the clip.
10. A container as claimed in claim 9, wherein the other arm of the clip carries a barb opposed to said barb on the one arm of the clip, which opposed barbs engage corresponding first abutment faces on the flange.
11. A container as claimed in claims 1 to 4, wherein the first abutment face is formed by a wall of a re-entrant slot extending into the flange from an edge thereof, into which slot is received a lug extending across the throat of the clip, said lug defining the second abutment face.
12. A container as claimed in claim 11 , wherein a second re-entrant slot is formed in the flange spaced from the first re-entrant slot, the clip having correspondingly-spaced lugs in the throat thereof.
13. A container as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the flange is relieved over the area where the clip is received, so that the clip does not upstand from the flange by the full thickness of the arms of the clip when the clip is received on the flange.
14. A container as claimed in any of claims 1 to 12, wherein the ends of the clip are disposed between a pair of shoulders upstanding from the flange. 15. A container as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the inwardly-directed surfaces of the arms of the clip bear on corresponding surfaces of the flange to restrain rotational movement of the clip. 

16. A container as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the long free edges of the arms of the clip bear on the side walls of the container or lid from which the flange projects.
17. A container as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the clip is colour-coded to indicate the contents of the container.
18. A container as claimed in claim 17 in combination with a multiplicity of individually-coloured clips, whereby a user may select a suitable colour for the intended contents and then identify the container with a clip of the appropriate colour for the intended use. 19. A container as claimed in claim 17 and having a lid, in combination with a multiplicity of individually-coloured clips, whereby a user may select a suitable colour for the intended contents and then identify the lid with a clip of the appropriate colour for the intended use. 20. A container and lid as claimed in claim 3 and claim 17, in combination with a multiplicity of pairs of individually coloured clips, whereby a user may select a suitable colour for the intended contents and then identify both the container base and the lid with a pair of clips of the same colour. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
