<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2003071371</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PREDICTIVE ALTITUDE DISPLAY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C500	G01C500	G01S704	G01S706	G01S1300	G01S1388	G01S1391	G01S1393	G01S1394	G08G500	G08G502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G08G	G08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C5	G01C5	G01S7	G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G08G5	G08G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Embodiments provide a method and apparatus for indicating aircraft (12) height relative to an obstruction in a terrain awareness warning system. The method includes receiving data indicative of geographic features of an obstruction, lateral distance of the geographic feature from an aircraft, height and flight path of the aircraft, calculating (208) a projected height of the aircraft at the location of the obstruction using the data, generating a result signal (222), and displaying (224) a colored indication on a display screen based on the result signal. The apparatus includes inputs for signals from instruments measuring height, flight path, and location of an aircraft, as well as an input for an instrument providing information about geographic features of terrain surrounding the aircraft. The apparatus includes employing the signals to calculate an effective height of the aircraft relative to the terrain, and a screen display for graphically displaying the results of the calculation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLOCK GERALD J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDEL AVIONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLOCK, GERALD, J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDEL AVIONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOCK GERALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOCK, GERALD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE OF THE INVENTIONMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PREDICTIVE ALTITUDE DISPLAYFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to avionics, and more particularly to altitude displays and terrain awareness warning systems .BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION A conventional altitude display for a terrain awareness warning system (TAWS) for a given aircraft provides a pilot with a visual display of the terrain having an altitude higher than the aircraft, as well as the terrain within some distance, usually 2000', below an aircraft.Referring to prior art FIG. 1, an environment is shown in which a conventional altitude display could be important. In situation I, an aircraft 12 is flying at an altitude X along a direction vector 16. In situation II, an aircraft 12' is flying at an altitude X' along a direction vector 16'. In situation III, an aircraft 12'' is flying at an altitude X'' along a direction vector 16''. Finally, in situation IV, an aircraft 12''' is flying at an altitude X''' along a direction vector 16'''. The aircrafts 12, 12', 12", and 12'" are flying with direction vectors 16, 16', 16", 16"', respectively, such 

that an obstruction 14 having height Y is within a forward arc, centered on the respective direction vector, as monitored by the conventional altitude display aboard each respective aircraft. Starting by considering situation IV, a conventional altitude display would typically give a visual signal as the height Y of the obstruction 14 is greater than the altitude X'" of the aircraft 12"'. In other words, X'" ≤ Y. An audible alert may be given as well if suitable criteria regarding time-to-impact of the terrain feature are also met. In all cases, the height Y and altitude X"' may be measured by radio height, altitude above sea level, or other means, and preferably the same type of measurement, is employed for both distances. The visual signal in this situation would typically be a red area, such as a spot or square, on a cockpit display. The term ΛRED' is shown in the figure to denote the range of operation which would result in a red area being displayed. The red area would be indicated to be at a range Z and at a bearing corresponding to the direction of the obstruction 14 relative to the centerline of the aircraft 12'".In situation III, a conventional altitude display would also typically give a red visual signal as the height Y of the obstruction 14 is within a predetermined elevation buffer λλD" and a predetermined time-to-impact from the altitude X' ' of the aircraft 12' ' . This
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for providing an indication of aircraft height relative to an obstruction in a terrain awareness warning system, comprising: receiving a first datum indicative of a geographic feature of an obstruction; receiving a second datum indicative of a lateral distance of the geographic feature from an aircraft; receiving a third datum indicative of a height of the aircraft; receiving a fourth datum indicative of a flight path of the aircraft; calculating a projected height of the aircraft at the location of the obstruction using the first through fourth data; generating a result signal based on the projected height and the first datum; and displaying a colored indication on a display screen based on the generated result signal.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first datum is a height of the obstruction.
The method of claim 1, wherein the colored indication is a colored area on a display screen having a color selected from the group consisting of: red, yellow, green, and black. 


4. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving a fourth datum step further comprises: resolving the flight path of the aircraft into components including a lateral flight path and a vertical flight path.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising calculating a flight path angle of the aircraft from the received fourth datum.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising calculating an effective altitude of the aircraft by adding to the third datum a value equal to the second datum multiplied by the tangent of the flight path angle.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising generating a first alert signal if the effective altitude is less than the sum of the first datum and a elevation buffer.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the elevation buffer is zero.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising sounding an audible alarm as the first alert signal.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising displaying a first colored indication at a display location corresponding to the second datum as the first alert signal . 

11. The method of claim 10, wherein the colored indication is a red area.
12. The method of claim 6, further comprising generating a second alert signal if the effective altitude is greater than the sum of the first datum and a elevation buffer but less than a sum of the first datum, the elevation buffer, and a first distance.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising displaying a second colored indication at a display location corresponding to the second datum as the second alert signal .
14. A computer program, stored in a machine-readable format, for a terrain awareness warning system, for causing a computer to: receive a first datum indicative of a geographic feature of an obstruction; receive a second datum indicative of a lateral distance of the geographic feature from an aircraft; receive a third datum indicative of a height of the aircraft; receive a fourth datum indicative of a flight path of the aircraft; calculate a projected height of the aircraft at the location of the obstruction using the first through fourth data; and generate a result signal based on the projected height and the first datum. 

15. An apparatus for providing an indication of aircraft height relative to an obstruction in a terrain awareness warning system, comprising: a first input for a first signal from an instrument measuring a height of an aircraft; a second input for a second signal from an instrument measuring a location of the aircraft; a third input for a third signal from an instrument providing information about geographic features of terrain surrounding the aircraft; a fourth input for a fourth signal from an instrument measuring a flight path of the aircraft; means for employing the signals from the first through fourth inputs to calculate an effective height of the aircraft relative to at least the third input; and a screen display for graphically displaying the results of the calculation.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the instrument measuring a height of the aircraft and the instrument measuring a location of the aircraft is an altimeter, and wherein the instrument providing information about geographic features of terrain surrounding the aircraft and the instrument measuring a flight path of the aircraft is an aid to navigation.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the aid to navigation is a global positioning system unit. 

18. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a conventional TAWS altitude display and means to toggle the screen display between the conventional TAWS altitude display and the screen display for graphically displaying the results of the calculation.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first through fourth inputs form at least a portion of a parallel data bus.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first through fourth inputs form at least a portion of a serial data stream. 

1. A method of performing terrain awareness warning for an aircraft, comprising: collecting data of terrain features in the vicinity of an aircraft; collecting data of the lateral distance and bearing of the terrain features from the aircraft; collecting data of the height and flight path of the aircraft; calculating a projected height of the aircraft at the location of each of the terrain features based on the collected data of the height and flight path of the aircraft; generating result signals based on the projected height, the collected data of terrain features, and the bearing of the terrain features; and displaying colored indications on a display screen with respect to bearing based on the generated result signals. 

2. A method for providing an indication of lateral aircraft position relative to an obstruction in a terrain awareness warning system, comprising: receiving a first datum indicative of the bearing of an obstruction relative to an aircraft; receiving a second datum indicative of a lateral distance of the obstruction from the aircraft; receiving third data indicative of a flight path of the aircraft; calculating a projected flight path of the aircraft relative to the obstruction using the first through third data and determining a distance between the projected flight path and the obstruction at a series of points along the projected flight path; generating a result signal based on the determined distance; and displaying a colored indication on a display screen based on the generated result signal with respect to the bearing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
