<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2002009280</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RECEIVER COMPRISING A DIGITALLY CONTROLLED CAPACITOR BANK
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03J300	H03J320	H03J500	H03J524	H04B118	H04B118	H04B126	H04B126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03J	H03J	H03J	H03J	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03J3	H03J3	H03J5	H03J5	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Receiver comprising an RF input filter including a digitally controlled capacitor bank with n capacitors being controlled by a tuning control signal for varying the tuning frequency of the RF input filter within a tuning range. For an improvement of the receiver in price/performance ratio the n capacitors of the digitally controlled capacitor bank are monolythically integrated, whereas the bandwidth of the tunable RF input filter is being adjusted to the maximum relative spread of said capacitors. A continuous tuning control signal is being supplied through an analogue to digital (AD) converter to said capacitor bank and to a first input of a differential stage, an output of the AD converter being coupled through a digital to analogue (DA) converter to a second input of a differential stage, an output of the differential stage being coupled to a control terminal of a variable capacitance diode being arranged in parallel to the digitally controlled capacitor bank.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUMPT HERMAN WOUTER VAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMICONDUCTOR IDEAS MARKET BV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEMICONDUCTOR IDEAS TO THE MARKET (ITOM)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAN RUMPT, HERMAN, WOUTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN RUMPT HERMAN WOUTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN RUMPT, HERMAN, WOUTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Receiver comprising a digitally controlled capacitor bankThe invention relates to a receiver comprising a tuning circuit including a digitally controlled capacitor bank with n capacitors being monolithically integrated in planary form and being controlled by a tuning control signal, as well as to a capacitor bank. A receiver using a digitally controlled capacitor bank, of this type is known e.g. from US patent number 4,216,451. The capacitor bank of the known receiver provides a variable capacitance, included in a filter circuit and is controlled to incrementally vary' the tuning frequency of the filter and/or the receiver. The use of a -capacitor bank instead of a single variable capaci-tance diode, allows to lower the bias voltage and to avoid the need for DC/DC converters. Furthermore, the n capacitors of the digitally controlled capacitor bank being monolithically integrated in planary form enable to optimise the above receiver and/or the capacitor bank used therein, in terms of price/performance ratio and in particular in tuning behaviour.However, In practice, the component values of circuit elements implemented in planary technology and in particular in integrated circuit (IC) technology have absolute and relative spread. Absolute spread is understood to be the spread in the actual component values from a wanted or average value, whereas relative spread is understood to be -the spread in the component values of the elements relative to each other. Absolute spread is mainly caused by variation of the thickness or the composition of planar layers,, whereas relative spread is caused by the inhomogenities along the X and Y axes of the planar layers . Both types of spread cause the actual value of integrated elements to deviate unpredictably from a target value, which in -particular for relatively small values of the capacitance may amount to 305 or more. This has prevented so far to integrate -the capacitor bank for use in a receiver tuning circuit. The invention, however, is based on the recognition that in the above integrated capacitor bank, said spread can be 

prevented from affecting the accuracy of the capacitance value of the capacitor bank and/or the tuning frequency.In consequence, amongst other things, it is an object of the invention is to minimise the overall spread of the capacitance value of the capacitor bank.Now therefore, according to one of i±s aspects, the invention is characterised by said n capacitors providing ι ~ various capacitance values including a unity capacitor covering
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. Receiver comprising a tuning circuit including a digitally controlled capacitor bank with n capacitors being 5 monolithically integrated in planary form and being controlled by a tuning control signal, characterised by said n capacitors providing various capacitance values including a unity capacitor covering a unity IC surface, wherein capacitors having capacitance values smaller than
10 said unity capacitor cover respective IC surfaces, which in proportion to their value are smaller than said unity IC surface and wherein capacitors having capacitance values greater than said unity capacitor are being formed by clusters of capacitors, each covering an IC surface
15 corresponding to said unity IC surface.
2 Receiver according to claim 1, characterised by said n capacitors forming a binary weighted sequence of capacitance values ranging from 2° to 2
n_1
, said unity 20 capacitor corresponding to a capacitance value 2*, k being chosen larger than 1 and smaller than n.
3, Receiver according to claim 2, characterised by n being in the order of magnitude of 10 and k being chosen in a range 25. between 3 and 8.
4. Receiver according to claim 2 or 3, characterised by said unity capacitor being chosen to define the upper boundary limit of the tuning range. 30
5. Receiver according to one of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that said clusters of unity capacitors are being surrounded by isolated dummy capacitors.
35 6. Receiver according to one of claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the said clusters of capacitors are structured in lay out to minimise parasitic wiring effects. 

7. Receiver according to one of claims 1 to 6, characterised by an AD converter for converting an analogue tuning control signal into an m bit- binary signal being coupled to a bitnumber conversion device for converting said m bit binary signal into an n bit binary signal, m being smaller than n, said n bit binary signal including bits 1 to N respectively controlling capacitors 1 to n of the capacitor bank.
8. Receiver according to claim 7, characterised in that the bitnumber conversion device comprise means for linearising the dependency of capacitance variation of the integrated digitally controlled capacitor bank on the tuning control signal .
9. Receiver according to claim 7 or 8, characterised in that the bitnumber conversion device comprises a look up table comprising m*n storage locations for storing therein the n bit binary signal controlling the n capacitors of the integrated digitally controlled capacitor bank as a function of said m bit binary signal.
10. Receiver according to claim 9, characterised in that the bitnumber conversion device comprises various look up tables each comprising m*n storage locations for storing therein the n bit binary signal controlling the n capacitors of the integrated digitally controlled capacitor bank.
11. Receiver according to claim 7 or 8, characterised in that the bitnumber conversion device comprises a microprocessor for executing an algorithm for converting an m bit binary signal into an n bit binary signal .
12. Receiver according to one of claims 7 to 11, characterised by a calibration circuit for measuring absolute spread in the capacitance values of the n capacitors of the integrated digitally controlled capacitor bank being 


 coupled to the bitnumber conversion device to adapt said conversion to compensate for said absolute spread.
13. Receiver according to one of claims 1 to 12, characterised by a phase locked loop comprising a controllable oscillator, a continuous tuning control signal being supplied through an analogue to digital (AD) converter to said capacitor bank and to a first input of a differential stage, an Output of the AD converter being coupled through a digital to analogue (DA) converter to a second input of a differential stage, an output of the differential stage being coupled to a control terminal of a variable capacitance diode being arranged in parallel to the capacitor bank.
14. Receiver according to claim 13, characterised in that the capacitance variation range of the variable capacitance diode corresponds at least to the capacitance variation stepwidth of the capacitor bank at an incremental change of the output signal of the AD converter.
15. Receiver according to claim 13 or 14, characterised by amplification means preceding the control terminal of said variable capacitance diode for amplifying the mutual difference of the signals at the first and second input of the differential stage.
16. Receiver according to claim 15, characterised by an output of the AD converter being coupled to a gain control input of the amplification means.
17. Receiver according to one of claims 1 to 16, characterised by an RF input filter comprising a further capacitor bank
) being controlled by a control signal generator comprising means to provide parallel tracking of the tuning circuit and the RF filter. 

18. Variable capacitance device comprising a digitally controlled capacitor bank with n capacitors being monolithically integrated in planary form and being controlled by a control signal for varying the capacitance of the capacitor bank, characterised by said n capacitors providing
^
 various capacitance values including a unity capacitor -covering a unity IC surface, wherein capacitors having capacitance values smaller than- said unity capacitor cover respective IC surfaces, which in proportion to their value are smaller than said unity IC surface and wherein capacitors having capacitance values greater than said unity capacitor are being formed by clusters of capacitors, each covering an IC surface corresponding to said unity IC surface .
19. Variable capacitance device according to claim 18, characterised by said n capacitors forming a binary weighted, sequence of capacitance values ranging from 2° to 2
n_1
, said unity capacitor corresponding to a capacitance value 2
:k
, k being chosen larger than 1 and smaller than n.
20. Variable capacitance device according to claim 19, characterised by n being in the order of magnitude of 10 and k being chosen in a range between 3 and 8.
21. Variable capacitance device according to claim 19 or 20, characterised by said unity capacitor being chosen to define the upper boundary limit of the control range.
22. Variable capacitance device according to one of claims 18 to 21, characterised in that said clusters of unity capacitors are being surrounded by isolated dummy capacitors .
23. Variable capacitance device according to one of claims 18 to 22, characterised in that the said clusters of capacitors are structured in lay out to minimise parasitic wiring effects. 

24. Variable capacitance device according to one of claims 18 to 23^ characterised by an AD converter for converting an analogue control signal into an m- bit binary signal being coupled to a bitnumber conversion device for converting said m bit binary signal into an n bit binary signal, m • being smaller than n, said n bit binary signal including bits 1 to N respectively controlling capacitors 1 to n of the capacitor bank..
25. Variable capacitance device according to claim 24, characterised in that the bitnumber conversion device comprise means for linearising the dependency of capacitance variation of the integrated digitally controlled capacitor bank on the control signal.
26. Variable capacitance device according to claim 24 or 25, characterised in that the bitnumber conversion device comprises a look up table coinprising m*n storage locations for storing therein the n bit binary signal controlling the n capacitors of the integrated digitally controlled capacitor bank as a function of said m bit binary signal.
27. Variable capacitance device according to claim 26, characterised in that the bitnumber conversion device comprises various lpok up tables each comprising m*n storage locations for storing therein the n bit binary signal controlling the n capacitors of the integrated digitally controlled capacitor bank.
28. Variable capacitance device according to claim 24 or 25, characterised in that the bitnumber conversion device comprises a microprocessor for executing an algorithm for converting an bit binary signal into an n bit binary signal.
29. Variable capacitance device according to one of claims 18 to 30, characterised by a phase locked loop comprising a 


 controllable oscillator, a continuous control signal being supplied through an analogue to digital (AD) converter to said capacitor bank and to a first input of a differential stage, an output' of the AD converter being coupled through a digital to analogue (DA) converter to a second input of a differential stage, an output of the differential stage being coupled to a control terminal of a variable capacitance diode being arranged in parallel to the capacitor bank.
30. Variable capacitance device according to claim 29, characterised in that the capacitance variation range of the variable capacitance diode corresponds at least to the capacitance variation stepwidth of the capacitor bank at an incremental change of the output signal of the AD converter.
31. Variable capacitance device according to claim 29 or 30, characterised by amplification means preceding the control terminal of said variable capacitance diode for amplifying the mutual difference of the signals
'
 at the first and second input of the differential stage.
32. Variable capacitance device according to claim 31, characterised by an output of the AD converter being coupled to a gain control input • of the ampli ication means.
33. Variable capacitance device according to one of claims 24 to 32, characterised by a calibration circuit for measuring absolute spread in the capacitance values of the n capacitors of the integrated digitally controlled capacitor bank being coupled to the bitnumber conversion device to adapt said conversion to compensate for said absolute spread.
34. Variable capacitance device according to one of claims 27 to 33, characterised by including in a common housing first and second look up tables a common input thereof being 


supplied with a control signal and outputs thereof being coupled to first and second monolithically integrated digitally controlled capacitor banks for the use thereof in first and second filter circuits, respectively, the first and second look up, tables providing for parallel filter tracking. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
