<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623673</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Valve arrangement
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K3153	F16K712	H02P718	F16K3112	F16K3142	H02P7285	F16K716	F16K3104	F16K3104	F16K3144	F16K712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	H02P	F16K	F16K	H02P	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K31	F16K7	H02P7	F16K31	F16K31	H02P7	F16K7	F16K31	F16K31	F16K31	F16K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrically-operated fluid valve comprising at least one valve 

seating (11), a flexible diaphragm (13) covering the valve seating and being 
uniformly subjected on a lower surface thereof to a fluid pressure, and a 

closure member (28) pivotably mounted above the flexible diaphragm and 
rotatable about a pivot axis (29) thereof between first and second positions. 

An electrical motor (36, 81) is provided for rotating the closure member in 
a first direction whereby a first end of the closure member (14) depresses 

the diaphragm on to the valve seating, thereby reducing the pressure on one 
surface of the diaphragm within an area of the valve seating only, an 

opposite surface of the diaphragm and an opposite end of the closure 
member (18) still being subjected to said fluid pressure. The electrical 

motor rotates in the opposite direction for lifting the diaphragm from the 
valve seating. Preferably, the electrical motor (81) is controlled by a 

switching circuit (85) including first and second d.c. supply rails (111, 112) 
connected across a storage element (125) connected in series with the motor 

(81). A normally closed switching element (115) is responsive to a voltage 
across the supply rails rails for opening and allowing current to flow through 

the motor so as to urge the closure member into the second position whilst 
substantially fully charging the storage element (125), whereupon decoupling 

the voltage from across the supply rails causes the switching element (115) 
to close thereby providing a discharge path through the motor for the storage 

element which discharges thereby urging the closure member (28) into the 
first position. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARAN ENG DEV LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NETAFIM A C S LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARAN ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NETAFIM (A.C.S.) LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZMAN YOUVAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAKAI AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZMAN, YOUVAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAKAI, AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electrical valve arrangements such as
are used, for instance, in automatic sprinklers and the like.Electrical valves such as are connected in the water inlet feed of
a garden sprinkler are typically solenoid operated. Such valves include a
sealing means which is opened by a linear armature which itself is actuated
by a solenoid. Such valves are supplied normally closed: the closure itself
being effected by means of a spring mechanism. Thus, in effect, the force
of the solenoid overcomes the spring bias in order to open the valve.A disadvantage with such valves, as is known, is that in order to
maintain the valve in an open state, electrical energy must be constantly
supplied for actuating the solenoid. Electrical valves are also known wherein the solenoid is replaced
by a conventional electrical motor. A major advantage of using an electrical
motor over the use of the solenoid is that power need be supplied to the
motor only in order to open and close the valve: there being no need to
supply current to the motor once an equilibrium position of the valve has
been achieved. Notwithstanding the obvious advantages of using a motor-operated
valve over a solenoid-operated valve, there exists a difficulty in
conforming such motor-operated valves to existing installations. Specifically,
installations which assume the use of solenoid-operated valves are so
constructed that energy is provided only in order to open the valve and to
maintain it in the open state, whereupon disconnecting the power supply
causes the valve to return to the closed position under the influence of the
spring bias.Regardless as to whether the operating mechanism is solenoid or
motor operated, such valves are typically provided with a fluid inlet passage
extending into a recess within which there is provided an "O" ring, whereby,
when a closure member in the form of a rod is inserted into the "O" ring,
the fluid inlet passage is sealed, thereby closing the valve. Such an
arrangement represents a conventional piston-type valve which is characterized
by the fact that the force acting on the piston head is exactly equal to
the area of the piston multiplied by the pressure of the fluid acting thereon.
This is distinct from diaphragm-type valves which, when open, are
subjected to a greater force than the closure force, owing to the increased
area upon which the fluid pressure is exerted. The additional area is an
inevitable consequence of the need to provide for buckling of the diaphragm,
thereby requiring that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A valve arrangement comprising:

a valve casing;
first and second ports formed in said casing;
first and second valve seatings (22, 23) of said first and second ports;
a flexible diaphragm (25);
a first diaphragm surface juxtaposed with respect to said valve
seatings;
a second and opposite diaphragm surface;
a closure member (15, 28, 56) mounted in said casing;
first and second actuator elements (26, 27) of said closure members
juxtaposed with respect to said second diaphragm surface and being

displaceable into first and second positions so as to bear alternately against
said second diaphragm surface thereby alternately depressing spaced apart

first and second portions of said first diaphragm surface into respective,
sealing engagement with said valve seatings thereby alternately sealing off

said first and second ports from a fluid flow zone; and
operating drive means operatively coupled to said closure member so
as, alternately, to pivotally displace said actuator elements from one to another

of said first and second positions so as, alternately, to effect communication
between said fluid flow zone and said first and second ports;
and said first diaphragm surface defines with said casing wall said fluid
flow zone, said displacement of said actuator elements (26, 27) alternately

effecting communication between said fluid flow zone and said first and

second ports;

   
characterized in that
 said closure member (15, 28, 56) is pivotally
mounted in said casing, the valve arrangement being such that fluid pressure 

in said fluid flow zone acts on said first diaphragm surface in a direction
tending to assist said pivotal displacement of said actuator elements (26, 27).
The valve arrangement according to Claim 1, wherein the closure
member (15, 26) is balanced so that when a valve seating is open, an equal

torque is applied to opposite ends (14, 18; 30, 31) of the closure member.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 1, wherein the closure
member (56) is unbalanced so that when a valve seating (11) is open, unequal

torques are applied to opposite ends (57,58) of the closure member.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 1, wherein the operating
means includes an electric motor (36).
The valve arrangement according to Claim 4, wherein the electric
motor (36) is configured to impart an impulse to the closure member (28) so

as to rotate it about a pivot axis (29) thereof and thereby move the actuator
elements (26,27) from the first position to the second position, or 
vice versa
.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 4, wherein the electric
motor (36) is coupled to the closure member (28) via a transmission system

(35) having a high velocity ratio.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 6, wherein the
transmission system (35) comprises a first gear wheel (37) connected to an

axis (38) of the electric motor (36) and a second gear wheel (39) having a
greater number of teeth than the first gear wheel and being coupled to the

pivot axis (29) of the closure member (28).
The valve arrangement according to Claim 7, wherein the
transmission system (35) further includes a crank (50) coupled at a first end

(49) thereof to the pivot axis (29) of the closure member (28) and having a
second end (51) disposed within an arcuate slot (42) in a periphery of the

second gear wheel (39), such that rotation of the second gear wheel causes one
of opposing ends (43, 44) of the slot to impinge on the second end of the

crank and apply an impulse thereto of sufficient magnitude to rotate the crank 
and thereby actuater elements (26, 27) respectively to said first or second

position.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 8, wherein:

the closure member (28) is provided on either side of the pivot axis
(29) with an upwardly depending armature (45, 46) defining therebetween a

substantially U-shaped hollow (47), and
a cylindrical boss (48) is eccentrically mounted on the first end (49) of
the crank (50), said cylindrical boss being disposed between the armatures of

the closure member and being dimensioned such that rotation of the crank
imposes a lateral force on an inside surface of one of the armatures so as to

rotate the closure member about its pivot axis.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 9, wherein the electric
motor (36) is so configured that when the actuator elements (26, 27) are

respectively in either the first or second position said lateral force acts through
an axis of rotation of the cylindrical boss (48) so that even if power to the

motor is interrupted there is no tendency for counter rotation of the cylindrical
boss.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 9, further including a pair
of resiliently biased leaf spring members (55) within said U-shaped hollow

(47) such that an initial rotation of the motor depresses the cylindrical boss
against one of the leaf spring members thereby rotating the closure member

into the first or second position, whilst continued rotation of the motor causes
the cylindrical boss to compress the leaf spring member.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 11, wherein the closure member (28) is
at least partially formed of molded plastics.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 1, wherein the operating means
includes:


a source of d.c. electrical power (87),
an electrical d.c. motor (81) coupled to the source of d.c. electrical
power and to the flexible diaphragm (13) and responsive to a first polarity 

voltage pulse for urging the flexible diaphragm into a first position wherein it
seals the valve seating (11) and responsive to a second polarity voltage pulse

for urging the flexible diaphragm into a second position wherein it is lifted
from the valve seating, and
a switching circuit (85) for decoupling the electrical d.c. motor from
the source of d.c. electrical power only when it is required to urge the flexible

diaphragm from the second position to the first position.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 13, wherein the switching
circuit (85) comprises:


first and second supply rails (111, 112) having first and second
polarities respectively,
a storage element (125) having a first terminal thereof connected to the
first supply rail and having a second terminal thereof connected to a first

terminal of the motor (81), a second terminal of the motor being connected to
the second supply rail,
a normally closed switching element (115) connected across the first
and second supply rails, and responsive to a voltage across said supply rails

for opening and allowing current to flow through the motor so as to urge the
flexible diaphragm (13) into the second position whilst substantially fully

charging the storage element (125), whereupon decoupling said voltage from
across the supply rails causes the switching element to close thereby providing

a discharge path through the motor for the storage element which discharges
thereby urging the flexible diaphragm into the first position.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 14, wherein the switching
element (125) is a PNP bipolar transistor connected in common collector

mode.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 15, wherein the PNP
bipolar transistor is a darlington pair.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 15, wherein the switching
circuit (85) further includes a secondary charge path (127, 128) connected 

across the motor for channeling current through the secondary charge path
instead of through the motor, whereby the storage element (125) reaches

substantially full charge before the flexible diaphragm (13) is urged into the
second position so that in the event of a power failure the storage element is

sufficiently charged to discharge through the motor and return the flexible
diaphragm to the first position.
The valve arrangement according to Claim 17, wherein the secondary
charge path comprises a resistor (127) connected in series with a diode (128)

so as to prevent discharge current flowing back through the secondary charge
path and the switching element (115).
The valve arrangement according to Claim 14, wherein the storage
element is a capacitor (125).
The valve arrangement according to Claim 14, wherein the source of
d.c. power is derived from a rectified a.c. voltage supply.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
