<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614592</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOTION VIDEO ENCODING/DECODING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N730	H04N592	H04N750	H04N726	H03M730	H04N726	H03M730	H04N730	H04N750	H04N592	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H03M	H04N	H03M	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H03M7	H04N7	H03M7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Direct current component coefficients resulting from an orthogonal transformation of a video signal are encoded with a precision, expressed in terms of quantization bits, which may be varied at each video sequence, group of pictures, picture, slice, macroblock or block portion of the video signal in accordance with a required picture quality. The encoded coefficients may be decoded in accordance with the precision used during encoding.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO MOTOKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO, MOTOKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to video signal encoding and
decoding, and, more particularly, is directed to high precision
encoding and decoding of orthogonally transformed coefficients
with efficient compression.Recently, orthogonal transformation techniques have been
used to encode a video signal. One such orthogonal
transformation is a discrete cosine transformation (DCT). In a
two-dimensional DCT, pictures or images represented in the video
signal are divided into blocks having a predetermined pixel
count, and then each block is orthogonally transformed into a
block of coefficients.Fig. 1 shows a two-dimensional block of DCT coefficients
corresponding to an image block of 8 pixels x 8 lines. The
coefficient F(0,0) corresponds to a direct-current component
representing an average luminance value of the two-dimensional
block.Row coefficients such as F(1,0), F(2,0) ... F(6,0), F(7,0), 
and similarly F(1,1), F(2,1) ... F(6,1), F(7,1), represent
high-frequency components in the vertical direction of the
two-dimensional block. Column coefficients such as F(0,1),
F(0,2) ... F(0,6), F(0,7), and similarly F(1,1), F(1,2) ...
F(1,6), F(1,7), represent high-frequency components in the
horizontal direction of the two-dimensional block.The DCT encoding technique utilizes the two-dimensional
correlation within an image to concentrate encoded signal power
around a specific frequency component. The amount of information
needed to represent the image can be compressed significantly if
only coefficients distributed in this concentration are encoded.For example, in the case of a flat picture, its blocks
exhibit good autocorrelation, that is, amplitude levels of the
pixels in the block are almost equal to each other. Therefore,
DCT coefficients corresponding to the low-frequency components
in the block, such as F(0,0), F(1,0), F(0,1), F(1,1), have large
values while most of the other coefficients have very low or zero
values. Accordingly, Huffman encoding, which compacts series of
contiguous identical coefficients, significantly compresses the
amount of information needed to represent the image.A standard for encoding video signals with motion, popularly
known as MPEG1, has been defined by ISO-IEC/JTC1/SC2/WG11. In
the MPEG1 technique, a picture is either an "intra picture",
meaning that it is encoded as a standalone picture, or an "inter
picture", meaning that it is predictively encoded relative to at 
least one other picture.The structure used for representing a video signal in MPEG1
format will now be explained with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of encoding a video signal having pixels represented
by n bits, n being an integer, the method comprising the steps of:


receiving (60) a picture quality signal (CTL);
selecting (65) an encoding precision in accordance with said
picture quality signal (CTL);
orthogonally transforming (61) said video signal to produce
direct current component coefficients and alternating current component coefficients;
quantizing (307) said direct current component coefficients using the selected encoding
precision and quantizing (305) said alternating current component coefficients according to a

given quantization step signal (S18), wherein
the encoding precision is selected to be n + m bits, m being
a non-negative integer;
differenciating
said quantized direct current component coefficients using an initial

value set in accordance with said selected encoding precision; and
variable length encoding (64) the
di
fferentiated direct current component coefficients using variable
length coding tables (67) which each have a length that is a function

of said selected encoding precision.
A method according to claim 1, wherein said picture quality
signal (CTL) corresponds to a portion of said video signal selected from

a video sequence, a group of pictures, picture, slice, macroblock and 
block.
A method according to claim 2, wherein said block has a size of
8 pixels x 8 lines.
A method according to claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3, wherein n
has a value of eight, and n + m has a value of eight to eleven.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the step of orthogonally transforming comprises performing (61) a

discrete cosine transformation.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
said direct current component coefficients include luminance direct

current component coefficients and chrominance direct current
component coefficients.
An apparatus for encoding a video signal having pixels
represented by n bits, n being an integer, the apparatus comprising:


means (60) for receiving a picture quality signal (CTL);
means (65) for selecting an encoding precision in accordance
with said picture quality signal (CTL);
means (61) for orthogonally transforming said video signal to 
produce direct current component coefficients and alternating current component coefficients;
means (307, 305) for quantizing said
direct current component

coefficients using the selected
encoding precision and quantizing said alternating current component coefficients according

to a given quantization step signal (S18), wherein
the encoding precision is selected to be n + m bits, m being a
non-negative integer;
means (63) for differenciating
said quantized direct current component coefficients using an

initial value set in accordance with said selected encoding precision;
and
means (64) for variable length encoding the
differentiated direct current component coefficients using variable

length coding tables (67) which each have a length that is a function
of said selected encoding precision.
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said picture quality
signal (CTL) corresponds to a portion of said video signal selected from

a video sequence, group of pictures, picture, slice, macroblock and
block.
An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said block has a
size of 8 pixels x 8 lines.
An apparatus according to claim 7, claim 8 or claim 9, 
wherein n has a value of eight and n + m has a value of eight to

eleven.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein
said means for orthogonally transforming comprises means (61) for

performing a discrete cosine transformation.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein
said direct current component coefficients include luminance direct

current component coefficients and chrominance direct current
component coefficients.
A method of decoding an encoded video signal corresponding to
an original video signal having pixels represented by n bits, n being an

integer, the method comprising the steps of:

receiving (89) a picture quality signal (CTL);
selecting (87) a decoding precision in accordance with said
picture quality signal (CTL);
extracting (81) encoded
direct and alternating current component

coefficients from said encoded video
signal; 
variable length decoding (81) the
encoded direct current component coefficients using variable length

coding tables (85) which each have a length that is a function of said
selected encoding precision;
inverse differenciating (82)
the variable length decoded direct current component

coefficients using an initial value set in accordance with the selected
decoding precision; and
inverse quantizing (504) said inverse differentiated direct current
component coefficients using the selected decoding precision and inverse quantizing (503)

said alternating current component coefficients according to a given quantization step signal
(S18)
wherein the decoding precision is selected to be n + m bits, m being a
non-negative integer.
A method according to claim 13, wherein said picture quality
signal (CTL) corresponds to a portion of said video signal selected from

a video sequence, group of pictures, picture, slice, macroblock and
block.
A method according to claim 14, wherein said block has a size
of 8 pixels x 8 lines.
A method according to claim 13, claim 14 or claim 15, wherein
n has a value of eight and n + m has a value of eight to eleven.
A method according to any one of claims 13 to 16, further
comprising the step (84) of inverse discrete cosine transforming the 

inverse quantized direct current component coefficients.
A method according to any one of claims 13 to 17, wherein said
encoded direct current component coefficients include encoded

luminance direct current component coefficients and encoded
chrominance direct current component coefficients.
An apparatus for decoding an encoded video signal
corresponding to an original video signal having pixels represented by

n bits, n being an integer, the apparatus comprising:

means (89) for receiving a picture quality signal (CTL);
means (87) for selecting a decoding precision in accordance with
said picture quality signal (CTL);
means (81) for extracting encoded
direct and alternating current component

coefficients from said
encoded video signal;
means (81) for variable length decoding said
encoded direct current component coefficients using variable length

coding tables (85) which each have a length that is a function of said
selected decoding precision;
means (82) for inverse differenciating
the variable length decoded direct current

component coefficients using an initial value set in accordance with the 
selected decoding precision; and
means (504, 503) for inverse quantizing said inverse
differentiated direct current component coefficients using the selected decoding precision and

for inverse quantizing said alternating current component coefficients according to a given
quantization step signal (S18),
wherein the decoding precision is selected to be n + m bits,
m being a non-negative integer.
An apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said picture quality
signal (CTL) corresponds to a portion of said video signal selected from

a video sequence, group of pictures, picture, slice, macroblock and
block.
An apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said block has a
size of 8 pixels x 8 lines.
An apparatus according to claim 19, claim 20, or claim 21,
wherein n has a value of eight and n + m has a value of eight to

eleven.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 19 to 22, further
comprising means (84) for inverse discrete cosine transforming the

inverse quantized direct current component coefficients.
An apparatus according to any one of claims 19 to 23, wherein
said encoded direct current component coefficients include encoded

luminance direct current component coefficients and encoded
chrominance direct current component coefficients.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
