<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634002</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLOWMETER WITH CONCENTRICALLY ARRANGED ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F158	G01F156	G01F160	G01F100	G01F100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARSH MCBIRNEY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARSH-MCBIRNEY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSH LAWRENCE B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSH, LAWRENCE, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
An electromagnetic flowmeter for measuring the
velocity of fluid flow in a conduit is disclosed,
wherein electromagnetic means completely external of
the conduit generate a magnetic field that extends
concentrically about the longitudinal axis of the
conduit, which field is stronger adjacent the inner
periphery of the conduit wall, and weaker adjacent the
center of the conduit. The potential between first
electrodes arranged in circumferentially spaced
relation on the inner periphery of the conduit within
the magnetic field, and longitudinally spaced second
electrode means outside the magnetic field, affords an
accurate measurement of flow velocity.Electromagnetic flowmeters are well known in the
patented prior art, as evidenced, for example, by the
prior patents to Broding No. 2,583,724, De Boisblanc
No. 2,691,303, and Handel No. 4,137,766.Coaxial type flowmeters are discussed in the book
The Theory of Electromagnetic Flow Measurement (1962)
by J.A. Shercliff. Shercliff indicates that the
coaxial electromagnetic flowmeter is the one meter
that would be totally insensitive to velocity
profiles. Shercliff discusses two ways of
implementing such a meter: (1) through the use of a
central member generating a current and thus creating 
a magnetic field that is strongest near the center of
the pipe and weakest near the pipe periphery (i.e.,
just the opposite of what is required), and (2) by the
passing of current down through the fluid itself (the
fluid would have to be a conductive metal), thereby
causing a magnetic field that is zero at the center
and stronger near the outer wall (the proper magnetic
shape for having a meter that is insensitive to
velocity profile shifts).The patents to Kasai No. 4,809,559 and Bourg No.
3,589,186 represent attempts to minimize the changing
profile effects of transverse field type flowmeters by
using wide angle electrodes and/or shaped magnetic
fields.While virtually all flowmeters of modern day
industrial applications are of the transverse field
type, there has been a small amount of work in the
areas of both axial field electromagnetic flowmeters
and radial field electromagnetic flowmeters. Examples
of radial field electromagnetic flowmeters are shown
in the aforementioned patents Nos. 2,691,303 and
2,583,724, and in "A Magnetic Flowmeter with
Concentric Electrodes" by Eastman et al,
Instrumentation Technology, June 1970, pages 52-54, an
axial field flowmeter is described.In "Principle of Electromagnetic Flowmeter
Without External Magnet", Letters to the Editor, 1956,
by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromagnetic flowmeter for measuring
the flow of fluid in a conduit, comprising:


(a) a conduit (24) for receiving the fluid
flow;
(b) means arranged externally of the
conduit for producing within said

conduit a magnetic field that extends
concentrically about the longitudinal

axis of the conduit, said magnetic
field having a stronger first portion

adjacent the inner circumferential
surfaces of said conduit, and a weaker

second portion adjacent the center of
the conduit, said magnetic field

producing means including:

(1) at least a first pair of
diametrically arranged winding

means (20, 22; 150, 152) mounted
externally of said conduit; and
(2) means for energizing said winding
means to produce magnetic fields

within said conduit that extend in
the same direction concentrically

about the longitudinal axis of
said conduit;
(c) first electrode means (E
1
, E
2
)
supported by said conduit within said

stronger first portion of said magnetic
field; 
(d) second electrode means (E
0
, 70)
supported by said conduit outside of

said stronger first magnetic field
portion, said first and second

electrode means being arranged to
electrically engage the fluid in said

conduit; and
(e) signal detection (42) means connected
between said first and second electrode

means for generating a signal that is a
function of the velocity of the fluid

flow.
Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said
first electrode means includes at least four (E
1
, E
2
,
E
3
, E
4
) electrodes arranged in circumferentially
spaced relation adjacent the inner circumferential

surface of said conduit, a first pair of said
electrodes (E
1
, E
2
) being arranged radially
intermediate said first pair of winding means and the

longitudinal center line of said conduit respectively,
the other pair (E
3
,E
4
) of electrodes being arranged circumferentially
intermediate said first pair of electrodes,

respectively.
Apparatus as defined in claim 2, and further
including a second pair of winding means (80, 82) 

arranged in circumferentially spaced relation about
said conduit circumferentially intermediate said first pair of winding

means, respectively, said first and second pairs of
winding means having magnetic axes extending in the

same direction concentrically about said conduit, said
other pair of electrodes being arranged radially

intermediate said second pair of winding means and the
center of said conduit, respectively, and means for

alternately energizing said first and second pairs of
winding means, respectively.
Apparatus as defined in claim 3, and further
including four circumferentially spaced transition

winding means (84, 86, 88, 90) arranged concentrically
about said conduit circumferentially between said first and second pairs

of winding means, respectively, and means (91) for
continuously energizing said transition winding means.
Apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said
four electrodes E
1
', E
2
', E
3
', E
4
', each have such a
dimension in the direction circumferentially of the

conduit as to extend at each end beyond its associated
winding means.
Apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein
alternate pairs of said electrodes (E
1
'', E
2
"; E
3
", E
4
")
are longitudinally spaced relative to said conduit,

the circumferential dimensions of said electrodes
being such that the adjacent ends of successive

electrodes overlap. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein each
of said winding means includes a plurality of sectors

(140) associated with a corresponding electrode (142),
respectively.
Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said
first winding means comprise a pair of diametrically

arranged torodial windings (20,22) the magnetic axes β
of which extend in the same direction concentrically

about the conduit.
Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said
winding means (20,22;150,152) comprise at least

a first pair of circumferentially spaced squirrel-cage-type
windings (150, 152) arranged in

diametrically opposed relation externally of said
conduit.
Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein
said conduit (160) is normally generally horizontal,

and further wherein said first pair of winding means
and the associated electrodes are horizontally spaced

diametrically of said conduit, thereby to afford
measurement of the velocity of fluid flow in partially

filled conduits and in open channels. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein
said second electrode means comprises at least one

electrode (70) mounted centrally within said conduit.
Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein
said first electrode means includes at least one

generally arcuate electrode the axis of generation of
which is adjacent the longitudinal center of the

conduit.
Apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein
said arcuate electrode comprises a plurality of

electrode sections (200) arranged in an arcuate
pattern, and means (204) electrically connecting

together said sections.
Apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein
said connecting means includes a plurality of buffer

amplifiers.
Apparatus as defined in claim 14, wherein at
least some of said buffer amplifiers include variable

gain adjustment means.
Apparatus as defined in claim 9, and
further including shaping winding means (159) for

shaping at least one of said magnetic fields. 
Apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein
said toroidal windings each having a rectangular

cross-section defining turns having longer opposed
sides (t
1
, t
2
; t
3
, t
4
) that extend longitudinally of
the conduit.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
