<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0990252</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DETECTING REGISTRATION MARKS WITH A LOW ENERGY ELECTRON BEAM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F720	G03F720	H01J3730	H01J37304	H01L2102	H01L21027	H01L2166	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	G03F7	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
For electron beam wafer or mask processing, a registration mark is capacitively coupled to the top surface of an overlying resist layer on a substrate to form a voltage potential on the surface of the resist layer directly over the registration mark. The registration mark is directly connected to an electrical lead that produces an AC voltage on the registration mark, which is capacitively induced on the surface of the resist layer. Alternatively, the registration mark itself is capacitively coupled to a conductive plate placed on the bottom surface of the semiconductor substrate. An AC voltage is then applied to the conductive plate that induces a charge on the registration mark, which then capacitively induces a charge on the surface of the layer of resist. An electron beam scanning across the surface of the resist layer generates secondary electrons. The secondary electrons have a low energy and are affected by the voltage potential created at the surface of the resist layer. Thus, by detecting the secondary electron signal generated by the electron beam the voltage potential on the surface of the resist layer is detected in contrast with surrounding areas. Consequently, the registration mark is detected by an electron beam, such as a low energy electron beam produced for example by an electron beam microcolumn, that does not have sufficient energy to penetrate the resist layer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETEC SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETEC SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG TAI-HON PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM HOSEOB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANG, TAI-HON, PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM, HOSEOB
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DETECTING REGISTRATION MARKS WITH A LOW ENERGY ELECTRON BEAMFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to semiconductor processing and to registration marks and in particular to detecting registration marks for low energy electron beam lithography.BACKGROUNDThe use of registration or fiducial marks in semiconductor processing is well known. Registration marks are used to align one pattern layer of metal, insulator, or semiconductor material on a substrate with another pattern layer to ensure that features of the successive layers bear the correct spatial relationship to one another. The features of the registration marks are typically used to align the substrate with the lithographic writing tool being used, such as optical or direct electron beam writing lithography. During the lithography process, the registration mark is observed and used to properly align the lithographic pattern with the underlying layer. In optical lithography the registration mark is typically observed with an optical scanner. Although this method may be used with direct electron beam writing lithography as well, where the registration mark is under a layer of resist, the registration mark is conventionally "observed" by detecting the back scattered electron signal generated when the electron beam contacts the registration mark.A conventional electron beam used in direct writing lithography typically has a high energy level, in excess of 10 keV and up to 50-100 keV. A high energy electron beam can penetrate a layer of resist-1- 

with a thickness of approximately 2000 A to 2 μm and contact an underlying registration mark. As the electron beam penetrates the resist layer, back scattered electrons are produced. By detecting the contrast in the back scattered electron signal caused when the electron beam contacts the registration mark under the layer of resist, the location of the registration mark may be determined. The electron beam is then aligned accordingly. Figure 1 is a side view of a semiconductor substrate 10 with a conventional registration mark 12 covered by a layer of resist 14. A conventional high energy electron beam 16 is shown penetrating resist 14 and contacting registration mark 12. Back scattered electrons, which are illustrated as arrows 18, are detected by electron detector 20. As electron beam 16 is scanned across resist layer 14, as illustrated by arrow 22, the contrast in the back scattered electron beam signal detected by detector 20 will indicate the location of registration mark 12. A
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: providing a mark on a semiconductor substrate, said mark being covered with a layer; capacitively inducing an electrical charge on the surface of said layer directly above said mark; directing a charged particle beam onto said surface of said layer, whereby a secondary electron signal is generated; moving said beam over said surface of said layer; and detecting changes in said secondary electron signal as said beam moves over said surface of said layer, wherein said changes indicate the location of said mark.
2. The method of Claim 1, further comprising: coupling an electrical lead to said mark; and applying an AC voltage to said mark through said electrical lead to capacitively induce an electrical charge on said surface of said layer.
3. The method of Claim 1, further comprising: providing a conductive plate on an opposing surface of said substrate; applying an AC voltage to said conductive plate to capacitively induce an electrical charge on said mark, wherein said electrical charge on said mark capacitively induces and electrical charge on said surface of said layer.
■
11- 

4. The method of Claim 1, wherein said beam is an electron beam generated by an electron-beam microcolumn.
5. The method of Claim 1, wherein changes in said secondary electron signal are generated by said electrical charge on the surface of said layer.
6. The method of Claim 1, wherein said layer is a layer of resist.
7. The method of Claim 1, wherein said mark is conductive .
8. The method of Claim 1, wherein said mark is formed by deposition of metal over said semiconductor substrate .
9. A structure comprising: a semiconductor substrate having a principal surface; a conductive mark on said principal surface of said semiconductor substrate; at least one layer applied over said conductive mark, said at least one layer having a top surface; and a structure on said substrate which couples a voltage to said conductive mark, whereby said conductive mark is capacitively coupled to said top surface of said at least one layer.
10. The structure of Claim 9, further comprising at least one layer disposed between said semiconductor substrate and said conductive mark.
•12- 

11. The structure of Claim 9, wherein said structure comprises an electrical lead directly connected to said conductive mark, said electrical lead providing said voltage to said conductive mark.
12. The structure of Claim 7, wherein said structure further comprises a conductive plate on an opposing surface of said semiconductor substrate, said conductive plate being capacitively coupled with said conductive mark.
13. A method comprising: capacitively electrically coupling a registration mark on a substrate to the surface of a layer overlying said registration mark; inducing an electrical charge to said surface of said layer over said registration mark; directing a charged particle beam onto said surface of said layer, wherein said beam moves over said surface of said layer; detecting a secondary electron signal generated by said beam; and determining the position of said registration mark by detecting changes in said secondary electron signal caused by said electrical charge.
14. The method of Claim 13, wherein inducing an electrical charge comprises applying an AC voltage to said registration mark, wherein said electrical charge to said surface of said layer is capacitively induced by said AC voltage on said registration mark.
15. The method of Claim 13, further comprising: providing a conductive plate on said substrate capacitively coupled with said registration mark; and
■
13- 


 applying an AC voltage to said conductive plate, wherein an electrical charge is induced on said registration mark, and said electrical charge induced on said registration mark capacitively induces said electrical charge to said surface of said layer.
16. The method of Claim 13, wherein said beam is an electron beam generated by an electron beam microcolumn.
17. The method of Claim 13, wherein said layer is a layer of resist.
-14- 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
