<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629352</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tobacco expansion processes and apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A24B300	A24B306	A24B318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A24B	A24B	A24B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A24B3	A24B3	A24B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides tobacco expansion 
processes and apparatus that can be employed for 

expanding tobacco at rapid throughput rates employing 
high pressure tobacco impregnation conditions. The 

processes and apparatus of the invention are 
particularly useful in tobacco expansion processes 

employing cycle times of less than 20 - 30 seconds; the 
use of preheated, prepressurized expansion agent such 

as propane; preheating of tobacco batches; and/or 
compression of tobacco within a high pressure 

impregnation zone for greatly improving use of 
available space in a high pressure impregnation vessel. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEARD HOYT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONRAD LUCAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROOK J EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON ROBERT CALVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVETTE JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NESHAN HAMID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWTON DONALD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE JACKIE LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEARD HOYT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONRAD LUCAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROOK J EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON ROBERT CALVIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOVETTE JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NESHAN HAMID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWTON DONALD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE JACKIE LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to processes and 
apparatus for expanding tobacco. More particularly, 
the invention relates to processes and apparatus for 
improving throughput and economics of tobacco 
expansion. In the past two decades, tobacco expansion 
processes have become an important part of the 
cigarette manufacturing process. Tobacco expansion 
processes are used to restore tobacco bulk density 
and/or volume which are lost during curing and storage 
of tobacco leaf. In addition, expanded tobacco is an 
important component of many low tar and ultra-low tar 
cigarettes. U.S. Patent No. 3,524,451 to Fredrickson and 
U.S. Patent No. 3,524,452 to Moser et al. describe 
processes in which tobacco is contacted with an 
impregnant and then heated rapidly to volatilize the 
impregnant and expand the tobacco. U.S. Patent No. 
3,683,937 to Fredrickson et al. discloses the vapor 
state impregnation of tobacco followed either by 
heating or rapid pressure reduction for tobacco 
expansion. The use of a carbon dioxide for expanding 
tobacco is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,235,250 to  
 
Utsch; U.S. Patent No. 4,258,729 to Burde et al.; and 
U.S. Patent No. 4,336,814 to Sykes et al., among 
others. In these and related processes, carbon 
dioxide, either in gas or liquid form, is contacted 
with tobacco for impregnation and the impregnated 
tobacco is subjected to rapid heating conditions for 
expansion. In the known carbon dioxide expansion 
processes, it is typically necessary to heat the 
tobacco excessively in order to achieve substantial and 
stable expansion. This excessive heating can harm the 
tobacco flavor and/or generate an excessive amount of 
tobacco fines. In addition, those processes which use 
liquid carbon dioxide for impregnating tobacco 
typically result in impregnated tobacco in the form of 
solid blocks of tobacco containing dry ice, which must 
be broken up prior to heat treatment, thereby 
increasing the complexity of the process. U.S. Patent No. 4,388,932 to Merritt et al. 
discloses a process for increasing the post-reordering 
filling capacity of previously expanded tobacco. 
Previously expanded tobacco having an 'Oven Volatiles' 
(OV) content of less than 6 percent is heated to reduce 
its OV content to a value said to be well below 3 
percent. The OV content of tobacco is said to be 
approximately equivalent to its moisture content since 
no more than 0.9 percent of tobacco weight is volatiles 
other than water. The very low OV content tobacco 
recovered from the post-expansion heating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for dispensing heated 
tobacco to an impregnation zone comprising: 

   a tobacco supply tube; 
   a metering device associated with said 

tobacco supply tube for measuring a tobacco charge to 
be delivered to an impregnation zone; 

   steam injecting means for injecting steam 
into the tobacco charge; and 

   means arranged for feeding the heated tobacco 
into an impregnation zone. 
The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said 
means for feeding the tobacco to an impregnation zone 

comprises a horizontally oriented conduit having an 
opening in an upper wall and which is arranged for 

delivery of tobacco to the impregnation zone. 
The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein the 
opening in the horizontal conduit is provided with a 

pivotable closure member capable of compressing tobacco 
into said horizontal conduit. 
The apparatus of any of Claims 1-3 
wherein the steam injecting means comprises means 

passing the steam through a plurality of apertures 
through at least one wall contacting said tobacco 

charge. 
The apparatus of any of Claims 1-4 
wherein said steam injecting means comprises means for 

injecting steam into the tobacco at a temperature 
sufficient to heat tobacco to a temperature of at least 

125°F (52°C). 
The apparatus of any of Claims 1-4 
wherein said steam injecting means comprises means for 

injecting steam into the tobacco at a temperature 
sufficient to raise the temperature of tobacco to a 

temperature above 150°F (66°C). 
An apparatus for compressing tobacco 
into an impregnation zone, comprising: 

   a pair of opposed conduits; 
   spool means mounted for reciprocal movement 

among at least a first position located between open 
ends of said opposed conduits, and an impregnation 

position located within a cylindrical shell body; 
   said spool means comprising first and second 

cylindrical end members, and a connecting rod extending 
between said first and second end members, said end 

members and said connecting rod defining an annular 
space around said connecting rod; 

   tobacco compressing means mounted for 
reciprocating movement within each of said conduits 

between a retracted position and an extended position 
for moving tobacco through 
the conduit and compressing 
the tobacco into said annular space of said spool 

means; and 
   said tobacco compressing means each 

comprising a semi-cylindrical end face, said end faces 
being sized and shaped to cooperatively form a cylinder 

around said annular space of said spool. 
The apparatus of Claim 7 further 
comprising: 

   an opening in an upper wall of each of said 
conduits for introducing tobacco into each conduit at a 

location between the location corresponding to 
retracted position and extended position; and

 
   a pivotable closure member capable of closing 

said opening and being capable of compressing the 
tobacco into the conduit. 
The apparatus of Claim 7 or 8 further 
comprising steam injecting means for injecting steam 

into the tobacco. 
The apparatus of any of Claims 7-9 
wherein said spool means further comprises sealing 

means adapted for forming a seal between said 
cylindrical end members and the inside surface of said 

shell when said spool means is in the treating position 
so that said shell, end members and sealing means form 

a pressure chamber; 
   port means formed in said shell for 

introducing a processing fluid into said pressure 
chamber when said spool is in said treating position, 

said port means comprising a total cross-sectional area 
sufficient for introducing said processing fluid into 

said chamber at a rapid delivery rate; and 
   particle blocking means to minimize entry of 

solid material into said port means. 
The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said 
port means comprises a plurality of ports 

circumferentially distributed about the tubular shell 
and wherein said particle blocking means comprises port 

openings for each of said plurality of ports of less 
than a predetermined size for blocking entry of 

particles into said ports. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 additionally 
comprising an exterior manifold member surrounding said 

plurality of ports through the shell for directing 
processing fluid simultaneously through said ports. 
The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said 
port means comprises at least one port of enlarged 

diameter substantially greater than tobacco cut filler 
and wherein said particle blocking means comprises at 

least one elongate blocking member having an exterior 
face of greater width than the diameter of said at 

least one port, said blocking member being joined 
longitudinally between portions of said end members of 

said spool. 
The apparatus of Claim 13 wherein said 
blocking member is radially aligned with said at least 

one port of enlarged diameter. 
The apparatus of Claim 14 comprising at 
least two ports of enlarged cross-section through said 

shell and a manifold member surrounding the exterior of 
said ports for directing processing fluid 

simultaneously through said at least two ports. 
The apparatus of any of Claims 10-15 
wherein said spool means further comprises an 

elastomeric sealing ring carried in an annular groove 
on the periphery of each cylindrical end member; 

   means for deforming the elastomeric sealing 
rings radially outwardly for circumferential contact 

with the inside periphery of the shell when said spool 
means is in the treating position so that said shell, 

end members and sealing means form a pressure chamber 
when the chamber is pressurized; and 

   at least one annular member carried on a 
portion of the periphery of each of the cylindrical end 

members and having a circumference greater than the end 
member and being axially adjacent at least one end face 

of said elastomeric sealing ring carried by said end 
member. 
The apparatus of Claim 16 wherein each 
of said elastomeric sealing rings is attached to said 

axially adjacent annular member. 
The apparatus of Claims 16 or 17 wherein 
each of said elastomeric sealing rings is bonded into 

an annular groove formed in the periphery of said spool 
end member. 
The apparatus of any of Claims 16-18 
comprising one of said annular members axially adjacent 

each face of said sealing rings and being attached 
thereto. 
A process for the expansion of tobacco 
comprising: 

   placing a tobacco charge having a pre-expansion 
moisture content of greater than about 13 

percent by weight in an impregnation chamber; 
   impregnating said tobacco in said 

impregnation chamber with an expansion agent; 
   removing said impregnated tobacco from said 

impregnation chamber and subjecting the impregnated 
tobacco to conditions sufficient to expand the tobacco 

and provide expanded tobacco having moisture content of 
greater than 13 percent; and 

   drying the expanded tobacco to a post-expansion 
moisture content of less than about 13 

percent by weight for substantially maintaining the 
amount of expansion resulting from exposing the 

impregnated tobacco to expansion conditions. 
The process of Claim 20 wherein said 
drying step is conducted within a time period of less 

than about 5 minutes following expansion of said 
tobacco. 
The process of Claim 21 wherein said 
drying step is conducted within a time period of less 

than about one minute following expansion of said 
tobacco. 
The process of any of Claims 20-22 
wherein said drying step is conducted at a temperature 

of about 350°F (177°C) or less. 
The process of any of Claims 20-23 
wherein the tobacco resulting from said drying step has 

a moisture content of greater than about 6 wt. percent. 
The process of any of Claims 20-24 
wherein the moisture content of the tobacco placed in 

the impregnation chamber is greater than about 20 wt. 
percent. 
The process of any of Claims 20-24 
wherein the moisture content of the tobacco placed in 

the impregnation chamber is greater than about 24 wt. 
percent. 
The process of any of Claims 20-26 
wherein the temperature of the tobacco placed in the 

impregnation chamber is greater than about 150°F (66°C). 
The process of any of Claims 20-27 
wherein said drying step is conducted by treating the 

expanded tobacco with a stream of heated gas. 
The process of Claim 28 wherein said 
stream of heated gas is at a temperature between about 

200°F (93°C) and about 300°F (149°C). 
The process of Claims 28 or 29 wherein 
said tobacco is conveyed through a drying zone by said 

 
stream of heated gas for a time sufficient to decrease 

the moisture content thereof to between about 6 and 
about 12 wt. percent. 
The process of any of Claims 20-30 
wherein said impregnation step comprises contacting 

said tobacco for about 15 seconds or less with propane 
at a pressure of greater than about 2,000 psig. 
The process of any of Claims 20-31 
wherein the propane used to treat the tobacco placed in 

the impregnation chamber has been preheated to a 
temperature above about 270°F (132°C). 
The process of Claim 32 wherein the 
cumulative amount of heat supplied to the tobacco in 

the impregnation chamber from the heated propane and 

the preheated tobacco is sufficient to provide 
impregnation conditions in the impregnation zone of 

between about 240°F (116°C) and about 270°F (132°C). 
The process of any of Claims 20-33 
wherein said tobacco placed in the impregnation chamber 

has been compressed to a compression ratio of at least 
about 1.5:1. 
The process of Claim 34 wherein said 
tobacco placed in the impregnation chamber has been 

compressed to a compression ratio of about 2:1. 
The process of Claim 34 wherein said 
tobacco placed in the impregnation chamber has been 

compressed to a compression ratio of about 3:1 or 
greater. 
An accumulator for rapid supply of an 
expansion fluid at a density at or approaching the 

 
liquid density of the fluid, comprising a pressure 

vessel containing an expansion agent and a gaseous 
pressurizing fluid in a single undivided chamber, said 

pressure vessel having first and second zones adapted 
for separately maintaining two fluids under pressure 

conditions and for maintaining said fluids at a 
temperature approaching or above the critical 

temperature of said expansion agent. 
The accumulator of Claim 37, said vessel 
additionally comprising a third zone in fluid 

communication with each of the first and second zones 
for maintaining a barrier fluid in contact with each of 

the fluids in the first and second zones. 
The accumulator of Claim 37 wherein said 
third zone comprises a movable barrier liquid 

separating said expansion agent and said pressurizing 
fluid from each other within said vessel. 
The accumulator of Claims 37-39 wherein 
said pressurizing gas is nitrogen and said expansion 

agent is propane. 
The accumulator of Claims 39 or 40 
wherein the liquid forming the liquid barrier is water. 
The accumulator of Claims 38-41 wherein 
said vessel is maintained at a pressure above about 

2,500 psig and a temperature above about 200°F (93°C). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
