<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613752</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for forming a stainless steel cooking utensil with a decorated base
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J3602	A47J2702	B21D5116	B21D5122	A47J27022	B23K2016	B23K2002	A47J3602	B21D5100	B23K2016	B23K2002	B21D5104	B21D5106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	B21D	B21D	A47J	B23K	B23K	A47J	B21D	B23K	B23K	B21D	B21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J36	A47J27	B21D51	B21D51	A47J27	B23K20	B23K20	A47J36	B21D51	B23K20	B23K20	B21D51	B21D51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The method enables a stainless steel cooking utensil to be formed 
with a decorated base, the base being of the type comprising three 

layers (12,14,18), of which one (12) is an intermediate layer of a 
good heat 

conducting metal and the other two layers are of stainless steel. 
Compared with traditional methods for forming normal utensils of 

the aforesaid type, there is a further step consisting of 
positioning on the outer stainless steel layer at least one sheet 

portion of a metal having a melting point not less than that of 
the metal forming the intermediate layer. An aluminium foil (22) is 

interposed between the sheet portion (18) and the outer stainless steel 
layer (14) if the metal of the sheet portion (18) does not enable a 

direct 
permanent connection to be achieved between the sheet portion and 

the outer layer. A decoration can also be obtained on the inside 
of the utensil base in a similar manner. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARTOSSI SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARTOSSI S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARTOSSI FERDINANDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARTOSSI, FERDINANDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for forming a 
cooking utensil with a decorated base, the utensil being of the 
type comprising a stainless steel vessel, to the base of which 
there is applied an intermediate layer of a good heat conducting 
metal (such as aluminium or copper), this intermediate layer being 
covered externally by an outer covering layer also of stainless 
steel. Various methods are known for forming cooking utensils of the 
aforesaid type. The closest prior art method 
consist essentially of the following steps: 
1) positioning a plate of a metal of good thermal conductivity, 
preferably aluminium, and of suitable thickness, on the outer face 
of the base of the actual vessel; 2) positioning a stainless steel covering layer on said plate; 3) heating the assembly to a temperature close to but less than 
the melting point of the metal of said plate; and 4) applying an impact pressure to the assembly to achieve 
permanent connection between the various constituent elements of 
the base. The utensil obtained in this manner therefore has a three-layer 
base, of which the intermediate layer is a good heat conductor. The object of the present invention is to provide a method 
for constructing cooking utensils having their base 
decorated with a certain design.  
 This object is attained by the constructional method of the 
invention which, compared with the aforedescribed conventional 
method, comprises between said steps 2) and 3) a further step 2') 
consisting of positioning on the stainless steel covering layer at 
least one sheet portion of a metal with a melting point not less 
than that of the constituent metal of the plate of good thermal 
conductivity, the sheet portions being suitably shaped and 
positioned on the covering layer to obtain the required design; 
between an individual sheet portion and the stainless steel 
covering layer there being interposed an aluminium connection foil 
if the constituent metal of the sheet portion is such as not to 
allow a direct permanent connection to be obtained between the 
sheet portion and the outer covering layer as a result of the 
subsequent steps 3) and 4) of the method. The design obtainable in this manner, in the most simple case 
involving a single sheet portion, can be a simple geometrical 
figure such as a circle or a polygon, deriving from an analogous 
configuration of the sheet portion. Much more complicated designs can obviously be obtained. The 
maximum design complication achievable is determined only by 
practical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for forming a cooking utensil 
with a decorated base, the utensil being of the type comprising a 

stainless steel vessel (10), to the base of which there is applied an 
intermediate layer (12) of a good heat conducting metal, this 

intermediate layer being covered externally by an outer covering 
layer (14) of stainless steel, the method comprising the following 

steps: 

1) positioning a plate (12) of a metal of good thermal conductivity, 
preferably aluminium, and of suitable thickness, on the outer face 

of the base (10) of the vessel; 
2) positioning a stainless steel covering layer (14) on said plate (12); 
3) heating the assembly to a temperature close to but less than 
the melting point of the metal of said plate (12); and 
4) applying an impact pressure to the assembly to achieve 
permanent connection between the various constituent elements of 

the base; 
 
the method being characterised by providing between said steps 2) and 3) 

a further step 2') consisting of positioning on the stainless 
steel covering layer (14) at least one sheet portion (18) of a metal with a 

melting point not less than that of the constituent metal of the 
plate (12) of good thermal conductivity, the sheet portions (18) being 

suitably shaped and positioned on the covering layer to obtain the 
required design; between the individual sheet portion (18) and the 

stainless steel covering layer (14) there being interposed an aluminium 
connection foil (22) if the constituent metal of the sheet portion (18) is 

such as not to allow a direct permanent connection to be obtained  
 

between the sheet portion (18) and the outer covering layer (14) as a result 
of the subsequent steps 3) and 4) of the method. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein not all the sheet 
portions (18) are of the same metal. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein an individual 
sheet portion (18) consists of several parts of different metal. 
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the parts of 
different metal are in the form of layers. 
A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the sheet portion (18) 
is obtained from a preformed multi-layer construction. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein 
if required, the aluminium foil (22) is previously formed directly on 

the relative sheet portion (18) by spraying aluminium. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein 
the aluminium foil (22) and relative sheet portion (18) are obtained from a preformed 

multi-layer construction, one of the two outer layers of the 
construction forming, if required, the aluminium connection sheet 

portion and the other layer or layers forming the actual sheet 
portion. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein at least part of a sheet portion (18) consists of a metal of 

high magnetic permeability. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the metal of high 
magnetic permeability is a stainless steel of a type possessing 

this characteristic. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein as a replacement for or in addition to step 2') there is  

 
provided a further step, to be implemented not subsequent to step 

3) of the method, and consisting of positioning on the inner 
surface of the base of the actual vessel (10) of the utensil at least 

one additional sheet portion (18) of a metal having a melting point not 
less than that of the metal of the plate of good thermal 

conductivity (12), that surface which is to form the free surface of 
the additional sheet portion once embedded into the base of the 

vessel being of a metal having good resistance to corrosion by 
food, the additional sheet portions (18) being suitably shaped and 

positioned to obtain the required design, between an individual 
additional sheet portion and the inner surface of the vessel base 

there being interposed an additional aluminium connection foil (22) if 
the metal of the additional sheet portion is of a type which does 

not allow a direct permanent connection between the additional 
sheet portion and the vessel base by implementation of steps 3) 

and 4) of the method. 
A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein not all the 
additional sheet portions (18) are of the same metal. 
A method as claimed in claim 10 or 11, wherein an 
individual additional sheet portion (18) consists of several parts of 

different metal. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the parts of 
different metal are in the form of layers. 
A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the additional 
sheet portion (18) is obtained from a preformed multi-layer 

construction. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein  
 

the additional connection foil (22) is previously formed directly on 
the relative additional sheet portion (18) by spraying aluminium. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein 
the additional foil (22) and relative additional sheet portion (18) are 

obtained from a preformed multi-layer construction, one of the two 
outer layers of the construction forming, if required, the 

aluminium connection sheet portion and the other layer or layers 
forming the actual sheet portion. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 16, wherein 
that surface which is to form the free surface of the additional 

sheet portion (18) once embedded into the base of the vessel is of a 
metal having high resistance to corrosion by food. 
A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the constituent 
metal of the free surface of the additional sheet portion is 

titanium and/or AISI 316L stainless steel. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
