<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649813</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bung tool.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B1300	B25B1348	B25B1350	B67B100	B67B106	B67B700	B67B706	B67B742	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	B25B	B25B	B67B	B67B	B67B	B67B	B67B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B13	B25B13	B25B13	B67B1	B67B1	B67B7	B67B7	B67B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bung tool (50) has a cylindrical body (51) with a four-armed 
drive portion (65) projecting from one end thereof and a six-armed 

drive portion (60) projecting from the opposite end 
thereof, respectively for engagement with different types of 

bungs (20,30,40). A drive member (70) 
reciprocates in a square cross-section 

axial bore (55) through the body, being manually moveable 
by a handle (74) which projects radially through a slot (56) in the 

body. The drive lug (85) of an associated drive lever (80) is 
receivable in the opposite ends of the bore for respectively 

driving the two drive portions. The drive member 
reciprocates among two recessed positions respectively 

spaced from the opposite ends of the bore to allow insertion 
of the drive lug therein and a drive position projecting 

from one of the drive portions for driving engagement with a 
bung cap (28). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SNAP ON TOOLS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SNAP ON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWINSKI DEAN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWINSKI DEAN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to tools for inserting 
and removing screw-in drum plugs or bungs. In particular, 
the invention relates to a bung socket of the type which is 
adapted to be used with an associated drive lever, such as a 
ratchet wrench, a breaker bar or the like. Bungs are closures for access openings in tanks, drums, 
pipes and the like. Heretofore such bungs have commonly 
been provided with a circular cavity or recess with a 
diametrically extending rib thereacross or projections 
extending radially thereinto from diametrically opposed 
locations. Tools have been provided for operating such 
bungs, the tool including a pair of arms which straddle the 
rib or projections on the bung and engage them for rotation. 
One such tool is sold by Snap-on Tools Corporation under 
Model A172A. That tool is designed to work with a number of 
different variants of the above-described bung configuration. 
Many bungs are provided with an internally threaded 
central well which is closed by a separate cap. The 
aforementioned Snap-on Tool has a spring-loaded central 
projection adapted for engagement with a recess in the cap, 
this projection being retractable against the urging of a 
bias spring when the tool is being used for rotating the 
bung itself. More recently, a number of different styles of bung 
have come into use. These bungs have a drive recess in the 
end wall thereof, the recess having a number of laterally 
outwardly extending lobes of various configurations. 
Fundamentally, most of the bungs are either of a four-lobed 
or a six-lobed configuration. Prior bung tools are not 
usable with these new bung configurations. It is a general objection of the invention to provide 
an improved bung tool which avoids the disadvantages of 
prior tools while affording additional structural and  
 
operating advantages. An important feature of the invention is the provision 
of a bung tool which is usable with a number of different 
types of modern bung configurations. In connection with the foregoing feature, another 
feature of the invention is the provision of a bung tool 
which has a plurality of differently-configured drive 
portions projecting therefrom. In connection with the foregoing feature, another 
feature of the invention is the provision of a bung tool of 
the type set forth, which is usable with an associated drive 
lever for driving any of the several drive portions. Yet another feature of the invention is the provision 
of a bung tool of the type set forth, wherein at least one 
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bung tool comprising: a body, a first bung-engaging 
drive portion projecting from said body in a first 

direction and having a first plurality of arms extending 
transversely of said first direction, and a second bung-engaging 

drive portion configured differently from said 
first drive portion and projecting from said body in a 

second direction and having a second plurality of arms 
extending transversely of said second direction. 
The tool of claim 1, wherein said first and second 
directions are substantially coaxial. 
The tool of claim 1, wherein said first plurality 
of arms is different in number from said second plurality of 

arms. 
The tool of claim 3, wherein said first plurality 
of arms comprises four arms and said second plurality of 

arms comprises six arms. 
The tool of claim 1, wherein said first and second 
drive portions are fixed on said body. 
The tool of claim 1, wherein said body has first 
and second drive recesses therein adapted for engagement 

with an associated drive lever for respectively facilitating 
driving movement of said first and second drive portions. 
A bung tool comprising: a body, a first bung-engaging 
drive portion projecting from said body in a first 

direction and having a first plurality of arms extending 
transversely of said first direction, a second bung-engaging 

drive portion configured differently from said first drive 
portion and projecting from said body in a second direction 

and having a second plurality of arms extending transversely 
of said second direction, and a third bung-engaging drive 

portion configured differently from said first and second 
drive portions and mounted on said body for movement between 

a retracted position recessed within said body and a drive 
position projecting from said body. 
The tool of claim 7, wherein said third drive 
 

portion projects from said body in said first direction. 
The tool of claim 8, wherein said third drive 
portion projects through said first drive portion. 
The tool of claim 7, and further comprising handle 
means coupled to said third drive portion for facilitating 

manual movement thereof between the retracted and drive 
positions thereof. 
The tool of claim 7, wherein said body includes 
means mounting said third drive portion for reciprocating 

movement between the retracted and drive positions thereof. 
The tool of claim 11, wherein said third drive 
portion reciprocates parallel to said first direction. 
The tool of claim 12, wherein said first and 
second directions are substantially coaxial. 
A bung tool comprising: a body, a first bung-engaging 
drive portion projecting from said body in a first 

direction and having a first plurality of arms extending 
transversely of said first direction, a second bung-engaging 

drive portion configured differently from said first drive 
portion and projecting from said body in a second direction 

and having a second plurality of arms extending transversely 
of said second direction, said body having a bore extending 

therethrough and shaped and dimensioned for receiving in the 
opposite ends thereof a drive lug of an associated drive 

lever, and a drive member disposed in said bore for movement 
therein among first and second and third positions, said 

drive member in its first position being recessed within 
said body and spaced from one end of said bore a distance 

sufficient to accommodate reception of a drive lug therein, 
said drive member in its second position being recessed 

within said body and spaced from the other end of said bore 
a distance sufficient to accommodate reception of a drive 

lug therein, said drive member in its third position 
projecting from said body at said one end of said bore and 

spaced from the other end of said bore a distance sufficient 
to accommodate reception of a drive lug therein. 
The tool of claim 14, wherein said bore is 
substantially square in transverse cross section. 
The tool of claim 14, wherein said body has a slot 
formed therein communicating with said bore, and further 

comprising a handle member coupled to said drive member and 
projecting through said slot to facilitate manual movement 

of said drive member among the positions thereof. 
The tool of claim 14, wherein said first and 
second directions are substantially coaxial. 
The tool of claim 17, wherein said drive member in 
its third position projects through said first drive 

portion. 
The tool of claim 14, and further comprising 
detent means yieldably retaining said drive member in each 

of its second and third positions. 
The tool of claim 14, wherein said first plurality 
of arms is different in number from said second plurality of 

arms. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
