<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653382</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for manufacturing an optical fibre preform
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B37014	C03B37014	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B37	C03B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical fiber preform manufacturing apparatus which 
continuously monitors the weight of a preform during 

manufacture by a load cell without increasing the amount of offset 
of the preform. The preform (42) manufacturing 

apparatus includes a rotary chuck unit (34) moved vertically 
by an elevating unit (20) and a seed rod (38) gripped by the 

rotary chuck unit (34) and extending vertically downwards. At 
the time of manufacturing a preform (42), the elevating unit 

(20) and the rotary chuck unit (34) are driven to lift and 
rotate a starting rod (44) suspended from the lower end of the 

seed rod (38). A support plate (62) is fixed to the 
rotary chuck unit. Three or more load cells (64a,64b) are 

arranged between the support plate (62) and an elevating 
plate (26) of the elevating unit (20). The rotary chuck unit 

(34) is firmly supported by these load cells, so the rotating 

shaft (50) is not inclined. A hole is formed in the 
elevating plate (26), and the rotary chuck unit (34) extends 

through the hole with a gap therebetween. A load from the 
support plate (62), the rotary chuck unit (34), the seed rod 

(38), a starting rod (44) and the preform (42) acts on the 
load cells. Therefore, the weight of the preform can be 

detected from an output from the load cells. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANZUKA TOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHTA HIROAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUCHIYA ICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANZUKA, TOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHTA, HIROAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUCHIYA, ICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus and 
method of manufacturing an optical fiber preform and, 
more particularly, to a means for detecting the weight 
of a rotatably supported preform during rotation of the 
preform. As a conventional method of manufacturing an 
optical fiber preform, a VAD (Vapor Axial Deposition) 
method or an OVD (Outside Vapor Deposition) method is 
generally known. In the VAD or OVD method, fuel gases 
such as H2 and O2 and material gases such as SiCl4 and 
GeCl4 are supplied to a burner in a reaction vessel, and 
these gases are burned to generate fine particles of 
SiO2 and GeO2. Then, the fine glass particles are 
deposited on a rotating target. A target used in the VAD method is a preform 
itself grown from the distal end of a starting rod. In 
the OVD method, a preform grown on a core rod and in 
the periphery thereof is used as a target. In the VAD 
method, the preform is gradually fed in the axial 
direction to grow the preform in the axial direction.  
 
The OVD method is different from the VAD method in that 
the preform and the burner are relatively moved to 
grown the preform in the radial direction. In the VAD 
method, normally, the preform is vertically arranged, 
and the starting rod is vertically pulled upward, 
thereby growing the preform. Also in the OVD method, 
the preform is sometimes grown in a vertically arranged 
state. In the VAD or OVD method, normally, the growth 
state of the preform is continuously monitored and fed 
back to parameters for changing the growth rate, e.g., 
the flow rates of the fuel and source gases supplied to 
the burner, the pull-up speed of the preform, and the 
exhaust rate of the reaction vessel. As a method of monitoring the growth rate of a 
preform, a preform growth point monitor by a laser is 
normally used. However, a method of monitoring the 
weight of a preform is disclosed in Japanese Patent 
Laid Open No. 59-45936. Fig. 1 is a view showing a conventional apparatus 
for manufacturing an optical fiber preform as disclosed 
in Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 59-45936. The 
apparatus shown in Fig. 1 uses the VAD method to 
manufacture a preform and can monitor the weight of the 
preform. In this apparatus, a seed rod 1 is supported 
by a chuck 3 through a load cell 2. The lower portion  
 
of the seed rod 1 extends into a reaction vessel 4. In 
the reaction vessel 4, the upper end of a starting rod 
5 is connected to the lower end of the seed rod 1. A 
preform 6 is grown from the lower end of the starting 
rod 5 in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for manufacturing an optical fiber preform 
(42) by depositing fine glass particles on a starting rod (44) 

or a core rod which is connected to one end of a seed rod (38) 
and rotated with the seed rod, said apparatus comprising: 


an elevating unit (20) having an elevating member (26) 
which can be vertically moved; and 
a rotary support unit (34) for gripping the other end of 
the seed rod (38) to suspend and support the seed rod 

vertically and for rotating the seed rod about the 
longitudinal axis of the seed rod;
characterized by comprising
at least three load cells (64a, 64b, 64c) disposed between 
a surface of said rotary support unit (34) and a surface of 

said elevating member (26), said surfaces being vertically 
spaced apart, for supporting said rotary support unit (34) and 

for detecting a load vertically applied thereto. 
An apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein each of said 
load cells (64a, 64b, 64c) is disposed between a support plate 

(62) which is integrally provided on said rotary support unit 
(34) and extends horizontally and said elevating member (26) 

located under said support plate (62). 
An apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said rotary 
support unit (34) includes a rotating shaft (50), a gripper or 

chuck (36) provided at one end of said rotating shaft to grip 
the one end of the seed rod (38), a driver (52) connected to 

the other end of said rotating shaft (50) to rotate said 
rotating shaft, a cylindrical housing (54) surrounding said 

rotating shaft (50), and a bearing (56, 57) disposed in an 
annular space between said rotating shaft (50) and said 

housing (54) for rotatably supporting said rotating shaft, and  
 

wherein said rotary support unit (34) is disposed such that 
said rotating shaft is directed in the vertical direction. 
An apparatus according to Claim 3, wherein said 
elevating member (26) has a passage (60) through which said 

housing (54) of said rotary support unit (34) is inserted with 

a predetermined gap. 
An apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein said at 
least three load cells are arranged around said rotary support 

unit (34). 
An apparatus according to Claim 1, further comprising a 
measurement device (74) for measuring the weight of an object 

supported by said rotary support unit (34) on the basis of 
output signals from said at least three load cells (64a, 64b, 

64c). 
An apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein said 
measurement device (74) includes an adder (76) for adding the 

output signals from said at least three load cells. 
An apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein said 
measurement device (74) includes a low-pass filter (78) for 

removing high-frequency components in a frequency range of a 
predetermined value and more from the output signals from said 

at least three load cells. 
An apparatus according to Claim 8, wherein said 
predetermined value is 0.5 Hz. 
An apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein each of 
said load cells includes a rigid member (68) disposed between 

said rotary support unit (34) and said elevating member (26), 
and a strain gauge (70) fixed on a side surface of said rigid 

member (68). 
A method for manufacturing an optical fiber preform  
 

(42) by depositing fine glass particles on a starting rod (44) 
or a core rod which is connected to one end of a seed rod (38) 

and rotated with the seed rod, said optical fiber preform 
manufacturing method being carried out by using: 


an optical fiber preform manufacturing apparatus according 
to Claim 6; 
said method comprising 

continuously monitoring the weight of the preform (42) 
measured by said measurement device (74) of said optical fiber 

preform manufacturing apparatus; and 
controlling the growth of the preform (42) according to the 
monitoring result. 
A rotary support apparatus comprising: 

a base, or an elevating member (26) and an elevating unit 
(20) for said elevating member; and 
a rotary support unit (34) for suspending and supporting an 
object vertically and for rotating the suspended object; 

characterized by comprising 
at least three load cells (64a, 64b, 64c) disposed between 
a surface of said rotary support unit (34) and a surface of 

said base or said elevating member (26), said surfaces being 
vertically spaced apart, for supporting said rotary support 

unit (34) and for detecting a load vertically applied thereto. 
An apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein each of 
said load cells is disposed between a support plate (62) which 

is integrally provided on said rotary support unit (34) and 
extends horizontally and said base or elevating member (26) 

located under said support plate. 
An apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein said 
rotary support unit (34) includes a rotating shaft (50), a 

gripper or chuck (36) provided at one end of said rotating 
shaft to grip the object, a driver (52) connected to the other 

end of said rotating shaft (50) to rotate said rotating shaft, 
a cylindrical housing (54) surrounding said rotating shaft 

(50), and a bearing (56, 57) disposed in an annular space  
 

between said rotating shft (50) and said housing (54) for 
rotatably supporting said rotating shaft, and wherein said 

rotary support unit (34) is disposed such that said rotating 
shaft (50) is directed in the vertical direction. 
An apparatus according to Claim 14, wherein said base 
or elevating member (26) has a passage (60) through which said 

housing (54) of said rotary support unit (34) is inserted with 
a predetermined gap. 
An apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein said at 
least three load cells (64a, 64b, 64c) are arranged around 

said rotary support unit (34). 
An apparatus according to Claim 16, further comprising 
a measurement device (74) for measuring the weight of the 

object supported by said rotary support unit (34) on the basis 
of output signals from said at least three load cells. 
An apparatus according to Claim 17, wherein said 
measurement device (74) includes an adder (76) for adding the 

output signals from said at least three load cells. 
An apparatus according to Claim 17, wherein said 
measurement device (74) includes a low-pass filter (78) for 

removing high-frequency components in a frequency range of a 
predetermined value and more from the output signals from said 

at least three load cells. 
An apparatus according to Claim 19, wherein said 
predetermined value is 0.5 Hz. 
An apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein each of said at 
least three load cells (64a, 64b, 64c) includes a rigid member (68) 

disposed between said rotary support unit (34) and said base 
or elevating member (26), and a strain gauge (70) fixed on a 

side surface of said rigid member (68). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
