<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648143</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VESSEL FOR TREATING LIQUIDS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D100	B01D122	B01D122	B01D130	B01D300	B01D306	B01D1704	B01D1704	C10G3300	C10G3306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C10G	C10G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D1	B01D1	B01D1	B01D1	B01D3	B01D3	B01D17	B01D17	C10G33	C10G33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A single vessel (10) with no moving parts is constructed to perform the functions of coalescing, vacuum dehydration, and thin film evaporation. A circular flat plate (14), having a central opening (13), is welded horizontally across the vessel (10) near the top. Directly below the central opening (13) is a stationary porous medium (22) made up of a plurality of rigid ceramic sponge disks (26) stacked up to form a cylindrical shape. There are injectors (70) with jet nozzles (76) for introducing liquid into the vessel and creating a thin film. Along the inner surface of the vertical wall (82) of the vessel (10) are spiral baffles (84). The baffles (84) are at an angle from the horizontal and serve to keep the liquid in a thin film.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPCON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPCON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COYLE ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE WILLIAM L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COYLE, ROBERT, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAWRENCE, WILLIAM, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VESSEL FOR TREATING LIQUIDSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the treatment of liquids, and, in particular, to a device for coalescing one liquid out of liquid-liquid emulsions, for vacuum dehydration, and for thin-film evaporation.Several different processes have been used for recycling oils to remove water and other contaminants from the oil. Among the processes are thin film and wiped film vacuum distillation, vacuum dehydration, filtration, clay treating, centrifuging, coalescing, and decanting.The first step in the recycling of any industrial lubricant is to remove the free water. This can be accomplished by heating the oil up and allowing the free water to settle. However, it takes a substantial amount of time for settling to occur and requires substantial storage capacity. In the case of portable recycling units, for which the present invention is intended, the time limitation is important and there is very limited storage, so settling tanks are not an option for portable units.Many recycling businesses use centrifuges to spin out the free water. These are somewhat effective, but they cannot remove all the solids and free water, they require a great deal of maintenance, and their efficiency can be greatly reduced by changes in feed conditions.Many recycling businesses use cartridge coalescers to remove free water from the oil, but these are not very efficient, require storage for settling, and require several passes through the cartridge to remove any substantial amount of water, thereby making the process slow.Once most of the free water has been removed, the rest of the water must be removed. This can be done in several ways. First, the oil can be heated to 250 degrees F to drive off all the water. This is a slow, energy intensive method, which also tends to oxidize the 

oil and destroy additives in the oil. It is possible to remove the water chemically, but this also tends to destroy the additives and oxidize the base oil.Another method for removing the water is vacuum dehydration. The known devices for using this technique use diffuser cartridges in a vacuum chamber. The diffuser cartridges have a very limited surface area, tend to plug frequently, and have very low production rates if the oil has more than one percent water, which is usually the case in recycling. Another problem with vacuum dehydration is the generation of what is known as "rag". This is considered an unrecoverable material (which looks like a shredded rag) that is created when oil and water are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A device for separating a liquid into its parts, comprising: an enclosed, hollow vessel; a stationary, porous medium suspended in the vessel; a port part-way up the vessel; a top opening near the top of the vessel, said top opening being in fluid communication with said porous medium, such that any liquid entering the vessel through the part-way up port must pass through said porous medium in order to leave the vessel through said top opening; and a bottom opening near the bottom of the vessel; said device being adapted to function as a continuous coalescer, such that a liquid-liquid mixture entering through the part-way up port will be separated by the porous medium, with the light liquid leaving through the top opening and the heavy liquid leaving through the bottom opening; said device also being adapted to function for continuous distillation.
2. A device as recited in Claim 1, wherein said stationary porous medium is centrally located in said vessel, with space between said porous medium and the sides and bottom of said vessel.
3. A device as recited in Claim 2, wherein said stationary porous medium comprises: a plurality of porous ceramic sponge wafer units, each unit having flat top and bottom surfaces; a plurality of cushioning spacers; each of said cushioning spacers sandwiched between two of said porous ceramic units; and 


 a rigid compression means for maintaining said porous ceramic units and cushioning gaskets in sandwiched alignment and for rigidly connecting said porous ceramic units and gaskets to said vessel.
4. A device as recited in Claim 3, wherein said rigid compression means comprises a plurality of bolts, nuts, and washers.
5. A device as recited in Claim 1, and further comprising: a bottom baffle, located inside said bottom opening, to prevent fluid from forming a vortex as it leaves said bottom opening and to keep debris out of said bottom opening.
6. A device as recited in Claim 5, wherein said bottom baffle comprises a solid top and a plurality of weirs located between said bottom opening and said solid top.
7. A device as recited in Claim 1, and further comprising: a jacket around said vessel for receiving fluid to control the temperature inside said vessel.
8. A device as recited in Claim 1, and further comprising: a distribution means between said top opening and said porous medium, such that, if liquid enters said vessel through said top opening, it is distributed over the top of said porous medium by said distribution means.
9. A device as recited in Claim 8, wherein said distribution means comprises: a pipe from said top opening into said vessel; and 


 a spray nozzle at the end of said pipe opposite said top opening.
10. A device as recited in Claim 9, wherein said distribution means further comprises: a horizontal plate defining a plurality of spaced holes and lying above said porous medium; and a wall around the periphery of said horizontal plate, such that liquid that is sprayed onto the horizontal plate by the spray nozzle is retained on the plate by the wall and leaves the plate.through the holes, falling onto the porous medium.
11. A device as recited in Claim 3, wherein there are at least five of said porous ceramic sponge units mounted together in said vessel, with at least four of said cushioning spacers between the respective ceramic sponge units.
12. A device as recited in Claim 1, wherein said vessel is substantially cylindrical and is jacketed for heat exchange and further comprising: an injection system for injecting fluid near the top of said vessel at points along the wall of said vessel in a substantially horizontal direction tangential to the wall of said vessel, so as to form a thin film of fluid along the wall of said vessel for continuous thin film distillation.
13. A device as recited in Claim 12, and further comprising: a plurality of spiral baffles along the wall of said vessel to keep fluid in thin film along wall.
14. A device for continuous coalescing of a first liquid out of an immiscible liquid-liquid suspension, comprising: 


 a vessel defining a top outlet, a bottom outlet, and an inlet part-way up the vessel; a porous medium comprising a rigid ceramic foam which is rigidly mounted in the vessel such that fluid entering the vessel through the inlet must pass through the porous ceramic foam in order to reach the top outlet.
15. A device as recited in Claim 14, wherein the pore size in the rigid ceramic foam is substantially twenty pores per inch.
16. A device as recited in Claim 14, wherein there is a substantial distance between the rigid ceramic foam and the sides and bottom of the vessel, such that fluid entering the vessel through the inlet can enter the ceramic foam on the side and bottom surfaces of the ceramic foam.
17. A device as recited in Claim 16, wherein said rigid ceramic foam includes a plurality of ceramic foam disks; gaskets between adjacent disks; and mounting means for forming a porous, cylindrical sandwich from said disks and gaskets.
18. A device for vacuum dehydration, comprising: a vessel; a rigid ceramic foam suspended inside said vessel; an inlet and an outlet near the top of said vessel and an outlet near the bottom of said vessel; and a distribution means for distributing incoming liquid over the top of said rigid ceramic foam.
19. A device for vacuum dehydration as recited in Claim 18, wherein said rigid ceramic foam is made up in disks which are mounted together, with cushioning gaskets 


between adjacent pairs of disks to form a cylindrical rigid ceramic foam sandwich.
20. A device for thin film evaporation, comprising: a substantially cylindrical vessel; a spiral baffle mounted on the inside wall of said vessel so as to define a very small gap between the spiral baffle and the inside wall of said vessel; and a plurality of injectors mounted near the top of said vessel so as to direct incoming fluid tangentially to the inner wall of the vessel so as to form a thin film.
21. A device for thin film evaporation as recited in Claim 20, wherein the spiral baffle is at an angle to the horizontal so as to direct liquid toward the inside wall of the vessel.
22. A device for thin film evaporation as recited in Claim 20, and further comprising: a cylindrical porous medium centrally suspended inside said cylindrical vessel in the area of said spiral baffle.
23. A device for thin film evaporation as recited in Claim 22, wherein said cylindrical porous medium comprises rigid ceramic sponge material. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
