<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621522</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Facility and gas management system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05B1904	G05B19042	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05B	G05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05B19	G05B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An interactive computer-controlled management system for
real-time data gathering and analysis of process information

relating to a plurality of data sources in a facility and for
controlling process functions of the data sources. In a

preferred embodiment, the data sources include gas cabinet
panels and related process equipment typically found in a wafer

fab facility. The system operates in a distributed processor
environment and includes a host processor having graphic,

control and user interfaces and a multi-ported processor
networked to the host processor. The multi-ported process

includes protocol sensitive hardware interfaces for
communication with the programmable logic controllers of each

particular data source. The multi-ported processor also
includes software means for emulating a common protocol such

that each gas cabinet or other connected device appears to the
host processor as an address location in a memory of the multi-ported

processor. The address locations are sequentially polled
by the host for updated status, alarm and set point information

which is displayable at the host terminal. The functions of the
management system are divided into three primary information

management and monitoring areas including alarm management, map
functions and administrative functions. The alarm management

functions permit acknowledgement of alarms and retrieval of
updated alarm information. The map functions provide specific

information about gas cabinets and other components within the
facility. The administrative functions control basic system

operation such as access, report generation and shut down
procedures.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENSTEIN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STARKEY SEAN CRONIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENSTEIN, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STARKEY, SEAN CRONIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to fluid control and 
management systems. More particularly, the invention relates to 
a gas management system which includes a plurality of networked 
processors for real time data gathering and system analysis to 
enable a user to monitor, control and report on all types of 
data sources such as, for example, gas cabinets and related 
process equipment in a wafer fabrication facility. Management systems which use a computer for monitoring, 
controlling and reporting on the status of a piece of process 
equipment in a manufacturing facility are generally known in the 
art and have been in existence for several years. In the 
semiconductor manufacturing industry, for example, gas cabinets 
are used to supply high purity process gases used in wafer 
fabrication. The various process gases contained in these gas 
cabinets are highly toxic. Accordingly, it is critical to be 
able to closely and safely control the flow of gases through the 
gas cabinets to ensure the health and safety of the workers. 
Also, it is very important to know up to the minute information 
regarding the status of each gas cylinder within each cabinet in 
order to ensure smooth and timely switchovers when the gas 
cylinders become empty and therefore avoid "dry runs" or other 
misprocessing errors. Typically, in the known gas management systems, each gas 
cabinet includes a programmable logic controller (PLC) which 
communicates status and alarm information to a mainframe or 
minicomputer. Each PLC monitors several internal inputs (such 
as gas applied pressure, gas delivery pressure, flow rate, etc.)  
 
as well as several external inputs (such as toxic gas detectors, 
UV/IR sensors, seismic sensors and the like). Until recently, 
these mainframe and minicomputer-based systems provided the only 
solution for computerized gas management on a facility-wide 
scale since only these systems could provide the necessary 
memory and performance to archive and save changes and alarms. However, the information fields displayable on a host 
terminal in these systems were very primitive. Also, the 
software written for these systems were not capable of being 
programmed to perform more than a limited number of tasks. 
Further, these systems were cost prohibitive to many users. Over the last three years, there has been a major shift in 
the technology such that personal computers (PCs) now approach 
the speed and performance levels previously only attainable by 
mainframe or minicomputer based systems. As the PC
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a computer-controlled facility management system for 
centralized monitoring, analysis and control of a plurality of 

protocol-sensitive data sources which includes a distributed 
network of processors for dividing up processing tasks including 

at least one user-interactive host processor having program 
means for graphical manipulation, analysis and display of 

collected data and wherein said host processor is coupled to at 
least one multi-ported processor which, in turn, is coupled to 

each of said plurality of data sources for input/output data 
communication therewith, an improved method for operating said 

multi-ported processor for real-time monitoring and control of 
process information relating to said plurality of data sources 

comprising the steps performed in selected sequence of: 

a) sequentially polling each of said plurality of 
protocol-sensitive data sources for status and alarm data; 

b) updating changes in status and alarm data generated by 
each of said data sources; 
b) parsing the updated status and alarm data for 
conversion to a common protocol; 
c) storing the parsed status and alarm data at individual 
address locations in a memory accessible by said at least one 

host processor; and 
d) polling said at least one host processor for requests 
to perform selected control functions of said plurality of data 

sources in response to processing of said parsed status and 
alarm data retrieved from said memory by said host processor. 
A method as in claim 1 wherein said plurality of data 
sources comprise a plurality of protocol-sensitive device types 

and wherein said method includes the steps of: 

a) determining a device type corresponding to a 
 

particular control function request; and 
b) placing a control function request for a protocol-sensitive 
device type into an appropriate one of a plurality of 

request sub queues, each sub queue having a corresponding 
network protocol. 
A method as in claim 2 wherein at least one of said 
plurality of protocol-sensitive device types includes a dual 

network gas cabinet controller having a first high speed network 
for communication of digital data to said multi-ported processor 

and a second low speed network for communication of analog set 
point data to said multi-ported processor, and wherein a request 

sub queue for said high speed network has priority over a 
request sub queue for said low speed network during said step of 

placing a control function request into an appropriate sub 
queue. 
A method as in claim 3 wherein said control function 
requests include shutting down a gas cabinet, purging a gas 

cylinder, locking/unlocking a gas cabinet. 
A method as in claim 3 wherein said plurality of protocol-sensitive 
data sources includes at least one bar code reader, 

said method comprising the additional step of generating a gas 
panel lock/unlock control function request using said at least 

one bar code reader. 
A method as in claim 1 wherein said alarm data includes a 
plurality of different alarm events and wherein said method 

further comprises the step of ranking said alarm events. 
A method as in claim 2 wherein said plurality of data 
sources comprise a plurality of protocol-sensitive device types 

 
and wherein said method includes the steps of: 


a) determining a device type corresponding to a 
particular control function request: and 
b) placing a control function request for a protocol-sensitive 
device type into an appropriate one of a plurality of 

request sub queues, each sub queue having a corresponding 
network protocol. 
A method as in claim 7 wherein at least one of said 
plurality of protocol-sensitive device types includes a dual 

network gas cabinet controller having a first high speed network 
for communication of digital data to said multi-ported processor 

and a second low speed network for communication of analog set 
point data to said multi-ported processor, and wherein a request 

sub queue for said high speed network has priority over a 
request sub queue for said low speed network during said step of 

placing a control function request into an appropriate sub 
queue. 
A method as in claim 8 wherein said control function 
requests include shutting down a gas cabinet, purging a gas 

cylinder, locking/unlocking a gas cabinet. 
A method as in claim 8 wherein said plurality of protocol-sensitive 
data sources includes at least one bar code reader, 

said method comprising the additional step of generating a gas 
panel lock/unlock control function request using said at least 

one bar code reader. 
An -interactive computer-controlled facility management 
system for real-time data gathering and analysis of process 

information relating to a plurality of protocol-sensitive data 
sources and for selectively controlling operational functions of 

 
said data sources comprising in operative combination: 


a) at least one multi-ported processor means coupled to 
each of said data sources, said multi-ported processor means for 

sequentially polling each of said data sources for status and 
alarm data, updating said polled status and alarm data, parsing 

said updated status and alarm data for conversion to a common 
protocol and storing said parsed status and alarm data at 

individual address locations associated in a memory means 
coupled to said multi-ported processor means; 
b) at least one host processor means coupled to said at 
least one multi-ported processor means for accessing said first 

memory means to retrieve current status and alarm data for a 
selected data source and for generating requests to perform a 

control function of a particular data source in real-time in 
response to said status and alarm data retrieved from said first 

memory means; and 
c) display means coupled to said host processor means for 
graphical display of said retrieved status and alarm data; and 
d) said multi-ported processor means identifying a 
control function request generated by said host processor means 

and determining a corresponding data source by device type and 
communicating said control function request to said determined 

data source prior to polling said determined data source for 
updated status and alarm data. 
An interactive computer-controlled facility management 
system as in claim 11 wherein said host processor includes means 

for generating reports on said updated status and alarm data. 
An interactive computer-controlled facility management 
system as in claim 11 wherein: 


a) said plurality of data sources include at least one 
 

dual network protocol gas cabinet controller and at least one 
bar code reader; 
b) said control function requests include shutting down 
a gas cabinet, purging a gas cylinder, locking/unlocking a gas 

cabinet; and 
c) said at least one bar code reader includes means for 
generating a gas panel lock/unlock control function request for 

said at least one gas cabinet controller. 
An interactive computer-controlled facility management 
system as in claim 11 wherein sai
d alarm data includes a 
plurality of different alarm events and said multi-ported 

processor means further comprises means for ranking said alarm 
events prior to storing in said first memory means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
