<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642533</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HEPARAN SULPHATE OLIGOSACCHARIDES HAVING HEPATOCYTE GROWTH FACTOR BINDING AFFINITY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K31715	A61K31715	C07H300	C07H306	C08B3700	C08B3700	C08B3710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07H	C07H	C08B	C08B	C08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	C07H3	C07H3	C08B37	C08B37	C08B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Oligosaccharides having a high specific binding affinity for HGF growth factors and made up of relatively low molecular weight sulphated oligosaccharide chains are disclosed. The chains are composed of at least three disaccharide units including one or more internal sequences of an N-sulphated D-glucosamine 6-sulphate residue and an L-iduronic acid residue. A method is also disclosed for preparing these oligosaccharides in a purified and relatively homogeneous state from heparan sulphate. For the best HGF-binding affinity there are preferably at least five disaccharide units. The most favoured structures contain twelve or fourteen monosaccharide residues in all and include a relatively high proportion of 6-0-sulphated hexosamines, e.g. more than 30 % or even 50 %, as compared to oligosaccharide chains of unmodified native heparan sulphate. These oligosaccharides can modulate HGF activity, and uses thereof as drugs for therapeutic purposes in medicine are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANCER RES CAMPAIGN TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANCER RESEARCH CAMPAIGN TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLAGHER JOHN T CRC DEP OF ME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYON MALCOLM CRC DEP OF MED ON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLAGHER, JOHN T., CRC DEP.OF MED.ONC, PATERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYON, MALCOLM, CRC DEP.OF MED ONC., PATERSON INST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HEPARAN SULPHATE OLIGOSACCHARIDES HAVING HEPATOCYTE GROWTH FACTOR BINDING AFFINITYThe present invention relates to certain novel oligosaccharide products and preparations thereof, useful in the field of biochemistry and medicine, which have particular binding affinity for certain growth factors or cytokines, in particular hepatocyte growth factor (HGF).BACKGROUNDVarious growth factors, often structurally unrelated, are characterised by a strong affinity for heparin. One such growth factor is hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), also known as "scatter factor". HGF is an unusually large (82kDa) and structurally complex growth factor that is synthesised as a biologically inactive single chain precursor. This is then proteolytically cleaved at a single site between linked cysteine residues giving rise to a disulphide-bonded heterodimer comprising a large α- chain ( 54kDa) containing a hairpin loop close to the N- terminus and a sequence of four Kringle domains, together with a smaller β-chain (26kDa). HGF is produced by various cells including fibroblasts, smooth muscle cells, kidney mesangial cells and liver non-parenchymal cells. Its target cells are primarily epithelial cells, although it also acts on endothelial cells, hepatocytes and melanocytes. It is believed to play an important role as a paracrine mediator of epithelial-mesenchymal inter- actions. Cellular responses, however, to HGF are complex and, as well as being mitogenic, it can also stimulate cell migration and morphogenesis depending on the cellular target and its milieu. Interestingly, it can have an anti-proliferative effect on some tumour cells, including hepatoma cells, in vitro . It is likely that HGF is an important factor in embryonic organ developmen . In the adult it has been demonstrated to have a major role in the regeneration of damaged organs, such as liver and kidney. 

 The cellular signal response to HGF appears to be mediated by binding (probably through the N-terminal part of the α-chain) to a single high affinity (K^ about 25pM) tyrosine kinase receptor, the product of the c-Met proto- oncogene. However, it has been demonstrated, at least with cultured cells, that a much larger number of lower affinity HGF binding sites (K^ about 350-400pM) also exist on the cell surface. It is thought possible that these lower affinity binding sites involve cell surface heparan sulphate proteoglycans, and that HGF interacts with the heparan sulphate (HS) component of such proteoglycans to cause a conformational change leading to a modulation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An oligosaccharide preparation obtainable from partially depolymerised heparan sulphate (HS) or other natural heparin type material as a fraction thereof, characterised in that it consists essentially of oligosaccharide chains which have a specific binding affinity for hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and which are composed of a sequence of at least three disaccharide units (dp^6) that includes at least two disaccharide units containing an L-iduronic acid residue IdoA(±2S) and an N- sulphated D-glucosamine residue GlcNSOg ±6S) .
2. An oligosaccharide preparation comprising heparan sulphate (HS) fragments which have a specific binding affinity for hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and which are composed of oligosaccharide chains containing a sequence of at least three disaccharide units (dp
>
_6) that includes at least two disaccharide units containing an L-iduronic acid residue IdoA(±2S) and an N-sulphated D-glucosamine residue GlcNS0
3
(±6S) .
3. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 in which said disaccharide units containing the IdoA(±2S) and GlcNSθ3(±6S) residues are disposed in between the terminal sugar residues of the oligosaccharide chains.
4. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which one or more of said at least two disaccharide units of the oligosaccharide chains is IdoA-αl,4-GlcNS0
3
(6S) .
5. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims further characterised in that the
HGF-binding affinity is not completely destroyed by treatment under depoly erising conditions with heparinase I. 


6. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that at least the majority of the oligosaccharide chains each have substantially the same length as a result of carrying out a size fractionation separation procedure.
7. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that at least the majority of the oligosaccharide chains each have a degree of polymerisation (dp) of 10 or more.
8. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which said oligosaccharide chains consist of a sequence of not more than ten disaccharide units in total.
9. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that at least the majority of the oligosaccharide chains each have a degree of polymerisation (dp) of 12 or 14.
10. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that said oligosaccharide chains are substantially completely resistant to further depolymerisation upon treatment under enzymic depolymerising conditions with heparinase III (heparitinase I).
11. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that the
IdoA(2S) content, if any, of said oligosaccharide chains is less than the unsulphated IdoA content thereof.
12. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims further characterised in that the oligosaccharide chains contain a relatively high proportion of 6—0—sulphated hexosamines compared to oligosaccharide chains of unmodified native heparan 


sulphate ,
13. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 12, further characterised in that the GlcNSθ3(6S) content of the oligosaccharide chains, i.e. number of residues per 100 disaccharides, is at least 30%.
14. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 12, further characterised in that the 6—0—sulphated hexosamine content of the oligosaccharide chains, i.e. number of residues per 100 disaccharides, is 50% or more.
15. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the content of glucosamine residues in the oligosaccharide chains which are 0- sulphated at C6 is greater than 24%.
16. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 15 in which the content of glucosamine residues in the oligosaccharide chains which are O-sulphated at C6 is about 35% or greater.
17. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims, further characterised in that the structure of the oligosaccharide chains includes internal repeat sequences of IdoA(±2S) and GlcNS03(6S) interrupted by occasional GlcNAc(±6S) components.
18. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which substantially all said oligosaccharide chains consist of a sequence of six or seven disaccharide units in all.
19. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of the preceding claims further characterised in that it is obtainable from heparan sulphate (HS) of human fibroblast heparan sulphate proteoglycan (HSPG) by enzymic partial depolymerisation to the fullest extent with heparinase III 


(heparitinase I) followed by size fractionation, using for example gel filtration size exclusion chromatography, followed by, in respect of a selected fraction or fractions recovered from the size fractionating stage, affinity chromatography using an HGF growth factor as the immobilised ligand in order to separate out HGF-binding fragments, and then eluting selectively over a range of salt concentrations under a salt gradient to fractionate said fragments in respect of HGF binding affinity, followed by recovering the most strongly bound fragments and, optionally, further purifying the recovered product by carrying out at least one additional step of size fractionation and selection of recovered product.
20. An oligosaccharide preparation made up of oligo¬ saccharide chains having a specific binding affinity for human hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), characterised in that
(a) it is composed predominantly of a molecular species:

 in which
X is nHexA-GlcNS0
3
Y is IdoA(±2S)-GlcR(±6S),
Z is IdoA-GlcR where R is NSO3 or NAc, and n is in the range 1 to 5
with the proviso that when n is three or more then at least for the majority of said molecular species two or more of the GICR3 residues in Y are N-sulphated glycosamines sulphated at C-6, i.e. GlcNS0
3
( 6S) ;
(b) it is obtainable by a process comprising the steps of digesting a heparan sulphate with heparinase III (heparitinase I) so as to bring about partial depolymerisation thereof to the 


 fullest extent, followed by size fractionating the oligosaccharide mixture produced using for example gel filtration size exclusion chroma¬ tography, collecting a fraction or fractions containing oligosaccharide chains having a particular size selected within the range of 10 to 20 monosaccharide residues, then subjecting said selected fraction or fractions to affinity chromatography using an immobilised HGF ligand and recovering the more strongly HGF-binding constituents by eluting under a salt gradient over a range of salt concentrations and collecting a selected fraction or fractions containing the bound material which desorbs only at the highest salt concentrations.
21. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 20, wherein Y is primarily IdoA-GlcNS0
3
(±6S) .
22. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 20 or 21, wherein n is the range 3 - 5.
23. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 22 wherein said molecular species consists of a total of six or seven disaccharide units in all.
24. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of Claims 20 to 23 in which the content of glucosamine residues having a 6-0-sulphate group is greater than 24%.
25. An oligosaccharide preparation having a specific binding affinity for hepatocyte growth factors (HGF's) and substantially all composed of oligosaccharide chains which are twelve or fourteen monosaccharide residues in length and which contain an internal sequence comprising at least 2 disaccharide units each consisting of an IdoA residue linked to a GlcNS0 (±6S) residue, with more than 20% of the glucosamine residues (terminal or internal) being 6-0- 


sulphated.
26. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 25 wherein substantially all the oligosaccharide chains have the following sequence nGlcA-GlcNS0
3
-[IdθA-GlcNS0
3
(±6S)]
n
-IdθA-GlcR where R is NSO3 or NAc, and n is 4 or 5.
27. A method of isolating from heparan sulphate derived from heparan sulphate proteoglycan of mammalian cells low molecular weight oligosaccharides in a purified and relatively homogeneous state which have a specific binding affinity for hepatocyte growth factor, said method comprising the steps of (a) preparing an affinity chromatographic matrix or substrate incorporating a sample of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) as the affinity ligand immobilised thereon;
(b) treating said heparan sulphate with a selective scission reagent so as to cleave the polysaccharide chains thereof selectively in regions of relatively low sulphation;
(c) subjecting the product of step (b) to size fractionation, for example by gel filtration size exclusion chromatography, and collecting selectively therefrom fractions that appear to contain oligosaccharides composed of less than ten disaccharide units,
(d) contacting the affinity chromatographic matrix or substrate from step (a) with a selected fraction, or set of fractions, from step (c) containing a specific number of disaccharide units in the range of five to seven in order to extract from the latter and retain on said matrix or substrate size selected oligo¬ saccharide fragments of the heparan sulphate glycosaminoglycan that have at least some binding affinity for the immobilised HGF; 


 (e) eluting the affinity chromatographic matrix or substrate using a progressively increasing salt concentration or gradient in the eluant;
(f) collecting the fraction or set of fractions containing oligosaccharide fragments eluting in selected highest ranges of eluant salt concentration; and optionally,
(g) further purifying the product of the selected fraction, or set of fractions, from step (f) by selectively repeating step (c) using said selected fraction or set of fractions collected in step ( f) instead of the reaction mixture obtained from step (b), and optionally also repeating steps (d), (e) and (f).
28. A method as claimed in Claim 27 in which the selective scission reagent is heparinase III (heparitinase I ) and the heparan sulphate is partially depolymerised to the fullest extent by digesting therewith until cleavage of the heparitase III sensitive linkages is complete.
29. A method as claimed in Claim 27 to 28, wherein the fractions collected from the size fractionation stage are those that appear to contain oligosaccharides composed of six or seven disaccharide units.
30. An oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 26 for therapeutic use as an active HGF- activity modulating agent for controlling or reducing cell growth, proliferation or migration in treating mammals in need of such treatment.
31. A pharmaceutical formulation or composition for medical use comprising a therapeutically effective non- toxic amount of an HGF-activity modulating agent comprising an oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 26 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable 


carrier or vehicle.
32. An oligosaccharide preparation having a specific binding affinity for hepatocyte growth factors (HGF's), consisting essentially of linear oligosaccharide chains which are substantially homogeneous with respect to HGF binding affinity and which contain a sequence of less than ten disaccharide units including, intermediate its terminal residues, a plurality of disaccharide units each composed of an N-sulphated glucosamine residue (±6S) and an unsulphated iduronic acid residue.
33. A pharmaceutical composition or formulation for use in controlling the activity of hepatocyte growth factors in mammals, said composition or forumulation comprising a therapeutically useful amount of an essentially pure oligosaccharide preparation as claimed in Claim 32. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
