<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649092</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for fault tolerant connection of a computing system to local area networks
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1120	G06F1120	G06F1300	G06F1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F11	G06F11	G06F13	G06F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A computing system, having an input/output bus for 
communicating data thereon, is connected to a network by a 

pair of network controller devices. Each of the network 
controller devices, in turn, connect to a corresponding one of 

a pair of multi-ported network repeater elements which are, in 
turn, connected to one another by a pair of network links. At 

least one workstation is connected to each of the network 
repeaters. One of the network controllers is initially 

selected as a primary data communicating path from the 
computing system to the network. The network controllers 

periodically transmit messages to one another, and if receipt 
of those messages by the primary network controller is noted, 

the selection of the primary controller will be switched to 
the other. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDEM COMPUTERS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDEM COMPUTERS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWETT KEVIN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWETT, KEVIN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is related generally to
computing system network configurations, and more particularly
to a network configuration that is tolerant of faults that may
occur.Fault tolerant computing systems have long been
known. In environments in which high availability of
computing tasks are desired, computing systems have included
various fault tolerant designs such as redundant parts,
elements or modules, data checking and correcting schemes, and
the like. An example of a fault tolerant computing system may
be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4,228,496, which teaches a multi-processing
system having fault tolerant capability for example
in the form of redundant facilities to limit single points of
failure.One use of such high availability computing systems
is as a "server" in various network configurations, such as,
for example, local area network (LAN) designs. As a server, the computing
system stores and maintains the various resources (e.g.,
application programs, data, etc.) used by the stations (e.g.,
personal computer (PC) systems) connected to the network. It
was soon realized, however, that even though the server unit
may be structured to provide high availability, the network
itself limited that availability in that the network contained
single points of failure. For example, cables can break, or
inadvertently be removed, eliminating a communication path of
the network and, more likely than not, isolating one or more
stations from the server.Solutions to this problem have included providing fully
redundant networks. However, this solution has required the
application programs to be extensively rewritten, thereby 
effectively eliminating the use of off-the-shelf application
programs.Thus it is apparent that there is a need for
extending the fault tolerant high availability provided by
multi-processor systems such as that of the aforementioned
U.S. Pat. No. 4,228,496 to the network with which it may be
used and connected. This extension of fault tolerance should
be done in such a way so that applications run on workstations
or the network need no, or little revision or modification.The present invention, is generally directed to a
fault tolerant network configuration that provides high
availability in a manner that does not require modification of
the applications that may be run on the network. The
invention, in a more specific aspect, provides a fault
tolerant connection of a fault tolerant computing system to a
network configuration, extending the fault tolerance of the
computing system to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for fault tolerant connection of a
processing means (14a,14b) to a network, the processing means

having and input/output bus (20a,20b) means for communicating
data, the method comprising the step of:


connecting to the input/output bus means first and
second network controller means (26,28);

and characterized in that it comprises the steps of:

providing a pair of network access devices (32,34)
each having a plurality of ports at which data is received or

transmitted, a one of the plurality ports of each of the pair
of network access devices being coupled to corresponding ones

of the first and second network controller means for receiving
data therefrom or transmitting data thereto, another of the

plurality of ports of a one of the pair of network access
devices being coupled to another of the plurality of ports of

the other one of the pair of network access devices;
connecting at least one station means (44) to
another one of the plurality of ports of each of the pair of

network access devices; and
selecting a one of the first or second network
controller means as a primary data communication path between

the processing means and the pair of network access devices.
The method of claim 1, including the step of
transmitting from the first and second network controller

means for receipt by at least the second and first network
controller means, respectively, message data.
The method of claim 2, wherein the
transmitting step occurs periodically.
The method of claim 3, wherein the absence of
receipt of the message data from the first or second

controller means by the second or first controller means,
respectively, is reported to the processor means. 
The method of claim 4, including the step of
selecting another of the first or second network controller

means as a primary data communication path when absence of
receipt of the message data from the prior selected one of the

first or second network controller means is reported to the
processor means.
The method of claim 1, wherein a pair of the
plurality of ports of the one of the pair of network access

devices is coupled to the other one of the pair of network
access devices by a pair of connections (38) for communicating

data therebetween, and including the step of selecting a one
of the pair of connections as a primary data communicating

path between the pair of network access devices.
A fault tolerant connection apparatus connecting a processing
system (14a,14b) to a network, the processing system having an

input/output bus (20a, 20b) means for communicating data, the
fault tolerant connection apparatus

comprising:

first and second network controller means (26,28)
connected to the input/output bus means;

characterized in that it further comprises:

a pair of network access devices (32, 34) each having
a plurality of ports at which data is received or transmitted,

a one of the plurality ports of each of the pair of forwarding
means being coupled to corresponding ones of the first and

second network controller means for communicating data
therebetween, another of the plurality of ports of a one of

the pair of network access devices being coupled to another of
the plurality of ports of the other one of the pair of network

access devices;
at least one station means connected to a port of
each of the pair of network access devices; and
means for selecting a one of the first or second
network controller means as a primary data communication path

from the processing means to the pair of network access
devices.
The fault tolerant connection apparatus of claim 7, the
one station means including means for selecting a connection 

to a one of the ports of each of the pair of network access
devices as a primary path for data communication to and from

the one station means.
The fault tolerant connection apparatus of claim 7,
including means for causing the first and second network

controller means to transmit message data to be received by at
least the second and first network controller means,

respectively.
The fault tolerant connection apparatus of claim 9,
wherein the first and second network controller means report

absence of receipt of message data to the processing means,
and wherein the processing means selects another of the first

or second network controller means as a primary data
communication path when absence of receipt of the message data

from the prior selected one of the first and second network
controller means is reported to the processor means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
