<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623222</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH FREQUENCY RETENTION SEISMIC SURVEY METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01V128	G01V136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01V	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01V1	G01V1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods for generating seismic data and creating a seismic section are disclosed in which the difference in offsets between stacked traces is limited.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MERLIN SYSTEMS L C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MERLIN SYSTEMS, L.C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINDSEY JOE PAT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATCH JAMES RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINDSEY, JOE, PAT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATCH, JAMES, RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HIGH FREQUENCY RETENTION SEISMIC SURVEY METHOD RELATED APPLICATIONS :This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/980,661, filed November 24, 1992.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:This invention relates to seismic data gathering and the creation of recordings of seismic data commonly known as "seismic sections." More particularly, this invention relates to a new process for simultaneously increasing horizontal and vertical resolution while preserving high frequency response and suppressing horizontal noise in seismic sections. In addition, the present invention allows for Amplitude Variation with Offset ("AVO") analysis and removal of multiple reflec¬ tions from the section, as well as providing an improved correction for static errors and conducting velocity analysis.Early Seismic Survey Methods:For many years, the seismic industry has tried to add multiple individual signals from a particular reflection point of interest, on the theory that the summed result would have a higher signal-to-noise ratio than the individual signals, because the noise present in any particular signal is general¬ ly random, while the reflection from the point of interest is repeatable. 

 An example of such a process is called "vertical stack¬ ing", generally described in U.S. Pat. No. 2,018,737, issued to Owen on Oct. 29, 1935 and incorporated herein by reference. According to Owen, a plurality of relatively small charges of explosive (an example of a signal source) are successively detonated in the immediate vicinity of each other at a first location (sometimes referred to as a "shot point" or "source point"), while, at a location remote from the source point, multiple geophones (an example of a signal receiver) are used to make separate recordings of the reflections of seismic waves caused by the explosions. The records are then added. Adding the records tended to cancel random noise while in¬ creasing the repeatable signal.Another example of using multiple source signals added together is disclosed in Peacock, et. al. , "Thumping Technique Using Full Spread Of Geophones", Geophysics, Vol. 27, No. 6, Part II., pp. 952-965 (Society of Exploration Geophysicists, Dec. 1962) . Peacock describes using a thumper as a signal source to generate multiple source signals from a localized area. The area from which Peacock describes the signal's origination comprises a 10 x 10 grid of points where a heavy weight is dropped onto the earth's surface, and the resultant received signals are added
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 What is claimed is: 1. A process for seismic data gathering comprising: collecting a first set of multiple signals from a first set of ray paths, wherein the first set of ray paths originate from a first source point and are received at a first receiver point,- organizing a plurality of the first set of multiple signals into a first set of clusters,- collecting a second set of multiple signals from a second set of ray paths, wherein the second set of ray paths origi- nate from a second source point and are received at a second receiver point; organizing a plurality of the second set of multiple signals into a second set of clusters,- adding together a plurality of the signals within the same cluster to create a cluster signal for each of a plurali- ty of the clusters; sorting a plurality of the cluster signals into common reflection point gathers, wherein each cluster signal within any common reflection point gather has a reflection point in common with every other cluster signal in each common reflec- tion point gather,- synchronizing a plurality of the cluster signals within a plurality of the common reflection point gathers.
2. A process as in claim 1, further comprising: adding together a plurality of the synchronized cluster signals within a plurality of the gathers, whereby a set of synchronized gather signals is the result.
3. A process as in claim 2, further comprising: displaying a plurality of the set of synchronized gather signals.
4. A process as in claim 1 further comprising: 


 displaying a plurality of the set of synchronized cluster signals.
5. A process for creating a seismic section from traces received from seismic signal receivers, the process compris- ing: generating a first common reflection point gather of a first set of traces, wherein the first set of traces represent seismic signals originating from a first source point, the first source point comprising multiple source element loca- tions,- synchronizing a plurality of the first set of traces within the first common reflection point gather; adding the synchronized signals within the first common reflection point gather; generating a second common reflection point gather of a second set of traces, wherein the second set of traces repre¬ sent seismic signals originating from a second source point, the second source point comprising multiple source element locations; synchronizing a plurality of the signals within the second common reflection point gather,- adding the synchronized signals within the second common reflection point gather; wherein the first and the second source points are about as far apart as one-half the distance along the traverse covered by the receiver groups when receiving signals, and wherein the seismic signals received from the first and second source points are continuous samplings along the traverse from the same depth level.
6. A process as in claim 5 further comprising: generating a third common reflection point gather of a third set of traces, wherein the third set of traces represent seismic signals originating from a third source point, the 


 third source point comprising multiple source element loca- tions,- synchronizing a plurality of the signals within the third common reflection point gather; and wherein the third source point is located between the first and second source points, and wherein the energy used at the third source point is less than the energy used at either the first or the second source points.
7. A process as in claim 5, wherein the adding the synchro- nized signals within the first common reflection point gather defines a first added signal and wherein the adding the syn- chronized signals within the second common reflection point gather defines a second added signal, and further comprising: conformal mapping the first added signal to the second added signal, thereby defining a first mapped signal and a second mapped signal; adding the first and second mapped signals.
8. A process as in claim 5, wherein each trace in the first set of traces is formed by adding together, without synchroni- zation, signals received at a single receiver group from multiple source element locations in the first source point.
9. A process for creating high quality field records in seismic data gathering comprising: a) generating a seismic signal at a source point; b) receiving reflections of the seismic signal at a plurali- ty of receivers, and receiving noise at the plurality of receivers while receiving the reflections of the seismic signal, the reflections and the noise defining a received signal; c) recording the received signal, thus defining a recorded signal, 


 the ratio of the amplitude of the reflections of th seismic signal to the amplitude of the noise defin¬ ing a signal-to-noise ratio,- repeating steps a and b; adding the received signal to the recorded signal, thus defining an added signal; repeating steps a through e until the signal to noise 


 ratio of the added signal is 0.2 or greater.
10. A process as in claim 9 wherein steps a through e are repeated until the signal-to-noise ratio of the added signal is about 0.5 or greater.
11. A process as in claim 9 wherein steps a through e are repeated until the signal-to-noise ratio of the added signal is about 0.8 or greater.
12. A process as in claim 9 wherein steps a through e are repeated until the signal-to-noise ratio of the added signal is about 1 or greater.
13. A process as in claim 9 wherein the generating is accom- plished with a vibrator.
14. A process as in claim 9 wherein the generating is accom- plished with explosive. 

15. A process for generating a seismic section from multiple traces recorded from seismic receivers along a traverse and reducing the degradation of a maximum frequency of interest below a maximum degradation percentage, the process compris- ing:
determining a maximum range of offset for synchronization of traces having a common reflection point whereby, upon additio of the traces after synchronization, the maximum frequency of interest is degraded by a degradation amount about equal to o less than the maximum degradation percentage;
choosing a first set of traces, the difference in offset between any two traces in the first set of traces being about equal to or less than the maximum range of offset;
synchronizing the first set of traces,- and
adding together the first set of traces.
16. A process in claim 15, wherein the determining comprises: a) choosing an offset value for the maximum range of offset; b) synchronizing a first test set of traces in a first test common reflection point gather, wherein the common reflection points of the first test set of traces are below a first location along the traverse, thereby defining a first synchro- nized test set of traces,- c) adding the traces in the first synchronized test set of traces, thereby defining an added test trace,- d) determining the degradation amount of the maximum fre- quency of interest in the added test trace,- e) repeating steps a through d until the degradation amount of the maximum frequency of interest in the added test trace is less than the maximum degradation percentage. 


 17. A process as in claim 15 wherein the determining comprises: a) choosing an offset value for the maximum range of offset; b) synchronizing a first test set of traces in a first test common reflection point gather, wherein the common reflection points of the first test set of traces are below a first location along the traverse, thereby defining a first synchro- nized test set of traces,- c) adding the traces in the first synchronized test set of traces, thereby defining a first added test trace,- d) determining a first degradation amount of the maximum frequency of interest in the first added test trace,- e) synchronizing a second test set of traces in a second test common reflection point gather, wherein the common re- flection points of the second test set of traces are below a second location along the traverse, thereby defining a second synchronized test set of traces,- f) adding the traces in the second synchronized test set of traces, thereby defining a second added test trace,- g) determining a second degradation amount of the maximum frequency of interest in the second added test trace,- h) repeating steps a through g until the average of the first and the second degradation amounts is less than the maximum degradation percentage.
18. A process as in claim 17 wherein the traces have a sig- nal-to-noise ratio of about 0.2 or higher.
19. A process as in claim 17 wherein the traces have a sig- nal-to-noise ratio of about 0.5 or higher.
20. A process as in claim 17 wherein the traces have a sig- nal-to-noise ratio of about 0.8 or higher.
21. A process as in claim 17 wherein the traces have a signal to noise ratio of about 1 or higher. 


 22. A process for suppression of a predetermined wavelength L of horizontal noise in seismic data comprising: choosing a first set of traces at a first set of receiver groups, the first set of receiver groups being spaced by m receiver group intervals, the receiver group interval having a length of about d, each of the first set of traces being from a first source cluster, the first source cluster being located at a first source point having k source clusters,- choosing a second set of traces at a second set of re- ceiver groups, the second set of receiver groups being spaced by m receiver group intervals, the receiver group interval having a length of about
'
 d, each of the second set of traces being from a second source cluster, the second source cluster being located at the first source point; grouping traces from the first and second sets of traces into a first set of gathers, wherein the midpoint between the source cluster and the receiver group for each trace in any gather is the same; synchronizing each trace in a particular gather of the first set of gathers with every other trace in the particular gather, thus defining a synchronized set of traces; repeating the synchronizing for each gather in the first set of gathers; adding the synchronized traces, whereby a set of added traces is defined, one added trace for each of the first set of gathers; defining an integer q equal to the greater of the receiv- er group length or the souree cluster length, in units of receiver group intervals,- 


 generating a set of running sum traces from the set of added traces with an n-trace running sum, according to the following relationships: n=(2m)/q and (L/d) =2mk+(q/2) .
23. A process as in claim 22, whereby the grouping reduces the degradation of a maximum frequency of interest below a maximum degradation percentage, the grouping comprising:
determining a maximum range of offset for synchronization of traces having a common reflection point whereby, upon addition of the traces after synchronization, the maximum frequency of interest is degraded by a degradation amount about equal to or less than the maximum degradation percentage,- and
choosing a first set of traces, the difference in offset between any two traces in the first set of traces being about equal to or less than the maximum range of offset.
24. A process in claim 23, wherein the determining comprises-. a) choosing an offset value for the maximum range of offset; b) synchronizing a first test set of traces in a first test common reflection point gather, wherein the common reflection points of the first test set of traces are below a first location along the traverse, thereby defining a first synchro- nized test set of traces; c) adding the traces in the first synchronized test set of traces, thereby defining an added test trace,- d) determining the degradation amount of the maximum fre- quency of interest in the added test trace,- e) repeating steps a through d until the degradation amount of the maximum frequency of interest in the added test trace is less than the maximum degradation percentage.
24. A process as in claim 23 wherein the determining comprises: 


 a) choosing an offset value for the maximum range of offset b) synchronizing a first test set of traces in a first test common reflection point gather, wherein the common reflection points of the first test set of traces are below a first location along the traverse, thereby defining a first synchro nized test set of traces,- c) adding the traces in the first synchronized test set of traces, thereby defining a first added test trace,- d) determining a first degradation amount of the maximum frequency of interest in the first added test trace; e) synchronizing a second test set of traces in a second test common reflection point gather, wherein the common re- flection points of the second test set of traces are below a second location along the traverse, thereby defining a second synchronized test set of traces; f) adding the traces in the second synchronized test set of traces, thereby defining a second added test trace,- g) determining a second degradation amount of the maximum frequency of interest in the second added test trace,- h) repeating steps a through g until the average of the first and the second degradation amounts is less than the maximum degradation percentage.
25. A process as in claim 24 wherein the traces have a sig- nal-to-noise ratio of about 0.2 or higher.
26. A process as in claim 24 wherein the traces have a sig- nal-to-noise ratio of about 0.5 or higher.
27. A process as in claim 24 wherein the traces have a sig- nal-to-noise ratio of about 0.8 or higher.
28. A process as in claim 24 wherein the traces have a signal to noise ratio of about 1 or higher. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
