<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631692</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THREE DIMENSIONAL INTEGRATED CIRCUIT AND METHOD OF FABRICATING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2160	H01L2170	H01L21768	H01L2348	H01L2348	H01L25065	H01L25065	H01L2700	H01L2700	H01L2712	H01L2712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L25	H01L25	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method includes the steps of providing a first and a second Silicon-on-Insulator (SOI) wafer, wherein each SOI water includes a thin silicon layer (12) separated from a bulk silicon (10) substrate by a thin layer of dielectric material, typically SiO2 (11). A next step processes the thin silicon layers to form at least one electrical feedthrough (16) in each of the thin silicon layers (12) and to also form desired active and passive devices (17, 18, 19a, 19b) in each of the thin silicon layers. A next step forms interconnects (21) that overlie the thin silicon layer (12) and that are electrically coupled to the at least one feedthrough (16). One of the wafers is then attached to a temporary substrate such that the interconnects are interposed between the thin silicon layer and the temporary substrate. The bulk silicon substrate of the wafer having the temporary substrate is then removed by a step of etching the bulk silicon substrate so as to expose the dielectric layer. Further interconnects are then formed through the exposed dielectric layer for electrically contacting the at least one feedthrough. This results in the formation of a first circuit assembly. A next step then couples the further interconnects of the circuit assembly to the interconnects of the second SOI wafer, the second SOI wafer having a bulk substrate, a dielectric layer overlying a surface of the substrate, and a layer of processed silicon overlying the dielectric layer. The temporary substrate is then removed. Additional circuit assemblies may then be stacked and interconnected to form a 3d integrated circuit of a desired complexity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINNILA RONALD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINNILA, RONALD, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THREE DIMENSIONAL INTEGRATED CIRCUIT AND METHOD OF FABRICATING SAMEFIELD OF THE INVENTION;This invention relates generally to integrated circuit manufacturing technology and, in particular, to-a method for fabricating a multi-layered, three-dimensional integrated circuit.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:The fabrication of three-dimensional (3d) integrated circuits has been previously accomplished by several techniques. One approach employs a fabrication technology wherein active silicon films are grown in successive layers with intervening insulating layers. However, this approach must overcome difficult materials problems, and also generally precludes the testing of individual layers of the device. Furthermore, the total fabrication time is proportional to the number of layers, and becomes lengthy for a structure having more than three or four layers of active circuitry.Another known approach involves the thinning and stacking of conventional integrated circuit dice into cubes, with additional processing to bring metal interconnects out to the edge of the cube. The cubes are then attached and electrically connected to a substrate by the use of solder bumps. However, this approach requires considerable handling of the small dice and therefore incurs high processing costs. Furthermore, all interconnects between the vertically stacked dice must be made at the edges. This tends to limit the operating speed by requiring additional lengths of conductors to bring the signals to and from the edges. 

A third approach is described by Hayashi et al. , "Fabrication of Three-Dimensional IC Using 'Cumulatively Bonded IC (CUBIC) Technology", 1990 Symposium on VLSI Technology, which employs a method of thinning and stacking integrated circuit functional blocks and incorporating vertical interconnects between adjacent functional blocks. A supporting substrate is employed to support a Si layer when a Si crystal is removed by a preferential polishing method. The supporting substrate is later removed. A perceived disadvantage to this approach is that the bulk silicon crystal is required to mechanically thinned down, using a LOCOS-buried SiO as a polish stop. This process may be difficult to control in order not to remove the LOCOS-buried Si02, and cannot be readily applied to technologies other than LOCOS-isolated CMOS. This process also appears to require that the LOCOS-buried Si02 extend further into the Si than the active devices in the Si. This may present a serious limitation for many applications.It is thus an object
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method of fabricating a circuit assembly, comprising the steps of:
providing a multilayered wafer having a first substrate, a dielectric layer overlying a surface of the first substrate, and a layer of semiconductor material overlying the dielectric layer;
processing the semiconductor material layer to form at least one electrically conductive feedthrough and to form circuitry within the semiconductor material layer;
forming interconnection means that overlie the semiconductor material layer and that are electrically coupled to the at least one feedthrough;
attaching a temporary substrate such that the interconnection means are interposed between the semiconductor material layer and the temporary substrate;
removing the first substrate, the step of removing including a step of etching the first substrate so as to expose the dielectric layer; and
forming further interconnection means through the dielectric layer for electrically coupling at least to the at least one feedthrough.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of attaching includes a step of providing a protective material at a periphery of the multilayered wafer, the protective material being selected to resist a selected 


etchant to protect edges of the layer of semiconductor material.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the first substrate is comprised of silicon, and wherein the step of etching employs a KOH solution.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of etching employs plasma etching.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of forming interconnection means includes an initial step of depositing an electrically insulating overglass layer on the semiconductor material layer.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of removing the first substrate comprises the steps of first lapping and then etching the first substrate.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein steps of forming interconnection means and further interconnection means each include a step of forming an indium bump in registration with said at least one feedthrough, the indium bump being electrically coupled to said at least one feedthrough.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein steps of forming interconnection means and further interconnection means each include a step of forming an indium bump at a selected location, the indium bump being electrically coupled to said at least one feedthrough.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein steps of forming interconnection means and further interconnection means each include a step of forming a solder bump at a selected location, the solder bump being electrically coupled to said at least one feedthrough. 


 10. The method of claim 1 and further comprising a step of sawing the circuit assembly into a plurality of smaller circuit assemblies.
11. The method of claim 10 and further comprising the steps of:
removing a portion of the temporary substrate from a first smaller circuit assembly;
stacking a second smaller circuit assembly upon the first smaller circuit assembly;
electrically interconnecting the further interconnection means of the second smaller circuit assembly to the interconnection means of the first smaller circuit assembly; and
removing a portion of the temporary substrate from the second smaller circuit assembly.
12. The method of claim 1 and further comprising the steps of:
removing the temporary substrate from a first circuit assembly;
stacking a second circuit assembly upon the first circuit assembly;
electrically interconnecting the further interconnection means of the second circuit assembly to the interconnection means of the first circuit assembly; and
removing the temporary substrate from the second circuit assembly. 


 18
13. The method of claim 12 and further comprising the step of sawing the electrically interconnected first and second circuit assemblies into a plurality of smaller, electrically interconnected circuit assemblies.
14. A method of fabricating a three-dimensional integrated circuit assembly, comprising the steps of:
providing a first multilayered wafer having a first substrate, a dielectric layer overlying a surface of the first substrate, and a layer of semiconductor material overlying the dielectric layer;
processing the semiconductor material layer to form at least one electrically conductive feedthrough and to form circuitry as required within the semiconductor material layer;
forming interconnection means that overlies the semiconductor material layer and that is electrically coupled to the at least one feedthrough;
attaching the first wafer to a temporary substrate such that the interconnection means is interposed between the semiconductor material layer and the temporary substrate;
removing the first substrate, the step of removing including a step of etching the first substrate so as to expose the dielectric layer;
forming further interconnection means through the dielectric layer for electrically contacting at least the at least one feedthrough, the step of forming further interconnection means resulting in a first circuit assembly that includes the processed semiconductor material layer, the interconnection means formed over a first major surface of the 


 19 processed semiconductor material layer, and the further interconnection means formed over a second major surface of the processed semiconductor layer;
coupling the further interconnection means to interconnection means of a second wafer, the second multilayered wafer including a supporting substrate; and
removing the temporary substrate.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the first substrate is comprised of silicon, and wherein the step of etching employs a KOH solution.
16. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of etching includes a step of plasma etching.
17. The method of claim 14 and further comprising the steps of:
coupling the further interconnection means of a second circuit assembly to the interconnection means of the first circuit assembly, thereby forming a stack of circuit assemblies; and
removing a temporary substrate from the second circuit assembly.
18. The method of claim 17 and, after a last circuit assembly is coupled to the stack of circuit assemblies, further comprising a step of coupling the interconnection means of the last circuit assembly to interconnection means of a further substrate, the further substrate having a surface area that is greater than a surface area of the stack of circuit assemblies, the further substrate being provided with electrical contact means for coupling the stack of circuit assemblies to other circuitry. 



 19. The method of claim 17 wherein a last circuit assembly that is coupled to the stack of circuit assemblies includes electrical contact means for coupling the stack of circuit assemblies to other circuitry.
20. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of forming interconnection means includes an initial step of depositing an electrically insulating overglass layer on the semiconductor material layer.
21. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of removing the first substrate comprises the steps of first lapping and then etching the first substrate.
22. The method of claim 14 wherein steps of forming interconnection means and further interconnection means each include a step of forming an indium bump that is electrically coupled to the at least one feedthrough.
23. The method of claim 14 wherein steps of forming interconnection means and further interconnection means each include a step of forming a solder bump that is electrically coupled to the at least one feedthrough.
24. The method of claim 17 and, after a last circuit assembly is coupled to the stack of circuit assemblies, further comprising a step of sawing the stack of circuit assemblies into a plurality of stacks of circuit assemblies.
25. A three-dimensional integrated circuit assembly comprising:
a supporting substrate; and
a stack comprised of a plurality of semiconductor material film layers disposed upon the supporting substrate, each film layer having a dielectric layer 


 21 disposed upon a first surface thereof, each film layer including passive and active devices formed therein and vertical interconnect means formed at least through said dielectric layer, at least some of the devices and vertical interconnect means associated with each of said film layers being electrically coupled together by interconnecting means formed between the film layers, the interconnecting means of a given film layer being provided above a second surface that is opposite the first surface and also at the first surface by way of apertures that are formed through the dielectric layer.
26. The assembly of claim 25 wherein said film layers are provided by etching away a bulk substrate to which each was originally attached, the bulk substrate being etched away so as to expose the dielectric layer so as to enable the formation of the apertures and interconnecting means.
27. The assembly of claim 25 and further comprising an additional substrate having a surface area that is larger than a surface area of the first surface of the film layers, the additional substrate having bonding pads disposed thereon and connected to said interconnecting means for enabling the assembly to be electrically coupled to external circuitry.
28. The assembly of claim 25 wherein 
*
 the interconnecting means are comprised of bumps of electrically conducting material.
29. The assembly of claim 25 and further comprising a layer of epoxy adhesive that is interposed between each of said film layers.
30. A method of forming an electrically conductive feedthrough through a Si layer of an SOI wafer, comprising 


the steps of :
etching a trench through the Si layer, the trench extending completely though the Si layer and terminating at a layer of dielectric material within the SOI wafer;
oxidizing walls of the trench to form a layer of dielectric material upon the walls; and
filling the trench with an electrically conductive material.
31. A method as set forth in claim 30, and further including the steps of:
forming a first contact pad that is electrically coupled to a first portion end of the electrically conductive material;
removing a supporting substrate of the SOI wafer to expose a surface of the dielectric layer of the SOI wafer;
opening an aperture within the dielectric layer;
forming a second contact pad through the aperture, the second contact pad being electrically coupled to a second end portion of the electrically conductive material; and
applying first and second bumps comprised of electrically conductive material, the first and second bumps being electrically coupled to the first and second contact pads, respectively.
32. A method of forming an electrically conductive feedthrough in an SOI wafer, comprising the steps of: 


 selectively removing a portion of a Si layer of the SOI wafer to expose a portion of a first surface of an underlying dielectric layer;
forming an electrically conductive pad upon an exposed portion of the first surface of the dielectric layer;
forming a first electrically conductive member that contacts a first surface of the pad;
removing a supporting substrate of the SOI wafer to expose a second surface of the dielectric layer;
opening an aperture through the second surface of the dielectric layer; and
forming a second electrically conductive member through the aperture to contact a second surface of the pad.
33. A method as set forth in Claim 32 and further including a step of applying first and second bumps of electrically conductive material, each of the bumps being electrically coupled to one of the electrically conductive members.
34. An intermediate circuit structure for use in constructing a three dimensional integrated circuit, the structure comprising:
an active layer region that includes semiconductor material having circuitry formed therein, said active layer region having a first major surface and a second major surface;
first electrical interconnect means disposed over said first major surface for electrically coupling to at least some of said circuitry; 


 a layer of dielectric material disposed upon the second major surface;
second electrical interconnect means disposed over said second major surface for electrically coupling to at least some of said circuitry, said second electrical interconnect means passing through an aperture within said layer of dielectric material; and
a supporting substrate disposed over said first major surface and removably coupled thereto by an intervening layer of material.
35. An intermediate circuit structure as set forth in claim 34 and further comprising at least one electrical feedthrough means that passes between said first and second major surfaces and through an aperture within said layer of dielectric material. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
