<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615153</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Photo film cassette
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B1730	G03C300	G03B1730	G03C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03C	G03B	G03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B17	G03C3	G03B17	G03C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A photo film cassette contains a spool (13), on which the 
photo film (15) is wound as a roll. A cassette shell (10) rotatably 

contains the spool and the roll of the photo film. Two 
retaining holes (28) are formed in a trailer (15a) of the photo film. A 

slot (25) is formed in the spool, is extended in an axial direction 
of the core (20), receives the trailer, and has a first rigid 

wall (24) and a second flexible wall (23). Two retaining hooks (27) 
project from the rigid wall, and are fitted in the respective 

retaining holes to retain the trailer in the slot. Two 
ridges (26a,26b) project from the flexible wall, and 

avoid disengagement of the retaining holes from the retaining 
hooks. The trailer is thus firmly secured on the core. The 

ridges are formed to be retractable away from the 
rigid wall. The flexible wall has a gap (23c), and defines two 

flap portions (23a,23b) such that an original form is recoverable 
resiliently. The ridges are disposed on the 

respective flap portions. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAYA AKIMASA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAYA, AKIMASA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a photo film cassette,
more specifically to a photo film cassette having a spool on
which photo film can be secured easily.Photo film of the 135 type, contained in a cassette, is
marketed in the most prevalent range among other photo films.
The 135 photo film cassette has a cassette shell constituted
of a cylindrical body and two caps. The cylindrical body is
formed of a thin metal plate, with the caps fitted thereon.
The cassette has a spool on which photo film is wound in a
form of a roll and which is contained in the cassette shell.
To assemble this photo film cassette, there are known several
methods. According to U.S.P. 4,614,019 (corresponding to
JP-B 2-691) for example, the photo film is wound on the spool
first. The cassette is next assembled while covering the
photo film within the cassette shell by operation in a darkroom.U.S.P. 3,910,516 (corresponding to JP-A 49-107732) and
JP-A 52-77723 also suggest a photo film cassette producing
method: A spool is incorporated into an empty cassette in an 
illuminated room. A tongue-like guide plate is inserted into
a photo film passage port formed in the cassette. Then a
trailer of photo film is inserted into the cassette while
guided along the guide plate. The trailer is retained on the
spool fixedly. The spool is rotated so as to wind the photo
film up into the cassette.It is also suggested by U.S.P. 4,834,306 and 4,846,418
and a commonly assigned European patent application published
as EP-A2 0 406 815 (corresponding to JP-A 3-37645) to construct
a photo film cassette in which a cassette shell is
constituted of parts formed from resin, and rotation of a
spool exits a leader of the photo film to the outside of the
cassette. Such a leader-advancing cassette is different from
photo film cassettes conventionally in use. The leader of
the photo film is fully contained within the cassette even
before exposure and after exposure. The cassette has advantages
in that the photo film is reliably protected from
accidental exposure to ambient light. The lack of external
protrusion of the leader facilitates the manual treatment of
the cassette.A conventional photo film cassette is disclosed in EP-A-0 485 957.So far the assignee of the present application has
proposed a photo film cassette of which a spool has a slot
for receiving a trailer of photo film. In the slot, retaining
hooks are formed. Holes formed in the trailer is fitted
on the hooks. In the slot, slip-preventive ridges are formed
in opposition to the hooks and in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A photo film cassette including a spool (13, 80) having
a core, a photo film (15) of which a trailer is secured on

said core and which is wound on said spool in form of a
roll, a cassette shell (10) for rotatably containing

said spool and said roll of said photo film, and

at least one retaining hole (28) being formed in said trailer
(15a) of said photo film;
said photo film cassette further comprising:
a slot (25) formed in said spool and extended in an

axial direction of said core for receiving said trailer,
and having first and second walls (23, 24);
at least one retaining claw (27) projected from said
first wall (24) into said slot for being fitted in said

retaining hole to retain said trailer in said slot; and
at least one preventive projection (26a, 26b; 81a, 81b)
projected from said second wall (23, 80a) into said slot

for avoiding disengagement of said retaining hole from
said retaining claw,
characterized in that

at least a part of said second wall (23, 80a)
is constituted by at least one cantilevered and resilient flap portion (23a, 23b;

82) 
and in that said preventive projection (26a, 26b; 81a, 81b) forms a

part of said flap portion, so that said preventive
projection is retractable away from

said first wall.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 1, wherein
said cassette shell (10) is constituted of first and

second shell halves made of resinous material, and said spool (13, 80) is
made of resinous material.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 2, wherein
said photo film (15) has a leader, which is exited from

said cassette shell (10), when said spool (13, 80) is
rotated in an unwinding direction of said roll of said

photo film.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 1, wherein,
when a load of 200 grams is applied to said preventive

projection (26a, 26b; 81a, 81b), said preventive
projection is shifted by 1 mm or more.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 1, wherein
said flap portion (23a, 23b) comprises two opposed flap portions

disposed so as to constitute said second
wall (23), and each of said flap portions has one

preventive projection (26a, 26b).
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 5, wherein
said preventive projection (26a, 26b) is disposed on a

free end of each of said flap portions (23a, 23b).
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 1, wherein
said second wall (80a) has a cutoff (83) formed in a

channel-shape to define said flap portion (82) inside said
second wall.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 7, wherein
said slot (25) has an entrance (25a) for receiving said 

trailer (15a) into said slot, said flap portion (82) has
a free end located past said entrance inside said slot.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 1 wherein the
center of said slot (25) is deviated from the center of

said core.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 9, wherein
said slot (25) has an entrance (25a) for receiving said

trailer (15a) into said slot, and said preventive
projection (26a, 26b; 81a, 81b) has an inclined face

decreasing in height toward said entrance.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 10, further
comprising reference means (22a) disposed in an end of

said spool (13, 80) for signaling a rotational
orientation of said spool.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 11, wherein
said reference means (22a) is a hole open in an end of

said spool (13, 80) to the outside.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 1, wherein at
least one pick-up hole (29) is formed in said trailer

(15a), so that said trailer can be picked up by at least one external pick-up
claw (39a) through said at least one pick-up hole, and when said pick-up claw is inserted in

said slot (25), said trailer can be mounted on said spool.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 13, wherein
said at least one pick-up hole (29) is arranged beside said at least one retaining

hole (28).
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 14, wherein
said cassette shell has a photo film passage port (16)

for communicating an inside of said cassette shell to an
outside, and a shutter (17) is mounted in said passage

port for preventing ambient light from entering said 
cassette shell, is displaceable between closed and open

positions, and when in said closed position, blocks said
passage port to avoid ambient light, and when in said

open position, opens said passage port to allow passage
of said photo film (15).
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 15, wherein
said passage port (16) is defined by lower and upper

walls disposed in opposition, and said shutter (17) is a
plate constituting part of said lower wall, and when in

said closed position, is erected, and when in said open
position, is laid in opposition to said upper wall.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 16, further
comprising a separator claw (16a) disposed on said lower wall

and near said roll for separating a leader of said photo
film from said roll around said spool (13, 80).
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 17, wherein operable
shaft portions (17a) are formed on respective ends of said

shutter (17), and are received on said cassette shell
(10) rotatably, and at least one of said shaft portions

appears through said cassette shell to be operable
externally.
A photo film cassette as defined in claim 18, wherein
said at least one operable shaft portion (17a) of said shutter (17) is

located on a face where an end of said spool to be
driven is located.
A method of manufacturing a photo film cassette ,
said cassette including a spool (13, 80), and a cassette

shell (10) provided with a spool chamber for containing
said spool rotatably and a photo film passage port (16)

for communicating said spool chamber to an outside; at
least one retaining hole (28) formed in a trailer (15a)

of said photo film; said spool includes: a slot (25) 
extended in an axial direction of a core of said spool,

for receiving said trailer, and having first and second
walls (23, 24); and at least one retaining claw (27)

projected from said first wall (24) into said slot for
being fitted in said retaining hole to retain said

trailer in said slot; said method
being characterized by the steps of:


forming at least one preventive projection (26a, 26b;
81a, 81b) on at least one cantilevered and resilient flap portion of said second wall (23, 80a), said preventing projection projecting from said second wall (23, 80a) into

said slot for avoiding disengagement of said retaining
hole from said retaining claw, said preventive

projection formed to be retractable away from said first
wall;
picking up said trailer by use of pick-up means (39);
inserting said pick-up means through said passage port,
to insert said trailer into said cassette shell;
inserting said pick-up means into said slot, to retract
said preventive projection away from said first wall, so

as to mount said trailer on said spool;
drawing said pick-up means out of said cassette shell,
to recover said preventive projection toward said first

wall, so as to retain said trailer on said retaining
claw;
rotating said spool to wind said photo film around said
spool, so as to wind said photo film up into said

cassette shell.
A method as defined in claim 20, 
wherein said flap portion constitutes at least part of

said second wall (23, 80a).
A method as defined in claim 21,
wherein at least one pick-up hole (29) is formed in said

trailer (15a), and picked up by said pick-up means

(39a).
A method as defined in claim 22,
wherein said pick-up means (39) is arcuate and moves

rotationally about a rotational center of an arcuate
arrangement of said pick-up means, and said trailer

(15a) is picked up in course of said rotational movement
of said pick-up means.
A method as defined in claim 23,
wherein said trailer (15a) is fed while directed toward

said passage port (16).
A method as defined in claim 24,
wherein said trailer (15a) is so directed as to cross an

arcuate path of said pick-up means (39).
An apparatus for manufacturing a photo film cassette,
said cassette including a spool (13, 80), and a cassette

shell (10) provided with a spool chamber for containing
said spool rotatably and a photo film passage port (16)

for communicating said spool chamber to an outside; said
cassette further comprising:


at least one retaining hole (28) formed in a trailer
(15a) of said photo film;
a slot (25) formed in said spool and extended in an
axial direction of a core of said spool, for receiving 

said trailer, and having first and second walls (23,
24);
at least one retaining claw (27) projected from said
first wall (24) into said slot for being fitted in said

retaining hole to retain said trailer in said slot; and
at least one preventive projection (26a, 26b; 81a, 81b) on at least one cantilevered and resilient flap portion of said second wall (23, 80a), said preventing projection
projecting from said second wall (23, 80a) into said slot

for avoiding disengagement of said retaining hole from
said retaining claw, said preventive projection is

retractable away from said first wall;
said apparatus comprising:
holder means (30, 31, 32) for holding said cassette
shell in a predetermined orientation to position said

passage port in a predetermined direction;
an inserter member (39) for inserting said trailer into
said cassette shell, and moveable between an inserted

position where said inserter member is passed through
said passage port and at said slot causing retraction of

said at least one preventive projection and a home position where
said inserter member is exited from said passage port;
pick-up end portion (39) disposed on said inserter
member for picking up said trailer, and when said

inserter member moves to said inserted position, said
pick-up end portion inserted in said slot, to mount said

trailer on said spool during retraction of said
preventive projection away from said first wall, and

when said pick-up end portion is drawn out of said slot,
said preventive projection resiliently recovers toward said first

wall to retain said trailer on said retaining claw; and 
spool drive means for rotating said spool to wind said

photo film around said spool.
An apparatus as defined in claim 26,
wherein a shutter (17) is mounted in said passage port

(16) for preventing ambient light from entering said
spool chamber, is displaceble between closed and open

positions, and when in said closed position, blocks said
passage port to avoid ambient light, and when in said

open position, opens said passage port to allow passage
of said photo film (15); and which further comprises

shutter drive means for driving said shutter to displace
said open position while said cassette is held by said

holder means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
