<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629292</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MAKING A PRECONJUGATE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K39385	A61K39385	C07C22900	C07C22916	C07H1500	C07H15234	G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33531	G01N33531	G01N33536	G01N33536	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07C	C07C	C07H	C07H	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K39	A61K39	C07C229	C07C229	C07H15	C07H15	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for making a preconjugate comprising an immunogenic species of a polymorphic analyte is disclosed. The method is carried out by reacting an activated binding moiety, and a polymorphic analyte at room temperature for between about 10 hours and about 60 hours. The attaching reaction results in an excess of the preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte. The preconjugate can be used to make an immunoreactive conjugate useful as a developer antigen in a competitive inhibition immunoassay for the polymorphic analyte.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHENG ANTHONY K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOBASHI THOMAS S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHAEL JOSEPHINE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OH CHAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHENG, ANTHONY, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOBASHI, THOMAS, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHAEL, JOSEPHINE, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OH, CHAN, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR MAKING A PRECONJUGATEBACKGROUNDWe have invented a new method for making and using a preconjugate. In particular, our invention is directed to a method for making a preconjugate from a polymorphic analyte. The preconjugate can be used to make an immunoreactive conjugate.There is a continuing and extensive need to detect and quantify various analytes in a test sample of a physiological fluid. An analyte can be a naturally occurring substance, such as an antibody, antigen or hormone or a metabolite or derivative thereof. An analyte can also be a man-made substance, such as a drug (including both therapeutic drugs and drugs of abuse) or a toxin or a metabolite or derivative thereof. The physiological fluid can be, for example, blood, serum, plasma, urine, amniotic, pleura! or cerebrospinal fluid.Immunoassay methods have shown considerable utility for the detection and quantification of various analytes. An immunoassay involves an immunoprecipitation reaction. An immunoprecipitation reaction can occur when two reaction partners, each with a specific binding affinity for the other, are combined in a suitable liquid medium. The reaction partners can be an antigen and a specific binding partner for the antigen, such as an antibody. Generally, one of the reaction partners is present in an unknown amount in the test sample of the physiological fluid, and is the analyte to be detected and/or quantified. Typically, the liquid medium is a buffered 

aqueous solution. Once initiated, the immunoprecipitation reaction results in the formation of im unoprecipitateε, or antibody-antigen complexes that are usually insoluble, but which can also be soluble, in the liquid medium.The presence of immunoprecipitates in the liquid medium can change optical properties, such as light scattering and light absorption properties of the liquid medium, by attenuation of incident light energy. These changes can be detected by an appropriate photometer in a photometric immunoassay. Photometric immunoassay techniques include both nephelometric and turbidimetric techniques.In nephelometric immunoassay, a photometer is used to measure the reflection or scatter of light by the immunoprecipitates towards a light detector. The immunoprecipitates can be aggregates of an analyte and a specific binding partner for the analyte, or aggregates of an analyte-conjugate and the specific binding partner. The amount of light scattered by the immunoprecipitates is directly proportional to the number of immunoprecipitates present, which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim :
1. A method for making a preconjugate, comprising the steps of:
(a) reacting in an attaching reaction, (i) a binding moiety, and (ii) a polymorphic analyte comprising an immunogenic species and a nonimmunogenic species, and; (b) separating preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte from preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the attaching reaction results in a stoichiometric excess of preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte relative to the amount of preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the attaching reaction results in a ratio of preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte, to preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte of at least about 2:1.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the attaching reaction results in a ratio of preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte, to preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte of at least about 3:1. 


 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the attaching reaction results in a ratio of the preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte, to preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte of at least about 4:1.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the attaching reaction results in a ratio of the preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte, to preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte of at least about 5:1.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the attaching reaction results in a ratio of the preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte, to preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte of at least about 9:1,
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the attaching reaction is carried out at a temperature of at least about 10° C.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the attaching reaction is carried out at a temperature between about 15° C. and about 30° C.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the attaching reaction is carried out for at least about 8 hours.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the attaching 


reaction is carried out for between about 10 hours and about 60 hours.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of polymorphic analyte to binding moiety present at the beginning of the attaching reaction is at least about 0.5:1.
«
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of polymorphic analyte to binding moiety present at the beginning of the attaching reaction is between about 0.5:1 and about 30:1.
14. The method of claim l, wherein the molar ratio' of polymorphic analyte to binding moiety present at the beginning of the attaching reaction is between about 0.5:1 and about 5:1.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of polymorphic analyte to binding moiety present at the beginning of the attaching reaction is between about 1: 1 and about 3:1.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the attaching reaction takes place in a reaction medium comprising a liquid capable of solubilizing the binding moiety and the polymorphic analyte.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the reaction 


medium comprises a carbonate.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of activating the binding moiety in an activating reaction prior to the attaching reaction by mixing the binding moiety with a coupling reagent capable of attaching to and activating the binding moiety.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the molar ratio of the binding moiety to the coupling reagent present at the beginning of the activating reaction is at least about 1:0.9.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the molar ratio of the binding moiety to the coupling reagent present at -,the beginning of the activating reaction is between about 1:1 and about 1:5.
21. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of joining a ligand to a spacer compound to make the binding moiety.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymorphic analyte compound is selected from the group consisting of gentamicin, tobramicin, amikacin, vitamin B
12
, netilmicin, sisomycin, kanamycin, neomycin, vancomycin, erythromycin, bleomycin, capreomycin, dactinomycin, linco ycin, oleandomycin, and derivatives, metabolites, and analogues thereof. 


 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymorphic analyte is an antibiotic aminoglycoside compound.
24. A product by the process of claim 1,
25. A method for making a preconjugate comprising a binding moiety and an immunogenic species of a polymorphic analyte bound to the binding moiety, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) activating a binding moiety in an activating reaction by mixing the binding moiety with a coupling reagent capable of attaching to and activating the binding moiety;
(b) reacting in an attaching reaction at a temperature between about 15° C. and about 30° C. , for between about 10 hours and about 60 hours, (i) the activated binding moiety and,
(ii) a polymorphic analyte comprising an immunogenic species and a nonimmunogenic species;
(c) separating preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte from preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte, wherein the molar ratio of the polymorphic analyte to the activated binding moiety present at the beginning of the attaching reaction is between about 0.5:1 and about 30:1, the molar ratio of the binding moiety to the coupling reagent present at the beginning of the activating reaction is between about 1:1 to about 1:5, and the attaching reaction is carried out in a reaction medium comprising a liquid capable of solubilizing the polymorphic analyte and the binding moiety. 



 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the attaching reaction results in a stoichiometric excess of preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte relative to the amount of preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the polymorphic analyte is an antibiotic aminoglycoside compound.
28. A method for making an aminoglycoside preconjugate, comprising the steps of:
(a) activating a binding moiety in an activating reaction by mixing the binding moiety with a coupling reagent capable of attaching to and activating the binding moiety; (b) reacting in an attaching reaction at a temperature between about 15° C. and about 30° C. , for between about 10 hours and about 60 hours,
(i) the activated binding moiety and, (ii) a polymorphic aminoglycoside comprising an immunogenic species and a nonimmunogenic species;
(c) separating preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic aminoglycoside from preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic aminoglycoside, wherein the molar ratio of the polymorphic aminoglycoside to the activated binding moiety present at the beginning of the attaching reaction is between about 0.5:1 and about 30:1, the molar ratio of the binding moiety to the coupling reagent present at the beginning of the activating reaction is between about 1:1 to about 


1:5, and the attaching reaction is carried out in a reaction medium comprising a liquid capable of solubilizing the polymorphic aminoglycoside and the binding moiety.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the attaching reaction results in a stoichiometric excess of preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic aminoglycoside relative to the amount of preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic aminoglycoside.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein the polymorphic aminoglycoside is amikacin or a derivative or analog thereof, and the reaction medium comprises a carbonate.
31. A method for making an immunoreactive conjugate, comprising the steps of:
(a) reacting in an attaching reaction,
(i) a binding moiety comprising a ligand, and
(ii) a polymorphic analyte comprising an immunogenic species and a nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte;
(b) separating preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte from preconjugate comprising the nonimmunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte.
(c) contacting the preconjugate comprising the immunogenic species of the polymorphic analyte with a carrier molecule having a binding affinity for the ligand, thereby making the immunoreactive conjugate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
