<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0204883</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CARRIER PLATE FOR A PLANT SUBSTRATE SERVING FOR TURFING A ROOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01G100	E04D1100	A01G100	E04D1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01G	E04D	A01G	E04D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01G1	E04D11	A01G1	E04D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The intention of the carrier plate is to achieve automatic drainage and watering which only requires means which are simple and cheap to produce, are maintenance-free and at the same time provide effective thermal insulation for the roof. This is achieved by the carrier plate being designed as a water accumulating trough, which consists of a foamed plastic board known per se and does not have any openings, only overflow water drainage channels leaving from the upper side of the edge webs or any middle webs of the same height and leading to the underside of the board and the grid of grooves arranged there, the free inner space of the said trough being filled by a number of cavity-free protuberances or ribs which reach up to the upper side of the board, are of any desired shape and do not exceed a width and clear spacing from one another of about the width of a thumb, by having a wick rag resting on several of the protuberances or ribs and partially extending into the intermediate space between the ribs and by a non-woven watering fabric, known per se, being placed on top and covering over one or more foamed plastic boards with the wick rags. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEINBRONN, HANS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEINBRONN, HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A support plate for a plant substrate which serves for 
making a roof green, comprising water storage troughs which are 

disposed one beside the other on the roof covering and whose bottom, 
which is free of through openings, has mutually crossing water drain 

grooves at the underside, whose interior is provided with upwardly 
projecting raised portions, and whose top side is connected by way of 

water discharge passages to the water drain grooves at the underside, 
and a filter and irrigation fleece which lies on the water storage 

troughs and which carries the plant substrate,
 
   characterised in that 


the water storage troughs (3) which form the thermal 
insulation of the roof are formed from per se known foam plastics 

material, 
the water discharge passages (9) start from the top side of 
the trough side walls or from the top side of central web portions, 

if provided, which are of the same height as the trough side walls, 
the raised portions in the trough interior, which are also 
of the sane height as the trough side walls, are of a width which 

does not exceed approximately a thumb's width, and have a spacing 
between the which corresponds to said width, and 
arranged on the raised portions and under the filter and 
irrigation fleece is a wick cloth which engages between the raised 

portions. 
A support plate according to clad 1 characterised in that 
the free interior of the foam plast
ics material plate (3) is divided 
into four areas (8, 8, 8, 8) by two central web portions which extend 

transversely relative to each other. 
A support plate according to claim 2 characterised in that 
provided in each interior area (8) of the foam plastics material 

plate (3) between the protuberances or ribs (10, 10,...) is a central 
groove for partially receiving a wick cloth (4).  

 
A support plate according to claim 3 characterised in that 
the ribs (10, 10,...) are curved in an S-shape. 
A support plate according to claim 1 characterised in that 
the applied irrigation fleece (5) comprises a roll web of rot-proof 

polyester felt. 
A support plate according to claim 1 characterised in that 

the free interior is divided by a number of intermediate web 
portions (13, 13, ...) which extend parallel to each other into an 

equal number of areas (28, 28, ...), and 
a wick cloth (24, 24, ...) is arranged in each area (28, 28, ...). 
A support plate according to claim 6 characterised in that 
provided in one or are of the intermediate web portions (16, 13) are 

a plurality of water discharge holes (29, 29, ...) which at the 
underside open into a system of water drain grooves (12, 12, ...). 
A support plate according to claim 7 characterised in that 
the water discharge holes (29, 29, ...) are connected together by a 

water drain channel (17). 
A support plate according to claim 6 characterised in that 
the ribs (20, 20, ...) are in the form of extensions of the 

intermediate web portions (13, 13, ...). 
A support plate according to claim 9 characterised in that 
the ribs (20, 20, ...) extend at an acute angle relative to the 

intermediate web portions (13, 13, ...). 
A support plate according to claim 9 characterised in that 

a rib (14) of an intermediate web portion (13) is wider than 
the other ribs (20, 20, ...) and  

 
has an insertion slot (7) for the partial insertion and 
clamping fast of a wick cloth (24). 
A support plate according to claim 11 characterised in 
that the wider ribs (14, 14) of two adjacent interior areas (28, 28) 

are provided at the location of ribs (20, 20, ...) of odd ordinal 
numbers. 
A support plate for a plant substrate which serves to make 
a roof green, comprising water storage troughs which can be disposed 

one beside the other on the roof covering and which have a bottom 
that is free from openings therethrough and whose interior is 

provided with upwardly projecting raised portions, and with a filter 
and irrigation fleece which lies on the water storage troughs and 

which carries the plant substrate,
 
   characterised in that 


the water storage troughs (3) which form the thermal 
insulation of the roof are formed in per se known manner from foam 

plastics material, 
with an inclined arrangement of the water storage troughs, 
the top side of the respective upper and lower edge web portions (31, 

32) and any central web portions (33) of the support plate (34) have 
water overflow channels (36) which extend in the direction of fall 

(35), 
the width of the raised portions and the spacing 
therebetween do not exceed approximately a thumb's width, 
lying on a plurality of raised poritons (10) is a wick cloth 
(4) which projects partially into the intermediate space between the 

raised portions, and 
the support plate (34') which abuts against the ridge line 
(37) carries at its upper edge web portion (31') a part of a 

continuous water pipe (18) which extends parallel to the ridge line 
(37), with a water outlet opening (39) for each carrier plate, into 

which pipe water is fed as required. 
A support plate according to claim 13 characterised in 
that the continuous water pipe (18) is fixed to each support plate by 

means of clamping clips (30). 
A support plate according to claim 13 characterised in 
that the upper and lower edge web portions (31, 32) have at their 

outsides strip-shaped projections (46, 47) which are so profiled and 
undercut that the strip-shaped projections of two adjacent support 

plates engage one behind the other and positively connect to each 
other. 
A support plate according to one of claims 13 to 15 
characterised in that at the underside the support plate has a grid-like 

groove array which has overflow water discharge passages (9) 
which start from the top side of the edge or central web portions 

(31, 32, 33) and which lead to the underside of the plate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
