<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612393</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ADJUSTABLE SUPPORT DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16M1102	F16M1104	F16M1110	F16M1112	F21S600	F21S600	F21V2106	F21V2106	F21V2114	F21V2120	F21V2126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16M	F16M	F16M	F16M	F21S	F21S	F21V	F21V	F21V	F21V	F21V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16M11	F16M11	F16M11	F16M11	F21S6	F21S6	F21V21	F21V21	F21V21	F21V21	F21V21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Adjustable support device (1) with a body for positioning, for instance a light fitting (5), comprising an adjustable arm (3, 4) supported in a tilting point (2), to which arm (3, 4) are connected on either side of the tilting point (2) the body for positioning (5) and a counterweight (6, 7, 8), wherein the counterweight (6, 7, 8) comprises a holder (7) in which a mass (8) is arranged for free displacement such that the centre of gravity of the support device (1) lies beneath the tilting point (2) in any position of the arm. The arm (3, 4) consists for instance partially of flexible material (3) and in longitudinal section the holder (7) has at least partially an egg shape, wherein the head of the egg is oriented outward. Adjustable support device (1) wherein the arm (3, 4) comprises a concavely formed part (26) on the underside, with which part the arm (3, 4) is arranged for free displacement over a point of suspension (28) such that the centre of gravity of the support device lies vertically beneath the tilting point in any position of the arm.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEKKER PAUL ANDRE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ESHAGRO BEHEER B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EILERING JOHANNES HERMANUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EILERING, JOHANNES, HERMANUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ADJUSTABLE SUPPORT DEVICEThe invention relates to an adjustable support device with a body for positioning, for example a light fitting, comprising an adjustable arm supported in a tilting point, to which arm the body for positioning and a counterweight are connected on either side of the tilting point.Such a support construction is known from the German Gebrauchsmuster G 88 16 029. In the known support device a rigid arm is disposed for tilting around a shaft, which shaft is horizontally clamped between two vertically standing parts. On one side of the arm relative to the tilting point is fixed a lamp holder, on the other side a counterweight" is suspended using a cable, at a location such that both parts of the arm are in mutual equilibrium in relation to the tilting point at any possible adjusted position of the arm. With a change of the adjusted position of the arm, that is, with a change of the angle between the arm and the vertically standing parts, the horizontal distance of the counterweight to the vertically standing parts also changes. Because changing this latter distance is only possible to a limited degree, the range within which the arm can be adjusted is also limited. The object of the invention is to provide an adjustable support device not possessing this limitation.The objective is also to provide a support arm which can be embodied in light, in particular flexible, materials.This object is achieved according to the invention with a support device the counterweight of which comprises at least one holder in which at least one mass is received for free movement such that the centre of gravity of the support device and the tilting point lie on a vertical line in any position of the arm.With such a support construction it is possible to vary the angle between the adjusting arm and the normal from 0° to 

 In an embodiment the arm is rigid and in vertical longitudinal section the holder comprises at least partially a circular arc.In an equilibrium situation in such a support device the mass lies in the holder in the lowest point thereof. When the position of the arm is now changed, the mass moves in the holder along the arc until the lowest point is again reached and the arm is again balanced.Depending on the material used for the arm and the ratio between length and section of the arm, the arm can be considered as either rigid or flexible. It is not possible to embody a flexible arm in the known manner such that the arm is in balance at each angle of the arm to the normal. The cause of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Adjustable support device with a body for positioning, for instance a light fitting, comprising an adjustable arm supported in a tilting point, to which arm the body for positioning and a counterweight are connected on either side of the tilting point, characterized in that the counterweight comprises at least one holder in which at least one mass is arranged for free displacement such that the centre of gravity of the support device and the tilting point lie on a vertical line in any position of the arm. 2. Support device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the arm is rigid and in vertical longitudinal section the holder comprises at least partially a circular arc.
3. Support device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the arm consists at least partially of flexible material and in longitudinal section the holder has at least partially an egg shape, wherein the head of the egg is oriented outward.
4. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 1-3, characterized in that the centre of gravity of the support device lies beneath the tilting point in any position of the arm.
5. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 1-3, characterized in that in a section in lengthwise direction the tilting point coincides with the point of contact of a horizontal tangent on the holder.
6. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 1-3, characterized in that the mass is circular in vertical cross-section.
7. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 1-3, characterized in that the mass comprises at least one wheel displaceable in the holder and a load carried by that wheel.
8. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 1-7, characterized in that the mass is provided with means which 


 increase the friction coefficient between the mass and the holder.
9. Support device as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the mass comprises a liquid. 10. Support device as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the mass comprises a fine-grained solid material, in particular sand.
11. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 1-7, characterized in that the holder is provided with means which increase the friction coefficient between the mass and the holder.
12. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 1-5, characterized in that the holder comprises a tube which in vertical longitudinal section comprises two substantially mutually parallel walls and the mass consists of a liquid enclosed by these walls.
13. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 1-12, characterized in that the tilting point coincides witli the point of contact of a horizontal tangent on a base that is connected to the arm on the underside and is at least partially circular in longitudinal section.
14. Adjustable support device with a body for positioning, for example a light fitting, comprising an adjustable arm supported in a tilting point, to which arm the body for positioning and a counterweight are connected on either side of the tilting point, characterized in that the arm comprises a concavely formed part on the underside, with which part the arm is arranged for free displacement over a point of suspension such that the centre of gravity of the support device lies vertically beneath the tilting point in any position of the arm.
15. Support device as claimed in claim 14, characterized in that the arm is rigid and in vertical longitudinal section the concavely formed part comprises at least partially a circular arc.
16. Support device as claimed in claim 14, characterized in that the arm consists at least partially of flexible material and in longitudinal section the concavely 


 formed part has at least partially an egg shape, wherein the head of the egg is directed towards the body for positioning.
17. Support device as claimed in claim 15 or 16, characterized in that the point of suspension comprises a wheel rotatable round a shaft standing perpendicular to the surface of the support device, on which wheel the concavely formed part rests.
18. Support device as claimed in any of the claims 14-17, characterized in that the concavely formed part is provided with means which increase the friction coefficient between that part and the point of suspension.
19. Support device as claimed in claim 3 or 16, characterized in that the flexible material comprises carbon-fibre, glass-fibre or aluminium. 20. Support device as claimed in one or more of the foregoing claims, characterized in that the body for positioning comprises a second support device as claimed in claim 1 or 14. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
