<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NASO-GASTRIC TUBE HOLDER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2502	A61M2502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tube holding clamp (14) in the form of a cylinder open at both ends is attached at one end to a connection (16) which is attached to an adhesive member for attachment to the nose of a patient. The cylinder is slit (32) along its length to permit the tube (18) free entry and to resiliently hold the tube. The connecting member (16) is angular to hold the clamp forward of and in line with the nostrils.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOVATIVE MEDICAL DESIGN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOVATIVE MEDICAL DESIGN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLETTO HENRY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEBRY SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLETTO HENRY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEBRY SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE: NASO-GASTRIC TUBE HOLDERTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates generally to a disposable medical device and, in particular, to a tube holder for 5 holding a naso-gastric tube and the like in position relative to a patient's naris. BACKGROUND ARTIt has long been the practice in the medical field to intubate a patient with a naso-gastric tube,10 enteral feeding tube, sump tube, or the like, which is routed from the patient's nasal passage, through the pharynx and esophagus and into the stomach. While the present invention is hereinafter described in connection with a naso-gastric tube, it will be seen as applicable-LS to other tubes as well.The method typically employed for affixing a tube to the patient after intubation is to employ a conventional adhesive tape wrapped at one end around the tube just below the nose and adhering the opposite end of the tape holder to20 the nose, cheek, or forehead. Recently, formed tube holders or clamps have been used which are either taped or adhered with surgical glue to the patient. The conventional devices have many shortcomings. First of all, water-based adhesive tape tube holders lose their adhesiveness when subject to25 body fluid secretions and thus require time-consuming re- application or replacement. More importantly, when the naso-gastric tube is pulled to one side and taped down, pressure is applied by the tube to the tissue surfaces surrounding the nasal opening. This pressure causes dermal30 irritation and necessitates reintubation in the patient's other nostril. Without intervention by medical personnel, such irritation may become severe.Attempts have been made to overcome the foregoing problems through the provision of devices which, however,35 are overly complicated or burdensome to apply and which 

exhibit other drawbacks.For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,932,943 to Nowak describes a naso-gastric tube holder which includes pad which is adhesively applied to a patient's nose and a tube holding clamp in the form of interlocking jaws, pivotally supported along one edge of the pad. However, this device is constructed of too many parts is costly and creates additional problems.U.S. Patent No. 4,804,374 to Laskody discloses a naso-gastric tube holder which includes preformed adhesive body member shaped to conform to a patient's nose, a securement structure for holding the naso-gastric tube, and an elastic connector for attaching the securement member at a predetermined distance from the body member. This device permits longitudinal displacement of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS :
1. A holder for attaching a naso-gastric tube in position relative to a patient's naris characterized
- by: 5 a planar flexible body member having upper and lower surfaces, said body member generally assuming the shape of a portion of the patient's nose when said inner surface is adhered thereto; a tube holding clamp means comprising a sleeve
10 having a central bore and a lengthwise slit for spreading said tube holding clamp means apart to permit lengthwise insertion in and retention and removal of said naso-gastric tube from said bore, and for closing upon the tube inserted therein for frictional and compressible retention of said
15 tube; and connecting means of shape retaining resiliency inte¬ grally attached in an overlapping fashion at one end to said body member along a central line of said body member and
20 integrally attached at the opposite end to said tube holding clamp means and angled with respect to said body member so as to maintain the tube holding clamp means in proper alignment with the patient's naris, whereby the connecting means permits adequate lateral
25 and longitudinal movement of said tube in accordance with a patient's movements proximate to the clamp while holding said tube stationary within said nose preventing the occurrence of skin irritation and resists any excess movement, and in. additio breakage of the adhesive bond is prevented by location of the
_
0
 connecting member along the central line of the body member.
2. The holder according to Claim 1, characterized by the fact that said clamp is formed with inwardly directed longitudinally extending ridges on the inner surface of said bore.
35
 3. The holder according to Claim 1, characterized by the fact that a one piece construction wherein said body member, 


 said tube holding clamp means, and said connecting means are formed integrally with each other in a one-piece construction.
4. The holder according to Claim 1, characterized by the fact that the lower surface of said body member includes an
5
 adhesive coating thereon, thus permitting said body member to be removably and adhesively secured to the exterior skin surface of the patient's nose.
5. The holder according to Claim 1, characterized by the fact that said body member, said tube holding clamp means, and said connecting means are made of flexible resilient moldabl material.
6. The holder according to Claim 5, characterized by the fact that the body member is provided with a plurality of perforations through the surface thereof. 5
7. The holder according to Claim 1, characterized by the fact that said tube holding clamp means and said connecting means are less flexible than said body member and wherein said connecting means and said tube holding clamp means have a respective inherent resilient memory, and further wherein said 0 tube holding clamp means is dimensioned and structured to removably grip said naso-gastric tube along a portion of its length.
8. The holder according to Claim 1, characterized by the fact that said bore is tapered from the proximal to the 5 distal end.
9. The holder according to Claim 4, including a removable protective sheet covering applied to said adhesive coating.
10. The holder according to Claim 1, characterized by O the fact that said connecting means comprises a pair of perpen¬ dicularly disposed legs, one leg being integrally formed with the body, and the other leg being integrally formed with the clamp means, said one leg being placed on the upper surface of said body, and said other leg depending below the plane of 5 said body. 


 11. The holder for attaching a naso-gastric tube in position relative to a patient's naris ccharacterized by: a planar flexible body member having upper and lower surfaces, wherein said lower surface includes an adhesive coating thereon, said body member generally assuming the shape of a portion of the patient's nose when said inner surface is adhesively bonded thereto; a tube holding clamp means comprising a sleeve with a central bore therethrough and a lengthwise slit with longitudinally extending interior ridges for spreading said tube holding clamp means apart to permit lengthwise insertion in and retention and removal of said naso-gastric tube from said bore and for closing upon the tube inserted therein for frictional and compressible retention of said tube, wherein said tube holding means is dimensioned and structured to removably grip said naso-gastric tube along a portion of its length; and connecting means of shape retaining resiliency integrally attached in an overlapping fashion at one end to said body member along a central line of said body member and integrally attached at an opposite end to said tube holding clamp means and angled with respect to said body member so as to maintain the tube holding clamp means in proper alignment with the patient's naris, wherein said body member, said tube holding clamp means, and said connecting means are formed integrally in a one-piece construction of a flexible resilient material and wherein said tube holding clamp means having a respective inherent resilient memory.
12. The holder according to Claim 11, charac¬ terized by the fact that the lower surface of said body member includes an adhesive coating thereon to permit said body member to be removably and adhesively secured to the exterior skin surface of the patient's nose. 


 13. The holder according to Claim 11, charac¬ terized by the fact that said connecting means comprises a pair of perpendicularly disposed legs, one leg being integrally formed with the body, and the other leg being integrally formed with the clamp means, said one leg being placed on the upper surface of said body, and said other leg depending below the plane of said body.
14. The holder according to Claim 11, charac¬ terized by the fact that said bore is tapered from the proximal end to the distal end. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
