<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for detection of sputtering target erosion.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1434	C23C1434	H01J3732	H01J3732	H01L2102	H01L21203	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	H01J	H01J	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C14	C23C14	H01J37	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to glow discharge 
sputtering systems used for sputter coating or 

deposition. In particular, the method and apparatus 
(100) of the present invention enables the detection of 

the exhaustion of (effective penetration of) the 
sputtering target (110) which provides the sputter 

coating or deposition material from its surface (114). 
The sputtering target is constructed to include at 

least one identifier (120) within said sputtering 
target, which identifier is exposed when the sputtering 

target is sufficiently eroded. The identifier is 
located at a preselected sputtering target thickness or 

erosion depth. The sputtering target is used in 
combination with a means for detecting the exposure of 

the identifier. Preferably, the identifier is a 
passageway (120) which contains a gas which is emitted 

upon exposure of the passageway. Detection of exposure 
of the passageway is accomplished by a pressure 

sensitive switch (124) which detects the release of the 
gas contained in the passageway. Exposure of the 

passageway serves as an indication that the preselected 
target erosion depth has been reached at least in the 

area of the passageway. The means for detecting 
exposure of the passageway can be used in combination 

with a control device which shuts down the sputtering 
process when the preselected sputtering target 

thickness is reached, so the sputtering target can be 
replaced. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUNES HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUNES, HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to electrode-type glow discharge 
sputtering systems used for sputter coating, and more particularly to the kind of 
devices used in the semiconductor industry for application of thin films of 
materials to semiconductor structures, The method and apparatus of the present 
invention enable the detection of the exhaustion of (penetration through) the 
sputtering target which provides the source of the film material. In particular, the 
method and apparatus enable the detection of the time at which erosion of the 
sputtering target surface reduces at least portions of the target to a preselected 
thickness. In the manufacture of many electronic or electrical components, such as 
integrated circuits, there is a need to deposit thin films on substrates. Materials 
such as, for example, aluminum, titanium, tungsten, tantalum, tantalum nitride, 
cobalt, and silica may be deposited on ceramic, glass, or silicon-derived substrates 
by a sputtering process and subsequently etched or otherwise fabricated into the 
circuits and/or components. In the typical sputtering process, a low pressure atmosphere of an ionizable 
gas such as argon or helium is produced in a vacuum chamber. Two electrodes, 
a cathode and an anode, are generally disposed in this enclosure. The cathode 
is typically made of the material to be deposited or sputtered, and the anode is 
generally formed by the enclosure of the apparatus. At times, an auxiliary anode  
 
may be used or the article to be coated may serve as the anode. Typically a high 
voltage is applied between these two electrodes, and the substrate to be coated 
is disposed opposite the cathode. The cathode emits electrons which ionize the 
gas, for example argon, by collision. The resulting argon ions are accelerated by 
the high-voltage field, and may be further directed in magnetron sputtering 
systems using a shaped magnetic field. The ions bombard the cathode with the 
result that microparticles of the cathode are bombarded off and caused to move 
within the enclosure, leaving a deposit of cathode material on the substrate to 
which it is to be applied. The cathode used in the manner described above is commonly called a 
sputtering target, and this sputtering target is gradually consumed via "erosion" of 
the target by the ion bombardment. The target bombardment generates a 
substantial amount of heat which must be removed to control the temperature of 
the target, the substrate being coated, and the components constituting the 
sputter
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for detecting when a sputtering target becomes eroded to a 
preselected depth, said apparatus comprising: 


a) a sputtering target including at least one identifier which can be 
exposed by erosion of the sputtering target; and 
b) a means for detecting said exposure of said identifier. 
The apparatus of Claim 1, further including a control means which acts in 
response to said detection of said exposure of said identifier to control the 

sputtering of said sputtering target. 
The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said identifier comprises a passageway 
which can be exposed by erosion of said sputtering target, and wherein said 

detecting means is capable of detecting the exposure of said passageway. 
The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said identifier comprises a passageway 
which can be exposed by erosion of said sputtering target, and wherein said 

detecting means is capable of detecting the exposure of said passageway. 
The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein a gas source is present in said 
passageway, whereby a gas is released upon the exposure of said passageway, and 

wherein said means for detecting said exposure is a means for detecting said gas 
release. 
The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein said passageway is a conduit from 
which said gas is released upon exposure of at least a portion of the interior of 

said conduit due to the erosion of said sputtering target. 
The apparatus of Claim 6, further comprising a pressurized source of gas 
which supplies said gas to said conduit. 
The apparatus of Claim 7, wherein said means for detecting said release 
of gas is a pressure sensitive switch which senses the release of said gas from said 

pressurized source of gas. 
The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein said gas is entrapped in said conduit 
within said sputtering apparatus and is not connected to a pressurized source for 

said gas external to said target. 
The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein said conduit is open to the ambient 
atmosphere. 
The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein said means for detecting said release 
of gas is a pressure sensitive means located within a sputtering apparatus vacuum 

chamber which is in communication with said sputtering surface of said sputtering 
target. 
The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein said means for detecting said release 
of gas is a gas composition analysis means located within a sputtering apparatus 

vacuum chamber which is in communication with said sputtering surface of said 
sputtering target. 
A sputtering target having at least one identifier present at a preselected 
depth and not at depths less than said preselected depth, which identifier can be 

exposed upon erosion of said sputtering target. 
The sputtering target of Claim 13, wherein said identifier exhibits a color 
which is different from that of the general sputtering material comprising said 

target. 
The sputtering target of Claim 13, wherein said identifier exhibits a texture 
which is different from that of the general sputtering material comprising said 

target. 
The sputtering target of Claim 13, wherein said identifier comprises at 
least one passageway which is present at said preselected target depth. 
The sputtering target of Claim 16, wherein a gas source can be provided 
within said passageway. 
The sputtering target of Claim 17, wherein said passageway is a conduit 
from which said gas can be released. 
The sputtering target of Claim 18, wherein said conduit is filled with 
entrapped gas. 
The sputtering target of Claim 18, wherein said conduit is connected to a 
pressurized gas source. 
The sputtering target of Claim 18, wherein said conduit is open to the 
atmosphere. 
The sputtering target of Claim 18, wherein said passageway is a porous 
layer of material. 
The sputtering target of Claim 22, wherein a gas source can be provided 
within said passageway. 
The sputtering target of Claim 23, wherein said gas source is a gas 
entrapped within said porous layer of material. 
The sputtering target of Claim 22, wherein said porous layer of material 
has essentially the same composition as the composition of the non-porous 

portion of said sputtering target. 
The sputtering target of Claim 25, wherein a gas source is provided within 
said passageway. 
The sputtering target of Claim 26, wherein said gas source is a gas entrapped 
within said porous layer of material and is not connected to a pressurized source 

for said gas external to said target. 
In a sputter deposition process, a method of detecting when a sputtering 
target becomes eroded to a preselected depth, said method comprising: 


a) providing a sputtering target comprising at least one identifier present 
at said preselected target depth; 
b) utilizing said sputtering target in a manner which may expose said 
identifier; and 
c) detecting the exposure of said identifier, should such exposure occur. 
The method of Claim 28, wherein said identifier comprises a passageway. 
The method of Claim 29, wherein said passageway contains a gas which 
will be released upon the exposure of said passageway. 
The method of Claim 30, wherein said detecting of the exposure of said 
passageway is accomplished by detection of the release of said gas from said 

passageway. 
The method of Claim 28, further including controlling at least one variable 
within said sputtering deposition process in response to the detection of the 

exposure of said passageway. 
The method of Claim 32, wherein said controlling results in the 
discontinuance of said sputtering deposition process. 
In a sputter deposition process, a method of sputtering a target, said 
method comprising: 


a) providing a sputtering target comprising at least one identifier present 
at a location within said sputtering target; and 
b) sputtering said target. 
c) detecting whether said identifier has during said sputtering been 
exposed. 
The method of Claim 34, wherein said target is sputtered at least to the 
extent that said identifier is exposed and detecting said exposure. 
The method of Claim 35, further including controlling at least one variable 
within said sputter deposition process in response to said detection of said 

exposure of said identifier. 
The method of Claim 36, wherein said controlling results in the 
discontinuance of said sputtering deposition process. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
