<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626933</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FIBERIZING BUSHING AND METHOD OF MAKING THE SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B3700	C03B3702	C03B3702	C03B3708	C03B37083	C03B37095	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B37	C03B37	C03B37	C03B37	C03B37	C03B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bushing assembly (10) through which molten glass (14) is extruded to form fiberglass filaments (12) includes a bushing panel (22) defining an extrusion face (32). Molten glass flows through the bushing panel (22) of the extrusion face (32). The extrusion face (32) has a plurality of integrally formed tips (46). The bushing panel (22) is heated by ceramic heater blocks (42) having resistance heating elements (64) encased in slots (62). A frame (20) holds the bushing assembly (10) including the bushing panel (22) and heater blocks (42) on an orifice block (18) of a forehearth (16). Cooling fins (50) and cooling tubes (52) are attached to the bushing assembly to cool the tips (48) and fiberglass filaments (12) after extrusion. Methods of making the bushing and bushing assembly (10) are also disclosed including the steps of hydroforming the bushing panel (22), punching a plurality of holes (48) in the extrusion face (32), forming tips (48) on each hole and machining the tips (48) to a uniform length. The bushing assembly method also includes the steps of attaching ceramic heater blocks (42) and cooling means (50, 52) with a frame (20) onto the orifice block (18) of a forehearth (16).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCCORMICK RONALD O
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCCORMICK, RONALD, O.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCORMICK RONALD O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCORMICK, RONALD, O.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FIBERIZING BUSHING AND METHOD OF MAKING THE SAMETECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates to the manufacture of fiberglass and more particularly relates to glass fiberizing bushings through which molten glass flows to form filaments that are cooled to make fiberglass.BACKGROUND ARTA critical step in the art of making fiberglass is fiberizing. In the fiberizing step, molten glass flows from a forehearth to a bushing assembly where it flows through a plurality of orifices. Generally, 200 to 4,000 or more orifices are formed in the bushing plate depending upon the type of product, desired throughout and manufacturing equipment constraints . The orifices are defined by elongated nozzles attached to or formed in the bushing assembly. A vital function of a bushing assembly is its ability to maintain the glass melt in the bushing above the fiberizing tips at controlled temperature, nominally up to 2150° or higher, depending on glass composition appropriate for fiberizing glass . Prior art bushings include rows of fiberizing nozzles arrayed in a series of columns. The nozzle are c oled by circulating water in a series of tubes located near the nozzles or by cooling fins. Ideally, each of the nozzles is kept at the same temperature with no hot spots or cold spots. Hot spots on the bushing can cause uneven flow and fiber breakage. Cold spots on the bushing result in freeze-up and a reduction in bushing throughput efficiency.In prior art bushings currently in use, electrical current flows through platinum bushing material which functions to properly distribute heat in such bushings, they must be carefully constructed with the thickness of the bushing walls varying substantially so that current flow can be controlled. Use of a bushing having a standard wall thickness was precluded by the need to provide even heat. Bushings are formed by welding platinum plates of varying thicknesses together depending upon the electrical resistance characteristics of the bushing design and desired thermal characteristics. 

 Platinum alloy bushings are used because of the temperature resistance characteristics and durability of platinum. Due to the high cost of platinum alloys, it is desirable to minimize the use of platinum alloy in the bushing assembly.The nozzles are elongated and normally are about 1/16 to 1/4 of an inch in length. The elongated nozzles allow the molten glass to cool as it passes through the nozzle. The nozzle extends below the lower surface of the bushing plate to also reduce the tendency of the molten glass to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM : 1. A fiberizing bushing assembly for making fiberglass wherein molten glass is heated in a forehearth and supplied through an opening to the fiberizing bushing assembly comprising: a frame; a bushing retained by said frame on the opening of the forehearth, said bushing having an outside wall extending downwardly and away from the opening in a continuous loop having a lower edge spaced from the opening, an extrusion face spaced from the opening and extending inwardly from the outside wall at the lower edge of the outside wall to an inner edge and a base wall extending between and interconnecting the inner edge of the extrusion face; heater block means adjacent to the bushing for radiantly and conductively heating the outside wall and the base wall to maintain the temperature of molten glass within the bushing at the desired temperature for fiberizing, said heater block means comprising ceramic members having resistance heating elements disposed therein, said heater block means further comprising an inner module for heating said base wall and an outer module for heating said outside wall; a plurality of tips formed in the extrusion face of the bushing through which molten glass is drawn to form glass filaments, said tips each defining a hole through said extrusion face and extending slightly below said extrusion face; and cooling means for cooling the glass filaments upon exiting said tips. 2. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 1 wherein said bushing has a perimeter flange which is adapted to be engaged by said frame, said wall extending from said perimeter flange at the upper edge of the wall. 3. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 1 wherein said bushing has an inner wall contiguous with the inner edge of the extrusion face and extending upwardly from said extrusion face to an interior upper edge and said base wall interconnects the interior upper edges of the inner wall . 


 4. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 3 wherein said outside wall, said extrusion face, said inner wall, and said base wall of said bushing each have two substantially semi-circular ends and two substantially straight sides. 5. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 3 wherein said outside wall, said extrusion face, said inner wall, and said base wall are formed with a substantially uniform thickness from a single sheet of metal. 6. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 1 wherein said ceramic members are held in place by said frame, said ceramic members having slots formed therein in which resistance heating elements are disposed, said heater elements being encapsulated in said slots by ceramic filler material. 7. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 6 wherein said ceramic members are separately serviceable and individually temperature controlled. 8. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 7 wherein said outer module is an oval shaped member having a plurality of heating elements extending substantially completely around the outer module in an oval path, said heating elements being arrayed in a vertically spaced relationship. 9. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 7 wherein said inner module has a top surface having a raised center, said top surface sloping downwardly toward an inner wall, and said inner module having a series of heating elements formed as substantially oval loops which are non-intersecting and are progressively larger. 10. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 1 wherein said tips have a circular hole. 11. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 1 wherein said tips have a oval hole . 12. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 1 wherein said cooling means comprises a pair of metal fins attached to the frame, each of said fins being adjacent said extrusion face. 13. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 12 wherein said cooling means further comprises a pair of recirculating water tubes each beinσ secured to one of said fins . 


 14. A bushing placed over an opening in the forehearth of a glass furnace for forming fiberglass filaments, said bushing comprising a sheet metal blank drawn into a recessed configuration having a planar perimeter flange adapted to be clamped against the bottom of the opening in the forehearth, a base wall within said perimeter flange, an outer wall depending from said perimeter flange and forming at the bottom thereof an extrusion face in the form of a narrow ban bound on one side by said outer wall and on a second side by said base wall, said extension face being disposed in a plane substantially parallel to the plane of said perimeter flange, said extrusion face having a plurality of holes therein, each hole being defined by an annular tip depending sufficiently from said extrusion face to insure that glass does not wet over the surface of said extrusion face, an outer heater block supporting resistance heating elements adjacent to said one side of said band and an inner heater block supporting resistance heating elements adjacent to said second side of said band, said inner and outer heater blocks being controlled to apply heat by radiation and conduction from the exterior of said bushing to molter glass within said bushing. 15. The bushing of claim 14 wherein said cheet metal blank is platinum alloy. 16. The bushing of claim 14 wherein said outer wall and said base wall are substantially oval-shaped. 17. In the bushing of claim 14, an inner wall extending from said base wall to said extrusion face. 18. The bushing of claim 14 wherein said base wall is downwardly sloping. 19. The bushing of claim 14 wherein said holes are punched holes. 20. The bushing of claim 14 wherein said tips are cut off at a standardized length. 21. The bushing of claim 14 wherein said tips are formed by an electrochemical or chemical deposition. 22. The bushing of claim 14 wherein said extrusion face is circular. 



 23. A fiberizing bushing assembly for making fiberglass wherein molten glass is heated in a forehearth and supplied through an opening to the fiberizing bushing assembly comprising: a frame; a bushing retained by said frame on the opening of the forehearth, said bushing having an outside wall extending downwardly and away from the opening in a continuous loop having a lower edge space from the opening, and extrusion face spaced from the opening and extending inwardly in a narrow band from the outside wall at the lower edge of the outside wall; heater block means adjacent to said outside wall of the bushing for radiantly and conductively heating the outside wall and the base wall to maintain the temperature of molten glass within the bushing at the desired temperature for fiberizing, said heater block means comprising resistance heating elements disposed about the bushing, said heater block means heating the extrusion face across the narrow band; a plurality of tips formed in the extrusion face of the bushing through which molten glass is drawn to form glass filaments, said tips each defining a hole through said extrusion face and extending sli htly bp.iow said extrusion face; and cooling means for cooling the glass filaments upon exiting said tips. 24. A fiberizing bushing assembly for making fiberglass wherein molten glass is heated and supplied through an opening to the fiberizing bushing assembly comprising: a frame; a bushing retained by said frame on the opening, said bushing having an outside wall extending generally downwardly and away from the opening in a continuous loop and having a lower edge space from the opening, an extrusion face spaced from the opening and extending inwardly in a narrow band from the outside wall at the lower edge of the outside wall; heater block means adjacent to said outside wall of the bushing for radiantly and conductively heating the outside wall to maintain the temperature of molten glass within the bushing at the desired temperature for fiberizing, said heater block means comprising resistance heating elements disposed about the bushing, 


said heater block means heating the extrusion face across the narrow band; a plurality of tips formed in the extrusion face of the bushing through which molten glass is drawn to form glass filaments, said tips each defining a hole through said extrusion face and extending slightly below said extrusion face; and cooling means for cooling the glass filaments upon exiting said tips. 25. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 24 wherein said bushing has an inner wall contiguous with an inner edge of the extrusion face and extending upwardly from said extrusion face to a base wall at an interior upper edge of the inner wall. 26. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 25 wherein said outside wall, said extrusion face, said inner wall, and said base wall of said bushing each have two substantially semi-circular ends and two substantially straight sides. 27. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 25 wherein said outside wall, said extrusion face, said inner wall, and said base wall are formed with a substantially uniform thickness from a single sheet of metal . 28. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 24 wherein said ceramic members are held in place by said frame, said ceramic members having slots formed therein in which resistance heating elements are disposed, said heater elements being encapsulated in said slots by ceramic filler material. 29. The fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 28 wherein said ceramic members are separately serviceable and individually temperature controlled. 30. the fiberizing bushing assembly of claim 29 wherein said outer module is an oval shaped member having a plurality of heating elements extending substantially completely around the outer module in an oval path, said heating elements being arrayed in a vertically spaced relationship. 31. A bushing placed over an opening in a glass melting apparatus for forming fiberglass filaments, said bushing comprising a sheet metal blank drawn into a recessed configuration having a perimeter flange adapted to be clamped against the bottom of the opening in the glass melting apparatus, an outer wall 


depending from said perimeter flange and forming at the bottom thereof an extrusion face in the form of a narrow band bounded on one side by said outer wall, said extrusion face being disposed in a plane substantially parallel to the plane of said perimeter flange, said extrusion face having a plurality of holes therein, each hole being defined by an annular tip depending sufficiently from said extrusion face to insure that glass does not wet over the surface of said extrusion face, a heater block supporting resistance heating elements adjacent to said one side of said band said heater block being controlled to apply heat by radiation and conduction from the exterior of said bushing to molten glass within said bushing. 32. The bushing of claim 31 wherein said outer wall and said base wall are substantially oval. 33. The bushing of claim 31 wherein said outer wall and said base wall are substantially round. 34. The bushing of claim 31 wherein said outer wall and said base wall are substantially rectangular. 35. The bushing of claim 31 wherein said extrusion face is circular. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
