<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641513</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fishing rod with pre-inserted fishing line guide members and method of manufacturing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K8700	A01K8700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K87	A01K87	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a fishing rod with pre-inserted 
fishing line guide members (12). A prepreg formed of a 

high-strength fiber impregnated or mixed with resin is wound to 
form the rod pipe (10). A plurality of wide fishing line guide 

members (12) each having a flat-shaped section are fixed integrally 
to the inner peripheral surface (10S) of the rod pipe, the inner 

peripheral side portions (12S) of the wide fishing line guide members 
are respectively projected inwardly from the rod pipe inner 

peripheral surface (10S), and the outer portions of the rod pipe 
existing in the wide fishing line guide fixed portions are 

respectively bulged outwardly and widely. The fishing line 
guide members (12) are strongly fixed to the inner peripheral 

surface (10S) of the rod pipe without lowering the strength of the 
rod pipe (10). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIWA SEIKO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIWA SEIKO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ODA HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNAGA SHUNJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSURUFUJI TOMOYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ODA, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNAGA, SHUNJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSURUFUJI, TOMOYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a fishing rod with 
pre-inserted fishing line guide members and a method of 
manufacturing such a fishing rod. From the viewpoint of the improvement in the sliding 
condition of a fishing line, prevention of the frictional 
damage of the inner surface of a rod pipe and the like, there 
is disclosed in Japanese Patent Kokai Publication No. Sho. 56-127032 
a fishing rod in which a plurality of fishing line guide 
members are previously pressure-inserted into or bonded to the 
inner surface of a rod pipe before it is finally formed as a 
main component of the fishing rod and, after the rod pipe is 
formed, they are fixed to the inner surface of the rod pipe. 
Also, there is disclosed in Japanese Patent Kokai Publication 
No. Hei. 4-341133 a fishing rod in which a plurality of fishing 
line guide annular members each formed of a single fiber are 
formed integrally with the inner peripheral surface of a rod 
pipe. However, in the fishing rod disclosed in the former 
publication in which the fishing line guide members are fixed 
after the rod pipe is formed, the fishing line guide members 
can be taken off or shifted in position when the fishing rod is 
bent or deformed during fishing.  
 Also, in the fishing rod disclosed in the latter 
publication, the fishing line guide annular members each has a 
circular section shape and thus has the height, and the inner 
peripheral surfaces of the fishing line guide annular members 
are restricted by the outer peripheral surface of a mandrel 
when the rod pipe is formed and, therefore, if a fiber 
reinforced prepreg is wound round the mandrel, then the fiber 
reinforced prepreg is projected outwardly in the portions where 
the fishing line guide annular members are provided. As a 
result of this, if the rod pipe is heated and baked, then the 
reinforcing fiber is caused to meander to thereby lower the 
strength of the rod pipe. Further, in case where the rod pipe is formed by means 
of the combination of the prepreg and mandrel, the inner 
surface of the rod pipe thus formed is made flush with the 
inner surface of the fishing line guide annular member, which 
hinders the fishing line guide annular member from projecting 
inwardly from the rod pipe inner surface. Also, in the step in 
which the rod pipe is formed by heating, the resin flows out 
from the prepreg to the surface of the mandrel so that the 
fishing line guide annular member is buried under the resin. 
Therefore, the fishing line guide annular member is not allowed 
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fishing rod with pre-inserted fishing line 
guide members (12), comprising: 


a rod pipe (10) formed by winding a prepreg, said rod pipe 
defining an inner peripheral surface (10S); and 
at least one fishing line guide member fixed integrally 
to 
the inner peripheral surface of said rod pipe 
for preventing a fishing line (16) in a tightly stretched 

condition from contacting the rod pipe inner peripheral surface, 
and wherein: 
said at least one fishing line guide member has a 
relatively flattened section and defines an inner peripheral 

side (12S) and an outer peripheral side; 
the inner peripheral side of said fishing line guide 
member projects radially inwardly from the inner peripheral 

surface of the rod pipe; and 
the outer peripheral side of said fishing line guide 
member is received by a portion of said rod pipe, said portion 

being bulged radially outwardly in a relatively wide area. 
The fishing rod according to claim 1, wherein 
said fishing line guide member has a substantially oblong 

section. 
The fishing rod according to claim 1, wherein 
said fishing line guide member has a substantially crescent 

section. 
The fishing rod according to claim 1, wherein 
said portion of said rod pipe is radially thicker than the rest 

of said rod pipe.  
 
The fishing rod according to claim 1, wherein a 
buffer layer is interposed between said fishing line guide 

member and said portion of said rod pipe. 
A method of manufacturing a fishing rod with a pre-inserted fishing line guide 
member, said method comprising the steps: 


mounting on a mandrel (20) a fishing line guide member for preventing a 
fishing line (16) in a tightly stretched condition from contacting the rod pipe inner 

peripheral surface, said fishing line guide member having a substantially arcuate inner 
periphery (12s): 
applying a resin entrance preventive material into at least portions where the 
mandrel and the inner periphery of said fishing line guide member creates clearance 

therebetween; 
winding a prepreg onto said fishing line guide member around said mandrel to 
form an assembly; 
pressurizing and heating said assembly; and 
removing said mandrel from said assembly. 
The method according to claim 6, further 
comprising the step of removing said resin entrance prevent 

member from said assembly after said mandrel is removed 
therefrom. 
The method according to claim 6, wherein said 
applying step includes applying said resin entrance preventive 

material on substantially entire outer periphery of said 
mandrel except a portion where said mandrel is in contact with 

said fishing line guide member.  
 
A method of manufacturing a fishing rod with a 
pre-inserted fishing line guide member, said method comprising 

the steps of: 

mounting a fishing line guide member 
for preventing a fishing line (16) in a tightly stretched 

condition from contacting the rod pipe inner peripheral surface 
on a mandrel 

through a deformable member; 
winding a prepreg round said mandrel over said fishing 
line guide member to form an assembly; and 
pressurizing, heating and baking said assembly. 
The method according to claim 9, further 
comprising the step of removing said mandrel and said 

deformable member from said assembly thus baked. 
The method according to claim 9, further 
comprising the step of disposing inside an molding shell said 

assembly thus formed by said winding step. 
The method according to claim 11, wherein said 
pressurizing, heating and baking step includes the step of 

applying a pressure into an inside of said deformable member so 
that said assembly is tightly held between said deformable 

member and said molding shell.  
 
A method of manufacturing a fishing rod with a pre-inserted 
fishing line guide member according to claim 9, 


characterized in that
 said mounting step includes 
mounting said fishing line guide member on said mandrel 

through said deformable member so that said fishing line 
guide member forms a spiral shape. 
A method of manufacturing a fishing rod with a pre-inserted 
fishing line guide member according to claim 9, 


characterized in that
 said mounting step includes 
winding said deformable member in the form of a tape on 

said mandrel.  
 
A method of manufacturing a fishing rod with a 
pre-inserted fishing line guide member, said method comprising 

the steps of: 

mounting a fishing line guide member 
for preventing a fishing line (16) in a tightly stretched 

condition from contacting the rod pipe inner peripheral surface 
on an outer 

surface of an elastically deformable tube; 
winding a prepreg round said tube over said fishing 
line guide member to form an assembly;  

 
placing a molding shell onto said assembly; and 
applying a pressure into said tube so that said 
assembly is tightly held between said tube and said molding 

shell. 
The fishing rod according to claim 1, wherein 
said relatively flattened section is defined by a width 

dimension in a longitudinal direction of said rod pipe and a 
thickness dimension in a radial direction thereof, the width 

dimension being larger than said thickness dimension. 
A fishing rod with pre-inserted fishing line 
guide members, comprising: 


a rod pipe formed by winding a prepreg, said rod pipe 
defining an inner peripheral surface; and 
at least one fishing line guide member fixed integrally 
to the inner peripheral surface of said rod pipe 

for preventing a fishing line (16) in a tightly stretched 
condition from contacting the rod pipe inner peripheral surface, 

said at least 
one fishing line guide member defining an inner peripheral side 

and an outer peripheral side, and wherein: 
the inner peripheral side of said fishing line guide 
member has a convex surface projecting radially inwardly from 

the inner peripheral surface of the rod pipe; and 
the outer peripheral side of said fishing line guide 
member is formed with a concave groove received by said rod 

pipe. 
The fishing rod according to claim 17, wherein 
said at least one fishing line guide member has a relatively 

flattened section defined by a width dimension in a  
 

longitudinal direction of said rod pipe and a thickness 
dimension in a radial direction thereof, the width dimension 

being larger than said thickness dimension. 
The fishing rod according to claim 17, wherein 
said concave groove is in the form of annulus circumscribing 

the fishing line guide member to present a substantially 
crescent shape at any section. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
