<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612433</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PACKAGE FOR STORING AND DISPLAYING A PLURALITY OF BOX-SHAPED ARTICLES, MORE PARTICULARLY DATA CARRIERS SUCH AS FLOPPY DISKS AND THE LIKE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8500	B65D8500	B65D8557	B65D8557	G11B3304	G11B3304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D85	B65D85	B65D85	B65D85	G11B33	G11B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Storage and display package for a plurality of box-shaped articles (25), for instance floppy disks and the like, and comprising a plurality of sheaths, one for each box-shaped article, each sheath being provided with an insertion opening, a back face part (1) having a first longitudinal side, a top wall part (8, 15) hinged to the back face part, having a longitudinal edge which recedes relatively to the first longitudinal side, and a coupling part (3), extending strip-shaped at the back of the back face part from the first to a second opposite longitudinal side of the back face part, the coupling part extending under the top wall part of the subjacent sheath and extending to said second longitudinal side, to which a fold-back part (7) is connected by means of a hinge part (4-6), extending in the direction of the first longitudinal side under the top wall part, so that the back face part and the coupling part form a closed loop around the top wall part of the subjacent sheath.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VEENSTRA HENDRIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VEENSTRA, HENDRIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VEENSTRA HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VEENSTRA, HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Title: Package for storing and displaying a plurality- of box- shaped articles, more particularly data carriers such as floppy disks and the likeThe invention relates to a package for storing and displaying a plurality of box-shaped articles, more particularly data carriers such as floppy disks and the like, which package comprises receiving means in the form of a plurality of sheaths, one for each box-shaped article, each sheath being provided with:- an insertion opening,- a back face part having a first longitudinal side which forms a first edge of the insertion opening, - a top wall part having a longitudinal edge which forms a second edge of the insertion opening and recedes relatively to the first longitudinal side, and- a coupling part, extending strip-shaped, at the back, relatively to the top wall part, of the back face part, from the first longitudinal side in the direction of a second, opposite longitudinal side of the back face part, the coupling part extending under the top wall part of the subjacent sheath.Such a package is disclosed in DE-A-36 22 140. In the store position, the sheaths with the articles stored therein are positioned one directly above the other, which yields a compact, block-shaped package. In the display position, the various sheaths are shifted relatively to each other so as to overlap like roof tiles, so that, as a result of the second receding edge of the insertion opening, a surface-shaped part of each article is visible. This surface-shaped part may contain information about the article and the contents thereof, so that a specific article can be selected and taken out of the package without affecting the other articles in their stored positions.In both the extreme display position and the store position, the various sheaths must be arrested relatively to each other. In the display position, this is effected by the transition between the back face part and the coupling part 

striking the receding edge of the top wall part, which edge forms the second edge of the insertion opening. Movement to the store position is limited in that a first lip, hinged on both sides of the back wall part and extending downwards, folded back under the top wall part of a subjacent sheath, strikes a second lip, hinged on both sides of that back wall part and extending downwards, folded back under the back face part of that subjacent sheath. To permit the superjacent sheath to move relatively to the subjacent sheath from the store position to the display position, an open slot should be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A package for storing and displaying a plurality of box- shaped articles (25), more particularly data carriers such as floppy disks and the like, which package comprises receiving means in the form of a plurality of sheaths, one for each box- shaped article, each sheath being provided with:
- an insertion opening,
- a back face part (1; 31) having a first longitudinal side which forms a first edge of the insertion opening,
- a top wall part (8, 15; 36) having a longitudinal edge which forms a second edge of the insertion opening and recedes relatively to the first longitudinal side, and
- a coupling part (3; 32) , extending strip-shaped, at the back, relatively to the top wall part, of the back face part, from the first longitudinal side in the direction of a second, opposite longitudinal side of the back face part, the coupling part extending under the top wall part of the subjacent sheath, characterized in that the top wall part is hinged on a longitudinal side of the back face part, said longitudinal side extending transversely to said first longitudinal side, and the coupling part extends to said second longitudinal side of the back face part, where a fold- back part (7; 34) is connected to the coupling part by means of a hinge part (4-6) , the fold-back part extending in the direction of said first longitudinal side of the back face part under the top wall part, so that the back face part and the coupling part form a closed loop around the top wall part of the subjacent sheath.
2. A package according to claim 1, characterized in that the fold-back part (7; 34) continues to beyond the receding second edge, formed by the top wall part (8, 15; 36), of the insertion opening.
3. A package according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in tiat a wrapping strip (16-24) is present, connected to the back face part (1; 31) or the coupling part (3; 32) of a first 


sheath and capable of being wrapped around a plurality of superjacent further sheaths and coupled to the first-mentione sheath to form a closed wrapper.
4. A package according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the blank for a sheath comprises a rectangular back face part (1), a coupling part (3) connected to the back face part by a hinge means (2), a fold-back part (7) connected to the coupling part by means of a hinge part (4-6) that is parallel to the first hinge means, and a first (8) and second (15) top wall part respectively, connected to the back face part by a first (9-11) and second (12-14) lateral hinge part respectively, perpendicular to the first hinge means.
5. A package according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the blank for a sheath comprises a rectangular back face part (31), a coupling part (32) connected to the back face part by a first hinge means, a fold-back part (34) connected to the coupling part by means of a hinge part (33) that is parallel to the first hinge means, a first top wall part (36) connected to the back face part by a first lateral hinge part (35) perpendicular to the first hinge means, and an insertion part (38) connected to the top wall part by a second lateral hinge part (37) parallel to the first lateral hinge part.
6. A package according to claim 4 or 5, characterized in that the first hinge means is formed by a folding line (2) an the hinge part as well as the first and second lateral hinge parts are formed by a panel (5, 10, 13; 33, 35, 37) connected by folding lines (4, 6, 9, 11, 12, 14) to the adjacent parts to be hingedly connected.
7. A package according to any one of claims 3-6, characterized in that- the blank for a wrapping strip comprise a rectangular back part (16) whose dimensions correspond to those of the back face part of a sheath to be enveloped, said back part having coupling flaps (21, 23) connected thereto along two opposite sides by means of first folding lines (22, 24) and a wrapping part (18) connected thereto along a third side by means of a second folding line (17), said wrapping 


part having a width at least equal to the back part dimension parallel to the second folding line and a length at least equal to the sum of the back part dimension perpendicular to the second folding line and twice the thickness of a stack of maximally receivable sheaths with box-shaped articles, the wrapping part comprising at least a group of third folding lines (19a-j, 20a-j) extending parallel to the second folding line and spaced apart at a distance corresponding to the thickness of a sheath with box-shaped article. 8. A package according to claim 7, characterized in that th wrapping part (18) ends in an insertion part (18*) .
9. A sheath evidently intended for use in a package according to any one of the preceding claims.
10. A blank for manufacturing a sheath according to claim 9. 11. A wrapping strip evidently intended for use in a package according to any one of claims 3-8.
12. A blank for manufacturing a wrapping strip according to claim 11.
13. A blank according to claim 12, composed of a portion mad of a material with inherent stiffness and a portion made of a pliable material. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
