<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647362</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL TRANSMISSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F101	H04B1017	H04B1017	H04B1018	H04B1018	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical transmission system (1) is provided comprising a method and apparatus for cancelling noise (4-6) in the output from a light source (2) for broadening the line width of a light source so as to increase stimulated Brillouin scattering threshold in a standard single mode fiber with a dispersion null at 1310 nm and for using a linearized external modulator to modulate the amplified output of a distributed feedback laser (15) providing and output at 1550 nanometers for use on a standard single mode fiber optic cable (9) with a dispersion null at 1310 nm.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNCHRONOUS COMMUNICATIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNCHRONOUS COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GYSEL HERMANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMACHANDRAN MANI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GYSEL, HERMANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMACHANDRAN, MANI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OPTICAL TRANSMISSION SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to optical transmission systems in general and in particular to an optical transmission system comprising a method and apparatus for cancelling noise, increasing the stimulated Brillouin scattering (SBS) threshold in a standard single mode fiber, and using an external modulator in combination with a distributed feedback (DFB) laser and an erbium doped fiber amplifier (EDFA) to transmit 1550 nanometer (nm) light over standard single mode fiber with a dispersion null at 1310 nm. Description of the Related ArtConventional prior known optical transmission systems comprising lasers, optical amplifiers, fiber optic cables, and the like, are found to have a number of deficiencies. For example, one of the deficiencies which has been found in prior known optical transmission systems is that the optical radiation from a light source comprising a distributed feedback (DFB) laser and an erbium doped fiber amplifier (EDFA) may be too noisy for some applications.Another deficiency in prior known optical transmission systems, specifically those comprising a directly modulated DFB and an EDFA as described above which are coupled to a standard single mode fiber with a dispersion null at 1310 nm, is that the EDFA is operable only at wavelengths longer than 1310 nm, e.g. 1550 nm, and that at those wavelengths composite second order 

 (CSO) distortions are generated in the fiber. The standard single mode fiber with a dispersion null at 1310 nm referred to herein corresponds to the SMF-28 fiber which is commercially available from Corning Incorporated, Corning, New York.Heretofore, the methods and apparatus used to reduce noise and compensate for CSO distortions has been limited generally to electrical and optical compensation circuits such as disclosed in applicants' U.S. Patent No. 5,115,440, applicants' U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/787,830, both of which are assigned to the assignee of the present application, and a paper presented by Richard B. Childs and Vincent A. 0. Byrne in the OPTICAL FIBER COMMUNICATION CONFERENCE, 1990 Technical Digest Series, Vol. l, Conference Edition, January 1990.Another deficiency in prior known optical transmission systems has to do with the effect of stimulated Brillouin scattering in a standard single mode fiber. Stimulated Brillouin scattering (SBS) is a phenomenon which restricts the amount of optical power which can be transferred in a standard single mode fiber with a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. An optical transmission system comprising: a source of light; means responsive to light from the source for providing a noise signal corresponding to the noise in the light from the source; and means responsive to light from the source and the noise signal for providing noise free light which is substantially free of the noise in the light from the source.
2. An optical transmission system according to claim 1 wherein said source of light comprises: a source of coherent radiation; and means for amplifying the coherent radiation from said source.
3. An optical transmission system according to claim 2 wherein said source of coherent radiation comprises a distributed feedback (DFB) laser and said means for amplifying the coherent radiation from said source comprises an erbium doped fiber amplifier (EDFA) .
4. An optical transmission system according to claim 1 wherein said noise signal providing means comprises: a beam splitter; means responsive to an output of the beam splitter for providing an electrical noise signal corresponding to the noise in the light from the source; and means responsive to said electrical noise signal for providing an inverted noise signal wherein the phase of the noise is shifted 180 degrees relative to the noise in 


the light from the source.
5. An optical transmission system according to claim l wherein said noise signal providing means comprises means for providing an inverted noise signal corresponding to the noise in the light from the source, but which is shifted 180 degrees relative to the noise in the light from the source, and wherein said noise free light providing means comprises means for modulating the light from the source with said inverted noise signal.
6. An optical transmission system according to claim 5 wherein said inverted noise signal is a first modulating signal and said modulating means comprises means for modulating the light from the source with said first and a second modulating signal concurrently.
7. An optical transmission system according to claim 6 wherein said modulating means comprises means for combining said first and a second modulating signal.
8. An optical transmission system comprising: a fiber optic cable having a predetermined stimulated Brillouin scattering threshold to unmodulated coherent radiation having a first predetermined line width relative to a predetermined center wavelength; means for providing said coherent radiation having said predetermined center wavelength to said fiber optic cable; and means for modulating said coherent radiation with a modulating signal having a predetermined modulating frequency so as to increase said line width of said coherent radiation from said first predetermined line width relative to said predetermined center wavelength to 


a second predetermined line width relative to said predetermined center wavelength, said increase in said line width effecting a corresponding increase in said stimulated Brillouin scattering threshold.
9. An optical transmission system according to claim 8 wherein said coherent radiation providing means comprises a distributed feedback laser and said center wavelength comprises approximately 1550 nanometers (nm) .
10. An optical transmission system according to claim 8 wherein said coherent radiation providing means comprises a distributed feedback laser, said first predetermined line width is approximately 40 MHz, said second predetermined line width is approximately twice said predetermined modulating frequency and said center wavelength comprises 1550 nanometers (nm) .
11. An optical transmission system according to claim 10 wherein said predetermined modulating frequency is in the range of approximately 1.0 to 1.5 GHz.
12. An optical transmission system comprising: a distributed feedback (DFB) laser for providing coherent radiation; means responsive to the radiation from the DFB for amplifying the radiation; and means responsive to radiation from the amplifying means for modulating the radiation.
13. An optical transmission system according to claim 12 wherein said modulating means comprises linearized modulating means having a depth of modulation. 


 14. A method of transmitting optical signals comprising the steps of: providing light from a source of light; providing in response to light from the source of light a noise signal corresponding to the noise in the light from the source; and providing in response to light from the source and the noise signal noise free light which is substantially free of the noise in the light from the source.
15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said step of providing light from a source of light comprises the steps of: providing coherent radiation from a source of coherent radiation; and amplifying the coherent radiation from said source.
16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said step of providing coherent radiation from a source of coherent radiation comprises the step of providing coherent radiation from a distributed feedback (DFB) laser and said step of amplifying the coherent radiation from said source comprises the step of amplifying the coherent radiation in an erbium doped fiber amplifier (EDFA) .
17. A method according to claim 14 wherein said step providing a noise signal comprises the steps of: providing a sample of the light from the source of light; providing in response to the sample of light an electrical noise signal corresponding to the noise in the light from the source; and 


 providing in response to the electrical noise signal an inverted noise signal wherein the phase of the noise is shifted 180 degrees relative to the noise in the light from the source.
18. A method according to claim 14 wherein the step of providing said noise signal comprises the step of providing an inverted noise signal corresponding to the noise in the light from the source, but which is shifted 180 degrees relative to the noise in the light from the source, and wherein the step of providing said noise free light comprises the step of modulating the light from the source with said inverted noise signal.
19. A method according to claim 18 wherein said step of providing said inverted noise signal comprises the step of providing a first modulating signal and said step of modulating comprises the step of modulating the light from the source with said first and a second modulating signal concurrently.
20. A method according to claim 19 wherein said step of modulating comprises the step of combining said first and a second modulating signal.
21. A method of transmitting optical signals comprising the steps of: providing a fiber optic cable having a predetermined stimulated Brillouin scattering threshold to unmodulated coherent radiation having a first predetermined line width relative to a predetermined center wavelength; providing said coherent radiation having said predetermined center wavelength to said fiber optic cable; and 


 modulating said coherent radiation with a modulating signal having a predetermined modulating frequency so as to increase said line width of said coherent radiation from said first predetermined line width relative to said predetermined center wavelength to a second predetermined line width relative to said predetermined center wavelength, said increase in said line width effecting a corresponding increase in said stimulated Brillouin scattering threshold.
22. A method according to claim 21 wherein said step of providing said coherent radiation comprises the step of providing said coherent radiation from a distributed feedback laser and said center wavelength comprises approximately 1550 nanometers (nm) .
23. A method according to claim 21 wherein said step of providing said coherent radiation comprises the step of providing said coherent radiation from a distributed feedback laser, said first predetermined line width is approximately 40 MHz, said second predetermined line width is approximately twice said predetermined modulating frequency and said center wavelength comprises 1550 nanometers (nm) .
24. A method according to claim 23 wherein said modulating step comprises the step of modulating said coherent radiation with a modulating signal having a modulating frequency in the range of approximately 1.0 to 1.5 GHz. 


 25. A method of transmitting optical signals comprising the steps of: providing coherent radiation from a distributed feedback (DFB) laser; amplifying the radiation from the DFB; and modulating the amplified radiation.
26. A method according to claim 25 wherein said modulating step comprises the step of modulating the coherent radiation with a linearized modulating means having a depth of modulation of at least 4 percent. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
