<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624253</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FEATURE LOCATION AND DISPLAY APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1500	G01S300	G01S3808	G01S1589	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S15	G01S3	G01S3	G01S15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Echo sounding apparatus mounted on a boat (52) comprises a transducer unit (1) connected to a display device (2) which contains a control and processing circuit (53) via a cable (3). Sound pulses reflected from features below the keel and in front of the bow of the boat (52) are processed to generate first and second location signals. The first location signal defines an unambiguous feature position with low angular accuracy. The second location signal defines possible feature positions with high angular accuracy. The first and second location signals are combined to define an unambiguous feature position with high angular accuracy. The results are displayed in a vertical cross section of features and water in the correct positions relative to a scale picture (10) of the boat (52).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECHOPILOT LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ECHOPILOT LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITEHURST PHILIP DAVID PRINCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITEHURST, PHILIP, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to underwater direction detecting in-the
location and display of features, and is primarily concerned with
underwater echosounding apparatus.In underwater echosounding, the location of each feature
(for example each point on the seabed) is defined by two
parameters; a range, r, from the apparatus and an
angle, , from a specified direction to the
apparatus. Echosounding apparatus comprises means for
transmitting and receiving a pulsed signal, and
processing signals derived from the received pulses which
have been reflected by a feature to determine r and
.An example of a known feature location technique for use
in underwater echosounding is the use of a phased array,
in which a multitude of receivers are connected to a
processor via variable delay lines. The processor
adjusts the delays on the delay lines until the signals
from each receiver produced by reflected pulses are in
phase. By measuring the time delay on each delay line,
the direction of arrival of the pulse, that is the
angular direction  of the reflecting feature, can be
determined. Such a technique requires a multitude of 
receivers which occupy a large physical area, and
involves complex signal processing to determine the
angular direction .Another technique for use in mapping surveys of the
seabed is disclosed in a paper by Cloet et al entitled "A
Sideways-Looking Towed Depth-Measuring System" published
in the journal of the Institute of Navigation, September
1982, Volume 35, No. 3. In this technique, three
receivers with a wide space (relative to the wavelength
of the received signal) are used to produce two feature
location signals. Each location signal defines the range
r of the reflecting feature to high accuracy and the
angular location  to high accuracy, but does not
define a single feature location, that is the absolute
position of the feature is ambiguous since there are a
number of different angular positions which would result
in identical location signals. Each of the two feature
location signals produced by the receivers is used to
produce a trace. The traces are then compared in the
manner of a vernier scale to identify a single position
for the reflecting feature. The technique taught by
Cloet et al is primarily for use in survey applications,
in which the data collected can be processed in
slow-time, for example in the laboratory, to produce a 
map of the seabed. Such a technique is therefore of no
practical value for navigation purposes where real-time
information on submerged features etc is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Underwater direction detecting apparatus,
characterised by:


first transducer means (4) comprising a first pair
of transducers (R2, R3) spaced apart relatively closely

along a line, said first transducer means being
responsive to received sound energy to produce first

signals indicative of the direction of travel of said
sound energy unambiguously but with relatively low

angular accuracy;
second transducer means (4) comprising a second pair
of transducers (R1, R2) spaced apart relatively widely

along said line, said second transducer means being
responsive to received sound energy to produce second

signals indicative of said direction with relatively high
angular accuracy but ambiguity; and
processing means (53) for deriving from said first
and second signals further signals defining said

direction substantially unambiguously with relatively
high angular accuracy.
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the spacing
between the centres of the transducers in the second pair

is three times the spacing between the centres of the
transducers in the first pair. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 comprising
three transducers (R1, R2, R3), a first and second of

which constitute said first pair and the first and third
of which constitute said second pair.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim,
including third transducer means (R1, R3) operable to

produce third signals indicative of said direction with
angular accuracy intermediate said relatively low and

said relatively high angular accuracy but with ambiguity,
said processing means (53) being responsive to said third

signals to resolve ambiguities arising in said further
signals as a consequence of receipt of sound energy

simultaneously from two directions which are symmetrical
with respect to a predetermined reference direction.
Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said third
transducer means comprises a third pair of transducers

(R1, R3).
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the spacing
between the centres of the transducers in the second pair

is three times the spacing between the centres of the
transducers in the first pair, and the spacing between

the centres of the transducers in the third pair is twice
the spacing between the centres of the transducers in the

first pair. 
Apparatus according to claim 5 as dependent upon
claim 3, wherein at least one of said third pair of

transducers comprises one of said first, said second and
said third transducers.
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said third
pair of transducers is constituted by one of said first

pair and one of said second pair.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim,
including means (T) for transmitting sound energy pulses

for reflection to said transducer means (4) from features
whose direction is to be detected.
Apparatus according to claim 9, including means (53)
for detecting the time delay between transmission of said

sound energy pulses and receipt thereof by said
transducer means for determining the range of said

features.
Apparatus according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein
said transmitting means (T) is operable to transmit said

sound energy pulses in diverging directions and said
transducer means are operable for receiving sound energy

pulses from said diverging directions.
Apparatus according to any of claims 9 to 11, 
wherein said transmitting means includes a transmitting

transducer (T) positioned adjacent said transducer means.
Apparatus according to any of claims 9 to 12,
wherein said transducer means are mounted within a

housing (50) having means for attachment thereof to a
vessel (52) such that said direction extends both

forwardly of and below said vessel.
Apparatus according to any of claims 9 to 13,
further comprising display means (2) responsive to said

further signals for producing a display representing the
direction from which said sound pulses are received.
Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said
display means is arranged for producing in real time a

pictorial representation of features whose range and
direction are represented b
y said further signal.
Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said
pictorial representation includes a representation (10)

of a vessel carrying the apparatus, relative to the
positions of said features as indicated by said further

signals.
Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said
representation of said vessel is in scale with the 

representation of said features.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein
said processing means (53) is operable to sample said

signals produced by said transducer means (4) and to
derive said further signals by determining from the

samples the phases of said produced signals.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein
said processing means (53) is operable to produce said

further signals by determining an angle as a function of
the phase of the signals produced by said second

transducer means (4) and adding to said determined angle
a further angle whose magnitude is determined by the

phase of signals received by the first transducer means.
A method of determining the direction of travel of
a received underwater sound signal, characterised by:


detecting the relative phases of said sound signal
at a first pair of positions spaced relatively closely

along a line and deriving therefrom a first indication
of said direction which is unambiguous over a defined

range of directions and of relatively low resolution;
detecting the relative phases of said sound signal
at a second pair of positions spaced relatively widely

along said line and deriving therefrom a second
indication of said direction which is of relatively high 

resolution but ambiguous; and
deriving from said first and second indications
further indications of said direction which are of

relatively high resolution and substantially unambiguous
over the defined range of directions.
A method according to claim 20, wherein the distance
between the second pair of positions is three times the

distance between the third pair of positions.
A method according to claim 20 or claim 21,
including transmitting a plurality of pulses of sound

energy to provide a plurality of sound signals by
reflection from features of interest.
A method according to claim 22, including
determining the range of said features of interest by

detecting the delay between transmission of said sound
pulses and reception of said sound signals.
A method according to any of claims 20 to 23,
further comprising the steps of;


detecting the relative phases of said sound signal
at a third pair of positions spaced along said line at

a distance intermediate the spacing of said first pair
and the spacing of said second pair, and deriving

therefrom a third indication of said direction with 
angular resolution intermediate said relatively low and

said relatively high resolutions but with ambiguity; and
using said third indication to resolve ambiguities
arising in said further indications as a consequence of

receipt of sound energy simultaneously from two
directions which are symmetrical with respect to a

predetermined reference direction.
A method according to claim 24, wherein the distance
between the third pair of positions is twice the distance

between the first pair of positions.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
