<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0909402</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPACT DISPLAY SYSTEM WITH TWO STAGE MAGNIFICATION AND IMMERSED BEAM SPLITTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B530	G02B2714	G02B2702	G02B2702	G02B2714	G02B530	G02B2700	G02B2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	G02B5	G02B27	G02B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A virtual image display system is provided which is made thinner through the use of an immersed beam splitter, and in one embodiment, total internal reflection. The display system includes an imaging surface on which a source object is formed, a first optical element having a reflective function and a magnification function, a second optical element having a magnification function and an immersed beam splitting element positioned between the first and second optical elements, the immersed beam splitting element including a beam splitter surrounded by an optically transparent material having a refractive index greater than air. An illumination source projects the source object formed at the imaging surface through the optically transparent material to the beam splitter. The beam splitter reflects the projected source object to the first optical element. The first optical element magnifies the projected source object and reflects a magnified virtual image of the projected source object to the beam splitter. The magnified virtual image traverses the beam splitter to the second optical element which magnifies the magnified virtual image to produce a compound magnified virtual image of the source object.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THREE FIVE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THREE-FIVE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILDEBRAND ALFRED P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINTZ GREGORY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILDEBRAND, ALFRED, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINTZ, GREGORY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention generally relates to a compact electronic display system.
More specifically, the invention relates to a compact electronic display system
which provides a compound magnified virtual image of a source object using
two stages of magnification.A continuing objective in the field of electronics is the miniaturization of
electronic devices. Most electronic devices include some form of display
system which provides information to the user. As electronic devices are
reduced in size, display systems are needed which can be incorporated into the
increasingly smaller devices. It is thus important that the space required to
house these display systems be reduced. In particular, it is desirable that the
thickness of the display system be reduced, the thickness of the display referring
to the dimension of the display system which is perpendicular to the plane of the
image formed by the display.In general, the image provided by an electronic display may be either a
real image or a virtual image. One approach to reducing the size of a display
system is through the formation of a virtual image instead of a real image.A real image refers to an image which is observed directly by the
unaided human eye. A real image exists at a given location when a real image
can be observed by the unaided eye if a viewing surface is positioned at the
location. A photograph is an example of a real image. Examples of electronic
displays which provide real images include liquid crystal displays, CRT 
monitors, and projection screens. Compact electronic devices, because of their
small size, have a limited surface area on which to provide a real image. Since
the amount of detail that the human eye can resolve per unit area is limited,
devices which provide a real image are only able to provide a limited amount of
legible information per display screen.By contrast to real image displays, virtual image displays provide a
virtual image, i.e., an image which, if a viewing surface were positioned at the
location of the virtual image, no image would be observed by the eye. By
definition, a virtual image can exist at a location where no display surface
exists. An example of a virtual image is the image of fine print viewed through
a magnifying glass.Virtual image displays provide an image which appears to be larger than
the source object from which the virtual image is formed. As a result, the size
of the virtual image, as perceived by the user, is limited by the magnification of
the display system as opposed to the size of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A virtual image display system comprising:

an imaging surface (12) on which a source object (14) is formed;
a first optical element (24) having a reflective function and a magnification
function;
a second optical element (26) having a magnification function;
an immersed beam splitting element (22) positioned between the first and
second optical elements, the immersed beam splitting element including a beam

splitter(25) surrounded by an optically transparent material (27) having a refractive
index greater than air, 
characterised in that
 the immersed beam splitting element has a back surface (32)
facing the first optical element which causes light directed to the surface from the

imaging surface (12) to be totally internally reflected; and the system further comprises
an illumination source (16) for illuminating the source object (14) formed at the
imaging surface (12) to the back surface (32) of the optically transparent material at an

angle () such that the back surface totally internally reflects the projected source
object to the beamsplitter (25) which reflects the projected source object to the first

optical element (24), the first optical element magnifying the projected source object
and reflecting a magnified virtual image of the projected source object to the

beamsplitter, the magnified virtual image traversing the beamsplitter to the second
optical element which magnifies the magnified virtual image as the magnified virtual

image traverses the second optical element to produce a compound magnified virtual
image of the source object.
A system according to claim 1, wherein the angle () at which the source object
(14) is projected from the imaging surface (12) to the rear surface (32) of the immersed

beamsplitter (22) is less than about 60°.
A system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the optically transparent material
(27) has refractive index of at least about 1.3. 
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the beamsplitter (25) is
reflective to a first polarisation of light and transmissive to a second polarisation of

light and wherein source object (14) light projected to the beamsplitter (25) from the
imaging surface (12) is of a first polarisation, the display system further including a

polarisation modifier (29) positioned between the beamsplitter (25) and the first optical
element (24) such that source object light traverses the polarisation modifier (29) after

being reflected by the beamsplitter (25) and after being reflected by the first optical
element (24), the polarisation modifier (29) altering the light from a first polarisation

to a second polarisation so that the magnified virtual image reflected by the first optical
element (24) traverses the beamsplitter (25).
A system according to claim 4, wherein the polarisation modifier (29) is a
quarter waveplate.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein an angle between a surface
of the beamsplitter (25) and a front surface of the first optical element (24) is between

about 10° and 30°.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the imaging surface is a
microdisplay.
A system according to claim 7, wherein the microdisplay is a light transmissive
liquid crystal on silicon display.
A system according to claim 7, wherein the microdisplay is a liquid crystal
display.
A system according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the microdisplay has a display area
of less than about 100 mm
2
. 
A system according to any of claims 7 to 10, wherein the microdisplay has
pixels having a size between about 49 µm
2
 and about 225µm
2
.
A system according to claim 11, wherein the microdisplay has pixels having a
size less than about 144µm
2
.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the illumination source
(16) is selected from the group consisting of incandescent lamps, lasers, light emitting

diodes, and waveguides.
A system according to any of claims 7 to 12, wherein the illumination source
(16) uniformly illuminates the source object (14) formed by the microdisplay.
A system according to any of claims 7 to 12, wherein the microdisplay includes
an array of pixels (37) which are modulated to either reflect or scatter light, the system

also including an optical grating (39) for focusing light scattered by the microdisplay
onto the immersed beamsplitting element (25).
A system according to any preceding claim, comprising:

a focusing mechanism (67) for adjusting the distance between two elements
selected from the group consisting of the first optical element (24), the second optical

element (26) and the beamsplitting element (25).
A system according to claim 16, wherein the first optical element (24) and the
immersed beamsplitting element (25) are movable relative to each other.
A system according to claim 15 or 16, wherein the focusing mechanism can be
adjusted to cause the compound magnified virtual image to appear at a plurality of

positions relative to an observer, each position being at a distance between about 1.5
feet and 10 feet from the observer; or to appear to be at a distance of about 1.5 feet

from an observer and at a distance of about 10 feet from an observer. 
A system according to claim 16, wherein the second optical element (26) and
the immersed beamsplitting element (25) are movable relative to each other.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the imaging surface
projects the light which is totally internally reflected to the surface at an angle of at

least about 30°.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
