<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639092</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN ENDLESS ROPE EXERCISE DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B700	A63B704	A63B21012	A63B21015	A63B2300	A63B2302	A63B23035	A63B2312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B7	A63B7	A63B21	A63B21	A63B23	A63B23	A63B23	A63B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An exercising device is provided with a frame means (1) and an endless rope, cord or like means (29). Means (31) for applying friction thereto is mounted to said frame means (1). The rope, cord or like means (29) passes over a wheel (17) carried by the frame means (1). A person exercising pulls on the rope, cord or like means (29) and the friction created by the means (31) applies a restraint to the pulling. Thus, the person exercising can by adjusting the means (31) control the exercising force level. A second wheel (19) is mounted to an arm (25) swingably mounted to the frame means (1) and the rope, cord or like means (29) also passes over the second wheel (19) and is held taut by the action of a spring (33).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRESWIN PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CRESWIN PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSSICH MARINO ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSSICH, MARINO, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANENDLESSROPEEXERCISEDEVICEField of the Invention This invention relates to exercising and relates particularly, but not exclusively, to an exercise device for developing strength to one's arms, fingers, hands, wrists, triceps, and shoulders.Description of Prior Art Hitherto, exercises for developing forearms, fingers, hands, wrists, triceps and shoulders has involved dedicated exercises having regard to particular exercise equipment which is available. Generally, there is no satisfactory single exercising device which can achieve all of the abovementioned exercises. Free weights provide only a limited source of exercises. Tricep presses have been devised but these generally have limited application. Object and Statement of the InventionAccordingly, it is an object of the present invention to attempt to provide an exercise device which can be used for one or more of the aforementioned exercises. Therefore, in accordance with a first broad aspect of the present invention there may be provided an exercise device comprising frame means, an endless rope, cord or like means and means for applying a friction thereto mounted to said frame means, the arrangement being such that the means for applying friction will apply a restraint to the rope, cord or like means which must be overcome by an exercising person pulling on the rope, cord or like means.Most preferably, the rope, cord or like means 

passes over a wheel, and the wheel has a surface which is engaged by the friction applying means.Most preferably the friction applying means can be adjusted to provide different degrees of restraint thereby permitting an exercising person to adjust the restraint to suit the required exercise.Most preferably the rope, cord or like means is a chain.Brief Description of the Drawings In order that the invention can be more clearly ascertained examples of preferred embodiments will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:Figure 1 is a front elevational view of a first preferred exercise device;Figure 2 is a side view of the exercise device shown in Figure 1;Figure 3 is a sectional view taken in the direction of arrows A-A on Figure 2; Figure 4 is a plan view of the device shown in the previous figures;Figure 5 is a side view of a second preferred exercise device; andFigure 6 is a front view of the device shown in Figure 5.Detailed Description of Preferred EmbodimentReferring now to all of Figures 1 to 4, there is shown an exercise device comprising a frame means 1 fabricated from rectangular
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS ;
1- An exercise device comprising frame means, an endless rope, cord or like means and means for applying a friction thereto mounted to said frame means, the arrangement being such that the means for applying friction will apply a restraint to the rope, cord or like means which must be overcome by an exercising person pulling on the rope, cord or like means.
2. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the rope, cord or like means passes over a wheel mounted to said frame means, and the wheel has a surface which is engaged by the friction applying means.
3. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said friction applying means is manually adjustable whereby to provide different degrees of restraint permitting an exercising person to adjust the restraint to suit the required exercise.
4. A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein the rope, cord or like means passes over a second wheel mounted to said frame means.
5. A device as claimed in claim 4 wherein said second wheel is
"
mounted on an arm which can swing to move said second wheel towards or away from said wheel and wherein spring means is provided to swing said arm away from said first wheel whereby to tension said rope, cord or like means.
6. A device as claimed in claim 2, wherein said means for applying friction comprises friction pad means engageable on the surface of said wheel.
7. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said frame is detachably mounted to a sub-frame and hook means
- are provided to permit the position of the frame to be adjusted relative to said sub frame thereby permitting a convenient user position to be obtained. 


8. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said frame is mounted to a sub-frame for rotation relative to said sub-frame and wherein locking means is provided to permit a desired angle of rotation to be held for particular exercises.
9. A device as claimed in claim 1 including a shroud for inhibiting against a persons fingers being caught between the rope, cord or like means and said wheel. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[
received by the International Bureau on 12 August 1993 (12.08.93); original claims 1-9 replaced by amended claims 1-6 (1 page)] -
CLAIMS:
1. An exercise device comprising frame means, a wheel mounted to said frame means, a second wheel mounted to said frame means spaced from said first wheel, and an endless rope, cord or like means passing over the wheels, the spacing of said wheels keeping the rope, cord or like means taught, means for applying friction to one of said wheels mounted to said frame means which will apply a restraint to the rope, cord or like means which must be overcome by an exercising person pulling on the rope, cord or like means, and wherein said frame means is mounted to a sub-frame for rotation relative to said sub-frame and wherein locking means is provided to permit a desired angle of rotation to be held for particular exercises.
2. An exercising device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means for applying friction engages a side face of one of said wheels.
3. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said friction applying means is manually adjustable whereby to provide different degrees of restraint permitting an exercising person to adjust the restraint to suit the required exercise.
4. A device as claimed in claim 2, wherein said means for applying friction comprises friction pad means engageable on the surface of said wheel.
5. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said frame is detachably mounted to a sub-frame and hook means are provided to permit the position of the frame to be adjusted relative to said sub frame thereby permitting a convenient user position to be obtained.
6. A device as claimed in claim 1 including a shroud for inhibiting against a persons fingers being caught between the rope, cord or like means and said wheel. 


 STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
The amendment results in new independent claim 1.
New claim 1 now includes the feature of former claim 8 - where the frame is mounted to a sub-frame for rotation relative to said sub-frame and wherein locking means is provided to permit a desired angle of rotation to be held for particular exercises. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
