<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648392</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL SOURCE FOR COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03B1700	H04B1014	H04B1014	H03B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03B	H04B	H04B	H03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03B17	H04B10	H04B10	H03B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical source for a communications system comprises an optical signal source (1) whose output is modulated so as to contain sidebands. The sidebands interact to produce beat frequencies and modifying means (3), such as a length of dispersive optical fibre, is used to modify characteristics of the sidebands so that the beat frequency can be detected at a receiver (4) comprising a photodetector. In this way, high frequency signals can be generated and photodetected, the output of the receiver (4) being suitable to drive a microwave antenna (5), thus providing an optically fed microwave communications link (6). Using a video signal generator (11), a video signal can be superimposed on the received beat frequency and therefore carried by the microwave link (6).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALKER NIGEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALKER, NIGEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optical source for 
a communications system and finds particular application in 
supplying high frequency signals to a photodetector. It is known to use a semiconductor laser structure as 
a signal source in optical communications. Such structures 
usually comprise an active layer of semiconductor material 
into which electrical carriers are injected by applying a 
drive current. The active layer is provided with optical 
confinement and feedback. The injected carriers produce 
photons in the active layer which oscillate and multiply by 
laser action to produce an optical output, often from an end 
facet of the laser structure. It is known that, in distributed feedback (DFB) 
lasers, it is possible to superimpose modulation on the 
optical output of a laser by varying the drive current. 
Because of physical limitations of the devices, this has only 
been done at rates up to about 20GHz. It is also known that 
as the drive current power increases, optical sidebands are 
seen, separated by the optical modulation frequency. As the 
optical frequency deviation of the source increases, more 
sidebands are produced, reflecting an overall spectral 
spreading of the modulated source. On a photodetector a received electrical signal is 
produced which is given by the (phasor) sum of the beat 
signals generated between all pairs of optical sidebands. 
The received electrical signal therefore contains components 
at multiple harmonics of the modulating frequency. However, 
a frequency modulated (FM) or phase modulated (PM) optical 
signal results in an electrical signal containing only a D. C. 
(zero frequency) component: the summation of beat signals 
between sidebands exactly cancels to give zero for the 
electrical signal components at the modulation frequency and 
higher harmonics thereof. Hence, although high frequency 
beat signals are present, they do not manifest themselves at 
a conventional photodetector based receiver. In the paper  
 
entitled "35GHz Microwave Signal Generation with an Injection-locked Laser 
Diode", published in Electronics Letters 29th August 1985 vol 21 no. 18, L 
Goldberg et al describes a system for generating 35GHz signals by injection locking 
a slave laser to sidebands of a modulated master laser output. Using a slave laser 
which has free-running modes separated by a frequency difference which equals a 
selected beat frequency between sidebands of the master laser, an output is 
generated from the slave laser which comprises two relatively
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical communications system comprising:- 

a optical signal source (1), said source in use having an optical output, 
modulation means (2) to produce angle modulation in said optical output at a 

modulation frequency and thereby cause optical sidebands to appear in the optical 
output, 
modifying means (3) to modify a relative characteristic of the optical 
sidebands in the optical output and thereby allow photodetection of at least one 

harmonic of said modulation at a receiver receiving said optical output, 
and a receiver (4) for receiving and photodetecting optical output to 
produce at least one radio-frequency harmonic of said modulation frequency. 
A system according to claim 1, wherein the modifying means comprises a 
dispersive optical fibre. 
A system according to Claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said optical signal 
source is a distributed feedback laser. 
A system according to Claim 3, wherein said optical signal source is a 
split-contact distributed feedback laser. 
A system according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the modulation 
means is operatively connected to an information source to enable the imposition 

of an information component onto the optical output and hence onto said radio 
frequency harmonic. 
A system according to Claim 5, wherein said information source comprises 
a source of video signals.  

 
A system according to any one of Claims 1 to 6, further comprising a 
microwave antenna (5) which in use receives the said at least one harmonic of said 

modulation frequency subsequent to photodetection by the receiver (4). 
A radio frequency signal source for use in a communications system, the 
source comprising an optical signal source (1) which, in use, has an optical output, 

modulation means (2) to produce angle modulation in said optical output and 
thereby cause optical sidebands to appear in the optical output, and modifying 

means (3) comprising a length of dispersive optical fibre to modify the relative 
phases of the optical sidebands in the optical output and thereby allow 

photodetection of at least one RF beat frequency between said sidebands at a 
receiver (4) receiving said optical output, and means to output said RF beat 

frequency from the receiver for use in a radio communications system. 
A source according to Claim 8, wherein an information source is 
operatively connected to the modulation means to enable an information-carrying 

modulation to be applied to the optical output and for an information component 
thereby to be passed to said receiver and output as a modulation on said RF beat 

frequency. 
A source according to Claim 9, wherein said information source comprises 
a source of video signals. 
A method of generating a radio frequency signal comprising: 

(i) driving a semiconductor optical source (1) at a drive current 
sufficient to generate an optical output; 
(ii) angle-modulating said optical output at a modulation frequency to 
generate optical sidebands in the optical output; 
(iii) modifying a relative characteristic of said optical sidebands in the 
optical output; and 
(iv) photodetecting said optical output to produce an electrical signal 
which comprises at least one radio frequency harmonic of said modulation 

frequency. 
A method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the modification in step (iii) is 
achieved by propagating said optical output through a length of dispersive optical 

fibre (3). 
A method of generating a free space microwave communications signal 
comprising: 


(i) driving a semiconductor optical source (1) at a drive current 
sufficient to generate an optical output; 
(ii) angle-modulating said optical output to generate optical sidebands in 
the optical output; 
(iii) conducting the optical output through a length of dispersive optical 
fibre to modify the relative phases of the optical sidebands in the optical output; 
(iv) photodetecting said optical output after its conduction through the 
optical fibre to produce an electrical signal which comprises at least one RF beat 

frequency between said sidebands; and 
(v) feeding a said beat frequency included in said electrical signal to a 
microwave antenna. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
