<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640653</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Homo-, co- or multicomponent thermoplastic polymer dispersed in a thermoset resin.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G5900	C08G5930	C08L2700	C08L2712	C08L6300	C08L6300	C08L7100	C08L7100	C08L7108	C08L7110	C08L8700	C08L8700	C08L10100	C08L10100	C08L10102	H05K103	H05K103	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G59	C08G59	C08L27	C08L27	C08L63	C08L63	C08L71	C08L71	C08L71	C08L71	C08L87	C08L87	C08L101	C08L101	C08L101	H05K1	H05K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides the design and synthetic procedure for 
a thermoplastic copolymer which can be co-reacted with XU8212 

(or any DGEBA or novolac epoxy resin) to enhance fracture 
toughness, processibility, and drillability without 

sacrificing other desirable properties such as high 
temperature performance, thermal stability, etc. A requirement 

for the thermoplastic copolymers is that they be initially 
soluble in the XU 8212 resin and then undergo an in-situ phase 

separation process as the network cure progresses. 
Furthermore, the thermoplastic modifier must be soluble in 

methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) for conventional processing 
techniques to be utilized to fabricate the Clark boards. This 

approach to a thermoplastic modifier would permit use of the 
existing resin and panel fabrication process but enhance the 

material mechanical properties for improved processability and 
product reliability. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTRO JEFFREY THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEDRICK JEFFREY CURTIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOSEPH WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAPATHOMAS KONSTANTINOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATEL NIRANJAN MOHANLAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIEHBECK ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTRO JEFFREY THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEDRICK JEFFREY CURTIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOSEPH WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAPATHOMAS KONSTANTINOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATEL NIRANJAN MOHANLAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIEHBECK ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a curable 
thermosetting resin composition having enhanced 
fracture toughness as a result of the incorporation of 
reactive thermoplastic oligomers therein. More 
specifically, the present invention relates to a 
composition comprising a thermoset resin which contains 
fluorine and containing at least one fluorine 
containing thermoplastic homopolymer component which is 
soluble in the thermoset. Said thermoplastic polymer 
undergoes an in-situ phase separation process during 
cure to form a microphase separated multiphase 
thermoset material. Furthermore, the present invention relates to a 
composition comprising a thermoset resin which  
 
optionally contains (i.e., it may or may not contain) 
fluorine, bromine or both and containing at least one 
thermoplastic co-, ter- or multicomponent polymer 
component which is fluorine-containing and is soluble 
in the thermoset. Said thermoplastic polymer undergoes 
an in-situ phase separation process during cure to form 
a microphase-separated multiphase thermoset material. Furthermore, this invention relates to a 
composition comprising a thermoset resin which may or 
may not contain fluorine, bromine or both and 
containing at least one bromine-containing homo- or 
multicomponent thermoplastic polymer modifier 
optionally containing a different halogen which is 
soluble in the thermoset. Said thermoplastic polymer 
undergoes an in-situ phase separation process during 
cure to form a microphase-separated multiphase 
thermoset material. The resin composition may be impregnated into 
various types of reinforcement, yielding insulating 
materials with either a controlled coefficient of  
 
thermal expansion (CTE) or a low dielectric constant or 
both. Furthermore, this invention relates to a curable 
material useful in conducting heat or electricity 
comprising a thermosetting material and inorganic or 
metal particles which exhibit high thermal stability 
with controlled CTE. Furthermore, the present invention relates to a 
curable material useful in the fabrication of prepreg 
layers for use in the manufacture of articles related 
to electronic packaging structures, aircraft, 
aerospace, automotive, recreational articles, and as 
adhesives. Furthermore, the present invention relates to a 
curable material for use in electronic packaging 
applications wherein a thermoset material is required 
which has high fracture toughness and improved 
mechanical performance and is processable with existing 
manufacturing technology.  More
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A curable material comprising: 
a fluorine-containing thermoset material selected from 

the group consisting of epoxy resin, bismaleides, 
acetylene-terminated resins, propargyl, bisnadimides, 

benzocyclobutene, bismaleide-triazine-epoxy blends, 
cyanate resins and blends thereof, and 

a fluorine-containing thermoplastic homopolymer; 
said material being heat-curable at temperatures between 

about 100° C to 325° C; 
said material in the cured state comprising a fluorine-containing 

homopolymer network having a plurality of 
discrete phases of said fluorine-containing thermoplastic 

polymer dispersed therein; 
said thermoplastic homopolymer phases being in the range 

of submicron to micron size. 
2. A curable material comprising: 
a thermoset material which may or may not be fluorine-containing 

selected from the group consisting of epoxy 
resin, bismaleides, acetylene-terminated resins, 

propargyl, bisnadimides, benzocyclobutene, bismaleide-triazine-epoxy 
blends, cyanate resins and blends thereof, 

and 
a multicomponent fluorine-containing thermoplastic 

polymer;
 

said material being heat-curable at temperatures between 
about 100° C to 325° C; 

said material in the cured state comprising a polymer 
network having a plurality of discrete phases of said 

multicomponent fluorine-containing thermoplastic polymer 
dispersed therein; 

said multicomponent fluorine-containing thermoplastic 
polymer phases being in the range of submicron to micron 

size. 
3. A curable material comprising: 
a bromine-containing thermoset material, optionally 

containing fluorine, and 
a bromine-containing homo- or multicomponent 

thermoplastic polymer; 
said polymer optionally containing a halogen, preferably 

fluorine; 
said material being heat curable at temperatures between 

about 100° C and 325° C; 
said material in the cured state comprising a bromine-containing 

polymer network having a plurality of discrete 
phases of said bromine-containing homo- or multicomponent 

thermoplastic polymer dispersed therein; 
said homo- or multicomponent bromine-containing 

thermoplastic polymer phases ranging from submicron to 
micron size. 
4. The material in the cured state according to any one of 
claims 1 to 3, which has a toughness of greater than 

about 100 Joules per square meter. 
5. The material defined in any one of claims 1 to 4 
comprising different monomers, prepolymers of said 

monomers, or blends of monomers with different monomers 
or blends of the same or different monomers with 

prepolymers. 
6. The material defined in claim 1, 
wherein said fluorine-containing thermoplastic 

homopolymer has the repeating structural element of 
formula (I): 

 
   wherein X is any group capable of reacting with an 

amine, epoxide, nadimide, maleimide, acetylene, 
propargyl, benzocyclobutene; and n is 1 to 100; 

   wherein R₁ represents bivalent aromatic groups of 
the formulas (IIa)-(IIe) 


 
   wherein Y represents -CO-, -SO-, -S- or -S0₂-, 

-PO(C₆H₅)-, p signifies the number 0, 1 or 2 and q is 
the number 2 or 3, 

   R₂ signifies a bivalent aromatic group of the 
formulas (IIIa)-(IIIr) 


 
   wherein Q represents a direct bond, -CH₂-, -O- or 

-CO-, and wherein Z represents -CH₂-, C(CH₃)₂-, 
-C(CH₃)(C₆H₅)-, -CH(CH₃)-, -C(CF₃)(C₆H₅), -C(CF₃)₂-, 

-PO(C₆H₅)-,-S-, -O-, -SO-, -SO₂- or -CO-, 
   wherein the aromatic rings of the formulas (IIa)-(IIe) 

are unsubstituted or are substituted by one or 
more halogen atoms and/or (C₁-C₅) alkyl groups which 

may be fluorine-containing or (C₁-C₅) alkoxy groups 
which may be fluorine-containing and wherein the 

aromatic rings of the formulas (IIIa)-(IIIr) are 
unsubstituted or are substituted by one or more halogen 

atoms and/or (C₁-C₅) alkyl groups or (C₁-C₅) alkoxy 
groups which may contain fluorine. 
7. The material defined in claim 2, 
wherein said fluorine-containing homo- or 

multicomponent thermoplastic polymer has the repeating 
structural element containing 1-99 mol % of a repeating 

structural element of the formula (IV) 
 

   and 99-1 mol% of a repeating structural element of 
the formula (V) 

 
   and 99-0 mol% of a repeating structural element of 

the formula (VI) 
 

   wherein X is any group capable of reacting with an 
amine, epoxide, nadimide, maleimide, acetylene, 

propargyl, benzocyclobutene; and n=1-100; and wherein 
R₁ represents bivalent aromatic groups of the formulas 

(VIIa) - (VIIe) 
 

   wherein Y represents -CO-, -PO(C₆H₅)-, -SO-, or 
-SO₂-, p signifies the number 0, 1 or 2 and q is the 

number 2 or 3, R₂, R₃, and R₄ signify bivalent aromatic 
groups of the formulas (VIIIa) to (VIIIr) 


 
   wherein Q represents a direct bond, -CH₂-, -O-, or 

-CO- and Z represents -CH₂-, -C(CH₃)₂-, -C(CH₃)(C₆H₅)-, 
-CH(CH₃)-, -C(CF₃)(C₆H₅)-,-C(CF₃)₂-, -PO(C₆H₅)-, -S-, -O-, 

-SO-, -SO₂- or -CO-, 
   wherein the aromatic rings of the formulas (VIIa)-(VIIe) 

are unsubstituted or are substituted by one or 
more halogen atoms and/or (C₁-C₅) alkyl groups or (C₁-C₅) 

alkoxy groups which may fluorine-containing and 
   wherein the aromatic rings of the formulas 

(VIIIa)-(VIIIr) are unsubstituted or are substituted by 
one or more halogen atoms and/or (C₁-C₅) alkyl groups 

or (C₁-C₅) alkoxy groups which may contain fluorine. 
64. Compositions according to claim 63, wherein 
in the formulas (IV), (V), and (VI), R₁ represents 


8. The material defined in claim 3, 
wherein said bromine-containing homo- or multicomponent 

thermoplastic polymer has the repeating structural 
element containing 1-99 mol% of a repeating structural 

element of the formula (IX) 
 

   and 99-1 mol% of a repeating structural element of 
the formula (X) 

 
   and 99-0 mol% of a repeating structural element of 

the formula (XI) 

 

   wherein X is any group capable of reacting with an 
epoxide, nadimide, maleimide, amine, acetylene, 

propargyl benzocyclobutene; and n = 1 to 100; and 
   wherein R₁ represents bivalent aromatic groups of 

the formulas (XIIa) - (XIIe) 
 

   wherein Y represents -CO-, -PO(C₆H₅)-, -SO- or SO₂, 
p signifies the number 0, 1 or 2 and q is the number 2 

or 3, and R₂, R₃ and R₄ signify a bivalent aromatic 
group of the formulas (XIIIa) to (XIIIr) 

 
   wherein Q represents a direct bond, -CH₂-, -O-
 or 
-CO-, and Z represents -CH₂-, -C(CH₃)₂-,-C(CH₃)(C₆H₅)-, 

-C(CF₃)₂-, -PO(C₆H₅)-, -C(CF₃)(C₆H₅)-, -S-, -O-, -SO₂- or 
-CO-, 

   wherein the aromatic rings of the formulas (XIIa) 
- (XIIe) are unsubstituted or are substituted by one or 

more halogen atoms and/or (C₁-C₅) alkyl groups which 
may be halogen-containing or (C₁-C₅) alkoxy groups 

which may be halogen-containing and, 
   wherein the aromatic rings of the formulas 

(XIIIa)-(XIIIr) are unsubstituted or are substituted by 
one or more halogen atoms and/or (C₁-C₅) alkyl groups 

or (C₁-C₅) alkoxy groups which may be halogen-containing 
all of which may be branched or straight-chain 

oriented. 
9. The material defined in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein 
in formulae (I), (IV), (V), (VI), (IX), (X) and (XI) R₁ 

represents 
 

   and R₂ in formula (I) represents 
 

wherein the aromatic rings are unsubstituted or are 
substituted by one or more halogen atoms and/or (C₁-C₅) 

alkyl groups which may contain fluorine or bromine, 
respectively, or (C₁-C₅) alkoxy groups which may contain 

fluorine or bromine, respectively. 
10. The material defined in any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein 
in formulae (I), (IV), (V), (VI), (IX), (X) and (XI) R₁ 

represents 
 

R₂ represents 
 

R₃, in case of claim 2 represents 
 

in case of claim 3 represents 

 

and R₄ represents 

11. The material defined in any one of claims 6 to 8 wherein 
X is a hydroxyl group. 
12. The curable material defined in claim 10 or 11, wherein 
said material is fully soluble in methyl ethyl ketone. 
13. The curable material defined in any one of claims 1 to 12 
that contains a catalyst to accelerate the cure of said 

uncured material. 
14. The curable material defined in any one of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein said thermoplastic polymer is soluble in both 

methyl ethyl ketone and said thermoset prior to cure. 
15. The curable material of any one of claims 1 to 14, 
wherein said thermoplastic polymer has a glass transition 

temperature of at least 130° C. 
16. The curable material of any one of claims 1 to 15, 
wherein said thermoplastic polymer has a molecular weight 

in the range of 2.500 to 30.000 g/mol number average 
molecular weight, preferably 15.000 g/mol number average 

molecular weight, and is present in the range of between 
5 and 50 weight/weight percent, preferably between about 

10 and 20 weight/weight percent. 
17. A prepreg which is heat curable within a temperature 
range of between 100° C and 325° C comprising a 

reinforcing material impregnated with said curable 
material defined in any one of claims 1 to 16. 
18. The prepreg defined in claim 17 wherein said reinforcing 
material is selected from the group consisting of woven 

glass fabric, preferably E-glass, a non-woven aramid 
fiber mat, a mat of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene and 

woven or unidirectional carbon fibers. 
19. A cured laminate comprising a plurality of adhered layers 
comprising the prepreg defined in claim 17 or 18. 
20. A blend capable of forming an electrically conductive 
composite comprising the curable material of any one of 

claims 1 to 16 in admixture with electrically conductive 
particles selected from the group consisting of carbon, 

copper, nickel, silver, gold, platinum, palladium, iron, 
zinc, tungsten, molybdenum and alloys and mixtures 

thereof. 
21. A blend capable of forming a thermally conductive 
composite comprising the curable material of any one of 

claims 1 to 16 in admixture with heat conductive 
particles selected from the group consisting of aluminum 

oxide, aluminum nitride, boron nitride, zinc oxide, 
diamond and silica. 
22. A blend comprising the prepreg defined in claim 17 or 18 
in admixture with between about 25 to about 65 voulume 

percent hollow glass or silica spheres, each said spheres 
having a diameter within the range of between about 5 to 

25 micrometer. 
23. A circuit board comprising a laminate of at least one 
laminate as defined in claim 19 and at least one layer of 

conductive material bonded thereto to form a composite 
structure suitable for circuitization. 
24. A circuit board comprising a cured laminate of at least 
one laminate comprising a plurality of adhered layers 

comprising the prepreg defined in claim 17 or 18 said 
prepreg having a coefficient of thermal expansion between 

about 4 and 10 and at least one layer of conductive metal 
bonded thereto to form a composite structure suitable for 

circuitization. 
25. An article comprising a plurality of layers wherein at 
least one of said layers is formed of the material in the 

cured state defined in any one of claims 1 to 16 and at 
least one layer is formed of a thermoplastic or 

thermosetting resin. 
26. The article defined in claim 25, wherein one or more of 
said layers contains electrically conductive metal 

patterns embedded therein. 
27. The article of claim 25 or 26 comprising a plurality of 
thermoplastic or thermosetting layers that can be the 

same or different and are selected from the group 
consisting of polyimide, photosensitive polyimide, epoxy, 

benzocyclobutene and polycyanurate formed from 
photosensitive resin. 
28. A multilayer article of manufacture comprising an 
electrically conductive circuit layer on a polymer, 

ceramic or multilayer substrate wherein the thermoset 
material of any one of claims 1 to 16 is applied over 

said electrically conductive circuit layer from a solvent 
solution or from a melt solution to provide a dielectric 

layer having planarized outer surface after curing said 
thermoset material, said article being characterized in 

 
having one set or a plurality of alternation wiring 

networks in said fluorine- or bromine-containing 
thermoset material. 
29. A process for fabricating the multilayer article of claim 
28 wherein said curable material of any one of claims 1 

to 16 is applied to said substrate from a solvent 
solution or from a melt to provide a uniform dielectric 

layer after curing said fluorine- or bromine-containing 
thermoset material. 
30. The process of claim 29 wherein said thermoset material 
provides a dielectric layer having a planarized outer 

surface after curing said fluorine- or bromine-containing 
thermoset material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
