<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618883</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OIL ABSORPTION METHOD AND APPARATUS UTILIZING A REPLACEABLE BLADDER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1500	B01D1500	C02F128	C02F128	E02B1300	E02B1300	E02B1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C02F	C02F	E02B	E02B	E02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D15	B01D15	C02F1	C02F1	E02B13	E02B13	E02B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of removing hazardous fluid waste material from a body of water by exposing a carrier (10) containing a porous bladder (20) filled with sorbent material to the waste and then removing said carrier (10). The exposed bladder (20) may be removed from the carrier (10) for disposal of the waste. The carrier (10) may be recharged with a fresh bladder (20) and reused. An apparatus for removing hazardous fluid waste material having a carrier (10) for a porous bladder (20) filled with sorbent material such as waterfowl feathers. The carrier (10) is fabricated to allow the removal of an exposed bladder (20) and refilling with a fresh bladder (20) without removal of the apparatus from the surface of the water while still containing the pool of hazardous waste. The carrier (10) may be fabricated of flexible (40) or rigid (60) mesh material. An adhesive coating may be applied to the bladder (20) to aid in containment of the sorbent material within the bladder (20) especially during handling. An adhesive may be applied to a brick (700) of sorbent material to hold it together while used as above or the brick may be used without a carrier (10).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HILL ALAN R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HILL, ALAN, R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILL ALAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILL, ALAN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
L ABSORPTION METHOD AND APPARATUS UTILIZING A REPLACEABLE BLADDER BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention This invention relates generally to clean-up of hazardous fluid waste material including that containing oil or petroleum products, and removal of such hazardous fluid waste material from the top surface of bodies of water or from dry land, and more particularly, to the use of oleophilic sorbent material such as waterfowl feathers contained in or formed as a porous bladder and insertably removable from within a reusable mesh carrier apparatus or used without a carrier. The bladder may be formed with a mesh and contained therein with a spray of adhesive; or the bladder may be formed brick shaped without the mesh in which case the sorbent material is held together as a brick with only adhesive. This application is a similar to PCT/US91/07298 but contains new matter not contained therein and is filed as a continuation in part of that application which is abandoned upon the filing of this application and the granting of a priority date. Description of the Prior Art A U.S. Patent 4,919,820 ('820) discloses a method of removing oil from a body of water by means of an apparatus constructed of flexible mesh container filled with duck feathers. Said apparatus, as a whole, being removably insertable into the contaminated water. The apparatus disclosed in '820 worked well for the intended purpose of rapid removal of petroleum from water bodies after an oil spill, but it did require some storage space for the apparatus. Further, for the ap- paratus to be reused, the entire apparatus had to be removed from the body of water, routed through a device to squeeze out the absorbed oil and then reinserted into the body of water. During the time the apparatus was out of the water, the oil slick was unconfined and could spread. *820 attempted to solve this problem by providing a second apparatus parallel to the first apparatus which would con- 

 fine the oil slick while the first apparatus was being removed. The first apparatus would then be reinserted into the water behind the second apparatus - a difficult feat of topology if performed from a small service boat. Further, the disposal of the entire '820 ap- paratus continues to be an unsolved problem in view of the considerable size of the used apparatus saturated with oil and having a percentage of the apparatus which may be σom- posed of non-biodegradable material such as fiber glass mesh coated with polyvinyl resin. The used *820 apparatus could present a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. The method of removing hazardous fluid waste from a body of water or dry land that includes: a) providing a flexible mesh carrier having a plurality of cells; b) providing a porous bladder filled with sor- bent material; c) spray coating of said bladder with an adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said bladder: d) inserting said porous bladder filled with sorbent material into each of said cells; e) introducing said bladder filled, flexible mesh carrier into contact with the hazardous waste near or at the surface of the water body or on dry land; f) allowing absorption of the hazardous waste through the flexible mesh carrier and into the sorbent material within the porous bladder within each said cell; and, g) removing said flexible mesh carrier from the body of water or dry land, for removal of said bladder from each said cell for disposition of the absorbed haz- ardous material.
2. The method of removing hazardous fluid waste material from a body of water or dry land that includes: a) providing a flexible mesh carrier having a plurality of cells accessible through a closeable opening; b) providing a porous bladder filled with sor- bent material; c) spray coating of said bladder with an adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said bladder: d) inserting said porous bladder filled with sorbent material into each of said cells through said closeable opening; 


 e) closing said opening and introducing said bladder filled, flexible mesh carrier into contact with the hazardous material near or at the surface of the water body or on dry land; f) allowing absorption of the hazardous material through the flexible mesh carrier and into said sorbent material within said porous bladder within each said cell; and, g) removing said flexible mesh carrier from the body of water or dry land, for removal of said bladder from each said cell for disposition of the absorbed haz- ardous material.
3. The method of Claim 2 including the recharg- ing each of said cells with a dry bladder and re-deploying said flexible mesh carrier.
4. The method of Claim 2 wherein the bladder is fabricated of coarse mesh porous material.
5. The method of Claim 2 wherein the sorbent material use to fill the bladder is waterfowl feathers.
6. The method of Claim 5 wherein said waterfowl feathers consist of duck feathers.
7. The method of removing hazardous fluid waste material from a body of water or dry land that includes: a) providing a flexible mesh carrier having a plurality of cells accessible through a closeable opening; b) providing a porous bladder filled with sor- bent material; c) spray coating of said bladder with an 



 adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said bladder: d) inserting said porous bladder filled with sorbent material into each of said cells through said closeable opening; e) closing said opening and introducing said bladder filled, flexible mesh carrier into contact with the hazardous material near or at the surface of the water body or dry land; f) allowing absorption of the hazardous material through the flexible mesh carrier and into said sorbent material within said porous bladder within each said cell; and, g) opening said cell for removal of said blad- der from each said cell for disposition of the absorbed hazardous material and refilling said cell with a fresh bladder without removing said carrier from the body of water or dry land.
8. A hazardous fluid waste removing apparatus applicable to a body of water or dry land to absorb said waste on or near the surface comprising, in combination: an elongated sheet of preselected gage mesh folded substantially longitudinally, forming two remote ends and adjacent longitudinal edges, one edge being a fold and the other edge being open; seams applied to close at least said remote ends of said folded sheet; a preselected plurality of seams applied between said remote ends to form a plurality of cells; openable/closeable means mounted on said open longitudinal edges whereby the user may open the portion of said longitudinal edge between adjacent seams to access each of said cells; an elongated sheet of preselected gage porous material folded, filled with sorbent material and closed along the open edges to form a bladder; and 


 an adhesive coating applied to the outside sur- face of said sorbent filled bladder whereby the user may removably insert a plurality of said bladders into each of said cells.
9. The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said sorbent material is waterfowl feathers.
10. The apparatus of Claim 9 wherein said water- fowl feathers are duck feathers.
11. The apparatus of Claim 8 further comprising edges formed in each seam near said fold to form aper- tures.
12. The apparatus of Claim 11 further compris- ing grommets mounted within said apertures.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 further compris- ing a preselected length of lead line mounted within said grommets.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the ends of said lead line are formed into loops which may be used to connect the apparatus into a preselected boom length.
15. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said blad- der is fabricated of biodegradable material.
16. A hazardous fluid waste removing apparatus 


 applicable to a body of water to absorb said waste float- ing near the surface of the water comprising, in combina- tion: an elongated sheet of preselected gage mesh; an elongated sheet of non-porous material joined by the longitudinal edges to said sheet of mesh material to form a circular body with remote ends; a curtain fabricated of a sheet of non-porous material attached to one of said joined longitudinal edges of said body; openable seams applied to close at least said remote ends of said body; a preselected plurality of openable seams ap- plied between said remote ends to form a plurality of cells whereby the user may open a seam to access each of said cells; an elongated sheet of preselected gage porous material which is folded, filled with sorbent material and closed along the open edges to form a bladder; and, an adhesive coating applied to the outside sur- face of said sorbent filled bladder whereby the user may removably insert a plurality of.said bladders into each of said cells.
17. The apparatus of Claim 16 further compris- ing: a preselected length of lead line mounted on the edge of said curtain remote from said body.
18. The apparatus of Claim 16 further compris- ing: a preselected length of lead line mounted on the mesh of said body thereby increasing the amount of mesh exposed to the surface of said body of water containing hazardous fluid waste material. 


 19. A hazardous fluid waste removing apparatus applicable to a body of water to absorb said waste float- ing near the surface of the water comprising, in combina- tion: an elongated sheet of preselected gage, rigid mesh forming a back plane; a plurality of pairs of panels having a back edge and a front edge, mounted at a preselected angle by said back edge on said back plane to form cells whereby said front edges are spaced apart a preselected distance; an elongated sheet of preselected gage porous material folded, filled with sorbent material and closed along the open edges to form a bladder; an adhesive coating applied to the outside sur- face of said sorbent filled bladder whereby the user may removably insert a plurality of said bladders into each of said cells; and, floats mounted on said back plane to provide neutral buoyancy to the apparatus full of bladders whereby the apparatus will float in a vertical position with a preselected portion of the apparatus above the surface of the water.
20. The apparatus of Claim 19 wherein said sor- bent material is waterfowl feathers.
21. The apparatus of Claim 20 wherein said waterfowl feathers are duck feathers.
22. The apparatus of Claim 19 further compris- ing: a plurality of catches mounted on one vertical edge of said back plane and a corresponding plurality of latches mounted on the other vertical edge of said back 


 1 plane whereby the user may fasten a plurality of the ap-
2 paratus units together to form a boom to contain the haz-
3 ardous waste. 4
5
6 23. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said
7 bladder is fabricated of biodegradable material. 8
9
10 24. The method of removing hazardous fluid
11 waste from a body of water or dry land that includes:
12 a) providing a flexible mesh carrier having a
13 plurality of cells;
14 b) providing a bladder formed as a porous brick
15 of sorbent material spray coating said bladder with an
16 adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said
17 porous brick;
18 c) inserting said bladder filled with sorbent
19 material into each of said cells;
20 d) introducing said bladder filled, flexible
21 mesh carrier into contact with the hazardous waste near or
22 at the surface of the water body, or dry land;
23 e) allowing absorption of the hazardous waste
24 through the flexible mesh carrier and into the sorbent
25 material within the porous bladder within each said cell;
26 and,
27 f) removing said flexible mesh carrier from the
28 body of water or dry land, for removal of said bladder
29 from each said cell for disposition of the absorbed haz-
30 ardous material. 31
32
33 25. The method of removing hazardous fluid
34 waste material from a body of water or dry land that in-
35 eludes:
36. a) providing a flexible mesh carrier having a
37 plurality of cells accessible through a closeable opening;
38 b) providing a bladder formed as a porous brick 39 


of sorbent material spray coating said bladder with an adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said porous brick; c) inserting said porous bladder filled with sorbent material into each of said cells through said closeable opening; d) closing said opening and introducing said bladder filled, flexible mesh carrier into contact with the hazardous material near or at the surface of the water body or dry land; e) allowing absorption of the hazardous material through the flexible mesh carrier and into said sorbent material within said porous bladder within each said cell; and, f) removing said flexible mesh carrier from the body of water or dry land, for removal of said bladder from each said cell for disposition of the absorbed haz- ardous material.
26. The method of Claim 25 including the recharging each of said cells with a dry bladder and re- deploying said flexible mesh carrier.
27. The method of Claim 25 wherein the sorbent material use to fill the bladder is waterfowl feathers.
28. The method of Claim 27 wherein said water- fowl feathers consist of duck feathers.
29. The method of removing hazardous fluid waste material from a body of water or dry land that in- eludes: a) providing a flexible mesh carrier having a plurality of cells accessible through a closeable opening; 


 b) providing a bladder formed as a porous brick of sorbent material spray coating said bladder with an adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said porous brick; c) inserting said bladder filled with sorbent material into each of said cells through said closeable opening; d) closing said opening and introducing said bladder filled, flexible mesh carrier into contact with the hazardous material near or at the surface of the water body or dry land; e) allowing absorption of the hazardous material through the flexible mesh carrier and into said sorbent material within said porous bladder within each said cell; and, f) opening said cell for removal of said blad- der from each said cell for disposition of the absorbed hazardous material and refilling said cell with a fresh bladder without removing said carrier from the body of water or surface of the dry land.
30. A hazardous fluid waste removing apparatus applicable to a body of water to absorb said waste float- ing near the surface of the water comprising, in combina- tion: an elongated sheet of preselected gage mesh folded substantially longitudinally, forming two remote ends and adjacent longitudinal edges, one edge being a fold and the other edge being open; seams applied to close at least said remote ends of said folded sheet; a preselected plurality of seams applied between said remote ends to form a plurality of cells; openable/closeable means mounted on said open longitudinal edges whereby the user may open the portion of said longitudinal edge between adjacent seams to access each of said cells; 


 a bladder formed as a porous brick of sorbent material spray coating said bladder with an adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said porous brick whereby the user may removably insert a plurality of said bladders into each of said cells.
31. The apparatus of Claim 30 wherein said sor- bent material is waterfowl feathers.
32. The apparatus of Claim 31 wherein said waterfowl feathers are duck feathers.
33. A hazardous fluid waste removing apparatus applicable to a body of water to absorb said waste float- ing near the surface of the water comprising, in combina- tion: an elongated sheet of preselected gage mesh; an elongated sheet of non-porous material joined by the longitudinal edges to said sheet of mesh material to form a circular body with remote ends; a curtain fabricated of a sheet of non-porous material attached to one of said joined longitudinal edges of said body; openable seams applied to. close at least said remote ends of said body; a preselected plurality of openable seams ap- plied between said remote ends to form a plurality of cells whereby the user may open a seam to access each of said cells; a bladder formed as a porous brick of sorbent material spray coating said bladder with an adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said porous brick whereby the user may removably insert a plurality of said bladders into each of said cells. 


 34. The apparatus of Claim 33 further compris- ing: a preselected length of lead line mounted on the edge of said curtain remote from said body.
35. The apparatus of Claim 33 further compris- ing: a preselected length of lead line mounted on the mesh of said body thereby increasing the amount of mesh exposed to the surface of said body of water containing hazardous fluid waste material.
36. A hazardous fluid waste removing apparatus applicable to a body of water to absorb said waste float- ing near the surface of the water comprising, in combina- tion: an elongated sheet of preselected gage, rigid mesh forming a back plane; a plurality of pairs of panels having a back edge and a front edge, mounted at a preselected angle by said back edge on said back plane to form cells whereby said front edges are spaced apart a preselected distance; a bladder formed as a porous brick of sorbent material spraying said bladder with an adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said porous brick whereby the user may removably insert a plurality of said bladders into each of said cells; and, floats mounted on said back plane to provide neutral buoyancy to the apparatus full of bladders whereby the apparatus will float in a vertical position with a preselected portion of the apparatus above the surface of the water.
37. The apparatus of Claim 36 wherein said sor- 


bent material is waterfowl feathers.
38. The apparatus of Claim 37 wherein said waterfowl feathers are duck feathers.
39. The apparatus of Claim 36 further compris- ing: a plurality of catches mounted on one vertical edge of said back plane and a corresponding plurality of latches mounted on the other vertical edge of said back plane whereby the user may fasten a plurality of the ap- paratus units together to form a boom to contain the haz- ardous waste.
40. The method of removing hazardous fluid waste material from a body of water or dry land that in- eludes: a) providing a bladder formed as a porous brick of sorbent material; b) spraying said bladder with an adhesive to contain said sorbent material within said porous brick; c) introducing said brick, into contact with the hazardous material near or at the surface of the water body or dry land; d) allowing absorption of the hazardous material into said sorbent material within said porous brick; and, e) removal of said brick from said hazardous material for disposition of the absorbed hazardous material.
41. The apparatus of Claims 1, 2, 7, 8, 16, 19, 24, 25, 29, 30, 33, 36 and 40 wherein the adhesive is biodegradable. 


 42. The apparatus of Claims 1, 2, 7, 8, 16, 19, 24, 25, 29, 30, 33, 36 and 40 wherein the adhesive is non- biodegradable. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
