<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636062</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAW FOR GREEN AND CURED CONCRETE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25G100	B25G104	B27B900	B27B902	B28D102	B28D104	E01C2300	E01C2302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25G	B25G	B27B	B27B	B28D	B28D	E01C	E01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25G1	B25G1	B27B9	B27B9	B28D1	B28D1	E01C23	E01C23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TARGET PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TARGET PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON KEVIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YELTON DARRELL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILSON KEVIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YELTON DARRELL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SAW FOR GREEN AND CURED CONCRETE BACKGROUND OP THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention relates in general to concrete saws. In particular, the present invention relates to an improved saw for the grooving of uncured or green, in addition to cured concrete to aid in crack control. Description of the Related ArtIt has been known for many years to provide grooves in concrete for crack control. The formation of the groove in the concrete provides an area of reduced strength to ensure that the cracks which form during shrinkage of the concrete will be formed along the line of the groove rather than at some other point. This has important structural implications, in addition to providing a more aesthetically pleasing appearance.The traditional method of forming grooves was to manually form the groove by use of a trowel. This is a time consuming process which requires a fair amount of skill. Additionally, since this must be performed when the concrete is recently poured, the concrete will not support the weight of the laborer forming the grooves. This makes it especially difficult to form grooves across large slabs of concrete.An alternative method of forming grooves in concrete has been proposed in U.S. Patent No. 4,769,201 to Chiuminatta, et al. This patent teaches the cutting of a groove in partially cured concrete by the use of a rotating blade. This method of forming grooves has advantages over the manual trowel method, but has suffered from several drawbacks. The commercial form of the device shown in this patent must employ a special "ramp" to start the saw in the 

grooving operation. Additionally, the saw rests upon a skid plate which makes it difficult for the user to move the saw forward, and which may damage the surface of the uncured concrete. Also, the saw blade is raised out of the formed groove by rotation of a handle used to push the saw. This rotation is about the longitudinal axis of the handle and tends to rotate the saw and thus the cutting blade about an axis perpendicular to the cutting rotation of the saw blade, moving the saw off the desired line and widening the groove. Finally, the long handles removably mounted to the saw are often misplaced or not supplied with the saw, rendering it inoperative until a handle is supplied. SUMMARY OP THE INVENTIONAn object of the present invention is to provide a concrete saw which may be easily broken down and placed in a storage or travel position having small dimensions with no loose parts.Another object of the present invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A saw for grooving concrete, comprising: a base; a plurality of wheels rotatably mounted on said base for supporting said base and allowing movement of said base with respect to the surface of the concrete in a direction: a frame mounted on said base for pivotal movement with respect to said base in a substantially vertical plane containing said direction, said frame including an abutment surface; motor means mounted on said frame for counter-rotating a blade within said plane, said blade being spaced from the pivot axis of said frame with respect of said base, whereby pivotal movement of said frame with respect to said base will cause said blade to be lowered into contact with, and raised out of contact with, the concrete; and a handle assembly mounted to said base for pivotal motion in said plane, and including an abutment portion for engagement with said abutment surface, whereby pivotal motion of said handle assembly with said abutment portion and abutment surface in contact will cause pivotal movement of said frame with respect to said base, and thus said raising and lowering of said blade.
SUBSTITUTE 


 2. A saw as in Claim 1, wherein a portion of said plurality of wheels are mounted to said base by an axle, and wherein said frame and said handle assembly are pivotally mounted to said base by said axle.
3. A saw as in Claim 1, further including means for adjustably limiting pivotal movement of said frame with respect to said base, whereby the maximum depth of the saw with respect to the surface of the concrete may be adjustably fixed.
4. A saw as in Claim 3, wherein said means for limiting pivotal movement comprises: a depth control rod mounted on said base and extending upwardly toward said frame and extending through said frame; and a collar adjustably fixed on said rod below said frame, whereby said frame may rest upon said collar and thereby limit downward pivotal movement of said frame with respect to said base.
5. A saw as in Claim 1, wherein said base includes a blade slot through which said blade extends at least when said blade is in the lowered position; and further including: a pair of dust deflectors, one of said deflectors being mounted at each longitudinal end of said blade slot; and
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 a blade guard mounted on said frame and covering at least the upper half of said blade, said blade guard extending over at least a portion of said dust deflectors when said blade is in the lowered position.
6. A saw as in Claim 5, wherein said blade guard includes a nozzle attachment extending into a cavity defined by said guard and containing said blade, said nozzle attachment adapted to be connected to a source of reduced atmospheric pressure.
7. A saw as in Claim 1, wherein said motor is mounted within the lateral extent of said wheels, and further including a cutting guide mounted on said base to extend below said guide slot and including a slot for receiving said blade therethrough when said blade is in the lowered position, said cutting guide being formed of a sufficiently resilient material to place a biased spring force against the surface of the concrete.
8. A saw as in Claim l, wherein said handle assembly includes at least one handle bracket providing the pivotal connection with said base, a handle support selectively pivotable with respect to said handle bracket, and a handle extension telescopically connected to said handle support, whereby said handle assembly may be placed 


in an operative position with said handle support fixed with respect to said handle bracket and said handle extension extended from said handle support, or a storage position with said handle support pivoted with respect to said handle bracket and said handle extension contracted into said handle support.
9. A saw as in Claim 1, further including: a rear pointer mounted to said frame rearwardly of said blade and having a portion thereof within said plane of said blade; and a front pointer mounted to said frame and having a portion capable of extending forwardly of said blade and within said plane of the blade.
10. A saw as in Claim 9, wherein said front pointer is pivotally mounted to said frame for movement between an operative position wherein said portion extends forwardly of said blade, and a storage position wherein said portion extends rearwardly of said blade.
11. A saw as in Claim 9, wherein said rear pointer is mounted for adjustment laterally of said frame.
12. A saw as in Claim 1, wherein none of said wheels extends laterally beyond said plane of said saw blade.
ET 


 13. A saw as in Claim 1, wherein said saw blade is mounted with a forwardmost extent thereof in close proximity to a forwardmost extent of said frame and said base.
14. A saw for grooving concrete, comprising: a base; a plurality of wheels rotatably mounted on said base for supporting said base and allowing movement of said base with respect to the surface of the concrete in a direction: a frame mounted on said base; motor means mounted on said frame for counter-rotating a blade within said plane; a handle assembly mounted to said base: and a front and a rear frame handle mounted to said frame, said front frame handle being mounted forwardly of said rear frame handle.
15. A saw as in Claim 14, wherein said front frame handle is mounted substantially above said motor.
SUBSTIT 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
