<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653963</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR THE SEPARATION OF OLIGOMERIC MATERIALS FROM A CATALYST MIXTURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D30728	B01J3140	B01J3140	B01J3112	C07D30700	B01J3112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	B01J	B01J	B01J	C07D	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D307	B01J31	B01J31	B01J31	C07D307	B01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a process for the recovery of catalyst values from mixtures of catalyst compounds and oligomeric materials. The process provides for the separation of (i) an onium iodide compound, (ii) an organotin iodide compound, or (iii) a mixture thereof from a mixture thereof in an oligomer of a (gamma),(delta)-epoxyalkene by the steps of (1) intimately contacting the mixture with an extraction solvent selected from hydrocarbons having 5 to 12 carbon carbon atoms; (2) allowing the mixture of step (1) to separate into two phases; and (3) recovering the extraction solvent phase containing iodide compounds (i) and (ii). The oligomer mixture of compounds (i) and/or (ii) is formed during the manufacture of 2,5-dihydrofurans by the isomerization of (gamma),(delta)-epoxyalkenes.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to a process for the 
recovery of catalyst values from mixtures of catalyst 
and oligomeric materials. More specifically, this 
invention pertains to a process for the recovery of the 
components of a catalyst system utilized in the 
manufacture of 2,5-dihydrofurans by the isomerization of 
γ,δ-epoxyalkenes. The preparation of γ,δ-epoxyalkenes by the 
selective monoepoxidation of butadiene and analogous 
dienes is described in U.S. Patents 4,897,498 and 
4,950,773. U.S. Patent 5,082,956 discloses processes 
for the preparation of 2,5-dihydrofurans by isomerizing 
γ,δ-epoxyalkenes in the presence of catalyst systems 
comprising certain onium iodide compounds and, 
optionally, an inorganic Lewis acid and/or certain 
organometallic halide compounds. The disclosed 
processes include vapor phase processes wherein a vapor 
of the γ,δ-epoxyalkene reactant is passed through a 
reaction zone containing the catalyst system which is in 
the form of a molten salt or a film deposited on a non-acidic 
support material. This gas phase process employs 
an inert gas diluent such as nitrogen or helium and is 
conducted at a temperature above the melting point of 
the catalytically-active catalyst components, typically 
at a temperature of 130 to 150°C. In another embodiment of the isomerization process 
disclosed in U.S. Patent 5,082,956, γ,δ-epoxyalkenes are 
isomerized to dihydrofurans in the liquid phase using a 
solution of the above-described catalyst system in an 
extraneous, inert solvent and a temperature of 100 to 
150°C. This procedure uses a hydrocarbon or halogenated 
hydrocarbon solvent, such as mesitylene, pseudocumene or  
 
dichlorobenzene, having a boiling point higher than the 
2,5-dihydrofuran product to facilitate isolation of the 
product from the catalyst solution by distillation. 
2,5-Dihydrofuran may be hydrogenated as described in 
U.S. Patent 4,962,210 to tetrahydrofuran, a valuable 
compound useful as a chemical process solvent and as an 
intermediate in the preparation of polymers such as 
poly(tetramethylene ether)glycol. A particularly convenient means for the preparation 
of dihydrofurans by the isomerization of γ,δ-epoxyalkenes 
comprises a liquid phase, continuous process 
wherein a γ,δ-epoxyalkene initially is fed to a melt of 
the catalyst system and thereafter is continuously fed 
to a solution of the catalyst in the 2,5-dihydrofuran 
product. The 2,5-dihydrofuran product may be recovered 
from the mixture by conventional distillation 
procedures. A catalyst
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Process for the separation of a catalyst system 
comprising (i) an onium iodide compound, (ii) an organotin 

iodide compound, or (iii) a mixture thereof from a 
mixture of the catalyst system and an oligomer of a 

γ,δ-epoxyalkene by the steps comprising: 

(1) intimately contacting the mixture with an 
extraction solvent selected from hydrocarbons 

having 5 to 12 carbon atoms and chlorocarbons; 
(2) allowing the mixture of step (1) to phase separate; 
and 
(3) recovering the extraction solvent phase containing 
iodide compounds (i) and/or (ii). 
Process according to Claim 1 wherein the γ,δ-epoxyalkene 
contains 4 to 8 carbon atoms and has the formula: 


 
wherein each R
4
 is independently selected from hydrogen 
and methyl or 2 R
4
 substituents collectively may 
represent an alkylene radical which forms a ring having 

5 to 8 carbon atoms. 
Process according to Claim 1 wherein:
 
   the process is carried out at a temperature of 40 

to 125°C;
 
   the onium iodide compound is a tetra(hydrocarbyl)ammonium 

iodide or a tetra(hydrocarbyl)phosphonium 
iodides having a total carbon atom content of 16 to 72 

carbon atoms and formula:  
 


 
wherein
 
   each R
1
 substituent independently is selected from 
alkyl of up to 20 carbon atoms and each R
2
 substituent 
is independently selected from R
1
, benzyl, phenyl or 
phenyl substituted with up to 3 substituents selected 

from lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or halogen; or two R
1
 
substituents collectively may represent alkylene of 4 to 

6 carbon atoms including alkylene of 4 to 6 carbon atoms 
substituted with lower alkyl;
 
   the organotin iodide compound has the formula: 


(R
3
)
n
―Sn―I
(4-n)
 
wherein
 
   each R
3
 independently is selected from alkyl or 
substituted alkyl moieties having up to 20 carbon atoms, 

cycloalkyl or substituted cycloalkyl having 5 to 20 
carbon atoms, carbocyclic aryl or substituted 

carbocyclic aryl having 6 to 20 carbon atoms, or 
heteroaryl or substituted heteroaryl moieties having 4 

up to 20 carbon atoms; and
 
   n is 1, 2, or 3; and
 
   
the γ,δ-epoxyalkene contains 4 to 8 carbon atoms 
and has the formula: 


 
wherein each R
4
 is independently selected from hydrogen 
and methyl.  

 
Process according to Claim 3 wherein the γ,δ-epoxyalkene 
is 3,4-epoxy-1-butene. 
Process for the separation of a catalyst system 
comprising (i) an onium iodide compound and (ii) an 

organotin iodide compound from a mixture of the catalyst 
system and an oligomer of 3,4-epoxy-1-butene by the 

steps comprising: 

(1) intimately contacting the mixture with an 
extraction solvent selected from alkanes having 6 

to 12 carbon atoms; 
(2) allowing the mixture of step (1) to phase separate; 
and 
(3) recovering the extraction solvent phase containing 
iodide compounds (i) and (ii); 
 
wherein
 
   the onium iodide compound is a phosphonium iodide 

containing 32 to 72 carbon atoms and having the general 
formula: 


 
   wherein
 
   each R
2
 substituent is independently selected 
from straight-chain alkyl of 4 to 18 carbon atoms; 

and
 
   the organotin iodide compound has the formula 


(R
3
)
3
―Sn―I
 
   wherein each R
3
 independently is selected from 
alkyl having 4 to 10 carbon atoms or phenyl.  

 
Process according to Claim 5 wherein the process is 
carried out at a temperature of 40 to 125°C and the 

weight ratio of the extraction solvent to the catalyst/oligomer 
mixture is in the range of 10:1 to 0.1:1. 
Process for the separation of a catalyst system 
comprising (i) an onium iodide compound and (ii) an 

organotin iodide compound from a mixture of the catalyst 
system and an oligomer of 3,4-epoxy-1-butene by the 

steps comprising: 

(1) intimately contacting the mixture with an 
extraction solvent selected from heptane, octane, 

nonane and decane at a temperature of 40 to 125°C; 
(2) allowing the mixture of step (1) to phase separate; 
and 
(3) recovering the extraction solvent phase containing 
iodide compounds (i) and (ii); 
 
wherein the onium iodide compound is tetra-n-dodecylphosphonium 

iodide, tetra-n-hexadecylphosphonium iodide 
or tri-n-octyl(n-octadecyl)phosphonium iodide; and the 

organotin iodide compound is tri-n-octyltin iodide or 
triphenyltin iodide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
