<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610523</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Exhaust sampler and control means
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N138	G01N138	G01N124	G01N122	G01N3300	G01N128	G01N3300	G01N128	G01N124	G01N122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N33	G01N1	G01N33	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for sampling the emission content of exhaust 
from an exhaust source comprises an exhaust inlet (14) adapted 

for connection with the exhaust source, a dilution air inlet 
adapted for connection with the exhaust inlet (14) to provide 

a mixture of exhaust and dilution air, a flow confining path 
(22) for the mixture, a pump (23) for establishing a flow within 

the flow confining path (22), a subsonic venturi restriction 
(27) for measuring the flow rate of the mixture, transducer 

(24,26) for measuring the pressure and temperature of the mixture 
upstream the subsonic venturi (27), a transducer (25) for 

measuring the pressure of the mixture in the subsonic venturi 
(27) and a control unit (28) for computing the flow rate of 

the mixture. A control valve (29) is used for controlling the 
flow rate of the mixture in response to the computed flow rate. 

A sample is extracted via sample flow path (33). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HORIBA INSTR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HORIBA INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS GARY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE MAX J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS, GARY W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE, MAX J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an improved exhaust sampler and
control means, and more particularly to an apparatus for
measuring the gaseous constituents of exhaust utilizing means for
measuring the exhaust or exhaust/air mixture flow including a
calibrated subsonic venturi, and means for controlling the flow
rate of dilution air or exhaust/air mixture.Under present day US federal regulations, the exhaust emissions
from motor vehicles must not exceed specified values of certain
constituent contaminants, as set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations. See Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations,
Parts 81-99, Subparts A, B, D, E, F, G, K and N. See also
Kaufman U.S. Patent No. 3,699,814. The presence of such
standards has made it imperative that the exhaust emissions from
vehicle engines be tested and analyzed to determine the relative
amount of certain constituents therein. Much effort has gone
into the development of equipment for use in this field of
exhaust gas sampling, and it is now known to deliver exhaust
gases from an internal combustion engine at an accurately
controlled flow rate through a test apparatus for purposes of
determining and analyzing the relative amounts of constituents
therein. The general scheme of such testing is to add dilution
air to the exhaust gases. The total volume of the mixture of
exhaust and dilution air must be measured. A continuously
proportional sample of volume must be collected and is stored for
subsequent analysis of constituents such as hydrocarbons, carbon 
monoxide, and NOx. Mass emissions are determined from the sample
concentrations and total flow over the test period.One such system for analyzing samples from exhaust gases
is set forth in U.S. Patent No. 3,699,814 to Kaufman entitled,
"Gas Sampler," issued October 24, 1972. The Kaufman patent, the
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference, taught
a much improved gaseous exhaust emission sampler which replaced
the constant displacement pump of prior systems with a critical
flow venturi and centrifugal blower for metering the diluted
exhaust emissions at a constant volume flow.Another system utilizes a pair of critical flow venturis for
proportional sampling. An example of such a system is set forth
in U.S. Patent 3,817,100. In another such system, a downstream
pump produces a sufficient vacuum on the bulkstream critical
flow venturi exit so that the bulkstream mixture is flowing at
sonic velocity, a condition which limits the bulkstream mixture
to a constant mass flow rate at a given set of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for sampling the emission content of
exhaust from an exhaust source comprising:


an exhaust inlet (14) adapted for connection with the
exhaust source;
a dilution air inlet adapted for connection with said
exhaust inlet (14) to provide a mixture of exhaust and dilution

air;
means for defining a flow confining path for said mixture;
flow control means (23, 29) coupled with said flow confining

path for establishing a flow of said mixture in said flow
confining path;
means for measuring the flow rate of said mixture including
a venturi restriction (27);
a sampling zone (31) located in said flow confining path
upstream of said venturi restriction (27);
means (33, 34) for extracting a sample of the mixture
flowing through said sampling zone (31) including means defining

a sample flow path (33), wherein said extracting means (33,
34) includes a mass flow meter (41) for controlling the mass

flow rate through said sample flow path (33);
means (32) for maintaining a preselected constant mass
flow rate through said sample flow path (33);
characterized in that controller means (28) is provided
responsive to said measuring means for controlling said flow

control means (23, 29) so as to create a predetermined mass 
flow rate of said mixture at subsonic velocity through said

sampling zone (31) related to said preselected constant mass
flow rate of said extracted sample, thereby operating said

venturi restriction as a subsonic venturi restriction (27).
The apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that said
controller means (28) is adapted to maintain a c
onstant ratio
between the mass rate of said mixture through said sampling

zone (31) and the preselected constant mass flow rate through
said sample flow path (33).
The apparatus of any of claims 1 or 2, characterized
in that said measuring means includes transducer means (24,

25, 26) for producing signals proportional to a characteristic
of said mixture upstream of said subsonic venturi restriction

and a characteristic of said mixture in said subsonic venturi
restriction (27).
The apparatus of any of claims 1 - 3, characterized
in that said mass flow meter (41) is adapted to receive a control

signal from said controller means (28) for controlling the flow
through said sample flow path (33).
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims,
characterized in that said flow control means comprises a fixed

flow rate pump (23) for establishing a mixture flow.
The apparatus of claim 5, characterized in that said
flow control means comprises an adjustable valve (29) for

controlling the mixture flow rate positioned downstream of said
subsonic venturi (27) and upstream of said fixed flow rate pump

(23). 
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims,
characterized in that said mixture flow establishing means (23)

and said mixture flow rate controlling means (29) comprise a
variable speed compressor.
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims,
characterized in that said mixture flow establishing means (23)

and said mixture flow rate controlling means (29) comprise a
variable speed positive displacement pump.
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims,
characterized by means (44) for controlling the flow rate of

the dilution gas in response to signals received from said
controller means (28).
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims,
characterized by a subsonic venturi restriction (37) coupled

to said air inlet, means (38) for measuring the temperature
of the dilution air upstream of said dilution air subsonic

venturi (37) and means (39) for measuring the pressure of the
dilution air in said dilution air subsonic venturi (37), the

flow rate of said mixture being controlled so as to maintain
conditions simulating the performance of a critical flow venturi.
The apparatus of any of claims 1 - 9, characterized
by means for measuring the flow rate of the dilution air

comprising a subsonic venturi restriction (37) coupled to said
air inlet, means (38) for measuring the temperature of the

dilution air upstream of said dilution air subsonic venturi
(37) and means (39) for measuring the pressure of the dilution

air in said dilution air subsonic venturi (37), the flow rate
of said mixture being controlled so as to maintain a fixed ratio

of the dilution air flow rate to exhaust flow rate. 
The apparatus of claims 1 - 11, characterized in that
the extracted sample flow rate and dilution gas flow rate are

controlled proportional to the exhaust flow rate to maintain
a constant dilution ratio of dilution gas flow rate to exhaust

gas flow rate.
The apparatus of any of claims 1 - 12, characterized
in that the extracted sample flow rate is set at a constant

value and wherein the dilution gas flow rate is controlled so
that it is inversely proportional to the exhaust flow rate,

scaled with the extracted sample flow rate.
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims,
characterized in that said flow confining path comprises a flow

straightener (47) upstream of said subsonic venturi (27).
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims,
characterized in that said flow confining path comprises a heat

exchanger (48) upstream of said subsonic venturi (27).
The apparatus of any of the preceding claims,
characterized by comprising means for measuring the flow rate

of the dilution air comprising a subsonic venturi restriction
(37) coupled to said air inlet, means (38) for measuring

the temperature of the dilution air upstream of said dilution
air subsonic venturi (37) and means (39) for measuring the

pressure of the dilution air in said dilution air subsonic
venturi (37) and means for controlling the flow rate of the

dilution air comprising a blower (49) positioned downstream
of said dilution air subsonic venturi (37) and a pressure

transducer (51) for measuring the pressure of the mixture, the
flow rate of the dilution air being controlled so as to maintain

a preset pressure as measured by said pressure transducer (51). 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 15, characterized
by means for measuring the flow rate of the dilution air

comprising a subsonic venturi restriction (37) coupled to said
air inlet, means (38) for measuring the temperature of the

dilution air upstream of said dilution air subsonic venturi
(37) and means (39) for measuring the pressure of the dilution

air in said dilution air subsonic venturi (37), and means for
controlling the flow rate of the dilution air comprising a blower

(49) positioned downstream of said dilution air subsonic venturi
(37) and a pressure transducer (51) for measuring the pressure

of the mixture, the flow rate of the dilution air and the flow
rate of said mixture being controlled so as to maintain a fixed

dilution ratio of dilution air flow rate to exhaust flow rate
and a preset pressure as measured by said pressure transducer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
