<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632793</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED CEMENT COMPOSITION AND CONSTRUCTION FOR BUILDING PANELS AND OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B2800	C04B2802	E04C226	E04C2288	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	E04C	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B28	C04B28	E04C2	E04C2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved cement composition includes a sufficient amount of diatomaceous earth to provide substantial heat insulation and resistance to decomposition which would otherwise occur at very high temperatures. The cement composition also includes an amount of fibrous material and/or organic (polymer) binder(s) (integrally and impregnated) sufficient to increase the tensile strength, handleability, and machineability of the cement composition. The composition is initially created to include a plurality of fluid pockets as the basis for achieving the features cited. A composite building panel is formed from the cement composition by pouring or placing the cement composition in a 4- to 6-sided preformed box with integral insulating core. The preformed box becomes bound to the poured/placed cement composition and upon curing becomes an integral part of the final panel product. The building panel includes a surface material that has an organic polymer applied to a first side thereof. The cement composition is provided with a sufficient amount of moisture and/or organic polymer to bind with the organic polymer applied to the surface material so that the surface material is substantially integrally formed with the building panel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RECORD GRANT C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RECORD, GRANT C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RECORD GRANT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RECORD, GRANT C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionIMPROVED CEMENT COMPOSITION AND CONSTRUCTION FOR BUILDING PANELS AND OTHER BUILDING MATERIALSTechnical FieldThe present invention is directed toward improved cement compositions and building materials therefor and, more particularly, the present invention is directed toward an improved cement composition with improved properties and a construction for premanufactured, composite panels using the improved cement composition, which improved composite panels exhibit improved strength, weight, and size characteristics.Background of the InventionCement has been in the past combined with fine and coarse aggregates to create a mass, referred to herein as conventional concrete, which is typically used for high-strength structures such as pavements and building foundations. Typical materials used to make conventional concrete include Portland cement, sand, crushed stone, gravel, crushed cylinders, etc. However, conventional concrete made as discussed above is not flexible or heat insulating enough to be used independently for building structure components (for example, as stand-alone insulating walls), i.e., building materials other than foundations and wall members that require secondary insulating structure. Also, conventional concrete is extremely heavy limiting it yet for use as building structure components.Further, due to its nature, the conventional concrete composition created as described above results in a rough surface having a lamination bonding quality that is erratic and inconsistent. As a result, laminated skin surfaces, such as veneer, phenolic, vinyl, etc., cannot be sufficiently bound to the rough surface of conventional concrete without considerable secondary preparation. However, for any material to be used for building structures such as walls, cabinets, ceilings, etc., it is desirable to be able to firmly and cost-effectively affix to the materials attractive laminated skin surfaces such as those discussed above. Accordingly, in addition to the lack of flexibility, lack of light weight, and lack of insulating properties, conventional concrete is further not adequate for use as building 

structure components because of the inability to firmly affix laminated skin surfaces to the rough surface of the conventional concrete.Other prior art attempts to create improved cement composition for building materials have combined Portland cement with diatomaceous earth to create a composition referred to herein as diatomaceous earth concrete. Diatomaceous earth concrete is more insulating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A cement composition comprised of cement having a plurality of fluid pockets wherein each of said plurality of fluid pockets is of substantially similar size and wherein the plurality of fluid pockets are substantially evenly distributed throughout said cement, said cement composition, having a density of approximately 15 to 100 pounds per cubic foot, said structural cement further including l%-30% diatomaceous earth, 0.5%- 15% wood fiber, 1%-15% specialized chemical binders for inter-cement particle elasticity, with or without 3%-7% hardening silica.
2. Structural building materials comprised of: a cement base having a plurality of fluid pockets wherein each of said plurality of fluid pockets is of substantially similar size and wherein the plurality of air pockets are substantially evenly distributed throughout said cement; and having a top surface integrated with the subsurface to a depth of 1/4" to 1", creating a strongly grounded and smooth top surface created by impregnating said cement base with a specialized polymer.
3. The structural building materials as recited in claim 2 wherein said cement base further includes 0.5%- 15% wood fiber, l%-9% organic chemical filler/binder, with or without 3%-7% hardeners, with or without 1%-15% specialized chemical binders for inter-cement particle elasticity.
4. The structural building materials as recited in claim 3 wherein said cement base further includes 0.5%-15% wood fiber, with or without l%-9% organic chemical filler/binder, with or without 3%-7% hardeners, with or without 1%- 15%. specialized chemical binders for inter-cement particle elasticity.
5. A cement composition comprising cement and an amount of diatomaceous earth sufficient to provide substantial heat insulation and thermal resistance while not detracting materially from the strength of said cement composition, said cement composition further having a plurality of fluid pockets wherein each of said plurality of fluid pockets is of substantially similar size and wherein the plurality of fluid pockets are substantially evenly distributed throughout 


said cement, said plurality of fluid pockets being substantially filled with a fluid having a density less than the density of said cement.
6. The cement composition as recited in claim 4 wherein said plurality of fluid pockets is substantially filled with air.
7. The cement composition as recited in claim 4 comprised of 1%- 30% diatomaceous earth.
8. The cement composition as recited in claim 4, further including an amount of fibrous material sufficient to increase the tensile strength and wood product characteristics of the cement composition.
9. The cement composition as recited in claim 6 wherein said fibrous material comprises wood fiber.
10. The cement composition as recited in claim 6 wherein said fibrous material comprises treated glass fiber.
11. The cement composition as recited in claim 6 comprising 0.5%- 15% fibrous material.
12. The cement composition as recited in claim 6, further comprising an amount of a binding substance sufficient to hold the fibrous substance firmly in the concrete matrix.
13. The cement composition as recited in claim 10 wherein said binding substance comprises 1%-15% specialized binding substances to increase bendability.
14. A method for making structural cement comprising the step of impregnating the surface of the structural cement with a material sufficient to convert the surface of the structural cement to a substantially smooth top surface which is strongly bound and integrated to the subsurface to a depth of 1/4" to 1". 


 15. The method as recited in claim 14, further comprising the steps of: providing first and second layers of the structural cement, said first and second layers including cement and a plurality of fluid pockets, said plurality of fluid pockets being substantially filled with a fluid, said first and second layers further including a sufficient amount of binding material to increase the flexibility of said structural cement; and positioning an insulating layer so that said insulating layer is intermediate said first and second layers.
16. The method as recited in claim 14, further comprising the step of adding a material to said first layer, said material selected to be non-reactive with the cement of said first layer to increase the flexibility of said first layer.
17. The method as recited in claim 15, further comprising the step of adding a material to said first and second layers selected to react with the cement of said first and second layers to increase the flexibility of said first and second layers.
18. The method as recited in claim 15, further comprising the step of adding a material to said first and second layers, said material selected to be non- reactive with the cement particles of said first and second layers to increase the flexibility of said first and second layers.
19. A method for constructing building panels comprising the steps of: providing a box form having first and second opposing planar sides joined by edge members to define an interior chamber intermediate said first and second opposing planar sides, said interior chamber having a size corresponding to the desired size of the building panels; positioning support members interior of said interior chamber substantially centered between said first and second planar sides; securing an insulating material to said support members so that said insulating material is supported within said interior chamber substantially centered between said first and second planar sides; positioning panel surface material interior of said interior chamber substantially proximate said first planar side; 



 applying an organic polymer to said panel surface material and permitting the organic polymer to dry; providing a cement composition including cement and a plurality of fluid pockets, said plurality of fluid pockets being substantially filled with a fluid, said cement composition further including a sufficient amount of binding material to increase the flexibility of said cement composition, said cement composition also including a sufficient amount of an organic polymer to bond with the organic polymer on the surface of said panel surface material; and pouring said cement composition into said box form with said panel surface material having the organic polymer dried thereon and with said insulating material positioned therein and permitting said cement composition to cure so that the resulting building panel has as a substantially bound, integral part thereof, said panel surface material.
20. The method as recited in claim 19, further comprising the step of adding a material to said cement composition to react therewith and thereby increase the flexibility of said first layer.
21. The method as recited in claim 19, further comprising the step of adding a material to said cement composition, said material selected to be non- reactive with said cement composition to increase the flexibility thereof.
22. A method for constructing building panels comprising the steps of: applying an organic polymer to a panel surface material and permitting the organic polymer to dry; providing a filler material wherein the filler material is initially in a substantially fluid form and wherein the filler material is constructed to harden into a substantially solid form, the filler material including a sufficient amount of an organic polymer to bond with the organic polymer on the surface of the panel surface material; positioning the panel surface material in contact with the filler material while the filler material is curing so that the organic polymer of the panel surface material will bond with the organic polymer of the filler material and so that the panel surface material will be a substantially bound, integral part of the building panel. 


 23. The method as recited in claim 19, further comprising the step of positioning an insulating material proximate the panel surface material so that, after the filler material has hardened into a substantially solid material, the insulating material will be positioned substantially interior of the hardened filler material.
24. The method as recited in claim 23, further comprising the substeps of: providing a box form having first and second opposing sides joined by edge members to define an interior chamber intermediate the first and second opposing sides, the interior chamber of size corresponding to the desired size of the building panels; positioning support members inside the interior chamber substantially centered between the first and second sides; securing the insulating material to the support members so that the insulating material is supported within the interior chamber substantially centered between the first and second sides; positioning the panel surface material inside the interior chamber substantially proximate the first side; pouring the filler material into the box form with the panel surface material having the organic polymer dried thereon and with the insulating material positioned therein.
25. The method as recited in claim 22, further comprising the step of providing as the filler material a cement composition with a plurality of fluid pockets, said plurality of fluid pockets being substantially filled with a fluid.
26. The method as recited in claim 25, further comprising the step of providing the plurality of fluid pockets so that the plurality of fluid pockets are substantially evenly distributed throughout the cement composition.
27. Structural building materials comprised of: a cement base having a plurality of fluid pockets wherein each of said plurality of fluid pockets is of substantially similar size and wherein the plurality of fluid pockets are substantially evenly distributed throughout said cement base, said cement base further including an organic polymer; and 


 panel surface material having an organic polymer applied to a first side thereof, the first side of the panel surface material being substantially integrally formed with the cement base by the bonding of the organic polymers.
28. The structural building materials as recited in claim 27 wherein said cement base further includes 0.5%-15% wood fiber, l%-9% organic chemical filler/binder, with or without 3%-7% hardeners, with or without 1%-15% specialized chemical binders for inter-cement particle elasticity.
29. The structural building materials as recited in claim 28 wherein said cement base further includes 0.5%-15% wood fiber, with or without l%-9% organic chemical filler/binder, with or without 3%-7% hardeners, with or without 1%- 15% specialized chemical binders for inter-cement particle elasticity.
30. Structural building material comprised of: a panel surface material having an organic polymer applied to a first surface thereof; and a filler material including a sufficient amount of an organic polymer so that said filler material and said panel surface material are substantially integrally bonded.
31. The structural building material as recited in claim 30 wherein said filler material comprises a cement base having a plurality of fluid pockets wherein each of said plurality of fluid pockets is of substantially similar size and wherein the plurality of fluid pockets are substantially evenly distributed throughout said cement base.
32. The structural building material as recited in claim 30 wherein the structural building material includes an exterior surface, said structural building material further including: a support member positioned interior of said filler material and extending to the exterior surface thereof, said support member including fastening means for permitting said support member to be engaged to thereby physically position said structural building material. 


 33. The structural building material as recited in claim 30, further including insulating core means positioned interior of said filler material for improving the insulating properties of said structural building material.
34. The structural building material as recited in claim 33 wherein said insulating core means includes a first side remote from said panel surface material and a second side proximate said panel surface material relative to said first side, said insulating core means further including a through-hole extending from said first side to said second side with said filler material positioned in said through-hole.
35. A building panel comprising: first and second surfaces each having an exposed side and a bonded side, said first and second surfaces further having an organic polymer applied to the second sides thereof; a top and bottom positioned substantially intermediate the first and second surfaces at opposite ends thereof, said top having a through connector formed therein; first and second support rods positioned intermediate said first and second surfaces and extending from said top to said bottom, said first and second support members each having first and second threaded ends and having a female/female connector secured to each of the first and second threaded ends; first and second joining sides positioned intermediate said first and second surfaces and extending from said top to said bottom to define a core chamber of said building panel, said first and second joining sides each having a tongue and groove formed therein, said tongue and groove extending from said top to said bottom, said first joining side being positioned with said tongue extending toward said second joining side and said second joining side being positioned with said tongue extending away from said first joining said so that the tongue and groove of adjacent building panels will mate; an insulating core positioned within said core chamber substantially proximate said first and second support rods, said insulating core being provided for improving the insulating characteristics of said building panel, said insulating core including a plurality of through connectors extending laterally through said insulating core in a direction from said first surface toward said second surface; and a cured cement composition positioned within said core chamber, substantially surrounding said first and second support rods and said insulating core, 



said cured cement composition being further positioned within said through connectors of said insulating core to form shear connectors for improving the shear strength of said building panel, said cured cement composition including cement and a plurality of fluid pockets, said plurality of fluid pockets being substantially filled with a fluid, said cured cement composition further including an organic polymer and being thereby substantially integrally bond with said first and second surfaces. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
