<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658862</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for mediating transactions that use portable smart cards
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07F708	G06F1300	H04L2906	G07F710	G06F1300	G06K1700	G06Q2000	G06Q2000	G06K1700	G07F710	G06Q4000	G06Q3000	H04L2906	G06Q3000	G07F708	G06Q4000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07F	G06F	H04L	G07F	G06F	G06K	G06Q	G06Q	G06K	G07F	G06Q	G06Q	H04L	G06Q	G07F	G06Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07F7	G06F13	H04L29	G07F7	G06F13	G06K17	G06Q20	G06Q20	G06K17	G07F7	G06Q40	G06Q30	H04L29	G06Q30	G07F7	G06Q40	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a method and system for
employing a communication system to mediate a transaction

involving one of a plurality of files and programs
corresponding to a plurality of applications residing on a

single smart card. The invention uses a smart card
gateway which provides a transparency in the communication

between a caller station and a subscriber station and
subscriber host associated with one of the applications.

The smart card gateway facilitates transactions involving
smart cards, and permits completed transactions to be

recorded on the smart card as well as stored in a database
associated with the smart card gateway.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDES ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEREA CARLOS ALBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSAO YAO-CHUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEDES, ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEREA, CARLOS ALBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSAO, YAO-CHUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to the use of
a communication system to mediate transactions among
entities reachable by the communication system. More
particularly, the present invention relates to mediating a
transaction that uses a portable smart card and that
employs a telecommunication network service.The use of personal smart cards for identification
purposes, purchases, reservations and other transactions
has become increasingly popular. Such cards may contain
information such as an account or identification number
and the name of the account owner, as well as other
personal and application specific information. This
information may be stored on a magnetic stripe on the back
of the card or in a computer memory in the smart card.Such smart cards, or portable data carriers, are
known in the art. U.S. Patent No. 4,795,898, "Personal
Memory Card Having a Contactless Interface Using
Differential Data Transfer," for example, discloses a
personal memory card which includes a micro-computer, an
electrically erasable field programmable read-only memory,
and also circuitry for inductively receiving a power
signal and capacitively transferring data signals between
the card and a card reader/writer located in an associated
station. No direct ohmic contact is made between the card
and the reader/writer for transferring power to the card
or for transferring data to and from the card. The
disclosed smart card is selectively reprogrammable by an
authorized user with new and different data. The 
information stored in this manner is machine-readable, thereby permitting transactions to be
performed more quickly and efficiently.It is also known in the art to provide improved security for multiple files which support
multiple applications that may be stored on a smart card. U.S. Patent No. 4,816,653 and U.S.
Patent No. 4,882,474 disclose a method and system for controlling access to files on a card and
for limiting the exercise of card commands by an application which accesses specific data in a
file on the card. A method and apparatus for specifying different security levels for permission
to read, write or append data on or to the card are also disclosed. Multiple applications,
therefore, may exist on a smart card without conflict or confusion.Also known in the art is the use of a communication system to mediate transactions
among entities reachable by the communication system.EP-A-0 501 697 discloses a method for completing a transaction using a conventional
credit card. When a card user makes a call, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of employing a communication system (1) to mediate a transaction involving
one of a plurality of files and programs each of which corresponds to one of a plurality of

applications where said plurality of files and programs reside on a single smart card and where
each of the plurality of applications is associated with a respective one of a plurality of

subscriber hosts (26), said method comprising the steps of:

receiving in a smart card gateway (20) an originating call from a caller station (4);
obtaining at the smart card gateway a first set of data from the smart card, the first set of
data relating to the identity of the smart card user,
identifying an application from among the plurality of applications in response to a
selection made by a smart card user at said caller station (4);
establishing at least one data path from a database (215) associated with the smart card
gateway to one of said subscriber hosts associated with said application;
sending a second set of data from the smart card to said subscriber host, the second set of
data relating to the identity of the smart card user and/or to the identified application;
transferring communications between the smart card user and said one of the subscriber
hosts via the smart card gateway;
receiving, in the smart card gateway, transaction information from said one of said
subscriber hosts;
sending the transaction information from the smart card gateway to said caller station;
and
recording at least a portion of said transaction information on said smart card.
A method as claimed in claim 1, and further comprising the step of identifying the smart
card distributor by retrieving information stored in the database.
A method as claimed in claim 1 and further including the steps of:

obtaining at the gateway (20) personal financial information from said smart card;
establishing a data path to a credit bureau host (28);
sending said personal financial information from the gateway to said credit bureau host;
receiving at the gateway (20) credit information from said credit bureau host; and
sending said credit information from the gateway (20) to said subscriber host.
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the step of recording said transaction
information on said smart card occurs after the step of sending said credit information to said

subscriber host.
A method as claimed in claim 1 and further including the steps of:

obtaining at the gateway (20) personal financial information from said smart card;
receiving at the gateway (20) financial transaction information from said subscriber host;
establishing a data path to a credit bureau host;
sending said personal financial information and said financial transaction information
from the gateway (20) to said credit bureau host;
receiving credit information at the gateway (20) from said credit bureau host; and
sending at least a portion of said credit information from the gateway to said subscriber
host such that said subscriber host does not receive any of said personal financial information.
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the step of recording said transaction
information on said smart card occurs after the step of sending at least said portion of said credit

information to said subscriber host.
A method as claimed in claim 1 and further including the steps of:

receiving an enquiry from a second caller station;
retrieving said portion of said transaction information through said second caller station;
and
transmitting said portion of said transaction information to a smart card user at said
second caller station.
A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the step of transmitting said transaction
information to
 said smart card user includes sending said transaction information by voice from
an agent located at an agent station (21, 22; 312) in a service centre (18; 300) associated with

said communication system.
A method as claimed in claim 1 and further including the step of storing at least said
portion of said transaction information in the database thereby to update information stored in the

database.
A method as claimed in claim 9 and further including the steps of:

receiving a second signal from a second caller station;
retrieving said portion of said transaction information from said database; and 
transmitting said portion of said transaction information to a smart card user at said
second caller station.
A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein the step of transmitting said transaction
information to said smart card user includes sending said transaction information by voice from

an agent located at an agent station (21, 22; 312) in a service centre (18; 300) associated with
said communication system.
A system (1) for mediating transactions involving one of a plurality of sets of data
residing on a single smart card, each of said sets of data corresponding to one of a plurality of

applications, said system comprising:

(a) a caller station (4) comprising means (6) for reading information from and
recording information on said smart card;
(b) a plurality of host computers (24; 316), each of which is associated with at
least one of the plurality of applications; and
(c) a smart card gateway (20) comprising:

(i) means for receiving a set of data from said smart card;
(ii) means for identifying a particular one of the plurality of applications in
response to a selection made at the caller station by a smart card user;
(iii) means (26) for establishing communications between said caller station
and a particular one of the plurality of host computers associated with the particular one of the

plurality of applications in a manner that provides a transparency in the communications between
the caller station and the particular host computer; and 
(iv) means for transferring completed transaction information from the
particular host computer to the caller station for recordation on said smart card.
A system as claimed in claim 12 and further comprising means for storing transaction
information.
A system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the smart card gateway further comprises a
database (215) for storing the completed transaction information.
A system as claimed in claim 14 and further comprising means for establishing
communications between said smart card user at said caller station and an agent associated with

the application selected by said smart card user.
A system as claimed in claim 15 and further comprising means for updating said smart
card.
A system (1) for mediating transactions involving one of a plurality of sets of data
residing on a smart card, each of said sets of data corresponding to a particular one of a plurality

of applications each residing on a respective one of a plurality of host computers (24), said
system comprising:


(a) a means for receiving one of said sets of data from said smart card; 
(b) means for identifying a particular one of the plurality of applications in response to a
selection made at a caller station (4) by a smart card user, wherein the caller station comprises

means (6) for writing to and reading from the smart card;
(c) means (20) for establishing communications between said caller station and the
respective one of the host computers associated with the particular one of the plurality of

applications in a manner that provides a transparency in the communications between the caller
station and the respective one of the subscriber hosts; and
(d) means for transferring completed transaction information from the subscriber host to
the caller station for recordation on said smart card.
A system as claimed in claim 17 and further comprising a database (215) having
transaction files for storing said completed transaction information.
A system as claimed in claim 18 and further comprising means for establishing
communications between said smart card user and an agent associated with the application

selected by said smart card user.
A system as claimed in claim 19 and further comprising means for retrieving said
transaction information.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
