<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625732</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for forming color images
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1501	G03G1501	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a color image forming method and apparatus utilizing 
electrophotography, a toner image bearing film (14) is passed 

around a photosensitive member (11) and moved past a transfer and 
fixing device (45), the photosensitive member (11) is uniformly charged, 

and 
is then exposed to light images corresponding to different 

color components of the image. Developing devices (17,19,21) are 
provided facing the toner image bearing film (14) passing around 

the photosensitive member (11), and toners of different colors 
are then made to adhere to the toner image bearing film (14) 

because of the latent image on the photosensitive member. 
Thus, the images of color toners are formed on the toner 

image bearing film (14), and then transferred to a recording 
paper. The images of color toners may be transferred one by 

one, or simultaneously. In the latter case, images of the 
colors, except or including the last-developed one, are 

temporarily fixed on the toner image bearing film (14), by 

application of heat, and then transferred to the recording 
paper (27). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OKI ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OKI ELECTRIC INDUSTRY CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITOH SHINICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITOH, SHINICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns a method and apparatus for 
forming color images by means of electrophotography 
according to US-A-3,937,572. Conventionally, when forming color images by means of 
electrophotography, a photosensitive drum and a transfer 
drum carrying recording paper are made to rotate together a 
plurality of times, and images on the photosensitive drum 
are transferred the same number of times onto the recording 
paper on the outer surface of the transfer drum so as to 
overlay each other. Fig. 1 is a simplified drawing of a color 
electrophotographic copier employing the conventional color 
image-forming method (as shown for example in Japanese 
Patent Application Publication No. 54-19750; and 
Proceedings of the Inst. of Electrostatics Japan, Vol. 9, 
No. 4. pp. 253-261, 1985). In the figure, the surface of a photosensitive drum 1 
which rotates at a fixed speed in the counterclockwise 
direction, is electrostatically charged with a specified 
polarity by a corona discharge device 2. When an image of the original Is formed by the exposure 
system 3 on the electrified surface of the photosensitive 
body, the charge on the photosensitive body is lost  
 
according to the density of the respective parts of the 
image of the original, and electrostatic latent images are 
thereby formed. These latent images are then rendered 
visible by a developing device 4. In the case of a color 
copier, this developing device 4 comprises at least three 
devices, namely a device for developing yellow images 5, a 
device for developing magenta images 6, and a device for 
developing cyan images 7. The exposure device 3 is therefore provided with blue, 
green and red color separation filters. The developing 
device 4 may also be provided with a device for black 
development in order to adjust the color tone if necessary. Developing is performed for each color separately. 
First, when a color image of the original is projected on 
the photosensitive body using the blue filter, an 
electrostatic latent image consisting of yellow element 
which is the complementary color to blue is formed thereon. 
This is then rendered visible by the yellow developing 
device 5. The yellow developing device 5 contains a 
developing agent of a yellow toner and an iron powder 
carrier. These two components are mixed together by 
stirring, and the toner is triboelectrified with a polarity 
opposite to that of the charge on the electrostatic latent 
image. Both the toner and carrier are attached onto the 
developing roller 5a, and are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for forming color images, comprising the steps of: 

(a) electrifying a photosensitive member (11); 
(b) exposing the photosensitive member; 
(c) developing toner images by adhering toner onto a toner image bearing 
film (14) which moves such that a part of it is in contact with the photosensitive 

member (11); 
(d) said electrifying step, exposure step and developing step are carried 
out for toners (18, 20, 22) of a plurality of different colors so as to successively 

form toner color images on the toner image bearing film (14); and 
(e) transferring the toner images from the toner image bearing film (14) 
onto recording paper (27) and fixing them thereon; characterized in that 
 
   toner images formed in step (d) except the one which is last formed, or 

including the last one, are melted by heat so as to fix them temporarily on the toner 
image bearing film; and thereafter
 
   all the toner images on said toner image bearing film are transferred to 

and fixed on the recording paper. 
A method for forming color images according to claim 1, wherein the toner 
image bearing film (14) and the recording paper (27) travel between two rollers 

(12, 13) which can take up either a pressure-contact position or a release position, 
a plurality of toner images are successively superimposed on the toner image bearing 

film in the release position, and all the color toner images on the toner image 
bearing film are transferred to and fixed on the recording paper in the pressure-contact 

position. 
A method for forming color images according to claim 1, wherein the toner 
image bearing film (14) and the recording paper (27) are kept gripped by two rollers 

(312, 313) in said transfer and fixing step.  
 
A method for forming color images according to claim 1, wherein said toner is 
a heat fixing toner. 
A method for forming color images according to claim 1, wherein said toner is 
a pressure fixing toner. 
A color electrophotography apparatus comprising: 

a photosensitive member (11); 
a transfer device (12, 13; 312, 313); 
a toner image bearing film (14) passing around said photosensitive member 
and moving past said transfer device; 
an electrifying device (15) provided facing said photosensitive member for 
uniformly electrifying the photosensitive member; 
an exposure device (16) for exposing the photosensitive member, successively 
to light image corresponding to a first color thereby to form an electrostatic latent 

image of said first color, to light image corresponding to a second color thereby to 
form an electrostatic latent image of said second color, and to light image corresponding 

to a third color thereby to form an electrostatic latent image of said third 
color; 
developing devices (17, 19, 21) for said first, second and third colors, for successively 
developing toner images of said first, second and third colors by adhering 

toner of said first color, toner of said second color, and toner of said third color, 
onto said toner image bearing film (14) when it is passing around said photosensitive 

member; 
means (235) for moving said toner image bearing film past said developing 
devices, and said transfer device; and 
means (41, 42, 43) for feeding recording paper (27) past said transfer device 
in synchronization with the movement of said toner images on said toner image 

bearing film past said transfer device; 
said transfer device transferring said toner images of said first, second and 
third colors on the toner image bearing film onto the recording paper; 
 
   characterized by further comprising
  
 

   means (12; 313) to melt by heat the toner images except the one which is last 
formed, or including the last one, so as to fix them temporarily on the toner image 

bearing film. 
Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein
 
   said toner image bearing film (14) is an endless film repeatedly passing around 

said photosensitive member and moving past said transfer device. 
Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein
 
   said toner image bearing film (14) is transparent to the wavelengths of light of 

said exposure device; and said exposure device is provided facing said photosensitive 
member through said toner image bearing film. 
Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein 

said transfer device (12, 13; 312, 313) comprises a first roller, and a second 
roller juxtaposed with said first roller, 
said toner image bearing film passes around said first roller (12; 312) and 
between said first and second rollers, and 
said feeding means (41, 42, 43) feeds said recording paper between the toner 
image bearing film on said first roller and said second roller. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said second roller (13) can selectively 
assume a contact position in which it is pressed against said first roller (12) and 

a release position in which it is separated from said first roller. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein one of said first and second rollers 
(12, 13; 312, 313) is a heating roller (12; 313) and said first and second rollers also 

serve to fix the toner image on the recording paper (27). 
Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said first roller (12) is a heating roller 
(12) and said second rolle
r (13) is a pressure roller (13).  
 
Apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising a cleaner (223, 323a) for 
removing any residual toner on the toner image bearing film after the transfer of the 

toner image to the recording paper. 
Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein 

said toner image bearing film (14) is an endless film; 
said pressure roller (13) is separated from said heating roller when said toner 
image bearing film bearing the toner images of the respective color passes between 

said heating roller and said pressure roller until the toner images of all the colors 
have been formed; 
toner images of a plurality of colors are successively formed, being superimposed 
with each other, and temporarily fixed on said toner image bearing film by 

the heat of said heating roller (12); and 
said feeding means (41, 42, 43) feeds the recording paper when the toner 
images of all the colors have been formed on said toner image bearing film; 
whereby the toner images of all the colors are simultaneously transferred to 
and fixed on the recording paper. 
Apparatus according to claim 14, further comprising a cleaner (223) for removing 
any residual toner on the toner image bearing film after the transfer of the 

toner images of all the colors to the recording paper, said cleaner (223) being restrained 
from cleaning when the toner image bearing film passes with the toner 

images of part only of all the colors. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said first roller is a pressure roller 
(312) and said second roller is a heating roller (313). 
Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein 

said toner image bearing film (14) is an endless film; 
said heating roller (313) is kept pressed against said pressure roller (312) 
when said toner image bearing film bearing the toner image of each color passes 

between said heating roller and said pressure roller;  
 
toner images of a plurality of colors are successively formed, being superimposed 
with each other, and temporarily fixed on said toner image bearing film; and 
said feeding means (41, 42, 43) feeds the recording paper when the toner 
images of all the colors have been formed on said toner image bearing film; 
whereby the toner images of a plurality of colors constituting the color image 
are simultaneously transferred to and fixed on the recording paper. 
Apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising a cleaner (323a) for removing 
any residual toner on the toner image bearing film after the transfer of the 

toner images of all the colors to the recording paper, said cleaner (323a) being 
restrained from cleaning when the toner image bearing film passes with the toner 

images of part only of all the colors. 
Apparatus according to claim 6, further comprising means (50) for selectively 
activating the developing devices in accordance with the color of the electrostatic 

latent image which is then formed on said photosensitive member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
