<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626312</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for making a vacuum package filled with granular material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B124	B65B3102	B65D8120	B65D8120	B65B126	B65B3108	B65B3104	B65B100	B65B3102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65D	B65D	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B1	B65B31	B65D81	B65D81	B65B1	B65B31	B65B31	B65B1	B65B31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method and apparatus for 
producing a vacuum package filled with granular material. 

A package made from a flexible film is filled with granular 
product. The filled package (15) is compressed, so that the 

contents form a compact whole. Then the compressed package is 
evacuated by means of a vacuum element (21) which is connected to a 

small suction opening in the wall of the package, while the 
rest of the package is not subjected to vacuum. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SARA LEE DE NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SARA LEE/DE N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AARTS MATHIAS LEONARDUS CORNEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AARTS, MATHIAS LEONARDUS CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for making a vacuum
package filled with a product, in which a package made from a
flexible packaging material and filled with the product is
evacuated and sealed hermetically, wherein the package, before
being evacuated, is compressed by applying pressure to the
sidewalls of the package, so that the product forms a compact
whole, that subsequently a vacuum element is connected to a
suction opening provided in a wall of the package, said vacuum
element evacuating the package through the suction opening
without the package being otherwise externally subjected to
vacuum, and wherein after the evacuation the suction opening is
sealed hermetically. The preambles of claims 1 and 26 are based
on this prior art.DE-A-2 034 033 describes a method for packaging cushions.
This method is however not suitable for making a vacuum package
filled with a granular product. According to the known method
the suction opening is prefabricated so that it is rather
difficult to position the suction element and sealing means
over the suction opening without running the risk of losing
granular material. An object of the invention is to improve the
above mentioned method so that it is suitable for making a
vacuum package filled with a granular product. To that end the
invention provides a method of the above referred to type which
is characterized in that the suction opening in the otherwise
airtight package is formed by providing a perforation in one of
the walls of the package, wherein the perforation is provided
by a needle capable of moving back and forth, arranged in the
vacuum element and wherein the suction opening is sealed
hermetically by a sealing element arranged in the vacuum
element. Because the evacuation element makes and closes the
suction opening it is ensured that the evacuation element and
the sealing means will always be is a correct position relative
to the suction opening. U.S. Patent 4,845,927 discloses a method for making a
vacuum package filled with granular material, in which a
package made from, a flexible packaging material and filled with
a granular product is evacuated and sealed hermetically.
According to this known method, a package open at the top is
produced from a sheet of flexible film and subsequently filled
with a loose granular material. The filled package is placed
in a vacuum chamber in which the package is subjected to
vacuum. After the package has attained the desired degree of
vacuum, the package is heat-sealed at the top using welding
jaws arranged in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for making a vacuum package (15) filled with a
product, in which a package made from a flexible packaging

material and filled with the product is evacuated and sealed
hermetically, wherein the package, before being evacuated, is

compressed by applying pressure to the sidewalls of the
package, so that the product forms a compact whole, that

subsequently a vacuum element (21) is connected to a suction opening
provided in a wall of the package, said vacuum element

evacuating the package through the suction opening without the
package being otherwise externally subjected to vacuum, and

wherein after the evacuation the suction opening is sealed
hermetically, characterized in that the product is granular

wherein the suction opening in the otherwise airtight package
is formed by providing a perforation in one of the walls of the

package, the perforation is provided by a needle (25) capable of
moving back and forth, arranged in the vacuum element (21) and

wherein the suction opening is sealed hermetically by a sealing
element (22, 24) arranged in the vacuum element (21).
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the
package, for the purpose of implementing said compression, is

placed in a bag-shaped body (26) made of elastic material and of
double-walled design, said bag-shaped body being inflated by

the supply of compressed air between the double walls, so that
the inner wall of the bag-shaped body is pressed against the

package.
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the
package is compressed by pressing rigid plate-shaped elements (10),

capable of moving back and forth, against the walls of the
package.
A method according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that
said plate-shaped element (10) are arranged between the inner wall

of the bag-shaped body and the outside of the package. 
A method according to any of claims 1-4, characterized in
that during the compression of the package (15) the bottom and top

faces of the package are pressed towards each other as well.
A method according to any one of claims 1-5,
characterized in that a welding strip (18) is provided under the

suction opening between the inside wall of the package and the
filling, and that af
ter evacuation the suction opening is
sealed hermetically by welding the welding strip around the

suction opening to the inside wall of the package.
A method according to claim 6, characterized in that the
welding strip (18) comprises a plurality of openings (19) located outside

the zone for said welding, the suction opening being in
communication with the interior of the package through said

openings during evacuation.
A method according to any one of claims 1-7,
characterized in that after the evacuation of the package (15) a

sealing strip is fitted onto the suction opening on the
outside of the package.
A method according to any one of claims 1-8,
characterized in that at the location of informational

characters on the packaging material of the package, a
reinforcement zone (42) is provided between the packaging material

and the granular product before the package is evacuated, so
that at that location the roughness of the surface of the

packaging material after evacuation is reduced and the
legibility of the informational characters is improved.
A method according to claim 9, characterized in that the
reinforcement zone (42) is provided before the package is

compressed by said application of pressure to the sidewalls of
the package.
A method according to claim 9 or 10, characterized in
that the reinforcement zone (42) is substantially provided only

under the portion of the packaging material with informational
characters.
A method according to claim 11, characterized in that the
reinforcement zone (42) is provided with relief characters, the

packaging material during evacuation being pressed against the 
relief characters under the influence of the pressure

difference across the package and the relief characters
becoming visible on the outside of the wall.
A method according to any one of claims 9-12,
characterized in that the reinforcement zone (42) is provided under

a portion of the packaging material that is provided with a
bar code.
A method according to any one of claims 9-13,
characterized in that a plate-shaped element (43) is arranged

between the filling and the packaging material for forming the
reinforcement zone.
A method according to any one of claims 9-13,
characterized in that the packaging material is provided with a

thickened portion for forming the reinforcement zone (42).
A method according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the package (15), before being evacuated, is

formed from at least two different sheets of packaging
material, at least one basic sheet thereof determining at

least substantially the outward form of the package and at
least one insert sheet being connected adjacent its

circumferential edges to the basic sheet in a manner not
substantially overlapping at least the basic sheet.
A method according to claim 16, characterized in that the
basic sheet is folded into a shell (50), an edge of the basic sheet

extending in the longitudinal direction of the shell is
hermetically connected to subjacent material of the basic

sheet, at least a portion of an edge of the basic sheet
adjacent a first open end of the shell is folded over and the

insert sheet is hermetically connected to the folded portion
of the basic sheet.
A method according to claim 17, characterized in that the
package is subsequently filled with the granular material

through a second open end of the shell (50), whereafter the second
open end is folded up and hermetically sealed.
A method according the claim 17, characterized in that
the package is subsequently filled with the granular material

through a second open end (54) of the shell (50), whereafter at least a 
portion of an edge of the basic sheet adjacent the second open

end of the shell is folded over and a second insert sheet is
hermetically connected to the folded portion of the edge.
A method according to claim 17 or 19, characterized in
that at least a portion of the edge is folded towards the

inside of the shell (50).
A method according to claim 17 or 19, characterized in
that at least a portion of the edge is folded towards the

outside of the shell (50), so that upon attachment of the insert
sheet a flap is obtained on the package, which flap can be

readily cut off for opening the package.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims
16-21, characterized in that the suction opening is provided in

the insert sheet (74).
A method according to claims 1 and 22, characterized in
that the perforation is provided adjacent the edge of the

insert sheet (74) in the basic and insert sheets.
A method according to claim 23, characterized in that the
perforation, after evacuation of the package (15), is hermetically

sealed by heating the basic and insert sheets at the
perforation, in such a manner that the basic and/or insert

sheets deliquesce at least partly at that location.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims
16-24, characterized in that the basic and insert sheets (74)

consist of different types of packaging material.
An apparatus for producing a vacuum package (18) filled with
granular material, comprising a vacuum element (21) for evacuating

a package made from a flexible packaging material and filled
with granular material, and closing means (22, 24) for hermetically

closing the filled package, wherein the apparatus further
comprises pressure means (26) for applying pressure to at least the

sidewalls of the closed package, so that the granular filling
forms a compact whole, the vacuum element (21) is adapted to be

connected to a suction opening, provided in a wall of the
closed and compressed package, for evacuating the package which

is not otherwise subjected to vacuum, and wherein the closing
means (22, 24) are adapted for hermetically sealing the suction opening, 

characterized in that the vacuum element (21) comprises a needle (25)
capable of moving back and forth for piercing the package for

forming the suction opening and a sealing element (22, 24) for sealing
the suction opening.
An apparatus according to claim 26, characterized
in that the pressure means is formed by a bag-shaped body (26),

made from elastic material and of double-walled design, for
placing the package therein, and a line (11) for supplying

compressed air between the walls of the bag-shaped body is
connected to the bag-shaped body for inflating the bag-shaped

body, so that the inner wall thereof is pressed against the
package.
An apparatus according to claim 27, characterized in that
plate-shaped elements (10) capable of moving back and forth are

arranged within the bag-shaped body, said plate-shaped elements
forming a holder for the package to be placed therein and being

pressed against the walls of the package as a result of the
inflation of the bag-shaped body, for the purpose of

compressing the package.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
