<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619743</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STABLE MICROBUBBLE SUSPENSIONS AS ENHANCEMENT AGENTS FOR ULTRASOUND ECHOGRAPHY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4922	A61K4922	A61K4900	A61K4724	A61K4900	A61K4724	A61K9127	A61K9127	B01F304	B01J1302	B01F304	B01J1302	A61B812	A61B812	A61B808	A61B808	A61B813	A61B813	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	B01F	B01J	B01F	B01J	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K49	A61K49	A61K49	A61K47	A61K49	A61K47	A61K9	A61K9	B01F3	B01J13	B01F3	B01J13	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are injectable suspensions of gas filled microbubbles in an aqueous carrier liquid usable as contrast agents in ultrasonic echography. The suspensions comprise amphipathic compounds of which at least one may be a laminarized phospholipid as a stabiliser of the microbubbles against collapse with time and pressure. The concentration of phospholipids in the carrier liquid is below 0.01 % wt but is at least equal to or above that at which phospholipid molecules are present solely at the gas microbubble-liquid interface. Also disclosed is a method of preparation of the stable suspensions of air or gas filled microbubbles.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to injectable suspensions of gas filled 
microbubbles in an aqueous carrier comprising amphipathic 
compounds of which at least one is a phospholipid stabilizer of the 
microbubbles against collapse with time and pressure. The 
phospholipid stabilizer may be in a lamellar or laminar form. The 
invention also comprises a method of making stable suspensions of 
microbubbles usable as contrast agents in ultrasonic echography. Use of suspensions of gas microbubbles in a carrier liquid as 
efficient ultrasound reflectors is well known in the art. The 
development of microbubble suspensions as echopharmaceuticals for 
enhancement of ultrasound imaging followed early observations that 
rapid intravenous injections can cause solubilized gases to come out of 
solution forming bubbles. Due to their substantial difference in 
acoustic impedance relative to blood, these intravascular gas bubbles 
are found to be excellent reflectors of ultrasound. Injecting into the 
blood-stream of living organisms suspensions of gas microbubbles in a 
carrier liquid strongly reinforces ultrasonic echography imaging, thus 
enhancing the visualisation of internal organs. Since imaging of organs 
and deep seated tissue can be crucial in establishing medical diagnosis 
a lot of effort is devoted to the development of stable suspensions of 
highly concentrated gas microbubbles which at the same time would 
be simple to prepare and administer, would contain a minimum of 
inactive species, would be capable of long storage and simple 
distribution. Many attempts towards a solution which will satisfy these  
 
distribution. Many attempts towards a solution which will satisfy these 
criteria have been made, however, none have provided a completely 
satisfactory result. It has been known from EP-A-0 077 752 (Schering that 
suspensions of gas microbubbles can be made by mixing an aqueous 
solution of a surfactant with a solution of a viscosity enhancer as a 
stabilizer. The gas bubbles are introduced into the mixture by forcing 
the mixture of reagents and air through a small aperture. A suspension 
of CO2 microbubbles may be obtained by addition of an acid to a mixture 
obtained from a solution containing a surfactant and sodium bicarbonate 
and a solution of the viscosity enhancer. Mixing the components 
however, is to be carried out just before use and the solution is to be 
consumed/injected immediately upon preparation. The disclosed 
surfactants (tensides) comprise lecithins; esters and ethers of fatty 
acids and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An injectable suspension of gas filled microbubbles in an aqueous 
carrier liquid, usable as contrast agent in ultrasonic echography, 

comprising at least 10
7
 microbubbles per millilitre and amphipathic 
compounds at least one of which is a phospholipid stabilizer of the 

microbubbles against collapse, characterized in that the concentration 
of the phospholipids in the carrier liquid is below 0.01% by weight 

while being equal to or above that at which the phospholipid 
molecules are present solely at the gas microbubble-liquid interface. 
The injectable suspension of claim 1, in which the concentration of 
microbubbles per millilitre is between 10
8
 and 10
10
. 
The injectable suspension of claim 1, in which the concentration of 
phospholipids is above 0.00013% wt. 
The injectable suspension of any preceding claims, in which the 
liquid carrier further comprises water soluble poly- and oligo-saccharides, 

sugars and hydrophilic polymers such as polyethylene 
glycols as stabilizers. 
The injectable suspension of any preceding claim, in which the 
phospholipids are at least partially in lamellar or laminar form and are 

selected from lecithins such as phosphatidic acid, phosphatidyl-choline, 
phosphatidyl-ethanolamine, phosphatidyl-serine, 

phosphatidyl-glycerol phosphatidyl-inositol, cardiolipin and 
sphingomyelin. 
The injectable suspension of claim 4 or 5, further containing 
substances affecting the properties of phospholipids selected from 

phosphatidyl-glycerol, phosphatidic acid, dicetyl-phosphate, 
cholesterol, ergosterol, phytosterol, sitosterol, lanosterol, tocopherol, 

propyl gallate, ascorbyl palmitate and butylated hydroxy-toluene. 
The injectable suspension of claim 1, 2 or 3, in which the 
phospholipids are in the form of powders obtained by freeze-drying or 

spray-drying.  
 
The injectable suspension of claim 1, containing about 10
8
 - 10
9
 
microbubbles per millilitre with the microbubble size between 0.5 - 10 

µm showing little or no variation under storage. 
The injectable suspension of claim 1, in which the liquid carrier 
further comprises up to 50% by weight non-laminar surfactants 

selected from fatty acids, esters and ethers of fatty acids and alcohols 
with polyols such as polyalkylene glycols, polyalkylenated sugars and 

other carbohydrates, and polyalkylenated glycerol. 
The injectable suspension of any preceding claim, in which the 
microbubbles are filled with SF
6
, CF
4
, freons or air. 
A method of making suspensions of air or gas filled microbubbles 
comprising selecting at least one film forming surfactant, converting 

the surfactant into a powder, contacting the powder with air or 
another gas and admixing the powder surfactant with an aqueous 

liquid carrier to form said suspension, characterised by introducing 
the suspension into a container, forming a layer of the gas filled 

microbubbles in the upper part of the container, separating the layer 
of the microbubbles formed, and washing the microbubbles with an 

aqueous solution saturated with the microbubble gas. 
The method of claim 11, in which prior to converting into the 
powder, the film forming surfactant is at least partially lamellarized. 
The method of claim 12, in which prior to contacting with air or 
another gas the partially lamellarized surfactant is admixed with the 

aqueous liquid carrier. 
The method of claims 12 or 13, in which the liquid carrier further 
contains stabiliser compounds selected from hydrosoluble proteins, 

polypeptides, sugars, poly- and oligo-saccharides and hydrophilic 
polymers. 
The method of claim 12, in which the conversion is effected by 
coating the surfactant onto particles of soluble or insoluble materials 

leaving the coated particles for a while under air or a gas, and 
admixing the coated particles with an aqueous liquid carrier.  

 
The method of claim 12, in which the conversion is effected by 
sonicating or homogenising under high pressure an aqueous solution 

of film forming lipids, this operation leading, at least partly, to the 
formation of liposomes. 
The method of claim 16, in which prior to contacting of at least 
partially lamellarized surfactant with air or another gas the liposome 

containing solution is freeze-dried. 
The method of claims 16 and 17, in which the water solution of 
film forming lipids also contains viscosity enhancers or stabilisers 

selected from hydrophilic polymers and carbohydrates in weight ratio 
relative to the lipids comprised between 10:1 and 1000:1. 
A method of preparation of a suspension of air or gas filled 
microbubbles comprising a film forming surfactant, a hydrophilic 

stabiliser and an aqueous liquid carrier, characterised by dissolving 
the film forming surfactant and the hydrophilic stabiliser in an organic 

solvent, freeze drying the solution to form a dry powder, contacting 
the powder with air or another gas and admixing said powder with 

the aqueous carrier. 
The method of claim 19, in which the hydrophilic stabiliser is 
polyethylene glycol, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohol, glycolic 

acid, malic acid or maltol. 
The method of claim 19 or 20, in which the organic solvent is 
tertiary butanol, 2-methyl-2-butanol or C
2
Cl
4
F
2
. 
A method of making an injectable suspension of gas-filled 
microbubbles according to claim 1, which comprises suspending 

laminarized phospholipids, and optionally other additives, in an 
aqueous carrier liquid, said phospholipids having been in contact with 

said gas prior or after being suspended, under conditions such that a 
concentration of said microbubbles sufficient to provide an 

echographic respose is formed in the suspension, allowing a portion 
of said phospholipids to form a stabilization layer around said bubbles 

and thereafter depleting the carrier liquid of the excess of 
phospholipids not involved in microbubble stabilization. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
