<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638942</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Oxide superconducting wire, manufacturing method thereof, oxide superconducting coil and cable conductor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01B1210	H01B1210	H01L3924	H01F606	H01B1300	H01F606	H01B1300	H01L3914	H01L3924	H01L3914	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01B	H01B	H01L	H01F	H01B	H01F	H01B	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01B12	H01B12	H01L39	H01F6	H01B13	H01F6	H01B13	H01L39	H01L39	H01L39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A long oxide superconducting wire for a coil or a 
cable, manufacturing method thereof, an oxide 

superconducting coil and a cable conductor which have high 
operational frequency are provided. The wire is a tape-like 

oxide superconducting wire including a plurality of 
filaments (1) of oxide superconductor embedded in a matrix 

(2), and each filament (1) is twisted spirally along the 
longitudinal direction of the tape wire. By winding the 

wire in a coil, an oxide superconducting coil is obtained. 
When a plurality of such wires are collected, an oxide 

superconducting cable conductor can be obtained. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a superconducting
wire and manufacturing method thereof, as well as to an
oxide superconducting coil and a cable conductor. More
specifically, the present invention relates to an oxide
superconducting wire, manufacturing method thereof, an
oxide superconducting coil and a cable conductor having
high critical current density and low a.c. loss.In recent years, superconducting materials of
ceramics, i.e., oxide superconducting materials, are
watched with interest due to higher critical temperatures
thereof. Among these materials, yttrium, bismuth and
thallium oxide superconducting materials which exhibit
high critical temperatures of about 90K, 110K and 120K
respectively, are expected for practical application.A single-filamentary oxide superconducting wire
having high critical current density formed of such oxide
superconducting materials is obtained by heat treating and
then covering with a metal sheath the material powder,
drawing, rolling and by further heat treatment. 
Similarly, an oxide superconducting multi-filamentary wire
having high critical current density is obtained by heat
treating powder mainly consisting of oxide superconducting
material, then covering the same with a metal sheath,
drawing and putting together the as-obtained wires to
provide a multi-filamentary wire, and further by drawing,
rolling and heat treating the same.It has been conventionally known that an oxide
superconducting wire having higher critical current
density can be obtained by repeating several times the
steps of rolling and heat treatment in manufacturing such
an oxide superconducting wire.If such an oxide superconducting wire is to be
applied to an a.c. cable or magnet, it must have low a.c.
loss, high strength and superior property under bending-strain,
in addition to the high critical current.The single-filamentary and the multi-filamentary
oxide superconducting wires manufactured through the
conventional method described above have as high a
critical density as 30000A/cm2 or higher.However when an a.c. current is applied with the wire
wound in a coil, there is generated an a.c. loss heat
radiation. This is because an induced current flows
between the metal sheath and the ceramics when an a.c.
current is applied, resulting in heat radiation caused by 
a.c. loss of normal conduction resistance of the metal
sheath, as compared to the case when a d.c. current is
applied, in which case current flows only through the
ceramic portions. Since the temperature of the coil as a
whole
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of manufacturing an oxide superconducting wire,
including the steps of heat treating and then covering with

a metal sheath of silver or silver alloy, a powder mainly
consisting of an oxide superconducting material, drawing to

provide a single-filamentary wire (4) and putting together
as-obtained single-filamentary wires (4) to provide a

multi-filamentary wire, drawing and rolling, and then heat
treating, wherein a 
silver gold alloy
 is provided on the
surface of the metal sheathed single-filamentary wire (4) or at the

interface between said oxide superconducting material and
said metal sheath, before the single-filamentary wires (4)

are put together to provide said multi-filamentary wire,
wherein the resistivity of said silver gold alloy at room
temperature is higher than that of the metal sheath, and

wherein in the steps of drawing and rolling after said
multi-filamentary wire (4) is prepared, after drawing, the

as-obtained wire having a circular cross section is
twisted.
Method according to claim 1 wherein the 
silver gold
alloy is provided at an interface between said oxide

superconducting material and said metal sheath and is
silver with 10% gold added.
Method to claim 1 or 2, wherein after said wire is
twisted, the wire is again drawn and then rolled.
Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein twist pitch
after rolling is made to be at least the width of the wire

after rolling.
Method according to to claim 1 or 2, wherein angle of
inclination of the twist after rolling is made at least

0.5° with respect to a direction of said wire. 
A tape-like oxide superconducting wire including a
plurality of filaments (1) of an oxide superconducting

material embedded in a matrix (2), wherein
each filament (1) ist twisted spirally along the

longitudinal direction of said tape-like wire, and
wherein a barrier layer (8) of 
silver gold alloy
a) surrounds the filament (1), 
wherein the resistivity of
said silver gold alloy at room temperature is higher than

that of the matrix (2) material,
 or
b) is provided on a sheath layer of silver or silver alloy which
surrounds the filament (1), 
wherein, if the sheath layer is of
silver alloy, the resistivity of said silver gold alloy at

room temperature is higher than that of the sheath layer of silver
alloy.
Oxide superconducting wire according to claim 5, wherein
said matrix is silver or silver alloy.
Oxide superconducting wire according to claim 6 or 7,

wherein the barrier layer (8) is provided on a sheath layer of
silver or silver alloy which surrounds the filament (1)
 and
is of silver with 10% gold added.
Oxide superconducting wire according to one of the
claims 6 to 8, which forms an oxide superconducting coil.
Oxide superconducting wire according to one of the
claims 6 to 8, which forms an oxide superconducting cable.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
