<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651462</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Beam sharpened pencil beam antenna systems.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1376	H01Q2500	H01Q2502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	H01Q25	H01Q25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A beam sharpened antenna pattern (40) is achieved 
by intercoupling signals from individual radiating 

elements (10-13) of an array to produce a sum mode 
signal (42) and a ring mode signal (44). The ring mode 

signal represents a forward-directed antenna pattern 
having a zero to 360 degree progressive phase 

characteristic around a pattern axis (14a). Beam 
sharpening results from processing the sum and ring mode 

signals to provide a pattern (40) having 360 degree beam 
sharpening, which represents portions of the sum mode 

pattern (42) of amplitude greater than the amplitudes of 
selected portions of the ring mode signal (44). The 

ring mode signal may be provided on a predetermined 
basis after selected attenuation or amplification in 

order to provide a beam sharpened antenna pattern having 
a modified characteristic. In some applications, 

received signals are processed on a simultaneous sum 
mode and ring mode basis, while during transmission 

pulsed sum mode and ring mode antenna patterns are 
activated on a sequential, timed basis. Arrangements 

for use of the invention with two-dimensional-scan (Fig. 
4) and one-dimensional-scan (Fig. 5) phased arrays are 

also described. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAZELTINE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAZELTINE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANNAN PETER W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUMPFBECK RICHARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANNAN, PETER W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUMPFBECK, RICHARD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to pencil beam antenna 
systems suitable for Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) 
systems and other applications and, more generally, to 
antenna systems providing a sum mode signal and a ring 
mode signal, the latter having a zero to 360 degree 
progressive phase pattern characteristic. Defense weapon systems typically include provision 
for target identification before active engagement of 
the weapon. An IFF system may, for example, be used to 
distinguish between friendly and unfriendly aircraft in 
order to permit action to be taken against an unfriendly 
aircraft. In operation the IFF system must be able to 
provide accurate target discrimination in the presence 
of a plurality of aircraft. Typical existing IFF 
antenna systems use antennas providing a fan beam of 
fixed vertical orientation which can be mechanically 
rotated in azimuth. Such antennas provide only azimuth 
discrimination between potential targets, so that all 
aircraft within an azimuth beamwidth are commonly 
interrogated, regardless of differing aircraft 
altitudes. In certain defense weapons system 
applications using this type of azimuth discriminating 
antenna, the weapon system cannot be activated against a 
low altitude unfriendly aircraft so long as a friendly 
aircraft is within the same azimuth beamwidth. This 
result obtains even if the friendly aircraft is at a 
much higher elevation. As a result, weapons system 
effectiveness may be limited under high traffic 
conditions involving a number of aircraft. It is therefore an object of this invention to 
provide pencil beam antenna systems having antenna 
patterns capable of distinguishing between multiple 
target positions in both elevation and azimuth. An additional object is to provide antenna systems  
 
operating with both a sum mode antenna pattern and a new 
type of ring mode antenna pattern extending in the 
direction of the sum mode beam centerline and having a 
zero to 360 degree progressive phase characteristic 
around such centerline. Another object is to provide antenna systems 
wherein a sum mode signal and a ring mode signal are 
processed to provide an antenna pattern providing new 
and improved operating characteristics. Further objects 
are to provide new and improved antenna systems which 
avoid one or more shortcomings of prior antenna systems. In accordance with the invention a dual mode 
antenna system, having a sum mode and a ring mode and 
providing 360 degree beam sharpening, includes an array 
of radiating elements positioned
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dual mode antenna system, having a sum mode 
and a ring mode comprising: 

   an array of radiating elements (10-13) 
positioned around a central axis (14), each said 

radiating element arranged to provide an antenna pattern 
nominally in the direction of said central axis; 

   intercoupling means (20), intercoupling said 
radiating elements for providing a sum mode signal (42) 

by combining signals from a plurality of said radiating 
elements and for providing a ring mode signal (44) 

representing an antenna pattern having a zero to 360 
degree progressive phase characteristic around said 

central axis, by combining in a predetermined 
differential-phase relationship signals from selected 

ones of said radiating elements positioned around said 
central axis; and 

   a sum mode port (27) and a ring mode port 
(29), coupled to said intercoupling means, for 

respectively enabling coupling of said sum mode signal 
and said ring mode signal. 
An antenna system as in claim 1, wherein each 
of said radiating elements is a dipole (10-13, Fig. 1) 

with its arms aligned in a common plane (16, 18) 
perpendicular to said central axis (14), with all of 

said arms of said dipoles extending in a common 
direction (16). 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 1, 
wherein said intercoupling means (20a, Fig. 4) 

comprises: 
   means (62a-d) for combining signals from all 

of said radiating elements (56) to provide intermediate 
sum signals and intermediate difference signals; 

   means (64) for combining said intermediate 
difference signals to provide a first difference output; 

   means (66) for combining said intermediate sum 
signals to provide a second difference output and said 

sum mode signal; and 
   means (68) for combining said first and second 

 
difference outputs in a quadrature phase relationship to 

provide said ring mode signal. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 3, 
additionally comprising beam sharpening adjustment means 

(70a, 70b, Fig. 5), coupled to said means (68) for 
combining said first and second difference outputs, for 

adjusting the amplitude of one of said first and second 
difference outputs prior to said combining of said 

outputs in said quadrature phase relationship, whereby 
said ring mode signal is caused to have portions of 

different amplitude. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 1, 3 or 
4, additionally comprising phase shift means (58a, 58b, 

Fig. 5), coupled to said means (62a, 62b) for combining 
signals from all of said radiating elements, for 

adjusting the relative phase of selected ones of said 
intermediate sum and difference signals to adjust the 

direction of the sum mode and ring mode antenna patterns 
relative to the direction of said central axis. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 1, 3 or 
4, additionally comprising means (30, Fig. 2), coupled 

to said sum and ring mode ports (27, 29), for coupling 
to said ports during signal transmission: 

   a first pulsed signal, coupled to said sum 
mode port, for causing a sum mode signal to be radiated 

by said array of radiating elements; and 
   a second pulsed signal, coupled to said ring 

mode port in a predetermined time sequence relative to 
said first pulsed signal, for causing a ring mode signal 

to be radiated by said array of radiating elements. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 6, 
additionally comprising phase shift means (58, Fig. 4), 

coupled to the feed paths of a plurality of said 
radiating elements (56), for adjusting the relative 

phase of signals coupled to said radiating elements to 
adjust the direction of the sum mode and ring mode 

antenna patterns relative to the direction of said 
central axis. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 1, 2, 
 

3, 4, 5, 6 or 7, wherein said array (54, Fig. 4) 
comprises a plurality of radiating elements (56) 

positioned around said central axis (14) in rows and 
columns, including at least one row or column of said 

radiating elements spaced from said central axis at each 
of zero, 90, 180 and 270 degree positions around said 

central axis; and 
   wherein said intercoupling means combines in 

an out of phase relationship signals from selected ones 
of said radiating elements positioned on opposite sides 

of said central axis to form two difference signals and 
combines said two difference signals in a quadrature 

phase relationship to form said ring mode signal. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 1, 3, 
4, 5 or 6, wherein said array (54a, Fig. 5
) consists of 
only two rows of radiating elements (56) arranged in a 

plurality of columns, including at least one row or 
column of said radiating elements spaced from said 

central axis at each of zero, 90, 180 and 270 degree 
positions around said central axis. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 9, 
wherein said intercoupling means comprises: 

   means (62a, 62b) for combining signals from 
all of said radiating elements (56) to provide first and 

second intermediate sum signals and first and second 
intermediate difference signals; 

   means (64) for combining said first and second 
intermediate difference signals to provide a first 

difference output; 
   means (66a) for combining said first and 

second intermediate sum signals to provide a second 
difference output and said sum mode signal; and 

   means (68) for combining said first and second 
difference outputs in a quadrature phase relationship to 

provide said ring mode signal. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 10, 
additionally comprising phase shift means consisting of 

only two variable phase shifters, a first variable phase 
shifter (58a) arranged for adjusting the phase of said 

 
second intermediate sum signal and a second variable 

phase shifter (58b) intercoupled for common adjustment 
with said first variable phase shifter (58a), and 

arranged for adjusting the phase of said second 
intermediate difference signal, whereby said second 

intermediate sum and difference signals are subjected to 
substantially equal phase adjustments. 
A dual mode antenna system as in claim 10 or 
11, additionally comprising beam sharpening adjustment 

means (70a, 70b), coupled to said means (68) for 
combining said first and second difference outputs, for 

adjusting the amplitude of one of said first and second 
difference outputs prior to said combining of said 

outputs in said quadrature phase relationship, whereby 
said ring mode signal is caused to have portions of 

different amplitude. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
