<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649483</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Resilient road marker
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01F907	E01F904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01F	E01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01F9	E01F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HIGHWAY SAFETY VISION CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HIGHWAY SAFETY VISION CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAULOS DEAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODD KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAULOS, DEAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODD, KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to depressible, reflective road markers 
for delineating roadways and, in particular, to a resilient road marker 
which is resistant to rotation from external forces yet ensures depression and 
return of the reflector assembly above the road surface. The benefits of roadway lane markers to delineate traffic paths for 
drivers are unquestioned. Road markers are more desirable than the 
usual painted dividing lines because such reflective markers are more visible 
to a driver over a greater distance and will function better in many instances 
where painted traffic lines are seen by a driver only with difficulty such as on 
wet roadways, snow covered roadways or in fog. The prior known markers 
typically are available in two forms -- the surface mount marker secured 
directly to the roadway surface or an imbedded marker positioned within a 
preformed hole in the roadway. Surface mount markers are more widely 
utilized in warmer climates where the markers would not be subject to the 
shearing effects of a snowplow. The structural integrity of imbedded markers 
makes them more suitable for roadways subject to various weather 
conditions. In order to withstand the forces of oncoming snowplows and 
vehicle tires, a variety of retractable road markers have been developed. The 
retractable marker, although it protrudes above the road surface, may be 
depressed by the blow of a snowplow blade or vehicle tire. Typically, a 
beveled upper surface formed on the reflector protrusion provides an inclined 
plane across which the blade or tire rides deflecting the protruding portion 
of the marker downwardly into its housing. Such depressible markers have 
incorporated spring assemblies for biasing the reflector, flexible diaphragms 
which carry the reflector or foam rubber cells facilitating depression of the  
 
reflector. However, the effects of dirt and grime, 
freezing and thawing, snow, rainwater and the forces 
associated with the road traffic all detrimentally effect 
the prior known depressible reflectors. Over time 
reflectors which depend upon exposed rubber components 
deteriorate to failure. Still other reflectors cannot 
withstand the torquing effect of the snowplow blades 
engaging the reflector. A significant disadvantage of prior known road 
markers is encountered when the reflector becomes damaged 
requiring repair. The roadway markers used in the past 
require removal of the entire assembly from the roadway or, 
at a minimum, disassembly of the housing in order to effect 
a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reflective road marker (10) comprising: 

a housing (20) adapted to be fixedly mounted within 
an opening formed within a road such that an upper end of 

said housing is positioned at or below the road surface; 
a piston (40) reciprocally movable within said 
housing (20), said piston including an upper end (42) normally 

protruding above said housing and the road surface, said 
piston being depressible downwardly in said housing to move 

said upper end into said housing; 
a reflector assembly (50) mounted to said upper end 
of said piston (40); and 
resiliently compressible means (70) biasing said 
piston (40) upwardly to raise said upper end of said piston 

above said housing (20) and the road surface, said biasing 
means filling substantially all the space within said 

housing and being resiliently compressible upon depression 
of said piston into said housing as a result of surface 

traffic; 
 
   characterised in that said housing (20) has an upper 

aperture (34) with a non-circular configuration and said 
piston (40) also has a non-circular peripheral 

configuration (44) which cooperates with said non-circular 
upper aperture configuration to prevent rotation of said 

piston (40) within said housing (20). 
A marker as claimed in claim 1, wherein said  
 

reflector assembly (50) is removably mounted to said upper 
end of said piston (40) to facilitate repair and 

replacement. 
A marker as claimed in claim 2, wherein said 
reflector assembly (50) includes a lens holder (52) and a 

retaining clip (58), said lens holder receiving at least 
one reflective lens (54), said retaining clip receiving 

said lens holder and detachably mounting said reflector 
assembly to said piston (40). 
A marker as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said housing (20) includes a base (22) and 

a retainer (24) threadably attached to said base, said 
upper aperture (34) is formed in said retainer and said 

piston (40) is matingly received within said upper 
aperture. 
A marker as claimed in claim 4, wherein said 
aperture (34) of said retainer (24) and said periphery (44) 

of said piston (40) have mating continuous lobe 
configurations (36,46) to prevent rotation of said piston, said 

piston being reciprocally movable within said aperture of 
said retainer. 
A marker as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said biasing means (70) comprises at least 

one compression member (72,74) and a central spool (76) to 
return said piston (40) to its normal position. 
A marker as claimed in claim 6, wherein said 
biasing means (70) comprises a lower compression member  

 
(72) and an upper compression member (74), said upper 

compression member received within and filling 
substantially all the space within said piston (40) and 

said lower compression member is positioned within said 
base (22) beneath said piston, said compression members 

minimizing void space in said piston and said base to 
inhibit accumulation of moisture therein. 
A marker as claimed in claim 7, wherein said 
compression members (72,74) include axial throughbores 

(78,80) for receiving said central spool (76), said 
compression members and said spool ensuring return of said 

piston to its normal position. 
A marker as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, 
wherein said housing (20) or said base (22) includes a seat (32) receiving a 

lower end (86) of said spool (76) to maintain alignment of said 
biasing means (70) within said housing (20). 
A marker as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 
9, wherein said compression members (72,74) are made of a 

compressible closed-cell foam material impervious to 
moisture. 
A marker as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 
10, wherein said central spool (76) is made of a resilient 

rubber material. 
A marker as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
5, wherein said biasing means (70) including at least one 

compression member (72,74) and at least one rebound member 
(76) such that said piston (40) returns to its normal  

 
position following depression of said piston into said 

housing (20) as a result of surface traffic. 
A marker as claimed in claim 12, wherein said 
reflector assembly (50) is removably mounted to said upper 

end of said piston (40) to facilitate repair and 
replacement of said reflector assembly. 
A marker as claimed in claim 12 or 13, wherein 
said aperture (34) of said housing (20) or said retainer (24) and said outer 

periphery (44) of said piston (40) have mating continuous 
lobe configurations to prevent rotation of said piston 

within said housing while distributing rotational torque 
over the entire periphery of said piston and said housing or said retainer 

aperture. 
A marker as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 
14, wherein said biasing means (70) comprises a lower 

compression member (72), an upper compression member (74) 
and a central rebound spool (76) extending through said 

upper and lower compression members, said upper compression 
member received within and filling substantially all the 

space within said piston (40) and said lower compression 
member is positioned within said housing (20) or said base (22) beneath said 

piston, said compression members minimizing void space in 
said piston and said housing or said base to inhibit accumulation of 

moisture. 
A marker as claimed in claim 15, wherein said 
compression members (72,74) include axial throughbores 

(78,80) for receiving said central rebound spool (76), said  
 

spool including a lower end (86) received within a centering 
seat (32) formed in said base (22) and an upper end (84) 

engaging said piston (40) thereby ensuring return of said 
piston to its normal position. 
A marker as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
upper aperture (34) has a lobed configuration and said 

piston (40) has a lobed peripheral configuration (44). 
A marker as claimed in claim 1 or claim 17, 
wherein said biasing means (70) fills substantially all the 

space within the piston (40) and housing (20) to prevent 
accumulation of moisture. 
A marker as claimed in claim 17 or claim 18, 
wherein said reflector assembly (50) is removably mounted 

tc said upper end of said piston (40) to facilitate repair 
and replacement of said reflector assembly. 
A marker as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 
19, wherein said biasing means (70) comprises a lower 

compression member (72) and upper compression member (74), 
said upper compression member received within and filling 

substantially all the space within said piston (40) and 
said lower compression member is positioned within said 

housing (20) beneath said piston, said compression members 
minimizing void space in said piston and said housing to 

inhibit accumulation of moisture within said marker. 
A marker as claimed in claim 20, wherein said 
compression members (72,74) include axial throughbores 

(78,80) for receiving a central spool (76), said  
 

compression members facilitating depression of said piston 
into said housing and said spool ensuring return of said 

piston to its normal position. 
A marker as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said housing (20) or said base (22) of said housing (20) 

includes a plurality of ribs (30) formed on the outer 
surface thereof for maintaining said marker within the 

road. 
A marker as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said housing (20) includes a base (22) and a retainer (24) threadably attached 

to said base. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
