<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641473</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS FOR ESTABLISHING CERTIFIABLE INFORMED CONSENT FOR A MEDICAL PROCEDURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B700	G06F1900	G06F1900	G09B704	G09B2300	G09B2328	G09B1900	G09B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	G06F	G06F	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B7	G06F19	G06F19	G09B7	G09B23	G09B23	G09B19	G09B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for establishing certifiable patient informed consent for a medical procedure, where, in one embodiment, the patient interacts with a video training system until mastery of all required information is successfully achieved. Training techniques which permit elicitation of measurable behaviors from a patient as a guide to discerning the level of knowledge of the patient are utilized. Certification is only granted when the measurable behavior approximately coincide with the legal and medical standards for establishing informed consent. The system is capable of adapting to various medical procedures, as well as various patient attitudes and knowledge bases, while still maintaining a level of consistency throughout. In one embodiment, a minimum probability of understanding may be preset, and the training procedure will continue until the actual statistical probability of understanding is at least equal to the preset minimum. An interactive nature of the system is present in the present system for facilitating the training process and continuously monitoring the patient's knowledge.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDICAL TRAINING SERVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDICAL TRAINING 
&
 SERVICES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUDD WILSON A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAKSHIT AMITABHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JUDD, WILSON, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAKSHIT, AMITABHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods for establishing informed consent
to a medical procedure, particularly for medical procedures such as a hysterectomy,
a blood transfusion, AIDS/HIV treatment, psychiatric treatment, dental procedures,
anesthesia, and the like. More specifically, the present invention relates to
interactive methods for establishing within a predetermined probability that a
patient, or his/her guardian, has understood the disclosed information regarding the
medical procedure. See for example the Journal of the American Medical Association, Vol. 240, No 25, Dec. 15, 1978, pages 2741-2742 Barbour et al., "Video tape Aids In formed Consent Decision", which discloses a method in which a video presentation and a questionnaire for obtaining patient informed consent.Virtually every medical procedure performed in the United States, including
psychiatric treatment and dental procedures, requires that the patient consent to
the procedure. This consent may either be expressed or implied. A competent
adult patient can implicitly consent to a procedure by his/her situation or his/her
actions. Examples of this type of consent would include certain emergencies and
typical physical examinations. Consent to such procedures is implied by the
patient. While it is frequently deemed acceptable, it is not the type of consent
preferred by the medical community and is to be avoided where possible.Expressed consent is preferred by the medical community. At present,
expressed consent is usually oral or written. The inherent difficulty in proving
details with respect to oral consent makes this type of expressed consent less
preferable for most health care providers, Using existing techniques, many non-emergency
type surgical procedures require the patient to read and sign an
"informed consent" form. Admittedly, this can be awkward; it is well established,
however. For example, the "Operating Room Administration Manual Checklists,
Guidelines & Forms" includes a checklist of clauses which may be included in the
typical written consent form. In addition, a list of medical procedures requiring full
disclosure is included as Exhibit 30-3 to this reference. These procedures, among
many others, are deemed to require not merely consent, but informed consent. The author of an article discussing surgical informed consent suggests to
establish legally-sufficient informed consent, at least three elements are required:
(1) sufficient information in understandable terms, (2) competence on the part of
the patient to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computer implemented method of establishing certifiable patient informed consent for a
medical procedure, said method comprising the steps of:


evaluating actual legal and medical requirements for establishing informed
consent; then
estimating legal and medical standards for establishing informed consent;

comprising the following steps:

a. defining a set of computer measurable patient behaviors which can be approximately
coincided with said estimated legal and medical standards; then
b. computer training with a first set of instructions said patient on desired aspects of said
medical procedure through a computer controlled automatic utilization of

preprogrammed information stored in a computer; and
c. computer interacting with said patient in a standardized fashion through an automatic
computer controlled use of preprogrammed information stored in said computer to

produce computer measurable patient behaviors said computer measurable patient
behaviors automatically varying said interaction; and
d. automatically computer analyzing said patient behaviors; then
e. determining whether said training should be adjusted depending on said analyzing said
patient behaviors;
f identifying which portions of said training should be adjusted;
g. modifying to create at least one modified portion of said training to a different set of
instructions than said first set of instructions based on said step of determining

whether said training should be adjusted;
h continuing said interacting with said patient on said desired aspects of said medical
procedure;
i. additionally training with said modified portion;
j. additionally computer interacting with said patient in a standardized fashion through
an automatic computer controlled use of preprogrammed information stored in said

computer to produce computer measurable patient behaviors said computer
measurable patient behaviors automatically varying said interaction; and
k. additionally computer analyzing said patient behaviors; then
l. additionally determining whether said training should be adjusted depending on said
analyzing said patient behaviors;
m. additionally determining whether said training should be further adjusted;
n. computer providing an automatic indication of certifiability that said patient likely
meets said legal and medical standards; and
o. obtaining informed consent of said patient.
A method according to
claim 1 wherein said step (a) comprises


translating said legal and medical standards to measurable behaviors,
and then
evaluating the validity of the correlation between said standards and
said behaviors.
A method
according to

claim 2 wherein said step (a) further
comprises continuously refining said step of measuring to

achieve better approximation between said standards and said measurable
behaviors.
A method
according to claim 1 or 2 and further comprising the step of 

training said patient on desired aspects of said medical procedure.
A method
according to claim 1 wherein said interacting comprises


periodically testing said patient on aspects to elicit a measurable
behavior and then
evaluating said patient's behavior in response to said testing.
A method
according to claim 1 wherein said step of approximating

satisfaction comprises the step of achieving defined measurable patient
behaviors which approximately coincide with said legal and medical

standards.
A method
according to claim 6 wherein said step of approximating

satisfaction further comprises statistically establishing a
probability of satisfaction.
A method
according to claim 7 wherein said statisfically

establishing comprises

repetitively testing said patient to elicit responses and then
evaluating said responses.
A method
according to claim 4 wherein said step of approximating

satisfaction comprises

selecting a minimum criterion that said measurable patient behaviors
exhibited coincide with said legal and medical standards and then
continuing said step of testing until at least said minimum criterion is
achieved.
A method
according to claim 4 wherein said training comprises

viewing a learning medium.
A method
according to claim 4 wherein said training comprises

listening to an audible medium.
A method
according to claim 4 wherein said training comprises

interacting with a learning medium.
A method
according to claim 4 wherein said step of approximating

satisfaction comprises proving mastery of aspects of said medical procedure.
A method
according to claim 13 wherein said proving comprises

achieving defined measurable patient behaviors which
approximately coincides with said legal and medical standards.
A method
according to claim 14 wherein said proving further

comprises the step of storing said measurable patient behaviors.
A computer implemented method of establishing certifiable patient informed consent for a
medical procedure as described in claim 1 further comprising the step of applying an

instructional system development (ISD) model to certify a patient's informed consent to a
particular medical procedure comprising the steps of


A. analyzing said medical procedure comprising the steps of:

(1) compiling fundamental information on said medical procedure; then
(2) selecting information which may be stored within a computer and which is
legally likely to be necessary for informed consent; then
B. designing a computer stored system utilizing said ISD model for computer training
said patient on said selected information comprising the steps of: 


(1) establishing, through analysis, the body of information that a patient might
need to know about a particular medical procedure in order for them to legally

and ethically be considered to be informed;
(2) establishing a set of observable, measurable objectives which, if these
objectives are achieved or mastered, indicate that the patient comprehends this

information and can apply it to his/her own situation;
(3) developing, for each objective defined in step b.(2) above, a set of interactive

behavioral measures that evaluate whether or not the patient has met the
objective;
(4) evaluating the measures developed in step b. (3), above, with respect to their
ability to discriminate persons who are knowledgeable about the procedure

from those who are not;
(5) developing a sequence of interactive, individualized instructions designed to
facilitate patients' mastering the objectives established in step b. (2), above, to

train them to provide the correct responses to the measures developed in step
b.(3), above; 
(6) evaluating the effectiveness of the instructions and revise the instructions to
correct any deficiencies;
(7) implementing the interactive sequences developed in steps b. (2) through b.
(6) with actual patients.
d. automatically periodically performing computer controlled criterion referenced testing
on said patient wherein said testing automatically varies said computer controlled

presentation and wherein said criterion referenced testing is used to estimate the
probability that the patient has mastered each objective and wherein the results of said

criterion referenced testing are used such that if the probability that the patient has
mastered an objective does not meet or exceed a predetermined criterion, said step

of additionally training is conducted;

and also further comprising the step of collecting detailed data on actual patients' responses
in interacting with both the instruction and the measures.
A method
according to claim 16 further

comprising the step of evaluating legal and medical requirements for
establishing patient informed consent.
A method
according to claim 16 wherein said

step of analyzing comprises evaluating legal and medical
requirements for establishing patient informed consent.
A method according to
claim 17 or 18 wherein

said step of analyzing further comprises estimating legal and
medical standards for establishing patient informed consent.
A method according to
claim 16 wherein said

training comprises providing to said patient,
a medium which contains said selected information.
A method according to
claim 20 wherein said

medium is interactive. 
A method according to
claim 16 wherein said

training comprises removing variance due to individual
human character.
A method according to
claim 22 wherein said

training further comprises interacting with said patient.
A method according to
claim 19 wherein said

step of periodically performing comprises

posing to said patient a set of applicable considerations
which relate to said selected information and then
requiring said patient to respond to said considerations.
A method according to
claim 24 wherein said

step of providing certification comprises the step of approximating
satisfaction.
A method according to
claim 25 wherein said

step of approximating satisfaction comprises statistically
establishing a probability of satisfaction.
A method according to
claim 26 wherein

statistically establishing comprises

repetitively testing said patient to elicit behaviors and then
classifying said behaviors.
A method according to
claim 27 wherein said

classifying comprises

correlating said behaviors to said legal and medical standards,
establishing a statistical probability of said correlation and then
accepting only those established probabilities above a preset
minimum.
A method according to
claim 28 further

comprising re-training said patient on those established
probabilities below said preset minimum.
A method according to
claim, 19 wherein said

evaluating comprises

predetermining an acceptable statistical probability for indicating a
correlation between said patient response and said legal and medical

standards,
periodically computing an actual statistical probability of said
correlation,
comparing said actual probability to said acceptable probability and then
continuing said steps of training and performing until said actual
probability is at least equal to said acceptable probability.
A method according to
claim 16 further

comprising proving mastery of said selected information.
A method according to
claim 31 wherein said

proving comprises recording said patient's behavioral
responses.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
