<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619433</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Float operated pneumatic pump.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04F100	F04F108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04F	F04F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04F1	F04F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A float operated pneumatic pump has an outer pump body forming an outer 
chamber and a dip tube forming an inner chamber therein. The inner chamber of 

the dip tube is in communication with the outer chamber of the pump body through 
a back flow discharge check valve. An inlet is located at a first end of the outer 

pump body for permitting liquids to enter both the inner and outer chambers. A 
discharge housing is located at a second end of the tubes and contains a liquid 

discharge port in communication with the second end of the dip tube. An air inlet 
port is located in the discharge housing for permitting pressurized air to enter the 

second end of the outer pump body. An air exhaust port is provided for permitting 
air in the outlet chamber to escape to atmosphere when fluid is entering the inner 

and outer chambers. A float is disposed on the outside of the dip tube within the 
outer chamber of the pump body. The float provides buoyancy to actuate the pump 

and provides weight to de-activate the pump. An inlet valve is disposed within the 
air inlet port for selectively admitting in a discharge mode, and blocking in a refill 

mode the source of compressed air into the outer chamber of the pump body. An 
exhaust valve is disposed within the air exhaust port for selectively venting in the 

refill mode and blocking in the discharge mode the outer chamber to the air 
discharge port. An actuator linkage, or a lost motion device, is coupled between the 

float and an off center pivot lever. The off center pivot lever actuates both the inlet 
and exhaust valves with the off center feature of the pivot lever increasing the force 

of the buoyant float. The float operated fluid pump further includes first and second 
attracting magnets, the first magnet being located on the movable end of the off 

center pivot lever and the second magnet being located within the discharge housing.  
 

The first and second magnets come together by movement of the float and operate 
to keep the pumping system in the discharge mode until the weight of the float 

separates the magnets and moves the pumping system into the refill mode. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QED ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QED ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDWARDS DAVID H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWCOMER KEVIN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIEHAUS LYNNE K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDWARDS, DAVID H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEWCOMER, KEVIN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIEHAUS, LYNNE K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to underground fluid pumping systems. 
More particularly, the present invention relates to underground fluid pumping 
systems which are capable of activating in response to the surrounding liquid levels. Increased monitoring of environmental quality has resulted in a substantial 
rise in the number of identified sites of contaminated ground water. Accompanying 
this trend has been an increased effort to clean up these sites. In response, there is 
a need for improved below ground pumping systems to assist in these clean up 
efforts. Ideally, below ground pumping systems used for these purposes will have a 
number of desired characteristics. Because of the large number of pumping systems 
required, it is desirable to minimize the cost of each pump and each installation. 
Accordingly, such pumps should be relatively simple and inexpensive and should fit 
in a small diameter well due to the increased cost of drilling large diameter wells. 
To minimize maintenance and repair costs, the pumps should have a minimum of 
moving parts and should have high reliability. Also, such pumps should be able to 
withstand corrosive fluid streams without failure. Due to the possibility of exposure of the pumping systems to explosive gasses, 
pneumatic pumps are preferred over electrical pumps for pumping waste products. 
However, many of the currently used pneumatic pumps have a number of drawbacks. 
For example, many pumps in current use require external controlling devices which 
use timers to activate the pump on a fixed schedule. This necessity of external  
 
controllers adds considerably to the cost and complexity of the overall pumping 
system. In addition, the use of a fixed time pumping schedule has disadvantages 
since it may not result in pumping at the most opportune time to obtain the 
maximum production from the pump. For example, an external timer cannot sense 
variations in the flow rate of fluid into the pump and thus may result in either a too 
fast or a too slow pumping cycle. There are pumps which avoid the necessity of external controllers by 
incorporating sensing means within the pump to detect when fluid has entered the 
pump to a desired level. Unfortunately, the prior art pumps which are capable of 
self activation have not proved satisfactory in many applications. One problem has 
been with the mechanical actuating and sensing mechanism within the pumps. 
Generally, such pumps use a float which rises when the pumps fills and lowers when 
the pump is empty.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pump for directing liquid out of a well, said pump comprising: 
   an outer tube forming an outer chamber therein; 

   an inner tube forming an inner chamber therein, said inner tube 
disposed within said outer chamber of said outer tube; 

   first inlet means at a first end of said outer tube for permitting liquids 
to enter said outer chamber; 

   second inlet means at a first end of said inner tube for permitting 
liquids to enter said inner chamber; 

   a discharge housing at a second end of said inner and outer tubes, said 
discharge housing having a fluid discharge port in communication with said inner 

chamber of said inner tube; 
   a gas inlet valve disposed within said discharge housing for selectively 

admitting in a pump discharge mode and blocking in a pump refill mode a 

pressurized gas into said outer chamber; 
   a gas discharge valve disposed within said discharge housing for 

selectively venting in said pump refill mode and blocking in said pump discharge 
mode said gas within said outer chamber; 

   a float slidably disposed within said outer chamber, said float being 
buoyant in said liquid wherein said float slides from said first end to said second end 

of said outer tube in response to the level of said liquid in said outer chamber; 
   actuating means responsive to the position of said float for actuating 

said gas inlet valve and said gas discharge valve between said pump refill mode and 
said pump discharge mode, wherein said liquid is admitted into said outer chamber 

 
during said pump refill mode and said liquid is forced from said outer chamber 

through said inner chamber during said pump discharge mode, said actuating means 
comprising: 

   an actuator rod disposed in said outer chamber, said actuator rod 
movable by said float; 

   an actuation arm disposed in said outer chamber, said actuation arm 
pivotably secured at a first end thereof to said pump, said actuation arm movable 

between an upward position and a downward position, said actuation arm operable 
to move said gas inlet valve and said gas discharge valve into said pump refill mode 

when in said upward position and operable to move said gas inlet valve and said gas 
discharge valve into said pump discharge mode when in said downward position; 

   a first attracting magnet attached to a second end of said actuation 
arm; 

   a second attracting magnet disposed within said pump, said first and 
second attracting magnets operable to hold said actuation arm in said upward 

position, said float operable to separate said first and second attracting magnets and 
move said actuation arm to said downward position. 
The pump of Claim 1 wherein said gas inlet valve comprises: 
   an internal surface defining an inlet passageway in communication with 

said outer chamber, said inlet passageway adapted to attach to a source of 
compressed gas at a first end and defining an inlet valve seat at a second end; 

   an inlet check ball disposed within said inlet passageway, said inlet 
check ball adapted to mate with said inlet valve seat to close said inlet passageway; 

and
 

   an actuation pin fixedly secured to said actuation arm, said actuation 
pin operable to unseat said inlet check ball from said inlet valve seat when said 

actuation arm is in said upward position. 
The pump of Claim 2 wherein said gas inlet valve comprises a housing 
fixedly secured within a gas inlet port. 
The pump of Claim 1 wherein said gas discharge valve comprises: 
   an internal surface defining a discharge passageway in communication 

with said outer chamber and with the outside atmosphere, said discharge passageway 
defining a discharge valve seat; and 

   a stem secured to said actuation arm, said stem having a discharge 
check ball disposed thereon, said discharge check ball adapted to mate with said 

discharge valve seat, said stem operable to seat said discharge check ball within said 
discharge valve seat when said actuation arm is in said upward position. 
The pump of Claim 4 wherein said stem is slidably secured to said 
actuation arm and said discharge valve further comprises biasing means for biasing 

said discharge check ball away from said actuation arm. 
The pump of Claim 5 wherein said biasing means is a coil spring. 
The pump of Claim 4 wherein said gas discharge valve comprises a 
housing fixedly secured within a gas discharge port. 
The pump of Claim 1 wherein said actuation arm moves said gas 
discharge valve into said discharge mode prior to moving said gas inlet valve into said 

discharge mode. 
The pump of Claim 1 wherein said first inlet means comprises:
 

   a housing fixedly secured to said first end of said outer tube, said 
housing defining an inlet passageway in communication with said outer chamber and 

an inlet valve seat; and 
   an inlet check ball disposed within said outer chamber adjacent to said 

inlet valve seat, said inlet check ball adapted to mate with said inlet valve seat to 
close said inlet passageway and not allow said liquid to flow from said outer 

chamber. 
The pump of Claim 1 wherein said second inlet means comprises: 
   a housing fixedly secured to said first end of said outer tube, said 

housing defining a discharge passageway in communication with said outer chamber 
and said inner chamber, said discharge passageway defining a discharge valve seat; 

and 
   a discharge check ball disposed within said discharge passageway, said 

discharge check ball adapted to mate with said discharge valve seat to close said 
discharge passageway and not allow said liquid to flow from said inner chamber to 

said outer chamber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
