<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620443</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Wide power range electromagnetic radiation detector.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2100	G01R2110	G01R2908	G01R2908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R21	G01R21	G01R29	G01R29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wide power range radiation monitor includes a pair of 
diodes (D₁ and D₂) with their cathodes interconnected 

and with an additional capacitor (C₁) coupled in 
parallel to one of the diodes. The detector of the 

radiation monitor provides two outputs, a low power 
output (2) and a high power output (4), which outputs 

are connected to the anodes of the detector diodes. The 
arrangement of dual diodes and capacitance (C
d
) provide 
the diode detector of the monitor with a greater than 

40dB square law region. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NARDA MICROWAVE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE NARDA MICROWAVE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASLAN EDWARD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASLAN, EDWARD E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to radiation monitors and 
more particularly to measuring instruments suitable for 
monitoring radiation of electric fields over a wide power 
range. Diode detectors have been commonly used in radiation 
monitors to measure RF power or power density or field 
strength. An example of such is disclosed in U.S. Patent 
No. 4,634,968 which issued on January 6, 1987 to the 
inventor. Such diode detectors exhibit a square law region. 
It is essential to operate the detector in the square law 
region for true RMS detection. True RMS operation is 
required to make accurate measurements when multiple 
signals, modulated signals and isotropic performance are 
involved. A problem with convention diode detectors is that 
they exhibit a square law region only up to a maximum 
power of between about 20 and about 30 db. This limits 
the maximum power range over which the radiation monitor 
may operate. It is an object of the present invention to provide 
a radiation monitor operable over a wide power range. It is another object of the present invention to 
provide a radiation monitor employing a diode detector 
having an extended square law region.  It is yet another object of the present invention to 
provide a radiation probe having an isotropic response 
over a wide power range and being operable over a 
specified wide frequency band. It is yet a further object of the present invention 
to overcome the inherent disadvantages of known diode 
detector radiation monitors. In one form of the present invention, a diode 
detector for use in a radiation monitor includes dual 
diodes, connected cathode-to-cathode. More specifically, 
the diode detector includes a first and second diode 
which have their cathodes interconnected and to ground. 
Each diode has an intrinsic shunt capacitance associated 
with it. An additional capacitor is connected in 
parallel with one of the diodes (for example, the first 
diode) to ensure that the total shunt capacitance of the 
first diode is greater than that of the second diode, 
thereby resulting in a reduction in sensitivity of the 
first diode caused by the unequal capacitive divider 
formed by the diode shunt capacitances. This particular 
configuration splits the total dynamic range of the 
detector between the two diodes. A radiation monitor employing the dual diode 
detector described above includes a pair of amplifiers, 
one amplifier being connected to the anode of one diode 
and the other amplifier being connected to the anode of 
the other diode. Each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A diode detector for use in an electromagnetic field 
radiation monitor, which comprises: 


first and second diodes (D₁ and D₂), each of the first 
and second diodes (D₁ and D₂) having an anode and a 

cathode and having a shunt capacitance, the cathodes of 
the first and second diodes (D₁ and D₂) being 

interconnected; and 
a first capacitor, the first capacitor being connected 
in parallel with the first diode (D₁), the total 

capacitance of the parallel combination of the first 
capacitor and the first diode being greater than the 

shunt capacitance (Cd) of the second diode. 
A diode detector as defined by claim 1, which further 
includes a shunt resistor (RS) and a bypass capacitor 

(CB), the shunt resistor (R₅) and bypass capacitor (CB) 
being connected in a series arrangement, one end of the 

series arrangement of the shunt resistor (RS) and bypass 
capacitor (CB) being electrically coupled to the anode 

of the first diode (D₁) and the other end of the series 
arrangement being electrically coupled to the anode of 

the second diode (D₂). 
A diode detector as defined by claim 1, wherein the 
total capacitance of the parallel combination of the 

first capacitor and the first diode (D₁) is about ten 
times the shunt capacitance (Cd) of the second diode. 
An electromagnetic field radiation monitor, which 
comprises: 


a diode detector, the diode detector having first and 
second diodes (D₁ and D₂), each of the first and second 

diodes having an anode and a cathode and having a shunt 
capacitance (Cd), the cathodes of the first and second 

diodes (D₁ and D₂) being interconnected, the diode 
detector further including a first capacitor, the first 

 
capacitor being connected in parallel with the first 

diode (D₁), the total capacitance of the parallel 
combination of the first capacitor and the first diode 

being greater than the shunt capacitance (Cd) of the 
second diode, the diode detector having a first output 

coupled to the anode of the second diode and generating 
a low power output signal (2) thereon, and a second 

output coupled to the anode of the first diode and 
providing a high power output signal (4) thereon; 
a low and high power output signal (2, 4) selection 
circuit, the selection circuit being coupled to the 

diode detector and receiving at least one of the low 
power output signal (2) and the high power output signal 

(4) from the diode detector, the selection circuit 
comparing the at least one output signal with a 

predetermined threshold signal and providing an output 
signal corresponding to one of the low power output 

signal (2) and the high power output signal (4) in 
response to the comparison made by the selection 

circuit; and 
an attenuation circuit, the attenuation circuit being 
coupled to the output signal of the selection circuit 

and selectively attenuating the output signal of the 
selection circuit in response to the comparison made by 

the selection circuit, the attenuation circuit providing 
a radiation monitor output signal. 
An electromagnetic field radiation monitor as defined 
by claim 4, wherein the selection circuit includes a 

comparator (U₃), the comparator (U₃) receiving the low 
power output signal (2) from the diode detector and 

comparing the low power output signal (2) to the 
predetermined threshold signal, the comparator providing 

an output signal having a first state when the low power 
output signal (2) is less than the threshold signal, and 

a second state when the low power output signal (2) is 
at least equal to the threshold signal. 
An electromagnetic field radiation monitor as defined 
by claim 5, wherein the selection circuit further 

includes a relay (K₁), the relay (K₁) being coupled to 
the comparator (U₃) and being responsive to the output 

signal of the comparator (U₃), the relay (K₁) having a 
first switching circuit, the first switching circuit 

including first and second poles and a wiper selectively 
connected to one of the first and second poles, the low 

power output signal and the high power output signal 
being respectively provided to the first and second 

poles, the relay being in a first state such that the 
first pole and wiper are interconnected when the 

comparator is in the comparator first state, and being 
in a second state such that the second pole and wiper 

are interconnected when the comparator (U₃) is in the 
comparator second state. 
An electromagnetic field radiation monitor as defined 
by claim 4, which further comprises a temperature 

compensating amplifier (U₄), the temperature 
compensating amplifier (U₄) being coupled to the 

selection circuit and being responsive to the output 
signal of the selection circuit, the temperature 

compensating amplifier (U₄) providing a temperature 
compensated output signal in response to the selection 

circuit output signal. 
An electromagnetic field radiation monitor as defined 
by claim 4, which further comprises a square root 

circuit (U₅), the square root circuit (U₅) being coupled 
to the selection circuit and receiving the output signal 

of the selection circuit, the square root circuit (U₅) 
providing an output signal which varies in accordance 

with the square root of the selection circuit output 
signal. 
An electromagnetic field radiation monitor as defined 
by claim 6, wherein the relay includes a second 

 
switching circuit, the second switching circuit being 

coupled to the attenuation circuit, the attenuation 
circuit providing attenuation to the output signal of 

the selection circuit when the relay (K₁) is in the 
first state. 
An electromagnetic field radiation monitor as 
defined by claim 9, wherein the attenuation circuit 

includes a first resistor (R₁) and a second resistor 
(R₂) interconnected in series to form a resistor divider 

network, the first resistor (R₁) being responsive to the 
output signal of the selection circuit, and the 

radiation monitor output signal being provided on the 
interconnection between the first resistor (R₁) and the 

second resistor (R₂), the second switching circuit of 
the relay being coupled in parallel with the first 

resistor to short out the first resistor when the relay 
is in the second state. 
An electromagnetic field radiation monitor as 
defined by claim 4, which further comprises first and 

second amplifiers, the first amplifier (U₃) being 
interposed between the low power output (2) of the diode 

detector and the selection circuit, and the second 
amplifier (U₄) being interposed between the high power 

output (4) of the diode detector and the selection 
circuit, the first and second amplifiers (U₃ and U₄) 

being respectively responsive to the low power output 
(2) signal and the high power output signal (4) of the 

diode detector and providing amplified output signals in 
response thereto. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
