<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640263</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BONE CONDUCTIVE EAR MICROPHONE AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M104	H04M105	H04R100	H04R100	H04R110	H04R110	H04R146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04R1	H04R1	H04R1	H04R1	H04R1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JABRA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORRIS, ELWOOD, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BONE CONDUCTIVE EAR MICROPHONE AND METHOD1. Field of the InventionThis invention pertains to a microphone which picks up speech vibrations through the bone structure of an individual's skull and develops a signal for audio processing. More particularly, the present invention relates to an ear mounted microphone responsive to audio vibrations from the user's skull which are isolated from surrounding background environment and which can be used in duplex with a speaker positioned within a common housing with the microphone.2. Prior ArtThe emergence of computer based control systems for virtually every aspect of daily living has re-emphasized the need for an inexpensive system for providing direct voice command capability. At present, most computer systems rely on keyboard input to provide data and processing instructions. This is not only time consuming and limiting in view of physical requirements of being seated with both hands on a key pad, but it limits the efficiency of data input to the typing speed of the user. Indeed, compared with the advanced degree of sophistication of current computer systems, this dominant data entry method of imputing instructions one letter or number at a time seems almost archaic.This is not to say that the development of voice activated input systems has been ignored. There has clearly been a long recognized need for implementation of a method of voice command which would obviate the keyboard as a computer input device. Numerous problems have remained unsolved, however, and continue to place voice activated systems beyond the financial reach of the general marketplace. For example, the typical level of confidence in voice recognition for commercial software is between 45 to 60%. At this rate, the system is averaging only one out of two words with correct identification. This is hardly adequate for general 

application. This confidence level is even less when environmental factors are introduced such as background noise, mobility of the user and other unpredictable variables that modify the audio signal being received at the computer.In typical applications for voice activated systems, one might expect a telephone to ring during dictation, an interruption to occur by another voice having a different voice pattern, the sounding of a horn, clock alarm, or any of thousands of extraneous background noises. Even the shifting of position of the speaking individual can modify the audio signal enough to confuse the computer recognition of sounds. The speaker may simply- turn her
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 C L I M S
1. An ear piece device configured for being supported at the ear and providing a microphone which is sensitive only to sounds conducted within the skull of the user, said ear piece including: a housing which is configured at one end to fit snugly at the ear canal of the user but not extend into the ear canal, and includes means for passing sound waves into the housing, said housing being constructed of material which is sound conductive; a microphone element coupled within the housing in a position such that the microphone element is separated from contact with the skull by the housing ; said microphone element including an inertial platform having sufficient inertial mass to substantially resist movement associated with the housing by reason of audio vibration and which is cantilevered at one end within the housing and includes signal means for generating a signal representing vibrations transferred into the platform associated with the audio vibrations in the housing, said signal means being coupled to electrical circuitry for converting relative movement of the inertial platform with respect to the housing into audio signal suitable for processing in an audio circuit.
2. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the inertial platform is suspended inside the housing but in a position which is not placed within the ear canal of the user during operation.
3. A device as defined in claim 3, wherein the inertial platform is positioned at an opposing end of the housing from that portion of the housing which is configured to fit snugly at the ear canal.
4. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the inertial platform comprises an elongate piezoelectric crystal 


which is coupled at an end to the housing, said crystal being configured to enable displacement without substantial movement of the piezoelectric crystal, thereby imposing stress at the crystal to generate electrical output for development of the signal for audio processing.
5. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the housing includes an elongate axis which is oriented along the portion of the housing which is supported at the ear canal, said axis being directionally oriented toward the ear canal when the housing is in position for use; said inertial platform being suspended at right angles to the elongate axis to develop relative movement in response to sound vibrations transmitted into the housing along the elongate axis.
6. A device as defined in claim 1 , wherein the housing is configured with a tapering body to provide an acoustical lens which amplifies the sound vibrations received from the skull at a convergence of the housing. 7. A device as defined in claim 6 , wherein the acoustical lens includes a small structural element having a cross-section configured as an I-beam, said housing convergence being coupled to a face at one side of the I-beam and said inertial platform being extended from the face at the other side of the I-beam, said I- beam thereby being operable to focus vibrations collected from the housing into the small I-beam structure for maximum relative movement with respect to the inertial platform. 8. A device as defined in claim 1, further comprising a speaker element positioned at an end of the housing adjacent the ear canal, said microphone element being positioned at the remaining end of the housing. 9. A device as in claim 1, further comprising a sizing ring positioned around the speaker end of the housing for adjusting housing size for snug fit at the ear canal. 


10. A device as defined in claim 8, wherein the housing includes an opening oriented toward the ear canal when in position, said opening including the speaker element being positioned thereat for direct exposure to the ear canal to enable the user to receive audio transmissions as well as send audio signal through the microphone element, said audio transmission and attendant vibration of the speaker element being isolated from the housing by sound insulation means to prevent pick up of the transmission through the housing and into the microphone element.
11. A device as defined in claim 10, wherein the isolation means comprises a nonvibrational ring extending around the speaker element and being coupled between the housing and perimeter of the speaker element to prevent transmission of vibration into the housing.
12. A device as defined in claim 11, further including means for isolating from the housing any vibration carried by connecting wires which supply power to the speaker element.
13. A device as defined in claim 8, wherein the housing portion which contains the speaker element includes a truncated conical section which tapers to a juncture with an acoustical lens configured to receive amplified speech vibrational energy applied to the housing from the skull of the user.
14. A device as defined in claim 13, wherein the acoustical lens comprises a small structural element having a cross-section configured as an I-beam, said housing being coupled to a face at one side of the I- beam and said inertial platform being extended from the face at the other side of the I-beam, said I-beam thereby being operable to focus vibrations collected from the housing into the small I-beam structure for maximum relative movement with respect to the inertial platform. 


15. A device as defined in claim 14, wherein the housing includes a rearward portion which extends at right angles with respect to the remaining portion of the housing, said rearward portion containing the inertial platform extending from the acoustical lens.
16. A device as defined in claim 15, further comprising a second housing portion extending at right angles from the remaining housing, said second housing portion comprising a conduit for carrying associated wiring from the microphone and speaker elements to an exterior portion of the device.
17. A device as defined in claim 8, further comprising telephone control circuitry coupled to the speaker element and microphone element, said telephone control circuitry providing access for the speaker element and microphone element as part of a telephone system which provides hands-free use based on both speaking and listening functions being provided through the user's ear. 18. A device as defined in claim 8, further comprising a radio frequency transmitter/receiver unit coupled to the microphone element and speaker element respectively, thereby enabling the use of the ear piece device as part of a wireless system of communication. 19. A device as defined in claim 18, further comprising associated communication and transfer circuitry tuned to a common frequency with the transmitter/receiver unit, thereby enabling use of the ear piece device as part of a microcell communication system, said ear piece device providing direct communication into respective microcell communications satellite receiving and transmitting stations.
20. A device as defined in claim 1, further including connecting means for coupling the microphone element to a modem associated with a computer, said connecting means enabling direct audio transmission into the modem 


without outside audio signal other than the voice of the user.
21. A device as defined in claim 1, further comprising a sizing ring coupled to the housing, including means for modifying the diameter of the housing which is snugly fit at the ear canal.
22. A device as defined in claim 11, said isolating means comprising a material which selectively limits passage of vibration for frequencies which could give rise to feed back between the speaker and microphone elements which are contained within the housing.
23. An ear piece device for use in a communication system, said device comprising: a housing having a speaker end and a microphone end, said speaker end being configured for a snug fit at the ear canal of a user without including structure which enters the ear canal during operation; a speaker element mounted with sound projection oriented toward the user's ear canal and including isolation means coupled between the speaker element and the housing for selectively isolating undesirable frequencies that might interfere with sensitivity of audio pick up at the microphone end of the housing; a microphone element mounted at the microphone end of the housing, said microphone element being coupled to an acoustical lens which is attached between the speaker end and microphone end of the housing; said acoustical lens comprising a small vibration- sensitive element which is coupled at one face to the housing such that audio vibrations received from the skull of the user are transmitted through the housing and into the acoustical lens; the other end of the acoustical lens including an attached inertial platform which includes means for converting relative physical vibrations actuated by sound waves received from the user's skull into an 


electric signal capable of audio processing for reproduction.
24. A device as defined in claim 23, wherein the inertial platform comprises a piezoelectric crystal which is capable of detecting differences in stress arising because of vibration of the housing as a consequence of voice vibrations conducted through the user's skull.
25. A device as defined in claim 23, wherein the acoustical lens comprises a small structural element having a cross-section configured as an I-beam, said housing being coupled to a face at one side of the I- beam and said inertial platform being extended from the face at the other side of the I-beam, said I-beam thereby being operable to focus vibrations collected from the housing into the small I-beam structure for maximum relative movement with respect to the inertial platform.
26. A device as defined in claim 23, wherein the isolation means comprises a nonvibrational ring extending around the speaker element and being coupled between the housing and perimeter of the speaker element, said ring being formed of material which is selective as to a range of frequencies which will be decoupled as compared to those which will be transmitted, to prevent transmission of interfering vibration into the housing.
27. A device as defined in claim 26, wherein the isolation means comprises a material which is tuned to acoustically isolate the housing from the speaker element to prevent feedback.
28. A device as defined in claim 27, wherein the material includes silicone.
29. A device as in claim 23, further comprising a sizing ring positioned around the speaker end of the housing for adjusting housing size for snug fit at the ear canal. 


30. A method for isolating an individual's speech for reproduction from an environment of background noise which is not be detected, said method comprising the steps of: a) positioning a housing device in contact with a portion of the individual's skull but outside an ear canal such that vibrations arising within the skull from voice communications of the individual are transmitted into the housing; b) gathering sound vibrations from the skull into the housing; c) detecting the sound vibrations within the housing by measuring movement with respect to an inertial platform contained within and cantilevered from the housing; d) producing an electric signal corresponding to the detected sound vibrations with respect to the inertial platform; and e) converting the electric signal to audio signal. 31. A method as defined in claim 30, further comprising the steps suspending one end of an elongate piezoelectric crystal within the housing as the inertial platform and producing the electric signal based on voltage generated by the crystal in response to changes in stress applied to the crystal by reason of vibrational movement of the housing.
32. A method as defined in claim 30, further comprising the steps of coupling a speaker element at one end of the housing next to the ear canal and acoustically isolating the speaker element from the attached housing by positioning an intermediate vibrationally nonconductive barrier operable over a selective range of sound vibration which is to be precluded from transmission to the housing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
