<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653552</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Air gap manifold joint construction
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01N710	F01N330	F01N710	F01N700	F01N718	F01N330	F01N718	F01N708	F01N700	F01N334	F01N708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01N7	F01N3	F01N7	F01N7	F01N7	F01N3	F01N7	F01N7	F01N7	F01N3	F01N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air gap manifold joint construction (10) 
comprises an engine exhaust port flange (12) having a 

plurality of exhaust port orifices (14), each with an 
inner orifice wall (16), and a dual wall manifold having 

a plurality of runners (27) each including an inner 
tubular liner (30) and an outer tubular jacket (34), the 

inner tubular liner being generally spaced from the outer 
tubular jacket substantially over the length of the inner 

tubular liner to form an air gap. An adapter sleeve (40) 
extends between an exhaust port orifice and the inlet to 

one of the runners. The sleeve is fitted inside the 
inlet with the ends of the jacket and liner of the runner 

in peripheral engagement therewith. The liner (30) 
extends slightly further along the sleeve (40) towards 

the exhaust port orifice than the jacket (34), and the 
liner, jacket and sleeve are attached to one another by 

an outer weld seam (42). Towards the outlet end of the 
manifold, the liner terminates short of the end of the 

jacket and is slidably engaged therewith. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an engine exhaust manifold
assembly, and particularly to an air gap manifold joint
construction or connection. The invention also relates
to the attachment of dual wall, air gap manifold runners
to the port flange of the manifold.Exhaust manifolds are formed of what is commonly
called a "log", which forms the common gas flow chamber,
and a plurality of runners which form the individual flow
passages from the engine cylinders to the log. In recent
years manifolds have been formed more and more of
lightweight, stamped metal such as stainless steel rather
than the prior heavy castings that were the standard
structure. More recently, air gap manifolds have been
devised in order to allow quick internal temperature rise
of the manifold, for quick activation of the downstream
catalytic converter. Air gap manifolds have an inner
tubular liner and an outer tubular jacket generally
spaced from each other, to define the air gap between
them. The inner liner typically has a thickness less
than that of the jacket, enabling even more rapid
temperature rise of the liner. The liner and the jacket
are often each formed of a clamshell type arrangement.
That is, the liner is formed of two half shells secured
together along their longitudinal edges, and the larger
jacket likewise is formed of two half shells secured
together along their longitudinal edges. Connection of
the air gap manifold runners to the port flange presently
presents a production problem. Specifically, problems
arise with attachment of the ends of the jacket and the
liner to each other at the port flange, as well as
attachment of the jacket and liner to the manifold port
flange. At least one manufacturer presently foregoes 
attachment of the liner to the port flange, leaving the
liner to float, but this is not considered advisable.
One problem area with attachment of the liner can result
because of the potential for burning through the liner
during the welding step. Among prior known methods of
attachment of these members, an experimental adapter
sleeve has been tried by the applicant, by which, with
three annular welding seams, the jacket and liner can be
secured to each other, the jacket and liner secured to
the inside of the adapter sleeve, and the adapter sleeve
secured to the port flange as shown in Fig. 6 hereof.
However, this technology resulted in problems.
Specifically, when TIG welding the liner and the jacket
together, burn-through was a significant concern since it
results in stress concentration and possible later
br
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An air gap manifold joint construction (10)
comprising: an engine exhaust port flange (12) having a

plurality of exhaust port orifices (14), each with an
inner orifice wall (16); a dual wall manifold (18)

having a plurality of runners, each including an inner
tubular liner (30) and an outer tubular jacket (34); the

inner tubular liner (30) being generally spaced from the
outer tubular jacket substantially over the length of

the inner tubular liner to form an air gap (32); the
inner tubular liner having an inlet end and the outer

tubular jacket having an end adjacent to the inner
tubular liner inlet end; the inner tubular liner inlet

end having an outer diameter substantially the same size
as the inner diameter of the outer tubular jacket end

and in peripheral engagement therewith; an adapter
sleeve (40) having first and second ends; the adapter

sleeve first end having an outer diameter substantially
the same size as the diameter of the inner orifice wall

of the exhaust port orifice; the adapter sleeve second
end having an outer diameter substantially the same size

as the inner diameter of the inner tubular liner inlet
end and in peripheral engagement therewith; an inner

weld seam (44) joining the adapter sleeve first end to
the inner orifice wall; and an outer weld seam (42)

joining the inner tubular liner inlet end and the outer
tubular jacket end to the adapter sleeve second end. 
An air gap manifold joint construction as claimed
in claim 1 wherein the inner tubular liner inlet end and

the outer tubular jacket end both extend over the
adapter sleeve second end.
An air gap manifold joint construction as claimed
in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the inner tubular liner

inlet end projects over the adapter sleeve second end a
small amount beyond the outer tubular jacket end, with

the outer weld seam (42) extending over the small amount
from the outer tubular jacket end to the adapter sleeve.
An air gap manifold joint construction as claimed
in claim 3 wherein the outer weld seam extends as one

solid annular seam from the adapter sleeve second end,
over the inner tubular liner end, to the outer tubular

jacket end.
An air gap manifold joint construction as claimed
in any of the preceding claims wherein the inner

tubular liner (30) has a second end, the outer tubular
jacket (34) has an outlet end, and the inner tubular

liner second end terminates short of the jacket outlet
end.
An air gap manifold joint construction as claimed
in claim 5 wherein the inner tubular liner second end 

is in slidable engagement with the outer tubular jacket
(34).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
