<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634942</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BAILOUT CATHETER FOR FIXED WIRE ANGIOPLASTY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2902	A61M2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M29	A61M29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JANG G DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JANG, G. DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANG G DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANG, G. DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BAILOϋT CATHETER FOR FIXED WIRE ANGIOPLASTYBackground of the Invention Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) has emerged as the major viable present alternative to bypass surgery for revascularization of stenotic and occluded coronary arteries. Although transluminal angioplasty has application in peripheral artery disease, it is most widely used in the treatment of coronary artery disease. Unlike bypass surgery, percutaneous angioplasty does not require general anesthesia, cutting of the chest wall, extracorporeal perfuεion, or transfusion of blood. Percutaneous coronary angioplasty is not only less invasive and less traumatic to the patient, it is also less expensive because the angioplasty patient will have a shorter hospital stay and shorter post- procedure recovery time.Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty is performed by making a skin puncture with a specially-designed needle in one of the groins, and then introducing a guiding catheter into the aorta and coronary artery orifice. A smaller caliber catheter with a built-in inflatable and deflatable balloon of predetermined size and diameter is passed through the guiding catheter which is positioned in the orifice of a target artery. This balloon catheter (with the balloon totally deflated by negative pressure) is advanced inside the target coronary artery toward the point of obstruction in need for dilation.The guidewire plays an essential role in leading the balloon catheter to the target coronary artery in safe and non-traumatic fashion. With the balloon portion of the catheter properly positioned inside the obstructed arterial segment, under X-ray fluoroscopic observation, the balloon is inflated by injecting contrast media mixed with saline at a pressure sufficient to overcome the resistance of the arteriosclerotic plaque of the obstructed segment.By inflating the balloon in the stenosis multiple times over a period of between 10-30 seconds and one or two minutes 

 (allowing blood flow between inflations) , the desired dilation of the obstructed arterial segment can be achieved. After dilation, the guiding catheter, the balloon catheter (with the balloon completely deflated by negative pressure) and the guidewire are withdrawn from the artery and the patient, and the procedure is successfully terminated*The size and diameter of the balloon to be used in transluminal angioplasty should be approximately matched to the size and native diameter of the obstructed arterial segment to be dilated. If the balloon size and diameter is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An angioplasty catheter, comprising: a catheter shaft having a proximal end and a distal end, with a balloon inflation lumen extending therethrough; a fixed, steerable torquewire extending through at least a portion of said shaft and out of the distal end thereof; an angioplasty balloon on the distal end of said catheter operatively communicating with said balloon inflation lumen for inflation and deflation of said balloon, wherein the proximal end of said balloon is attached to the distal end of said catheter shaft and the distal end of said balloon is attached to said torquewire; and a bailout lumen having a proximal opening and a distal opening, said lumen extending along said catheter shaft from a point ordinarily outside the patient during use to a point proximal of said balloon and normally inside said patient during such use, said bailout lumen adapted to receive a removable guidewire and having an outer wall, said outer wall further comprising a side port extending therethrough, located between said proximal opening and said distal opening, said side port adapted to permit a guidewire to extend therethrough to pass through a distal portion of the bailout lumen.
2. The catheter of Claim 1, wherein said outer wall is adapted to at least partially collapse into said bailout lumen when said bailout lumen is empty. 3. The catheter of Claim 1 or 2, wherein only a distal portion of said outer wall of said bailout lumen is adapted to collapse when empty.
4. The catheter of Claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein a proximal portion of said outer wall is adapted to remain open when empty and is thicker than said collapsible distal portion thereof.
5. The catheter of any one of Claims 1-4, wherein said 


side port is located within 30 cm of the distal end of said bailout lumen.
6. The catheter of any one of Claims 1-5, wherein said catheter further comprises guidewire removing means, adapted for removing a guidewire laterally out of said bailout lumen.
7. The catheter of Claim 6, wherein said guidewire removing means is adapted to permit removal of a guidewire from the bailout lumen beginning at the proximal end of said bailout lumen and progressing distally to within no more than 30 cm of said balloon.
8. The catheter of Claim 6 or 7, wherein said guidewire removing means comprises means for providing an opening through said outer wall extending longitudinally along said outer wall. 9. The catheter of Claim 6 or 7, wherein said guidewire removing means comprises a slit extending longitudinally along at least 50% of the length of said outer wall.
10. The catheter of any one of Claims 6-8, wherein said means for providing an opening comprises a weakened area adapted to open into a slit extending longitudinally along at least 50% of the length of said outer wall.
11. The catheter of Claim 10, wherein said outer wall has an open slit extending distally from the proximal end thereof to said weakened area. 12. The catheter of Claim 6 or 7, wherein said guidewire removing means comprises a tear away strip forming at least a portion of said outer wall and adapted to tear away from said catheter and form an opening extending longitudinally along at least 50% of the length of said outer wall. 13. The catheter of Claim 12, wherein said tear away strip is defined by two longitudinally extending parallel weakened areas of said outer wall.
14. The catheter of Claim 13, wherein said tear away strip is further defined by two parallel formed slits extending from the proximal end of said outer wall to said weakened areas.
15. The catheter of Claim 13, wherein said outer wall is 


joined to said catheter shaft along two longitudinally- extending junctions, and said weakened areas comprise said junctions.
16. The catheter of Claim 6, wherein said guidewire removing means extends distally from the proximal opening of the bailout lumen along said outer wall to said side port.
17. An angioplasty catheter as in any one of Claims 1-16 for use in performing bailout of a fixed wire angioplasty catheter, said bailout comprising the steps of: (a) advancing said catheter into a patient's vascular system, wherein said vascular system includes a stenosis;
(b) advancing a guidewire through the bailout lumen of said catheter and out of the distal end of said bailout lumen into a position in said patient's vascular system;
(c) removing said catheter from said patient while maintaining said guidewire in said position in the vascular system; and (d) inserting a proximal end of the guidewire into the distal end of the bailout lumen of another said catheter, said guidewire already in place at a stenosis in a patient's vascular system such that said guidewire extends through a distal portion of the lumen and out through the side port and advancing the second catheter into the vascular system of said patient.
18. The angioplasty catheter of Claim 17, wherein the use further comprises the steps, after step (a) and before step (b) , of: inflating and deflating the balloon of said catheter in said stenosis,' then advancing said catheter forward until the distal end of the bailout lumen is advanced to or through said stenosis; whereby step (b) results in said guidewire extending into said stenosis. 


 19.. The angioplasty catheter of Claim 17, wherein the use further comprises advancing said guidewire into or through said stenosis in step (b) , and further comprising the step, after step (a) but before step (c) , of: inflating and deflating the angioplasty balloon of said catheter in said stenosis with said guidewire extending through said stenosis.
20. The angioplasty catheter of Claim 17, wherein the use further comprises inflating and deflating the angioplasty balloon of said catheter in said stenosis prior to step (b) , and the guidewire is advanced past the deflated balloon in the stenosis in step (b) .
21. An angioplasty catheter as in any one of Claims 1-16 for use in performing balloon angioplasty, in bifurcation lesions, said use comprising the steps of:
(a) advancing the balloon segment of the catheter into a first stenosis of the bifurcation in a patient's vascular system;
(b) advancing a guidewire through the bailout lumen of said catheter and out of the distal end of the bailout lumen into a second stenosis of the bifurcation in said patient; and
(c) inflating and deflating the balloon in said first stenosis. 22. The angioplasty catheter of Claim 21, wherein the use further comprises the subsequent steps of:
(d) inserting the balloon into the second stenosis and the guidewire into the first stenosis; and
(e) inflating and deflating the balloon in the second stenosis.
23. The angioplasty catheter of Claim 22, wherein the use further comprises the subsequent step of: removing said catheter over said guidewire, and inserting a second catheter into the vessel over said guidewire.
24. An angioplasty catheter as in any one of Claims 1-16 for use in performing bailout of a fixed wire angioplasty 


catheter, in a procedure comprising the steps of:
(a) inserting a proximal end of a guidewire into the distal end of the bailout lumen of a said catheter, said guidewire already in place at a stenosis in a patient's vascular system such that said guidewire extends through a distal portion of the lumen and out through the side port and advancing the said balloon catheter into a patient's vascular system;
(b) advancing the said catheter into the stenosis and inflating and deflating the balloon to dilate said stenosis while said guidewire is in position in said stenosis; and
(c) removing said first catheter from said patient while maintaining said guidewire in position in said stenosis.
25. The angioplasty catheter of Claim 24, wherein the se further comprises the following step:
(e) advancing a second catheter into the vascular system of said patient over said guidewire. 26. An angioplasty catheter, comprising: a catheter shaft having a proximal end, a proximal portion, and a distal end, with a balloon inflation lumen extending therethrough; a fixed, steerable torquewire extending through at least a portion of said shaft and out of the distal end thereof; an angioplasty balloon on the distal end of said catheter operatively communicating with said balloon inflation lumen for inflation and deflation of said balloon, wherein the proximal end of said balloon is attached to the distal end of said catheter shaft and the distal end of said balloon is attached to said torquewire; and a bailout lumen extending along said catheter shaft from a point ordinarily outside the patient during use to a point proximal of said balloon and normally inside said patient during such use, said bailout lumen adapted to 



receive a removable guidewire, said bailout lumen having an outer wall, further comprising guidewire removing means in the outer wall of the bailout lumen, said guidewire removing means being adapted to permit a guidewire, extending through the bailout lumen, to be removed laterally through the outer wall.
27. A balloon angioplasty catheter as in Claim 26 for n an angioplasty procedure that comprises the steps of:
(a) advancing said balloon angioplasty catheter into a patient's vascular system, wherein said vascular system includes a stenosis;
(b) advancing a guidewire through the bailout lumen of said catheter and out of the distal end of said bailout lumen into a position in a stenosis in said patient's vascular system;
(c) advancing the catheter into the stenosis and inflating and deflating the balloon to dilate said stenosis while said guidewire is in position in said stenosis; and (d) removing said first catheter from said patient by laterally removing the guidewire through the guidewire removing means in the bailout lumen while maintaining said guidewire in position in said stenosis.
28. The angioplasty catheter of Claim 27, wherein the urther comprises the following steps:
(e) providing a second balloon catheter as defined in any one of Claims 1-16;
(f) inserting a proximal end of the guidewire into the distal end of the bailout lumen, through the distal portion of the bailout lumen, and out through the side port; and
(g) advancing the second catheter into the vascular system of said patient over said guidewire. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
