<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658423</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ID card intermediate and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B3714	B32B3722	B32B3810	B32B3810	B32B3814	B32B3814	B42D500	B42D502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B42D	B42D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B37	B32B37	B32B38	B32B38	B32B38	B32B38	B42D5	B42D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A card intermediate, as for identification, which 
includes a business form having one or more cards diecut into it 

and backed by a laminate of multi-ply film. An embodiment is 
illustrated where an exposed face of the laminate is reverse 

printed with alpha and/or numeric information so as to be 
readable when the card is removed from the form. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALLACE COMPUTER SERVICES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALLACE COMPUTER SERVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARRISON RONALD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARRISON, RONALD R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a card intermediate and 
method and, more particularly to an intermediate which includes 
a two film ply laminate on a length of card-providing paper. Currently, cards such as identification cards (I.D. 
cards), coupons, etc., are provided by the sponsoring 
company-story, insurance company, etc. These are provided as 
part of a business form and detachable therefrom by the intended 
user. These card-equipped forms are of two types. One type has 
the card "tipped on', i.e., adhesively secured to one surface.  
 
This has the disadvantage of developing a substantial thickness 
so that laser printing, for example, is virtually prohibited. 
The other type has a sheet perforated to define the card. 
Although this avoids the thickness problem, it substitutes 
another problem in the form of the perforation bonds which give 
the card a rough-feeling edge. Both problems are avoided by the 
invention. According to the invention, a card intermediate is 
provided which includes a length of paper having top and bottom 
surfaces and a generally rectangular die cut extending 
therethrough between the surfaces to define the card. A film 
laminate is adhesively secured to the bottom surface and extends 
beyond the diecut on all sides thereof. The laminate includes 
two film layers adhesively united in superposed relation with a 
first of the film layers being positioned adjacent the bottom 
surface and a second of the film layers being positioned remote 
from the bottom surface. The diecut extends through the first 
film layer but not the second film layer. The paper length top 
surface within the diecut is advantageously equipped with 
printed indicia within the diecut. In the case of an I.D. card, 
a first printed indicia may relate to the sponsor of the I.D. 
card and a second printed indicia may relate to the identity of 
the intended user of the I.D. card. In a specific advantageous embodiment, the laminate 
outer surface is also printed -- and with a reverse image so 
that there will be information under the card when the user 
removes it. In such case, the second film layer is sufficiently 
transparent for the user to see through the second film layer  
 
and readily understand the reverse image which now appears as a 
sensible image, i.e., a proper alpha presentation when viewed 
from the side from which the I.D. card was removed. Printing on 
transparent liners is known -- see Patent 4,662,971 -- but not 
in reverse fashion as here. The invention also includes a method for making a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A card intermediate comprising a length (11) of 
paper (10) having top and bottom surfaces (19, 20) and a 

generally rectangular die cut (15) extending therethrough 
between said surfaces to define a card (14), a film laminate 

(22) adhesively secured to said bottom surface (20) and 
extending beyond the diecut (15) on all sides thereof, 

characterized by said laminate including two film layers 923, 
24) adhesively united in superposed relation with a first (23) 

of said film layers being positioned adjacent said bottom 
surface (20) and a second (24) of said film layers being 

positioned remote from said bottom surface (20), said diecut 
(15) extending through said first film layer but not said second 

film layer, said paper length top surface (19) within said 
diecut (15) being equipped with first and second printed indicia 

(17, 18) within said diecut. 
The card intermediate of claim 1 in which a dry 
adhesive (25) is interposed between said first and second film 

layers, said dry adhesive being rupturable upon exertion of a 
removal force on said card whereby said first film layer (23) 

remains with said card (14) when said card is removed from said 
paper length (11). 
The card intermediate of claim 1 in which said 
second film layer (24) is substantially transparent and has 

upper and lower surfaces (24a, 24b), said upper surface (24a) 
being adjacent said paper bottom surface (20) and said lower 

surface (24b) being remote from said paper bottom surface (20), 
and reverse alpha and/or numeric information printed on said 

lower surface (24b). 
The card intermediate of claim 1 in which said card 
is an I.D. card, said first printed indicia (17) relating to the 

sponsor of said I.D. card and said second printed indicia (18) 
relating to said identity of the intended user of said I.D. 

card. 
The card intermediate of claim 4 in which said 
first printed indicia is also printed on said paper length 

outside said diecut. 
The card intermediate of claim 1 in which said 
length of paper (10) is equipped with two diecuts (15) in 

side-by-side relation to define two I.D. cards (14), said 
laminate extending over and beyond both said diecuts. 
The card intermediate of claim 1 in which said 
length of paper (10) includes a plurality of card diecuts (15) 

arranged in equally longitudinally spaced relation. 
The card intermediate of claim 6 in which said 
length of paper (10) is zig-zag folded (35) between adjacent 

longitudinally spaced diecuts (15). 
The card intermediate of claim 1 in which said 
length of paper (10) is equipped with a pair of 

longitudinally-extending sides (13), a series of equally 
longitudinally spaced line holes (13a) being positioned along at 

least one of said sides. 
The card intermediate of claim 1 in which said 
length of paper (10) is equipped with a plurality of equally 

longitudinally spaced lines of weakness (12) for separating said 
length into a plurality of forms. 
A method for making a card intermediate comprising 
the steps of providing a two ply film laminate (22) arranged in 

face-to-face relation with a rupturable adhesive (25) 
therebetween, 

   providing a length of paper (10) having opposed 
surfaces with printed indicia (17) on one of said surfaces, 

   adhesively uniting said laminate to the other of said 
surfaces to position a first (23) of said film plies adjacent 

said other surface, and 
   diecutting said paper length and said first of said 

film plies but not said second film ply (24) to provide a 
generally rectangular closed perimeter cut separable from said 

length (10) and said second film ply (24). 
The method of claim 11 in which said steps include 
printing on said one surface. 
The method of claim 12 in which said steps include 
subsequent to said imprinting ste, removing said card (14) from 

said paper length (11) to carry with it said first film ply 
(23). 
The method of claim 11 in which said steps include 
providing a substantially transparent film as said second film 

ply and imprinting in reverse fashion alpha and/or numeric 
characters (26) after said laminate is adhesively united to said 

other surface. 
The method of claim 11 in which said steps include 
performing the steps up to and including said die-cutting step 

at a first site and performing an imprinting stemp at a second 
site. 
The method of claim 11 in which said steps include 
providing said length of paper (10) with a plurality of cards 

arranged in longitudinally spaced relation at said first site 
and thereafter transporting said cards to said second site, and 

separating said cards from each other at said second site. 
The method of laim 16 in which said steps include 
laser printing of variable indicia (18) at said second site. 
The method of making acard intermediate according 
to any of claims 11-17 in which said steps include printing 

fixed information (16, 17) at a first site, and variable 
information at a second site to provide an I.D. card. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
