<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632312</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polymer dispersed liquid crystal display device and method of manufacturing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F11334	G02F11333	G02F11339	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A polymer dispersed liquid crystal display device 
(10) includes opposing substrates (11, 12) having 

transparent electrodes (13, 14) formed on opposing surfaces 
thereof, and a composite film arranged between 

the substrates (11, 12) and having an arrangement 
obtained by dispersing a liquid crystal in a polymer. 

The composite film includes a phase-separation 
polymer dispersed liquid crystal layer (15) constituted 

by a composite film consisting of a liquid crystal and a 
polymer, and liquid crystal capsules (18) which 

are dispersed in the phase separation polymer dispersed 
liquid crystal layer (15) and in which a liquid crystal 

(20) is sealed. Each of the liquid crystal capsules 
(18) has an outer diameter equal to a gap between 

the substrate (11, 12) and functions as a spacer for 
regulating the gap between the substrate. Liquid 

crystal molecules in the liquid crystal capsules (18), 
like liquid crystal molecules in the polymer dispersed 

liquid crystal layer (15), are aligned in accordance 
with a voltage applied across the opposing electrodes to 

transmit or scatter incident light. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO COMPUTER CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO COMPUTER CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEI JIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEI, JIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a polymer dispersed
liquid crystal display device and a method of
manufacturing the same, and more particularly, to a
polymer dispersed liquid crystal display device capable
of displaying a high-quality image and a method of
manufacturing the same.A polymer dispersed liquid crystal display device
is formed such that a composite film consisting of a
polymer resin and a liquid crystal and formed by dispersing
the polymer and the liquid crystal is arranged
between a pair of transparent substrates having transparent
electrodes formed thereon. This composite film
has a structure obtained by confining a liquid crystal
(domains of a liquid crystal) in each space of a polymer
resin layer having a sponge-like sectional structure.
Note that, as the liquid crystal, a nematic liquid crystal
having positive dielectric anisotropy is generally
used.A further example of a composite structure including capsules
filled with liquid crystal material is disclosed by EP 0 540 353
A.The polymer dispersed liquid crystal display device
is driven by applying a voltage across the electrodes of
both the substrates. In a state wherein no voltage is
applied, the molecules of the liquid crystal of the composite
film are pointed in various directions. In this
state, light transmitted through the composite film is
scattered by the light scattering effect of the interface
between the liquid crystal and the polymer and the 
liquid crystal domains. When a voltage exceeding a
voltage having a predetermined threshold value is
applied across the electrodes, the molecules of the
liquid crystal of the composite film are aligned in a
direction substantially perpendicular to the substrate
surfaces. In this state, light is transmitted through
the composite film under almost no influence of the
light scattering effect. In other words, the polymer
dispersed liquid crystal display device controls
scattering and transmission of light to display an
image.The polymer dispersed liquid crystal display device
is generally formed by the following processes.(1) A pair of transparent substrates are
bonded to each other through a frame-like seal member.
(2) A solution mixture of a liquid crystal and a
polymerisation material which causes a polymerization
reaction with light is sealed in an area surrounded by
the pair of substrates and the seal member. (3) Light
(ultraviolet ray) is radiated on the polymerization
material of the solution mixture to polymerize the
polymerization material, thereby forming a composite
film. When
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A polymer dispersed liquid crystal display device comprising:

a pair of opposing substrates (11,12) having electrodes (13,14) formed on
opposing surfaces thereof; and
a composite film (15) arranged between said pair of substrates, wherein

the composite film (15) includes a plurality of first liquid crystal domains each of
which is obtained by surrounding a liquid crystal material (20) with a polymer thin film

(19) and 
characterized in that
 said first liquid crystal domains are present in a polymer layer
(16) which is arranged such that a liquid crystal material (17) is continuously present in

said polymer layer (16) whereby
a plurality of second liquid crystal domains is formed

in said polymer layer (16).
The device according to claim 1,
characterized in that
each of said first liquid crystal domains forms a liquid crystal capsule (18)
obtained by sealing said liquid crystal (20) in a small area surrounded by said

polymer thin film (19).
The device according to claim 2,
characterized in that
said liquid crystal capsules (18) are dispersed in said composite
film (15).
The device according to claim 1, 2, or 3
characterized in that
said second liquid crystal domains are constituted by said liquid crystal (17)
filled in small areas continuously formed in said polymer thin film (16) formed in

a mesh-like shape.
The device according to any of claims 1 to 4,
characterized in that
said first liquid crystal domains have a predetermined shape and said second
liquid crystal domains have an indefinite shape and are formed by phase

separation between the liquid crystal (17) and the polymer (16).
The device according to any of claims 2 to 3,
characterized in that
each of said liquid crystal capsules (18) has an outer diameter substantially
equal to a gap between said pair of substrates (11,12).
The device according to any of claims 2 to 4 or 6,
characterized in that
said liquid crystal in said liquid crystal capsules (18,28) and said liquid crystal in
said second liquid crystal domains consist of substantially the same liquid

crystal material.
The device according to any of claims 2 to 4 or 6,
characterized in that
said liquid crystal in said liquid crystal capsules (18,28) and said liquid crystal in
said second liquid crystal domains consist of different liquid crystal materials,

respectively.
The device according to any one of claims 2 to 4 or 6 to 8,
characterized in that
each of said liquid crystal capsules (18,28) has substantially a spherical shape.
The device according to any one of claims 2 to 4 or 6 to 8,
characterized in that
each of said liquid crystal capsules (18,28) has substantially a cylindrical
shape.
The device according to any one of claims 2 to 4,
characterized in that
each of said liquid crystal capsules (18,28) has an outer diameter smaller than
the gap between said pair of substrates.
The device according to any one of claims 2 to 4 or 6 to 11,
characterized in that
each of said liquid crystal capsules (18,28) consists of a hard transparent
capsule and a liquid crystal sealed in said transparent capsule.
The device according to any one of claims 2 to 4 or 6 to 11
characterized in that
each of said liquid crystal capsules (18,28) consists of a resin transparent
capsule and a liquid crystal sealed in said transparent capsule.
The device according to any of claims 1 to 13,
characterized in that
said device further comprises:
a seal member (21) for bonding said pair of substrates to each other.
A method of manufacturing a polymer dispersed liquid crystal display device,
characterized by

the steps of:

preparing liquid crystal capsules (18,28) in which a liquid crystal (20,30) is
sealed;
preparing a solution mixture of liquid crystal (17) and a polymerization material;
mixing said solution mixture with said liquid crystal capsules (18,28);
arranging a mixture of said solution mixture (31) and said liquid crystal
capsules between a pair of opposing substrates (11,12) and having

transparent electrodes (13,14) formed on opposing surfaces thereof; and 
polymerizing the polymerization material in said mixture (31) to cause phase

separation between said liquid crystal (17) and a polymer (16), thereby forming
a composite film having an arrangement obtained by dispersing said liquid

crystal (17) and said liquid crystal capsules in (18,28) a layer (16) consisting of
the polymer.
A method according to claim 15,
characterized in that
each of said liquid crystal capsules (18) has an outer diameter substantially
equal to gap between said pair of substrates (11,12), and
the step of arranging said mixture comprises the step of arranging said mixture
on one of said substrates to press the other of said substrates against said one

substrate, said liquid crystal capsules (18) functioning as spacers in the step of
arranging said mixture.
A method according to claim 15 or 16,
characterized in that
each of said liquid crystal capsules (18,28) has substantially a spherical shape
or a cylindrical shape.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
