<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626633</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Touch screen power control in a computer system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F132	G06F126	G06F126	G06F132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	G06F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A touch screen power control function in a computer system is 
disclosed, wherein a touch screen input device is employed to control power 

modes for the computer system. A touch screen controller senses a touch 
input from the touch screen input device. If the computer system is in a full 

power mode, the touch screen controller determines the input coordinates 
corresponding to the touch input, and transfers the input coordinates to a 

central processing system. If the computer system is in a power down mode, 
the touch screen controller asserts a main power on signal to a power 

subsystem, which causes the power subsystem to supply power to the central 
processing system according to the touch input. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORREST CRAIG S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANK EDWARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORREST, CRAIG S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANK, EDWARD H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of power control functions in
computer systems. More particularly, this invention relates to a touch
screen power control function in a computer system.Past computer systems typically implement a hard power control
system for supplying power to the various portions of the computer system.
A hard power control system includes a physical switch that directly controls
the input power to the computer system. The input power may consist of
main incoming alternating current (AC) or direct current (DC).Soft power control is commonly implemented in personal computer
systems and portable computer systems to conserve power and increase
battery life. Soft power control in a computer system usually encompasses
several power control modes, including a full power mode and a sleep mode.
In the full power mode, the main portions of the computer system are
supplied with power and are all in an active state. In the sleep mode, one or
more portions of the computer system are not supplied with power and are in
an inactive state.The power supply for a soft power control system typically provides
more than one power output. One power output is always switched on to 
provide power for the logic that controls the soft power
function. Another power output provides power to the main
portions of the computer system., When the computer system
is in the sleep mode, a user depresses a key on the keyboard
to cause the soft power control logic to switch on power to
the main portions of the computer system.An example of a prior art data input and display apparatus is
disclosed and discussed in EP-a2-0496383 (Sony Corporation).As will be described, the present invention is a method and
apparatus for a soft power control function in a computer
system that provides power control from a touch screen. The
present invention minimizes system power consumption while
eliminating the need for a separate power switch for selective power mode control. A touch screen power control function in a computer system is
disclosed, wherein a touch screen input device is employed to control power
modes for the computer system. A touch screen controller senses a touch
input from the touch screen input device. The touch screen controller
processes the touch input according to a power mode for the computer
system.In a preferred embodiment, if the computer system is in a full power mode, the touch screen
controller determines the input coordinates corresponding to the touch
input, and transfers the input coordinates to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for selectively and interactively controlling
the supply of power to a plurality of regulated power outlets

in a computer system (100), said computer system
including a central processing unit (CPU) forming part of a central processing system (20), a touch

sensitive display screen (40) and a touch screen controller
(30) coupling the touch sensitive display screen (40) and the

CPU, said method comprising the steps of:

placing said computer system (100) in a power down mode wherein said
CPU is powered down while said touch sensitive display

screen (40) and said touch screen controller (30) are
provided with at least partial power through one of the regulated power outlets;
sensing a touch of said touch sensitive display screen
(40) by a user while said computer system (100) is in said

power down mode, and providing power control signals in
response to one or more characteristics of the touch;
in response to said power control signals : providing
power to said CPU through one of the regulated power outlets thereby reactivating said CPU;

and
selectively supplying power through one or more of the
regulated power outlets to the central processing system (20).
The method as defined by claim 1, wherein the
reactivation of said CPU further includes asserting a signal that

resets said touch screen controller (30).
The method as defined by claim 2, wherein the reset of
said touch screen controller (30) results in said touch

screen controller (30) transitioning from a power down mode
to a full power mode.
The method as defined by claim 1, wherein said step of
sensing a touch of said touch sensitive display screen (40)

and providing power control signals further comprises the
step of generating a tap count by sensing and counting at

least one tap input to said touch sensitive display screen
(40) by said user, and wherein the power control signals

are provided in response to
the tap count.
The method as defined by claim 1, wherein the power
control signals are provided in response to a duration of the touch by said user

on said touch sensitive display screen (40).
The method as defined by claim 1, wherein the power
control signals are provided in response to one or more coordinates describing a

location of the touch by the user on said touch sensitive
display screen (40). 
The method as defined by claim 1, wherein the step of
sensing a touch of said touch sensitive display screen (40)

and providing power control signals further comprises the
step of measuring a magnitude of pressure for the touch of

said touch sensitive display screen (40), and wherein the
power control signals are provided in response to a coordinate describing said

magnitude of pressure.
An apparatus for selectively and interactively
controlling the supply of power to a plurality of regulated

power outlets in a computer system (100), said
computer system

including a central processing unit (CPU) forming part of a central processing system (20),
a touch sensitive display screen (40) and a touch screen

controller (30) coupling the touch sensitive display screen
(40) and the CPU, said apparatus comprising:


means for placing said computer system (100) in a power down
mode wherein said CPU is powered down while said touch

sensitive display screen (40) and said touch screen
controller (30) are provided with at least partial power through one of the regulated power outlets;
means (30) for sensing a touch of said touch sensitive
display screen by a user while said computer system is in

said power down mode;
means (30) for providing power control signals in response to
one or more characteristics of the touch; 
means (10) for responding to said power control signals by:
providing power to said CPU through one of the regulated power outlets thereby reactivating said

CPU; and
selectively supplying power through one or
more of the regulated power outlets to the central processing system (20).
The apparatus as defined by claim 8, wherein the means (10)
for responding to said power control signals include means

for asserting a signal that resets said touch screen
controller upon reactivation of the CPU (20).
The apparatus as defined by claim 9, further including
means for transitioning the touch screen controller (30) from

a power down mode to a full power mode.
The apparatus as defined by claim 8, wherein the means (30)
for sensing a touch of the touch sensitive display screen

(40) further comprise means for generating a tap count by
sensing and counting at least one tap input to said touch

sensitive display screen (40) by the user, and wherein the
power control signals are provided in response to the tap count. 
The apparatus as defined by claim 9, wherein the power
control signals are provided in response to a duration of the touch by said user

on said touch sensitive display screen (40).
The apparatus as defined by claim 9, wherein the power
control signals are provided in response to one or more coordinates describing a

location of the touch by the user on said touch sensitive
display screen (40).
The apparatus as defined by claim 9, wherein the means (30)
for sensing a touch of said touch sensitive display screen

(40) further comprise means for measuring a magnitude of
pressure for the touch of said touch sensitive display

screen, and wherein the power control signals are provided in response to a
coordinate describing said magnitude of pressure.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
