<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613982</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Materials breaking apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02F304	E02F396	E04G2308	E04G2308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02F	E02F	E04G	E04G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02F3	E02F3	E04G23	E04G23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An excavator, backhoe, front loader or the like is converted for 
breaking reinforced concrete and other materials by removing the 

bucket, fitting an auxiliary mounting point (72,110) under the 
articulated excavator arm (44) about twice as far from the crowd 

link (54,80) as the bucket mounting point (50) is from the crowd 
link, and fitting a first jaw member (76,106) thereto. A second 

opposed jaw member (78,108) is added, braced by a stay bar (82,126) 
or a hydraulic cylinder (136), to form jaws with about twice the 

power of jaws mounted conventionally at the bucket mounting point, 
using the standard actuator (52), crowd link (54) and stabiliser 

link (56) of the excavator. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAWKINS PETER A T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAWKINS, PETER ARTHUR TAYLOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWKINS PETER ARTHUR TAYLOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWKINS, PETER ARTHUR TAYLOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to materials breaking apparatus, and in 
particular to apparatus for breaking materials such as reinforced 
concrete, which apparatus is suitable for mounting on the 
articulated arm of an excavator or the like. Breaking in this 
context may include crushing and/or shearing. Concrete may be 
crushed and steel bars may be sheared, using different embodiments 
of the invention. Digging and materials handling machines such as 360° excavators are 
very versatile and are commonly used for many different purposes in 
addition to their prime function of digging. They are typically 
tracked vehicles with multiple hydraulic power supplies for a boom, 
which can be raised and lowered and swung from side to side, and an 
arm pivoted so that it can be raised and lowered on the end of the 
boom. The distant end of the arm in turn conventionally carries a 
digging bucket, which can be pivoted or "crowded" about a 
horizontal pivot axis where it is mounted on the end of the arm. The bucket is normally powered by a hydraulic actuator, which may 
be referred to as the bucket ram, whose cylinder is mounted on the 
arm and whose piston rod extends to a crowd link which in turn is 
pivotally connected to a mounting point on the bucket. The 
connection between the piston rod and the crowd link is supported 
by a stabiliser link to the arm. Each of the crowd link and 
stabiliser link normally comprises a parallel pair of link members, 
one opposite the other on each side of the centre line of the 
equipment, for strength.  The pivot mounting at the end of the arm is often used for 
alternative attachments in place of the bucket. These may include 
concrete breaking jaws. Typically, the upper jaw replaces the 
bucket, and the lower jaw, which is mounted on the same pivot 
point, is held stationary by a rigid stay bar connected to the 
underside of the arm. The stay bar may be adjustable so that the 
angle of the lower jaw can be set according to the task in hand. Alternative arrangements for breaking concrete and the like include 
the use of other paired jaw devices with independent power units 
intended to improve crushing efficiency or to meet particular 
requirements. Different jaw devices and jaw operating mechanisms 
have been proposed over many years to provide concrete breaking 
units suitable for replacing the digging bucket of an excavator or 
the like, to provide conversions of more power or convenience or 
both. One possible method of achieving more power would be to replace the 
bucket ram
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1 Materials breaking apparatus comprising an articulated arm of 
an excavator, backhoe, front loader or the like, which arm is 

provided with a pivot mounting point near one end thereof for the 
attachment of a digging or loading bucket and with means for 

powering a said bucket about the bucket mounting point comprising 
an actuator, a crowd link and a stabiliser link, wherein the 

actuator is connected between the arm and the crowd link, the crowd 
link is connected between the actuator and the bucket, and the 

stabiliser link is connected between the arm and the connection 
between the actuator and the crowd link; characterised in that the 

breaking apparatus comprises first (76,106) and second (78,108) 
opposed jaw members mounted thereon in the absence of the said 

bucket, the first jaw member (76,106) being pivotally mounted on 
the said arm (44) at an auxiliary mounting point (72,110) that lies 

further from the crowd link (54) than the bucket mounting point 
(50), the actuator (52) being operatively connected through the 

crowd link to the first jaw member in place of the bucket whereby 
to power the first jaw member towards the second jaw member for 

breaking materials therebetween. 
2 Materials breaking apparatus according to claim 1 
further characterised in that the second jaw member (78,108) is pivotally 

mounted on said arm (44) and is braced by bracing means 
(82,126,136). 
3 Materials breaking apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 
further characterised in that the auxiliary mounting point (72,110) 

is located on a mounting member (74,104) on the underside of the 
articulated arm (44). 
4 Materials breaking apparatus according to claim 3 
further characterised in that the auxiliary mounting point (110) is located 

 
on a removable mounting member (104) on the underside of the 

articulated arm (44), and the mounting member is adjustable into 
different positions on the articulated arm. 
5 Materials breaking apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims further characterised in that said first (76,106) 

and second (78,108) jaw members are respectively mounted at 
different mounting positions (110,112) on the articulated arm (44). 
6 Materials breaking apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims further characterised in that the first jaw member 

(76,106) has a concave rear profile whereby it passes around the 
end of the articulated arm (44) between the auxiliary mounting 

point (72,110) and the crowd link (54). 
7 Materials breaking apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims further characterised in that the distance between 

the point (80) at which the crowd link (54) is connected to the 
first jaw member (76,106) and the auxiliary mounting point (72,110) 

is about twice the distance between the point (80) at which the 
crowd link is connected to the first jaw member and the bucket 

mounting point (50) when all three said points are aligned. 
8 Materials breaking apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims further characterised in that each said jaw member 

comprises steel side plates and transverse plates (87,89) which are 
interlocked by means of edge pegs (85) in at least one transverse 

plate located in corresponding slots in opposite side plates, and 
welded therein. 
9 Materials breaking apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims further characterised in that at least one said 

jaw member is provided with a tooth set comprising a pair of spaced 
apart steel side plates interlocked with a transverse plate 

extending between them by means by edge pegs in the transverse 
 

plate located in corresponding slots in the side plates, the 
assembly being welded together, and the teeth being constituted by 

projections (117) formed by edge profiling the said side plates. 
10 A method of converting an excavator, backhoe, front loader or 
the like having a bucket pivotally mounted at one end of an 

articulated arm and driven by an actuator operating through a crowd 
link supported by a stabiliser link, into materials breaking 

apparatus, characterised by removing the bucket, attaching an 
auxiliary mounting point (72,110) to the said arm (44) at a 

location that lies further from the crowd link (54) than the bucket 
mounting point (50), and providing first (76,106) and second 

(78,108) opposed jaw members on the arm, wherein the first said jaw 
member is pivotally mounted at the auxiliary mounting point and 

operatively connected to the actuator (52) through the crowd link 
whereby to power the said first jaw member towards the said second 

jaw member for breaking material therebetween upon operation of the 
actuator. 
11 A method according to claim 10 further characterised in that 
the auxiliary mounting point (72,110) is attached to the arm (44) 

at a location such that the distance between the point (80) at 
which the crowd link (54) is connected to the first jaw member 

(76,106) and the auxiliary mounting point is about twice the 
distance between the point at which the crowd link is connected to 

the first jaw member and the bucket mounting point (50) when all 
three said points are aligned. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
