<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630522</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MICROCHANNEL COOLING OF FACE DOWN BONDED CHIPS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2334	H01L23473	H05K720	H05K720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US ENERGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US ENERGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNHARDT ANTHONY FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNHARDT ANTHONY FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MICROCHANNEL COOLING OF FACE DOWN BONDED CHIPSThe United States government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract Number W-7405-ENG-48 between the United States Department of Energy and the University of California for the operation of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION The present application is related to U.S. patent application entitledTHREE DIMENSIONAL, MULTI-CHIP MODULE, Serial No. , filed on the same day as the present application, and owned at the time of invention and currently by the same assignee.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to cooling high power integrated circuits; and particularly to microchannel cooling of integrated circuits bonded face down on circuit boards, such as by flip-chip bonding.Description of the Related ArtMany computer systems rely on so-called flip-chip bonding of die for electrical and mechanical attachment of integrated circuit chips to circuit boards. See, Goldman, et al., "Area Array Solder Interconnections for VLSI", SOLID STATE TECHNOLOGY, June, 1983, pp. 91-97. In flip- chip bonds, the integrated circuits are mounted face down on the circuit board. Solder bumps are coupled to bonding sites on the integrated circuits and corresponding bonding sites on the circuit board. The principal advantages of flip-chip bonding are a relative lack of electrical parasitics associated with the electrical connection, relatively high I/O available (in principal, at least), and repairability by removal and replacement of the chips. On the other hand, a significant difficulty is 

encountered in cooling fiip-chip mounted chips. The solder bumps cover only a small fraction of the surface of the chip, and the underlying circuit boards are usually poor thermal conductors.Heat is removed from commercial flip-chip systems using so-called thermal conduction module or TCM, such as described in the Goldman, et al. article cited above. However, the thermal conduction modules are very complex mechanically, and can only remove limited amounts of heat. As the power dissipated by integrated circuits increases, it is expected that the thermal conduction module technology will be insufficient.One integrated circuit cooling technology which is capable of removing large amounts of heat is known as microchannel cooling. MicroChannel cooling is described in detail in Tuckerman, et al., "High- Performance Heat Sinking for VLSI", IEEE ELECTRON DEVICE LETTERS, Vol. EDL-2, No. 5, May, 1981, pp. 126-129;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS 1. An apparatus comprising: a circuit board; an integrated circuit chip having a first major side facing the circuit board, and a second major side; an integrated circuit on the chip, having a plurality of bond sites on the first major side of the chip; means for connecting the plurality of bond sites on the first major side of the chip to the circuit board; a microchannel structure essentially permanently coupled with the second major side of the chip providing a coolant flow path in heat flow communication with the chip; a removable coolant delivery manifold for delivering coolant to the microchannel structure; and a seal between the coolant delivery manifold and the microchannel structure.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the microchannel structure comprises a grooved substrate bonded to the second major side of the integrated circuit chip, and a cover manifold over the grooved substrate providing a coolant flow path to the grooved substrate.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the microchannel structure comprises a plurality of grooves in the second major side of the integrated circuit chip, and a cover manifold over the plurality of grooves providing a coolant flow path to the plurality of grooves.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the circuit board comprises a substrate having a thin film interconnect structure, the thin film interconnect structure including a plurality of bond sites coupled to the means for connectinα. 


 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for connecting comprise controlled-collapse bonds.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the seal comprises a compressible elastomer.
7. An apparatus comprising: a circuit board having a first major side, and a plurality of chip interconnects having bond sites accessible at the first major side; a plurality of integrated circuit modules mounted on the first major side of the circuit board, the integrated circuit modules including an integrated circuit having a plurality of bond sites on a first major side of the module, a plurality of grooves in a second major side of the module, and a cover manifold, having a first opening and a second opening, and bonded on the second major side of the module over the grooves to provide a coolant path from the first opening to the second opening through the plurality of grooves; and a coolant supply manifold providing a coolant path to cover manifolds of at least a subset of the plurality of integrated circuit modules; a seal between the coolant supply manifold and the subset of the plurality of integrated circuit modules; and means for connecting the plurality of bond sites on the integrated circuit modules to the bond sites of the chip interconnects on the circuit board. 


 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the means for connecting provides for removable bonding to the circuit board so that integrated circuit modules may be selectively replaced.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the means for connecting comprise controlled-collapse bonds.
10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the seal comprises a compressible elastomer.
11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the integrated circuit modules comprise an integrated circuit chip, having an integrated circuit on a first major surface, and a microchannel structure essentially permanently coupled with a second major surface.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the microchannel structure comprises a grooved substrate bonded to the second major surface of the integrated circuit chip.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the microchannel structure comprises a plurality of grooves in the second major surface of the integrated circuit chip.
14. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the coolant supply manifold includes: a supply vessel having a plurality of ports for mating with the first openings on integrated circuit modules on the circuit board; and a return vessel having a plurality of ports for mating with the second openings on integrated circuit modules on the circuit board. 


 15. An apparatus comprising: a stack of circuit boards having first and second major surfaces, and side surfaces, circuit boards in the stack including respective pluralities of chip interconnects having bond sites accessible at the first major surfaces, and respective pluralities of contact sites on 
"
the second major surfaces in electrical communication with the chip interconnects; a plurality of integrated circuit modules mounted on the first major surface of a given circuit board in the stack in electrical communication with the bond sites of respective pluralities of chip interconnects, wherein the integrated circuit modules comprise an integrated circuit having a plurality of bond sites on a first major side of the module facing the given circuit board, and a microchannel structure in heat flow communication with the integrated circuit; a plurality of perimeter wall members, mounted near perimeters of respective circuit boards in the stack, and spacing adjacent circuit boards in the stack apart; a coolant supply manifold between the given circuit board and an adjacent circuit board in the stack providing a coolant path from a side of the stack to microchannel structures of integrated circuit modules on the given circuit board; and a seal between the coolant supply manifold and the plurality of integrated circuit modules on the given circuit board.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, further including: a first plurality of thin film board interconnects on the perimeter wall members in the plurality, for interconnecting chip interconnects on circuit boards in the stack with contact sites on the second major surfaces of adjacent circuit boards. 


 17. The apparatus of claim 15, including removable bonds between the integrated circuit modules and the given circuit board so that the integrated circuit modules may be selectively replaced.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the removable bonds comprise controlled-collapse bonds.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the seal comprises a compressible elastomer.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the integrated circuit modules comprise an integrated circuit chip, having an integrated circuit on a first major surface, and the microchannel structure comprises a grooved substrate essentially permanently coupled with a second major surface of the chip.
21. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the integrated circuit modules comprise an integrated circuit chip, having an integrated circuit on a first major surface, and the microchannel structure comprises a plurality of grooves in a second major surface of the chip.
22. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the microchannel structure comprises: a substrate having plurality of grooves, and a cover manifold, having a first opening and a second opening, and bonded over the grooves near the second major surface of the module to provide a coolant path from the first opening to the second opening through the plurality of grooves. 


 23. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the coolant supply manifold includes: a supply vessel having a plurality of ports for mating 'with the microchannel structures on at least a subset of the plurality of integrated circuit modules on the given circuit board; and a return vessel having a plurality of ports for mating with the microchannel structures on at least the subset of the plurality of integrated circuit modules on the given circuit board.
24. A replaceable integrated circuit module for mounting with a seal between a circuit board and a coolant supply manifold, comprising: an integrated circuit chip having a plurality of bond sites on a first major side; a plurality of grooves coupled in heat flow communication with a second major side of the chip, and a cover manifold, having a first opening and a second opening, and bonded over the grooves to provide a coolant path from the first opening to the second opening through the plurality of grooves.
25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the plurality of grooves comprise a grooved substrate essentially permanently coupled with the integrated circuit chip.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, means for essentially permanently bonding the grooved substrate to a second major side of the integrated circuit chip.
27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the plurality of grooves are integral with a second major side of the integrated circuit chip. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
