<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645472</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Coated article for hot hydrocarbon fluid and method of preventing fuel thermal degradation deposits.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J1902	B01J1902	B01J3700	B01J3702	C10G900	C10G900	C10L300	C10L300	C23C1618	C23C1618	C23C1630	C23C1630	C23C1640	C23C1640	C23C1644	C23C1644	C23C16455	C23C16455	F01D528	F01D528	F01D2500	F01D2500	F02C700	F02C722	F02C7224	F02C730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	C10G	C10G	C10L	C10L	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	F01D	F01D	F01D	F01D	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J19	B01J19	B01J37	B01J37	C10G9	C10G9	C10L3	C10L3	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	F01D5	F01D5	F01D25	F01D25	F02C7	F02C7	F02C7	F02C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Articles for hot hydrocarbon fluid wherein the 
surface for contacting the fluid is a diffusion barrier 

material or a catalytic material coated on a metal 
substrate. The material is either catal
ytically-inactive 
tantalum oxide which inhibits the formation of coke in the 

fluid or catalytically-active zirconium oxide which 
promotes the formation of a loosely adherent coke in the 

fluid while inhibiting the formation of gum in the fluid. 
The coating materials, i.e., the diffusion barrier coating 

material and the catalytic coating material, are deposited 
by chemical vapor deposition (CVD), e.g., by effusive 

chemical vapor deposition of an organometallic compound on 
the surface without the use of carrier gas, without pre-oxidation 

of the surface and without thermal decomposition 
of the diffusion barrier material or the catalytic coating 

material. The articles having the coated surfaces find 
utility in components subjected to high temperatures 

wherein the components are in contact with hydrocarbon 
fluids without additives, without special attention to 

quality control and without the need for special 
processing. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COFFINBERY GEORGE ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COFFINBERY, GEORGE ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to deposits 
formed on surfaces in contact with hydrocarbon fluids, and 
more particularly, to a method of preventing or reducing 
the deposit of hydrocarbon fluid thermal degradation 
products on surfaces in contact therewith and to a metal 
article having a coated surface which inhibits the formation 
of gum and/or coke formed by thermal degradation of 
the fluid, without resorting to modification of the fluid, 
without adoption of special procedures and without 
installation of special equipment for their use. As used herein, hydrocarbon fluid is defined as 
hydrocarbon liquids, hydrocarbon gases or mixtures 
thereof. As used herein, "hydrocarbon fluid degradation 
products" includes products which form from the 
hydrocarbons, for example, certain polymers resulting from 
thermal transformation of paraffins to cycloparaffins, 
aromatics and polycyclic molecules in the hydrocarbon, as 
well as products which result from actual decomposition of 
the fuel, e.g., carbon.  Because high temperature is usually associated with 
undesirable levels of hydrocarbon fluid deposit formation, 
the technical subject herein is customarily referred to as 
thermal instability, or in the case of fuels, as fuel 
instability. Flowing hydrocarbon fluids including 
lubricating oils, hydraulic oils and combustible fuels 
form gum and coke deposits on the surface of containment 
walls and other parts which they contact, when the fluid 
and/or surface are heated. The mechanisms for formation of deposits from thermal 
instability have been studied and documented. In the case 
of fuels, it is generally accepted that there are two 
distinct mechanisms occurring at two levels of 
temperature. In the first mechanism, referred to as the 
coking process, as temperature increases from room 
temperature, starting at about 300°F (about 149°C) there 
is generally a consistent increase in the rate of 
formation of coke deposits up to about 1200°F (about 
649°C) where high levels of hydrocarbon lead to coke 
formation and eventually limit the usefulness of the fuel. 
A second lower temperature mechanism starting at about 
room temperature, generally peaks at about 700°F (about 
370°C) and involves the formation of gum deposits. This 
second mechanism is generally better understood than the 
coking process. It involves oxidation reactions which 
lead to polymerization which includes the formation of 
gums. Both coke and gum formation and deposits can occur 
simultaneously in the mid-temperature
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for preventing the deposit on a metal 
surface of thermal hydrocarbon degradation products 

derived from hydrocarbon fluid containing sulfur, oxygen 
or mixtures thereof, comprising applying to the metal 

surface (a) a diffusion barrier material comprising 
tantalum oxide which prevents contact of metal in the 

metal surface with sulfur, oxygen or mixtures thereof, or 
(b) a catalytic coating material comprising zirconium 

oxide which promotes by thermal degradation in the 
hydrocarbon fluid the formation of coke while 

simultaneously inhibiting the formation of gum on the 
metal surface, the diffusion barrier material or the 

catalytic coating material being applied by chemical vapor 
deposition without thermal decomposition of the diffusion 

barrier material or the catalytic coating material. 
The method according to claim 1, comprising 
applying the diffusion barrier material or the catalytic 

coating material to the metal surface by effusive chemical 
vapor deposition of an organometallic compound on the 

surface without the use of carrier gas. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein the 
diffusion barrier material is tantalum oxide applied by 

effusive chemical vapor deposition of tantalum ethoxide 
and the catalytic coating material is zirconium oxide 

applied by effusive chemical vapor deposition of zirconium 
di-isopropoxide diacetylacetonate. 
The method according to claim 1, comprising 
applying the diffusion barrier material or the catalytic 

coating material by low temperature chemical vapor 
deposition. 
The method according to claim 2 or 3, comprising 
applying the diffusion barrier material or the catalytic 

coating material by low temperature effusive chemical 
vapor deposition. 
The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein 
metal in a metal substrate of the metal surface is 

tempered simultaneously with the application of the 
diffusion barrier material or the catalytic coating 

material on the metal surface during chemical vapor 
deposition. 
A method for preventing the deposit on a metal 
surface of coke derived from hydrocarbon fluid containing 

sulfur, oxygen or mixtures thereof, in contact with the 
metal surface for a sufficient residence time to form 

coke, wherein the residence time sufficient to form coke 
is the result of the formation on the metal surface of 

metal sulfide from the reaction of sulfur and metal atoms 
which diffuse to the surface, of metal oxide from the 

reaction of oxygen and metal atoms which diffuse to the 
surface, or mixture thereof comprising, applying to the 

metal surface a diffusion barrier material comprising 
tantalum oxide which prevents the formation of metal 

sulfide, metal oxide or mixture thereof on the metal 
surface, the diffusion barrier material being applied by 

chemical vapor deposition on the surface without pre-oxidation 
of the surface and without thermal decomposition 

of the diffusion barrier material. 
The method according to claim 7, comprising 
applying the diffusion barrier material to the metal 

surface by effusive chemical vapor deposition of an 
organometallic compound on the surface without the use of 

carrier gas. 
The method according to claim 7, wherein the 
tantalum oxide is applied by chemical vapor deposition of 

tantalum ethoxide and the tantalum oxide is amorphous. 
The method according to claim 8, wherein the 
tantalum oxide is applied by effusive chemical vapor 

deposition of tantalum ethoxide and the tantalum oxide is 
amorphous. 
The method according to claim 7, comprising 
applying the diffusion barrier material by low temperature 

chemical vapor deposition. 
The method according to claim 8, comprising 
applying the diffusion barrier material by low temperature 

effusive chemical vapor deposition. 
The method according to claim 11 or 12, wherein 
the diffusion barrier material is deposited on the metal 

surface at a temperature of about 400°C to about 460°C 
when the diffusion barrier material is tantalum oxide or 

at a temperature of about 350°C to about 425°C when the 
diffusion barrier material is zirconium oxide. 
The method according to claim 11 or 12, wherein 
the diffusion barrier material is deposited on the metal 

surface at a pressure of about 50 milliTorr to about 500 
milliTorr. 
The method according to claim 7 or 8, wherein 
metal in a metal substrate of the metal surface is 

tempered simultaneously with the application of the 
diffusion barrier material or the catalytic coating 

material on the metal surface during chemical vapor 
deposition. 
The method according to claim 7, further 
comprising applying on the diffusion barrier material a 

catalytic coating material comprising zirconium oxide 
which promotes by thermal degradation in the hydrocarbon 

fluid the formation of coke while simultaneously 
inhibiting the formation of gum on the diffusion barrier 

material, the coke being substantially non-adherent to the 
catalytic coating, the catalytic coating being applied by 

chemical vapor deposition of an organometallic compound on 
the diffusion barrier material without pre-oxidation of 

the surface and without thermal decomposition of the 
catalytic coating material, whereby the formation of gum 

derived from thermal reactions of hydrocarbon fluid 
containing oxygen in contact with a metal surface and 

 
which adheres to irregularities on the metal surface, is 

prevented. 
The method according to claim 16, comprising 
applying the catalytic coating material on the diffusion 

barrier material by effusive chemical vapor deposition of 
an organometallic compound on the diffusion barrier 

material without the use of a carrier gas. 
The method according to claim 16, wherein the 
zirconium oxide is applied by chemical vapor deposition of 

zirconium di-isopropoxide diacetylacetonate. 
The method according to claim 17, wherein the 
zirconium oxide is applied by effusive chemical vapor 

deposition of zirconium di-isopropoxide diacetylacetonate. 
The method according to claim 16, comprising 
applying the catalytic coating material by low temperature 

chemical vapor deposition. 
The method according to claim 17, comprising 
applying the catalytic coating material by low temperature 

effusive chemical vapor deposition. 
The method according to claim 20 or 21, wherein 
the catalytic coating material is deposited on the 

diffusion barrier material at a temperature of about 350°C 
to about 425°C. 
The method according to claim 20 or 21, wherein 

the catalytic coating material is deposited on the 
diffusion barrier material at a pressure of about 50 

milliTorr to about 500 milliTorr. 
The method according to claim 16 or 17, wherein 
metal in a metal substrate of the metal surface is 

tempered simultaneously with the application of the 
catalytic coating material on the diffusion barrier 

material during chemical vapor deposition. 
A method for preventing the deposit on a metal 
surface of gum which attaches to irregularities on the 

metal surface, wherein said gum is derived in the presence 
of oxygen from thermal reactions of a hydrocarbon fluid 

containing oxygen in contact with the metal surface, 
 

comprising, applying to the metal surface a catalytic 
coating material comprising zirconium oxide which promotes 

by thermal decomposition in the hydrocarbon fluid the 
formation of coke while simultaneously inhibiting the 

formation of gum on the metal surface, the coke being 
substantially non-adherent to the catalytic coating, the 

zirconium oxide catalytic coating being applied by 
chemical vapor deposition on the surface without pre-oxidation 

of the surface and without thermal decomposition 
of the catalytic coating material. 
The method according to claim 25, comprising 
applying the catalytic coating material to the metal 

surface by effusive chemical vapor deposition of an 
organometallic compound on the metal surface without the 

use of a carrier gas. 
The method according to claim 25, wherein the 
zirconium oxide is applied by chemical vapor deposition of 

zirconium di-isopropoxide diacetylacetonate. 
The method according to claim 26, wherein the 
zirconium oxide is applied by effusive chemical vapor 

deposition of zirconium di-isopropoxide diacetylacetonate. 
The method according to claim 25, comprising 
applying the catalytic coating material by low temperature 

chemical vapor deposition. 
The method according to claim 26, comprising 
applying the catalytic coating material by low temperature 

effusive chemical vapor deposition. 
The method according to claim 29 or 30, wherein 
the catalytic coating material is deposited on the metal 

surface at a temperature of about 350°C to about 425°C. 
The method according to claim 29 or 30, wherein 
the catalytic coating material is deposited on the metal 

surface at a pressure of about 50 milliTorr to about 500 
milliTorr. 
The method according to claim 25 or 26, wherein 
metal in a metal substrate of the metal surface is 

tempered simultaneously with the application of the 
 

catalytic coating material on the diffusion barrier 
material during chemical vapor deposition. 
An article having a metal surface coated with the 
diffusion barrier material by the method according to 

claim 7 or 8. 
An article having a metal surface coated with the 
diffusion barrier material and catalytic coating material 

by the method according to claim 16 or 17. 
An article having a metal surface coated with the 
catalytic coating material by the method according to 

claim 25 or 26. 
A container having a metal wall portion having a 
surface adapted for contacting flowing hydrocarbon fluid 

wherein the surface is coated with the material by the 
method according to claims 8, 17 or 26. 
A container having a metal wall portion 
comprising a heat exchanger surface adapted for contacting 

flowing hydrocarbon fluid wherein the surface is coated 
with the material by the method according to claim 8, 17 

or 26. 
A fuel injector, a fuel valve, a fuel nozzle a 
combustor turbine nozzle wall or a piston coated with the 

material by the method according to claim 8, 17 or 26. 
A diffusion barrier article comprising a 
substrate having a non-oxidized surface coated with a 

smooth, continuous, contiguous diffusion barrier material 
of non-porous, atomically tight, dense, thermally stable 

tantalum oxide, said diffusion barrier being between the 
substrate and hydrocarbon fluid when said article is used. 
A diffusion barrier article according to claim 
40, having smooth, continuous, contiguous, zirconium oxide 

catalytic coating material on said tantalum oxide, said 
catalytic coating material being between the substrate and 

hydrocarbon fluid when said article is used. 
A diffusion barrier article according to claim 41 
wherein the zirconium oxide is non-porous, atomically 

tight, dense and thermally stable. 
A diffusion barrier article comprising a 
substrate having a non-oxidized surface coated with 

smooth, continuous, contiguous diffusion barrier material 
of non-porous, atomically tight, dense, thermally stable 

zirconium oxide, said diffusion barrier being between the 
substrate and a hydrocarbon fluid when said article is 

used. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
