<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617523</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL RADIO COMMUNICATION APPARATUS INCLUDING TRANSMISSION ERROR CONTROL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B726	H04B726	H04Q738	H04Q738	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04Q7	H04Q7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radio communication apparatus for use in a time
division multiple access controls to prevent signals from

being transmitted through a transmitter in response to
recognition that the transmitter operates during a time

other than a time slot assigned thereto. A controller
may observe during a time other than the time slot

assigned to the apparatus whether signals are outputted
from the transmitter. Power to the transmitter may be

disconnected in response to the recognition.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO SHIBAURA ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OBAYASHI ARATA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSHIOKA YUKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OBAYASHI, ARATA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOSHIOKA, YUKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of 
radio communication apparatus such as mobile telephones, 
portable telephones, cordless telephones, transceiver 
apparatuses, satellite communication apparatuses, and the 
like. More specifically, the present invention relates to a 
radio communication apparatus used in a radio communication 
system adopting a time division multiple access (TDMA) 
transmission method by which radio frequency signals are 
transmitted in a burst form during one or more time slots 
between a base station and the radio communication 
apparatus. As the number of subscribers in cellular radio 
systems increase, the TDMA transmission method is being 
adopted into the cellular radio system so that signals are 
transmitted at a more efficient rate. In communication by 
means of the TDMA transmission method, signals are 
constituted of continuous frames. The length of each frame 
is predetermined. Further, each frame is constituted of a 
plurality of time slots. One of the time slots is assigned 
to a mobile unit. The mobile unit transmits signals to a 
base station over radio links during the assigned time slot. To make TDMA transmission work well, each mobile  
 
unit should transmit signals only during a time slot 
assigned thereto. This operating requirement may, however, 
be violated if a circuit device of a mobile unit does not 
operate properly, for instance, due to a large accrued 
operating time or a strong impact given to the device. The 
transmission in non-assigned time slots due to such a 
malfunction causes communication interference with other 
mobile units which transmit signals in the time slots. It is accordingly an object of the present 
invention to provide a radio communication apparatus which 
reduces interference with communication of other mobile 
units. In accordance with one aspect of the present 
invention there is provided radio communication apparatus 
for use in a time division multiple access system wherein 
signals are transmitted between the apparatus and a base 
station over radio links during a time slot assigned to the 
apparatus, has a transmitter for transmitting signals to the 
base station over the radio links; and a controller, 
responsive to operation of the transmitter, for preventing 
signals from being transmitted by the transmitter in 
response to occurrence of an undesired transmission 
operation by which the transmitter transmits during a time 
other than the assigned time slot. Further, in accordance with another aspect of the  
 
prese
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radio communication apparatus for use in a time 
division multiple access system wherein transmitting 

means (16) transmits signals to a base station (BS1) over 
radio links during a time slot assigned to the apparatus, 

characterised by controlling means (31), responsive 
to operation of the transmitting means (16), for 

preventing signals from being transmitted by the 
transmitting means (16) in response to occurrence of an 

undesired transmission operation by which the 
transmitting means (16) transmits during a time other 

than the assigned time slot. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 characterised in 
that the transmitting means (16) comprises amplifying 

means (62) for amplifying signals to be transmitted to 
the base station (BS1) over the radio links. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 characterised in 
that the apparatus further comprises detecting means (66) 

for detecting operation of the transmitting means (16) 
and for providing detection signals representative of the 

detected operation and the controlling means (31) is 
coupled to receive the detection signals. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 3 characterised in 
that the detecting means (66) includes means for 

detecting the level of signals to be transmitted from the 
transmitting means (16) and the detection signals 

represent a level of the signals to be transmitted. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 4 characterised in 
 

that the controlling means (31) determines that the 
transmitting means (16) is transmitting when the 

detection signals exceed a predetermined level. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 5 characterised in 
that the predetermined level is lower than a lowest 

transmission level allowed in the system. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 characterised in 
that the controlling means (31) includes means (31a) for 

observing whether the transmitting means (16) is 
transmitting. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 7 characterised in 
that the observing means (31a) observes once during a 

time slot other than the assigned time slot whether the 
transmitting means (16) is transmitting. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 7 characterised in 
that the observing means (31a) observes at a plurality of 

times during a time slot other than the assigned time 
slot whether the transmitting means (16) is transmitting. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 7 characterised in 
that the observing means (31a) observes continuously 

during a time slot other than the assigned time slot 
whether the transmitting means (16) is transmitting. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 7 characterised in 
that successive observations of the observing means (31a) 

occur at an interval less than or equal to the length of 
one time slot during a time other than the asigned time 

slot. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 7 characterised in 
 

that the observing means (31a) ceases observing in 
response to the occurrence of the undesired operation. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 7 characterised in 
that the observing means (31a) continues observing after 

the occurrence of the undesired operation. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
transmitting means (16) comprises amplifying means (62) 

for amplifying signals to be transmitted to the base 
station (BS1) over the radio links and the apparatus 

further comprises power supplying means (41) for 
supplying power to the amplifying means (62), 

characterised in that the controlling means (31) includes 
means (31b) for disconnecting the power supplying means 

(41) from the amplifying means (62) in response to the 
occurrence of the undesired operation. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 further comprising 
frequency supplying means (32) for supplying 

predetermined frequency signals to be mixed with signals 
to be transmitted to the base station (BS1) over the 

radio links and power supplying means (41) for supplying 
power to the frequency supplying means (32), 

characterised in that the controlling means (31) includes 
means (31b) for disconnecting the power supplying m
eans 
(41) from the frequency supplying means (32) in response 

to the occurrence of the undesired operation. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 further comprising 
signal processing means (10) for processing signals to be 

applied to the transmitting means (16) and power 
 

supplying means (41) for supplying power to the signal 
processing means (10), characterised in that the 

controlling means (31) includes means (31b) for 
disconnecting the power supplying means (41) from the 

signal processing means (10) in response to the 
occurrence of the undesired operation. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 16 characterised in 
that the signal processing means (10) comprises a device 

requiring receipt of clock signals for operation. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 17 wherein the 
controlling means includes means for generating clock 

signals for application to the device, characterised in 
that the controlling means (31) is responsive to the 

occurrence of the undesired operation to cease the 
application of the clock signals. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 further comprising 
inputting means (11) for inputting information to be 

transmitted, an antenna (18), and disconnecting means 
(63) for disconnecting a path between the inputting means 

(11) and the antenna (18), characterised in that the 
controlling means (31) controls the disconnecting means 

(63) to disconnect the path between the inputting means 
(11) and the antenna (18) in response to the occurrence 

of the undesired operation. 
The apparatus claimed in claim 1 characterised in 
that the apparatus further comprises informing means (35) 

for informing a user of transmission disorder in response 
to the occurrence of the undesired operation. 
A radio communication apparatus for use in a time 
division multiple access system wherein transmitting 

means (16) transmits signals to a base station (BS1) over 
radio links during a time slot assigned to the apparatus; 

detecting means (66) detects transmission by the 
transmitting means (16); and recognizing means (31a) 

recognizes occurrence of the assigned time slot; and 
controlling means (31b), responsive to the detecting 

means (66), for preventing the transmitting means (16) 
from transmitting upon detection of transmission while 

the recognizing means (31a) does not recognize the 
occurrence of the assigned time slot. 
A radio communication apparatus for use in a time 
division multiple access system wherein transmitting 

means (16) transmits signals to a base station (BS1) over 
radio links during a time slot assigned to the apparatus; 

power supplying means (41) supplies power to components 
of the transmitting means (16), characterised in that 

controlling means (31) recognizes transmission by the 
transmitting means (16) during a time other than the 

assigned time slot and disconnects the power supplying 
means (41) from the transmitting means (16) components 

upon recognizing transmission by the transmitting means 
(16) during a time other than the assigned time slot. 
In a radio communication apparatus for use in a time 
division multiple access system wherein signals are 

transmitted between the apparatus and a base station 
(BS1) over radio links during a time slot assigned to the 

 
apparatus, a method of operation characterised in 

preventing signals from being transmitted in response to 
occurrence of an undesired transmission operation due to 

the transmission during a time other than the assigned 
time slot. 
The method of operation claimed in claim 23 
characterised in that the step of preventing includes a 

step of observing once during a time slot other than the 
assigned time slot whether the transmitting is being 

performed. 
The method of operation claimed in claim 23 
characterised in that the step of preventing includes a 

step of observing at a plurality of times during a time 
slot other than the assigned time slot whether the 

transmitting is being performed. 
The method of operation claimed in claim 23 
characterised in that the step of preventing includes a 

step of observing continuously during a time slot other 
than the assigned time slot whether the transmitting is 

being performed. 
The method of operation claimed in claim 23 
characterised in that the step of preventing includes a 

step of successively observing at an interval less than 
or equal to the length of one time slot during a time 

other than the asigned time slot. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
