<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625063</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GROUND ENGAGING MOVABLE SKATE BRAKE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63C1724	A63C1714	A63C1700	A63C1706	A63C1704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63C	A63C	A63C	A63C	A63C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63C17	A63C17	A63C17	A63C17	A63C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to inline roller skates.Relatively recently, a new type of roller skate has
been introduced. These skates, known as "inline" roller
skates because the wheels are mounted in a line rather
than in tandem, act much as an ice skate.A braking system commonly used on inline roller
skates involves a fixed friction pad that extends behind
the heel of the skate. The fixed friction pad is disposed
above the skating surface and is made to swing
down towards the skating surface by the skater pivoting
the skate about the axis of the rear wheel. As the
skater does so, raising the toe of the skate and rotating
the heel downward, the friction pad behind the heel
contacts the ground and stops the skate.The manoeuvre requires dexterity and balance.US-A-1 524 286, which issued on 6th December 1921,
discloses an inline roller skate
having two wheels arranged in a line and a braking
system which comprises a handle which is either pivotally
mounted to one side of the inline roller skate or
slidably mounted to one side thereof. The bottom of the
handle is provided with a brake member which can be
urged against the ground by manipulating the handle
appropriately. It should be noted that, in use, the
brake member engages the ground to one side of the
wheels which would apply an undesirable turning movement
to the inline roller skate.In an article entitled "Stop-roller skiing" on
pages 24-27 of Silent Sports, November 1991, Lee Borowski
describes a ski simulator which comprises a pair of
elongate boards which, in use, project forwardly and
rearwardly from each skier's foot in the manner of a
conventional ski. A wheel is placed adjacent the front 
and rear of the board. A brake is mounted for pivotal
movement about an axis formed by a pivot pin placed
rearwardly of the rear wheel. Such ski simulators are
intended to imitate the performance of real skies and
consequently do not have the stopping ability required
of an inline roller skate which is commonly used in
towns and cities and where the ability to stop very
rapidly can be essential to avoid an accident.According to the present invention there is provided
an inline roller skate having a plurality of wheels
arranged in a line with the rearmost of said wheels
arranged to rotate about a rearmost axle which, in use,
is located vertically beneath the heel of a user, and a
braking system which braking system comprises braking
means mounted on said inline roller skate and delivery
means for moving said braking means between a first
position above a skating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An inline roller skate (12) having a plurality of
wheels (14) arranged in a line with the rearmost of said

wheels (14) arranged to rotate about a rearmost axle
(18) which, in use, is located vertically beneath the

heel of a user, and a braking system which braking
system comprises braking means (40) mounted on said

inline roller skate (12) and delivery means (22; 20) for
moving said braking means (40) between a first position

above a skating surface and a braking position in contact
with said skating surface thereby stopping said

inline roller skate (12) while the sole of the skater's
foot maintains a constant angle relative to the ground,

wherein said braking means (40) is disposed to engage
said skating surface in the line of said wheels (14),

and said delivery means comprises a first arm (22)
pivotally mounted on said inline roller skate (12), and

a second arm (24) pivotally mounted on said inline
roller skate, said first arm (22) and said second arm

(24) together defining a carriage (20) which supports
said braking means (40), wherein said

carriage (20) is pivotally mounted on the rearmost axle
(18) of said inline roller skate (12), and said braking

means (40) is disposed to engage said skating surface
immediately behind the rearmost of said wheels (14).
An inline roller skate (12) as claimed in Claim 1,
wherein a portion of said braking means (40) is supported

so that, when actuated, in engages said skating
surface beneath part of the
 rearmost of said wheels
(14).
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claim 1 or 2
characterised in that said braking system includes an

actuator (80, 82; 100; 300) for displacing said braking
means (40).
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claim 3, 
characterised in that said actuator comprises a transmitter

and a wireless controller (100).
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claim 4,
characterised in that said actuator comprises a hand

operated transmitter and said inline roller skate is
provided with a receiver connected to said braking

means.
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claim 3,
characterised in that said actuator comprises a hand

operable controller (300) and a cable (82) extending
from said hand operable controller (300) and operatively

connected to said braking means (40).
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claim 6, characterised
in that said braking system includes a belt

(96) which can be worn by a skater and which includes a
holder (92) for accommodating said hand operable controller

(90).
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claims 7,
characterised in that said braking system includes a

retaining strap (98) extending between said belt and
said hand operable controller.
An inline roller skate as claimed in any of Claims
3 to 8, characterised in that said braking system includes

an arresting mechanism (64; 140) for allowing a
skater to stop the inline roller skate (12) in the event

that the actuator (300; 100) fails.
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claim 9,
wherein said arresting mechanism comprises an arresting

bar (64) operatively connected to said inline roller
skate (12) and disposed within the arcuate path of

movement of said arm (22).
An inline roller skate as claimed in any preceding
claim, characterised in that said braking system further

includes return means (84; 88; 138) for biasing said
braking means (40) from said braking position to said 

first position.
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claim 11,
characterised in that said return means is connected to

said braking means.
An inline roller skate as claimed in any preceding
claim, characterised in that said braking system further

comprises a variable force mechanism (184) for providing
a mechanical advantage to assist in moving said braking

means (40) towards its braking position.
An inline roller skate as claimed in Claim 13,
characterised in that said variable force mechanism

comprises at least one of a cam (184), a screw, a gear,
a lever and a pulley.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
