<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620862</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR THE IDENTIFICATION OF MICROORGANISMS BY THE UTILIZATION OF DIRECTED AND ARBITRARY DNA AMPLIFICATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12R1185	C12R119	C12Q168	C12R145	C12R1445	C12R137	C12R144	C12Q168	C12R142	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12R	C12R	C12Q	C12R	C12R	C12R	C12R	C12Q	C12R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12R1	C12R1	C12Q1	C12R1	C12R1	C12R1	C12R1	C12Q1	C12R1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the identification of microorganisms is disclosed, comprising first isolating genomic DNA from the suspect microorganism. The isolated DNA has variable sequences interspersed between highly conserved rDNA sequences. The variable sequences are amplified. The amplification reaction is carried out in such manner as to either amplify the variable sequences interspersed between highly conserved rDNA sequences or to amplify arbitrary genomic regions in conjunction with the variable sequences. The resulting amplified DNA fragments are polymorphic with respect to both size and number in a manner which is specific to species, serotype and strain. The distribution of the polymorphic fragments is analyzed and compared to an established database to determine the species, serotype and strain of the suspect microorganism.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN MARK ANTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRAUS NEIL ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN, MARK, ANTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRAUS, NEIL, ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of
microbial identification using DNA amplification. More
particularly, the present invention relates to the
identification of species of prokaryotic organisms,
based on a characterization of products generated by
amplification of specific genomic regions significant to
the organism. In addition by amplification of arbitrary
sections of the genome in conjunction with the
amplification of specific genomic regions,
identification of species, serotype and strain of the
microorganism is achieved.A variety of literature and references have been
recently published pertaining to the identification of
microorganisms such as bacteria in suspect samples. In
these materials much emphasis has been placed on
developing procedures to identify or classify
microorganisms using a presumptive basis. That is, the
researcher employs the technology to screen for a
particular microorganism or pathogen of interest. Still
other references require laborious screening with a
variety of specific primers or incorporate varieties and
carefully controlled operating constraints. As will
become apparent from the ensuing discussion, the present
invention obviates these disadvantages.PCT Publication WO89/10414 to Wallace et al.
discloses a process for the creation of new genetic
markers and the determination of multiple genetic
markers. A genomic DNA sample is amplified, and the 
sequence variation within the amplified fragment is
detected. The amplified fragments are then detected.
This publication teaches a general concept wherein a
polynucleotide target sequence including a plurality of
polymorphic loci are amplified, with the product
analyzed for the presence or absence of target sequences
having the locus specific characteristic. However,
Wallace et al. do not focus on the amplification of
spacer regions interspersed between highly conserved
rDNA sequences for detecting microorganisms. The
reference does not address this approach either alone or
together with arbitrary regions from the entire genome.EP 0 332 435 is directed to a method of detecting
one or more variant nucleotide sequences. The nucleic
acid sample is contacted with a diagnostic primer
substantially complementary to a diagnostic portion of a
target base sequence. Extension only occurs where a
terminal nucleotide of the primer is complementary to a
variant or normal nucleotide of the target base
sequence. The extension product if any is detected.
This approach does not target the spacer regions
interspersed between conserved
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the identification of the species
of a microorganism comprising:


(a) isolating genomic DNA from the
microorganism, said genomic DNA comprising variable

sequences interspersed between highly conserved
sequences;
(b) amplifying said variable sequences
using only a single pair of nucleic acid primers

thereby producing fragments having particular
distributions in size and number; and
(c) separating said fragments by size and
analyzing the distribution of said fragments thereby

determining the species of the microorganism.
The method of Claim 1 wherein said highly
conserved sequences are highly conserved rDNA sequences,

and said fragments are Ribosomal Sequence (RS) fragments.
The method of Claim 2 wherein said variable
sequences are spacer regions.
The method of Claim 1 wherein step (a)
isolation comprises cellular lysis and deproteinization.
The method of Claim 2 wherein step (b)
comprises annealing at least one pair of oligonucleotide

primers to said highly conserved rDNA sequences, and
introducing a nucleic acid polymerase and nucleoside

triphosphates to said primers, suitable to amplify said
variable sequences.
The method of Claim 5 wherein said amplification
is performed at least twice.
The method of Claim 2 wherein step (c)
comprises resolving said Ribosomal Sequence (RS) fragments by electrophoresis

and thereafter visualizing said Ribosomal Sequence (RS) fragments. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein in step (c) the
microorganism is 
Listeria monocytogenes, Listeria
innocua, Listeria ivanovii, Listeria welshimeri,

Salmonella typhimurium, Salmonella enteritidis,
Salmonella newport, Salmonella infantis, Staphylococcus

aureus, Staphylococcus sciuri, Staphylococcus
saprophyticus, Staphylococcus warneri, Staphylococcus

epidermidus, Escherichia coli, Escherichia blattae,
Escherichia fergusonii, Escherichia hermanii,

Escherichia vulneris, Citrobacter freundii, Citrobacter
diversus, Enterobacter aerogenes, Enterobacter

agglomerans, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis,
Proteus vulgari,
 and 
Yersinia enterocolitica.
A method for the identification of the
species, serotype and strain of a microorganism,

comprising:

(a) isolating genomic DNA from the
microorganism, said genomic DNA comprising variable

sequences interspersed between highly conserved
sequences in addition to arbitrary regions along the

genome thereof;
(b) amplifying said variable sequences using only a single pair of nucleic acid primers

thereby producing fragments having particular
distributions in size and number;
(c) amplifying said arbitrary regions thereby
producing Arbitrary Genomic (AG) fragments having particular distributions

in size and number simultaneously with (b); and
(d) separating said fragments and said Arbitrary Genomic (AG)
fragments by size and analyzing the distribution of said

fragments and said Arbitrary Genomic (AG) fragments thereby determining the
species, serotype and strain of the microorganism.
The method of Claim 9 wherein said highly
conserved sequences are highly conserved rDNA sequences,

and said fragments are Ribosomal Sequence (RS) fragments. 
The method of Claim 10 wherein said variable
sequences are spacer regions.
The method of Claim 9 wherein step (a)
isolation comprises cellular lysis and deproteinization.
The method of Claim 10 wherein steps (b) and
(c) comprise annealing at least one pair of

oligonucleotide primers to said highly conserved rDNA
sequences and to a plurality of said arbitrary regions,

and introducing a nucleic acid polymerase and nucleoside
triphosphates to said primers, suitable to amplify said

variable sequences and said arbitrary regions.
The method of Claim 13 wherein said
amplification is performed at least twice.
The method of Claim 10 wherein step (d)
comprises resolving said Ribosomal Sequence (RS) fragments and said Arbitrary Genomic (AG)

fragments by electrophoresis and thereafter visualizing
said Ribosomal Sequence (RS) fragments and said Arbitrary Genomic (AG) fragments.
The method of Claim 9 wherein in step (c) the
microorganism is serotype and strain of 
Listeria
monocytogenes, Listeria innocua, Listeria ivanovii,

Listeria welshimeri, Salmonella typhimurium, Salmonella
enteritidis, Salmonella newport, Salmonella infantis,

Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus sciuri,
Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Staphylococcus warneri,

Staphylococcus epidermidus, Escherichia coli,
Escherichia blattae, Escherichia fergusonii, Escherichia

hermanii, Escherichia vulneris, Citrobacter freundii,
Citrobacter diversus, Enterobacter aerogenes,

Enterobacter agglomerans, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus
mirabilis, Proteus vulgari,
 and 
Yersinia enterocolitica.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
