<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646202</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED DRIVE MECHANISM FOR A VIBRATORY COMPACTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B06B110	B06B116	E01C1922	E01C1938	E02D300	E02D302	F02B100	F02B104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B06B	B06B	E01C	E01C	E02D	E02D	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B06B1	B06B1	E01C19	E01C19	E02D3	E02D3	F02B1	F02B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The compactor (1) includes a frame (2) which carries a soil-compacting plate (4) and a drive mechanism, such as a gasoline engine (12), is mounted on the frame (2) and has a rotatable drive shaft (16). A pair of eccentrically weighted shafts (8, 9) are mounted for rotation on the frame (2) and eccentric weights (11) are in the same phase relation on the shafts (8, 9). A belt drive (18, 19) connects the drive shaft (16) to at least one of the eccentric shafts (8, 9) and a timing belt (26) is connected between the eccentric shafts (8, 9) so that both eccentric shafts (8, 9) rotate in the same direction to vibrate the compactor plate (4) and affect travel of the compactor (1) over the terrain.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MBW INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
M-B-W, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARTZBERGER THOMAS G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARTZBERGER, THOMAS, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED DRIVE MECHANISM FORA VIBRATORY COMPACTOR Background of the Invention A conventional walk-behind soil compactor includes a frame that carries a generally horizontal com¬ paction plate which is adapted to engage and compact soil or other material. To provide vibratory compacting action, one or more eccentric shafts are journaled for rotation on the frame, and a power source, such as a gasoline engine, is mounted on the frame and the drive shaft of the engine is operably connected to the eccentric shafts to rotate the shafts and provide the vibratory motion.A walk-behind soil compactor can either be unidirectional, in which the compactor will move only in a single direction over the terrain, or it can be bidirectional or reversible. A typical unidirectional compactor includes a single eccentric shaft, which is normally mounted at the front of the compactor plate, while the engine is mounted adjacent the rear of the plate. With this construction, the rear of the plate, which carries the engine, tends to drag on the ground or terrain, which slows down the travel of the compactor. Moreover, due to the fact that the eccentric shaft is located adjacent the front of the plate, a greater vibrational output occurs at the front of the plate than at the rear, so that the vibratory output is not uniform across the surface area of the compactor plate.In an attempt to remedy these problems, it has been proposed to mount the eccentric shaft of the uni¬ directional compactor centrally between the forward and rear ends of the compactor plate. While this construc¬ tion provides a more uniform vibrational output over the surface area of the compactor plate, it results in a higher profile for the compactor and reduces the speed of travel over the ground. 

 With a conventional reversible soil compactor, a pair of parallel eccentric shafts are mounted for rotation on the frame, and the drive shaft of the engine is connected to the eccentric shafts through a gear train which is arranged so that the eccentric shafts rotate simultaneously and in opposite directions. To provide forward and rear movement for the compactor, the phase relationship of the weights on the eccentric shafts is changed by a shifting mechanism. The shifting mechanism is very complex, and as it is directly associated with the eccentric shafts, the shifting mechanism is subjected to intense vibration, and therefore has a relatively short service life.As a further problem, the eccentric shafts are continuously rotating in opposite directions, so
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Various modes of carrying out the invention are contemplated as being within the scope of the following claims, particularly pointing out and distinctly claiming the subject matter which is regarded as the invention.
I claim:
1. A vibratory compactor, comprising a frame, compaction means mounted on the frame and adapted to engage a material to be compacted, drive means mounted on the frame and including a drive shaft, a pair of eccen- trie shafts mounted for rotation on the frame, first connecting means for connecting said drive shaft with at least one of said eccentric shafts, and second connecting means for connecting said one eccentric shaft to the other of said eccentric shafts, said second connecting means being constructed and arranged to drive both eccentric shafts in the same rotational direction.
2. The compactor of claim 1, wherein said second connecting means comprises a timing belt.
3. The compactor of claim 1, wherein said first connecting means comprises a belt drive.
4. The compactor of claim 1, wherein each eccentric shaft includes a weight mounted eccentrically of the axis of said shaft, said eccentric weights being in the same phase relation on the respective eccentric shafts.
5. The compactor of claim 1, and including centrifugal clutch means interconnecting said first connecting means and said drive shaft, said centrifugal clutch means being constructed and arranged to provide a driving connection between said drive shaft and said first connecting means when said drive shaft rotates at a predetermined speed.
6. The compactor of claim 1, wherein said first connecting means is constructed and arranged to drive said one eccentric shaft in the same rotational direction as the drive shaft, said compactor also including third connecting means for connecting the drive 


shaft to the other eccentric shaft and constructed and arranged to drive the other eccentric shaft in the opposite direction, and clutch means operably connected to said drive shaft for selectively connecting said first and third connecting means with said drive shaft for selectively rotating each eccentric shaft, said third connecting means transmitting rotation of the eccentric shaft being rotated to the other eccentric shaft.
7. The compactor of claim 6, wherein said first and third connecting means are belt drives, said clutch means having a first position where said drive shaft is engaged with said first belt drive and has a second position where said drive shaft is engaged with the third belt drive.
8. The compactor of claim 7 and including shifting means for shifting said clutch means between the first and second positions.
9. A vibratory compactor, comprising a frame, compaction means mounted on the frame and adapted to engage a material to be compacted, drive means mounted on the frame and including a drive shaft, a pair of eccen- trie shafts mounted for rotation on the frame, the eccentricity of both said eccentric shafts being in the same phase relation, first connecting drive means for connecting said drive shaft with at least one of said eccentric shafts, and synchronizing means for connecting said one eccentric shaft to the other of said eccentric shafts, said synchronizing means being constructed and arranged to drive said eccentric shafts in synchroniza¬ tion and in the same rotational direction.
10. A vibratory compactor, comprising a frame, compaction means mounted on the frame and adapted to engage a material to be compacted, drive means mounted on the frame and including a drive shaft, a pair of eccen- trie shafts mounted for rotation on the frame, first connecting means for connecting the drive shaft with a first of said eccentric shafts for rotating said first 


eccentric shaft in a first direction, second connecting means for connecting said drive shaft with the second of said eccentric shafts for rotating second eccentric shafts in a second direction opposite from said first direction, clutch means operably connected to the drive shaft for selectively connecting each connecting means with said drive shaft for selectively rotating each eccentric shaft to provide forward and reverse movement for said compactor, and third connecting means connecting said first eccentric shaft directly to said second eccentric shaft and constructed and arranged to drive both eccentric shafts in the same rotational direction.
11. The compactor of claim 10, where each eccentric shaft includes an eccentric weight and the eccentric weights of said shafts are in the same phase relation.
12. The compactor of claim 10, wherein said drive means is located centrally of the fore and aft ends of said compactor and said eccentric shafts are located on opposite sides of said drive means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
