<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616593</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONVEYOR SYSTEM WITH PANELS CONTAINING VISUAL INFORMATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G1706	G09F1100	B41M130	B41M300	B41M300	G09F1114	B65G1730	B65G1532	B65G1730	B41M126	B65G1706	B65G1532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	G09F	B41M	B41M	B41M	G09F	B65G	B65G	B65G	B41M	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G17	G09F11	B41M1	B41M3	B41M3	G09F11	B65G17	B65G15	B65G17	B41M1	B65G17	B65G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARROSELL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARROSELL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONKLIN DENNIS R JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONKLIN, DENNIS R., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods and devices for 
advertising. More particularly, the present invention 
relates to visual information such as advertising on 
endless conveyors. In a further and more specific aspect, the instant 
invention relates to panels having visual information 
forming the load carrying platforms on baggage carousels. Conveyors for carrying items from one location to 
another location are well-known in the art. Conveyors 
are often placed into an endless essentially circular 
position for dispensing baggage at an airport for 
instance. These endless conveyors are often called 
carousels because the baggage is placed onto the platform 
sections of the conveyor from a centrally located 
distributing point and the baggage is available to the 
passengers around either a circular or an oval pickup 
area. Especially in the baggage dispensing conveyors and 
especially in carousels in general, the platform that 
carries the baggage around the carousel includes a 
plurality of panels that are generally rectangular and 
overlay or abut their preceding panels to cover the 
circular area, especially around the ends of the oval 
section. Advertisements are often placed on the center non-moving 
section of the carousel to display the benefits of 
staying in the local area around the airport or to 
advertise the different airlines The advertising area 
is extremely limited since the people to whom the 
advertising is directed generally locate into one  
 
specific position around the carousel to retrieve their baggage and thereby 
only see a small section of the total advertising that could be placed on the 
non-rotating section of the carousel. It would be highly advantageous, therefore, to remedy the foregoing 
and other deficiencies inherent in the prior art. US-A-4167999 discloses a conveyor having a plurality of panels mounted 
on spaced support bars whereby to form a continuous belt. Each of the 
panels is removably fastenable to its associated support bars, which are 
capable of powered movement to drive the conveyor. Thus, the device of 
US-A-4167999 corresponds to the prior art according to the 
preamble of claim 1. It is an object of the present invention to 
provide a conveyor having an improved means for displaying visual 
information. Another object of the present invention is to provide a new and 
improved method for installing visual information on a conveyor. Another object of the present invention is to provide an advertising 
device for use with baggage carousels that is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A conveyor comprising: 

a plurality of panels (40); 
a plurality of support bars (24), at least one of which corresponds 
to each of said plurality of panels; 
means (26) for supporting said support bars in a spaced-apart 
relationship, forming a continuous circuit; 
means for removably fastening each of said plurality of 
panels to said support bars; and 
means (28,30) for transporting said support bars with corresponding 
panels along said support means, characterised in that: 


(i) said panels are transparent, each containing visual information 
(ii) said transparent panels (40) are fastened to said support bars 
(24) consecutively so that each transparent panel has a viewable portion 

(46) substantially contiguous with the viewable portion of adjacent panels; 
and 
(iii) each of said transparent panels comprises: 
a plate (44) shaped to engage said support bars, and having a top 
surface and a bottom surface; and 
a thin layer (56) containing visual information affixed to said 
bottom surface of said plate. 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 wherein said thin layer 
(56) is a material with visual information printed thereon affixed to said 

bottom surface of said viewable portion of said plate with an adhesive 
(58). 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 wherein said thin layer is a 
medium forming said visual information, affixed to said viewable portion  

 
of said plate by hot stamping. 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 wherein said fastening means 
comprises: 


screw holes (60) formed in each of said transparent panels 
corresponding to screw holes in each of said support bars; and 
screws inserted in said screw holes fastening said transparent plates 
to said support bars. 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 wherein a series of thin layers 
(56) containing visual information are affixed 
to plates forming panels 
which are fastened consecutively to said support bars, forming a complete 

visual unit. 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transparent panels 
(40) are back lit by a light source. 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 wherein said plate is formed from 
polycarbonite. 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a support 
plate configured to engage said bottom surface of said transparent panel 

(40). 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of said panels (40) 
partially overlaps an adjacent panel so that each panel has an overlapped 

portion and a viewable portion. 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of said panels has 
a leading edge (85) and a trailing edge (86), said leading edge of each  

 
panel abutting said trailing edge of an adjacent panel. 
A conveyor as claimed in claim 1 when configured as a baggage 
carousel. 
An item-bearing panel (40) containing visual information for use as an 
item-bearing element of a conveyor comprising: 


a transparent plate (44) shaped to engage support means (24) of the 
conveyor and having an upper surface, and a lower surface; 
a thin layer (56) containing the visual information affixed to said lower 
surface of said transparent plate, so as to be visible through said upper 

surface. 
A panel as claimed in claim 12 further comprising a support plate 
configured to engage said transparent plate (40), coupled to said lower 

surface of said transparent plate so as to sandwich said thin layer (56) 
therebetween. 
A panel as claimed in claim 12 wherein said thin layer (56) is a 
material with visual information printed thereon affixed to said bottom 

surface of said plate with an adhesive (58). 
A panel as claimed in claim 12 wherein said thin layer (56) is a 
medium forming said visual information, affixed to said viewable portion 

(46) of said plate by hot stamping. 
A panel as claimed in claim 15 is wherein said plate is made of a 
polycarbonite. 
A method for assembling item-bearing panels of a conveyor 
comprising the steps of:  

 

providing transparent panels (44) containing visual information according to claim 12; and 
installing said transparent panels on a compatible conveyor 
consecutively so that each panel has a viewable portion substantially 

contiguous with the viewable portion of adjacent transparent panels. 
A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein the step of providing 
transparent panels containing visual information further comprises the 

steps of: 

providing at least one thin layer (56) containing visual information; 
providing transparent plates (40) having an upper surface, and a 
lower surface, and configured to be attachable to said conveyor; 
dividing said thin layer into strips of substantially the same width 
as the viewable portion (46) of each plate, each strip containing visual 

information; and 
affixing a strip of said thin layer to said viewable portion of said 
lower surface of each transparent plate to form a transparent panel 

containing visual information. 
A method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the step of providing a 
thin layer further comprises the steps of: 


providing a thin layer; and 
printing visual information on a surface of said thin layer. 
A method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the step of affixing a 
strip of thin layer further comprises the steps of: 


applying an adhesive (58) to said printed surface of said strips; and 
placing said adhesive coated surface of said strips against said 
viewable portion (46) of said lower surfaces of each transparent plate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
