<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624183</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODIFIED EPOXY RESIN COMPOSITIONS, REDUCED GLOSS COATING COMPOSITIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G5900	C08G5940	C08K300	C08K318	C08K322	C08K326	C08K500	C08K5098	C08L6300	C08L6300	C09D503	C09D503	C09D16300	C09D16300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	C08K	C08K	C08K	C08K	C08K	C08K	C08L	C08L	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G59	C08G59	C08K3	C08K3	C08K3	C08K3	C08K5	C08K5	C08L63	C08L63	C09D5	C09D5	C09D163	C09D163	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Epoxy resin compositions containing carboxyl-containing polymers as a low gloss additive are rendered more storage stable by the addition of a stabilizing amount of at least one stabilizer compound which is (a) at least one Group IA, IIA, IIB, IIIA, VIB or VIII of the periodic table of the elements metal salt of an organic carboxylic acid; (b) at least one of zinc carbonate, zinc oxide, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate; or (c) any combination of (a) and (b). These compositions are particularly useful in powder coating applications.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DOW CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART JEFFERY LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES MORGAN MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANFORD JOE FRANKLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART, JEFFERY, LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES, MORGAN, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANFORD, JOE, FRANKLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MODIFIED EPOXY RESIN COMPOSITIONS, REDUCED GLOSS COATING COMPOSITIONSThe present invention concerns modified epoxy resin compositions, curable compositions thereof and reduced gloss coating compositions.Epoxy resin based powder coatings generally have a high gloss. In some applications, it is desirable to have coatings with reduced gloss. It is important that formulations which provide coatings with reduced gloss also provide coatings with a stable level of gloss over a period of time that the coating formulation might need to be stored.Davis in US 4,419/195 discloses coating compositions containing an epoxy resin and as at leasta part of the curing agent a polymer containing a group reactive with an epoxy resin. These coating compositions are said to have low gloss. While such coatings do indeed have low gloss, the coating compositions have a relatively short storage life. By that it is meant that the longer the coating composition is stored, the higher the gloss of the resulting coating. The gloss reduction pertains to comparison of the gloss of the coating prepared from like epoxy-containing substituents but not containing any copolymer having a group reactive with an epoxy group.It would therefore be desirable to have available a modified epoxy resin composition containing a polymer with polymer groups reactive with an epoxy group which when formulated into a coating composition the coating composition would have improved storage stability with respect to the gloss value of the resultant coating.One aspect of the present invention pertains to an improvement in a modified epoxy resin composition comprising(A) at least one epoxy resin containing an average of more than one vicinal epoxy group per molecule and at least one aromatic ring in its backbone; and( B ) at least one polymer prepared from one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers wherein at least one of such monomers contains a carboxylic acid group; wherein the improvement resides in incorporating into said composition(C) a stabilizing amount of at least one stabilizer compound which is 

 (a) at least one Group IA, IIA, IIB, IIIA, VIB or VIII of the periodic table of the elements metal salt of an organic carboxylic acid;(b) at least one of zinc carbonate, zinc oxide, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate; or(c) any combination of (a) and (b).Another aspect of the present invention pertains to an improvement in a compositi suitable as a curing agent for epoxy resins which comprises(1 ) at least one polymer prepared from one or more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A modified epoxy resin composition comprising CA) at least one epoxy resin containing an average of more than one vicinal epoxy group per molecule and at least one aromatic ring in its backbone; and CB ) at least one polymer prepared from one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers wherein at least one of such monomers contains a carboxylic add group; characterized by incorporating into said composition CC) a stabilizing amount of at least one stabilizer compound which is Ca) at least one Group IA, HA, HB, HIA, VIB or VHI of the periodic table of the dements metal salt of an organic carboxylic add; Cb) at least one of zinc carbonate, zinc oxide, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate; or Cc) any combination of Ca) and Cb).
2. A curable composition comprising C A) at least one epoxy resin containing an average of more than one vicinal epoxy group per molecule and at least one aromatic ring in its backbone; CB ) at least one polymer prepared from one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers wherein at least one of such monomers contains a carboxylic add group; and CD ) a curing amount of at least one curing agent for component CA) which is different from either component CB) or the prereaction product of components CB) and CC); characterized by incorporating into said composition; CC) a stabilizing amount of at least one stabilizer compound which is Ca) at least one Group IA, HA, HB, HIA, VIB or VHI of the periodic table of the dements metal salt of an organic carboxylic add; Cb) at least one of zinc carbonate, zinc oxide, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate; or Cc) any combination of Ca) and Cb). 


 3. A powder coating composition which is essentially free of pigment(s) and fϊllerCs) comprising (A) at least one epoxy resin containing an average of more than one vicinal epoxy group per molecule and at least one aromatic ring in its backbone; ( B ) at least one polymer prepared from one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers wherein at least one of such monomers contains a carboxylic add group; CD) at least one curing agent for component (A) which is different from dther component CB) or the prereaction product of components CB) and CC); and CE) at least one or more additional componentCs) sdected from the group consisting of flow control agent, leveling aid, and promoter or catalyst; characterized by incorporating into said composition; CC) a stabilizing amount of at least one stabilizer compound which is Ca) at least one Group IA, HA, HB, πiA, VIB or VHI of the periodic table of the elements metal salt of an organic carboxylic add; Cb) at least one of zinc carbonate, zinc oxide, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate; or Cc) any combination of Ca) and Cb).
4. A powder coating composition which contains substantial quantities of pigmentCs) or fillerCs) or both comprising C A ) at least one epoxy resin containing an average of more than one vidnal epoxy group per molecule and at least one aromatic ring in its backbone; C B ) at least one polymer prepared from one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers wherein at least one of such monomers contains a carboxylic add group; CD) at least one curing agent for component CA) which is different from either component CB) or the prereaction product of components CB) and CC); and CE) at least one or more additional componentCs) induding pigment, filler, flow control agent, leveling aid or other additive; characterized by incorporating into said composition; CC) a stabilizing amount of at least one stabilizer compound which is Ca) at least one Group IA, IIA, πB, HIA, VIB or Vffl of the periodic table of the elements metal salt of an organic carboxylic add; (b) at least one of zinc carbonate, zinc oxide, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate; or Cc) any combination of (a) and (b). 


 5. A composition of Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein (a) component (A) is a diglyddyl ether of: a dihydric phenol, a bisphenol, a phenol- or substituted phenol-aldehyde resin, or a phenol- or substituted phenol-unsaturated diene resin; (b) component (B) is a polymer resulting from polymerizing a monomer mixture containing ethylene and an aliphatic, cydoaliphatic or aromatic carboxylic add; (c) component (C) is zinc oxide, sodium carbonate, zinc carbonate, potassium carbonate, or sodium, lithium, potassium, zinc, caldum, magnesium, nickd, aluminum or chromium salt of a saturated or unsaturated aliphatic or cydoaliphatic or aromatic organic carboxylic add having from about 1 to about 30 carbon atoms per molecule, or a combination of any two or more of such compounds; (d) component CD) is a guanidine, biguanide, aliphatic amine, aromatic amine, compound containing an average of more than one phenolic hydroxyl group per molecule, aliphatic, cydoaliphatic or aromatic di-or poly-carboxylic add anhydride, or any combination of two or more of such curing agents; (e) componentCA) isemployed manamountoffromabout66 toabout99 percentbywdghtbased upon the combined wdght of components CA) and CB); . (f ) component CB) is employed in an amount of from about 1 to about 34 percent by wdght based upon the combined wdght of components CA) and CB); (g) Component CC) is employed in an amount suffident to provide a ratio of metal equivalents per carboxyl equivalents of (i) in Claim 1, 2 or 4, at least about 0.04:1; or Cϋ) in Claim 3, at least about 05:1; and Ch) component CD) is employed in an amount which is suffident to provide a ratio of equivalents of this curing agent plus component CB) or ionomers thereof per epoxide equivalent of from about 0.8:1 to about 3:1. 

6. A composition of Claim 5 wherein Ca) component (A) is a diglycidyl ether of a bisphenol; (b) component (B) is a polymer resulting from polymerizing a monomer mixture containing ethylene and either acrylic or methacrylic acid; (c) component (C) is zinc oxide, sodium carbonate, zinc carbonate, potassium carbonate, zinc acetate, zinc propionate, zinc stearate, sodium acetate, caldum propionate; (d) component (D) is dicyandiamide, o-tolubiguanide, acid functional polyesters, compounds containing more than one phenolic group per molecule, or any combination of two or more of such curing agents; (e) component (A) is employed in an amount of from about 80 to about 96 percent by wdght based upon the combined wdght of components (A) and CB); C ) component CB) is employed in an amount of from about 4 to about 20 percent by weight based upon the combined weight of components CA) and CB); Cg) Component CC) is employed in an amount suffident to provide a ratio of metal equivalents per carboxyl equivalents of C i ) in Claim 1, 2 or 4, from about 0.08:1 to about 6:1; or Cϋ) in Claim 3, from about 0.6:1 to about 6:1; and Ch) component CD) is employed in an amount which provides a ratio of equivalents of this curing agent plus component CB) or ionomers thereof per epoxide equivalent of from about 0.9:1 to about 25:1. 

7. A composition of Claim 5 wherein Ca) component (A) is a diglyddyl ether of bisphenol A, bisphenol F or bisphenol K; (b) component (B) is a polymer resulting from polymerizing a monomer mixture containing ethylene and acrylic add; (c) component CC) is zinc carbonate, zinc acetate, zinc propionate, zinc stearate, sodium acetate, caldum propionate or any combination thereof; (d) component CD) is dicyandiamide or an imidazole accelerated dicyandiamide; Ce) component CA) is employed in an amount of from about 80 to about 92 percent by wdght based upon the combined wdght of components C A) and CB); and ( ) component CB) is employed in an amount of from about 8 to about 20 percent by wdght based upon the combined wdght of components CA) and , (g) Component (C) is employed in an amount suffident to provide a ratio of metal equivalents per carboxyl equivalents of Ci ) in Claim.1, 2 or 4, from about 0.15:1 to about 1:1; or Cϋ) in Claim 3, from about 0.7:1 to about 1:1; and Ch ) component CD) is employed in an amount which provides a ratio of equivalents of this curing agent plus component CB) or ionomers thereof per epoxide equivalent of from about 1:1 to about 2:1.
8. A composition suitable as a curing agent for epoxy resins which comprises (1) at least one polymer prepared from one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers wherein at least one of such monomers contains a carboxylic add group; and C2) at least one curing agent for said epoxy resin which curing agent is different from component CD; characterized by incorporating into said curing agent composition C3) a stabilizing amount of at least one stabilizer compound whidi is (a) at least one Group IA, HA, IIB, HIA, VIB or VIE of the periodic table of the elements metal salt of an organic carboxylic add; Cb) at least one of zinc carbonate, zinc oxide, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate; or Cc) any combination of Ca) and Cb). 


 9. A composition of Claim 8 wherein Ca ) component (1) is present in an amount of from about 1 to about 99 percent by weight based upon the combined weight of components (1) and (2); (b) component (2) is present in an amount of from about 99 to about 1 percent by weight based upon the combined weight of components (1) and (2); and (c) component (3) is employed in an amount suffident to provide a ratio of metal equivalents per carboxyl equivalent of at least about 0.04:1.
10. A composition of Claim 8 wherein (a) component (1) is present in an amount of from about 3 to about 96 percent by weight based upon the combined weight of components (1) and (2); (b) component (2) is present in an amount of from about 97 to about 4 percent by weight based upon the combined weight of components (1) and (2); and (c) component (3) is employed in an amount suffident to provide a ratio of metal equivalents per carboxyl equivalent of from about 0.08:1 to about 6:1.
11. A composition of Claim 8 wherein ( a ) component (1 ) is present in an amount of from about 25 to about 90 percent by wdght based upon components (1) and (2); and (b) component C2) is present in an amount of from about 75 to about 10 percent by wdght based upon components (1) and (2; and Cc) component (3) is employed in an amount sufficient to provide a ratio of metal equivalents per carboxyl equivalent of from about 0.15:1 to about 1:1.
12. A composition of Claim 11 wherein a curing promoter or catalyst is employed.
13. The product resulting from curing the curable compositions of Claim 3 or 4.
14. The product resulting from curing the curable compositions of Claim 5. 


1
2 15. The product resulting from curing the curable compositions of Qaim 6.
16. The product resulting from curing the curable compositions of Qaim 7.
18. An artide coated with the powder coating compositions of aim 3 or 4.
19. An artide coated with the powder coating compositions of Qaim 5.
20. An artide coated with the powder coating compositions of Qaim 6.
21. An artide coated with the powder coating compositions of Qaim 7. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
