<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639263</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IDLER STATION ARRANGEMENT FOR A SCALE APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G300	G01G314	G01G1100	G01G1104	G01L120	G01L122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G3	G01G3	G01G11	G01G11	G01L1	G01L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENDRESS 
&
 HAUSER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ENDRESS + HAUSER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMPF DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAUBER JURGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAINWRIGHT ERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEMPF, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAUBER, JURGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAINWRIGHT, ERIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IDLER STATION ARRANGEMENT FOR A SCALE APPARATUSBackground and Summary of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to a scale apparatus for weighing materials moving on a conveyor belt. More particularly, the invention relates to a scale apparatus that can be easily incorporated into existing conveyor systems.It is often desirable to measure the mass flow rate of material moving on a conveyor belt. By combining the weight of the material and the speed of the conveyor belt, a continuous indication of the mass flow rate of the material moving on the conveyor belt can be generated. Various types of devices are known for measuring the weight of material moving on a conveyor belt.It is known to provide load cells situated below a conveyor belt to generate an output signal proportional to the weight of a load moving across a conveyor belt. See, for example, U.S. Patent No.3,478,830; U.S. Patent No. 3,439,761; U.S. Patent No. 3,785,447; U.S. Patent No. 3,924,729; U.S. Patent No. 4,682,664; U.S. Patent No. 4,788,930; U.S. Patent No. 4,463,816; and U.S. Patent No. 4,557,341. Conventional belt scales are often large, bulky devices which are expensive and often hard to install. Therefore, many conventional belt scale devices are too expensive for many businesses to purchase and install. Smaller businesses also have a need for reliable measurement of the weight or mass flow of material on a conveyor. For instance, concrete facilities and farming or grain handling facilities often need to know the amount of material moving on a conveyor. The present invention provides an accurate yet inexpensive scale apparatus that 

can be easily incorporated into existing belt conveyor systems.If the material carried by the conveyor approaches the load cell from a position above or below the load cell, the materials may impose a side load or torque on the load cell in addition to the loads in the vertical direction. Such side torque can cause the load cell to experience excessive wear and cause inaccuracies in the output of the load cell. Therefore, it is advantageous to arrange the load cell so that the conveyor belt is substantially level as the conveyor belt passes over the load cell. The present invention includes a modular scale unit that provides an aligned and pre-leveled load cell. The scale unit is easily installed in an existing conveyor frame.According to the present invention, a scale apparatus is provided for weighing material moving on a conveyor belt supported by an idler assembly. The apparatus
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving on a conveyor belt supported by an idler assembly, the apparatus comprising: a load cell support formed to include an aperture therein; a load cell including a base and a contact portion extending upwardly away from the base, the base of the load cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion to generate an output signal proportional to the force; means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support so the contact portion of the load cell extends upwardly through the aperture formed in the load cell support; means for coupling the load cell support to a conveyor frame to suspend the load cell below the conveyor belt; an idler support for supporting the idler assembly; and means for coupling the idler support to the contact portion of the load cell, the idler support applying a downwardly directed force to the contact portion of the load cell to bend the base of the load cell in response to material moving on the conveyor belt over the idler support to change the output signal generated by the load cell in proportion to the weight of the material. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the idler support includes a top surface, a bottom surface, and an aperture extending between the top and bottom surfaces, and further comprising a fastener extending through the aperture in the idler support for coupling the load cell to the bottom surface of the idler support. 


 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the bottom surface of the idler support is formed to include a recessed portion positioned over the contact portion of the load cell. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase the flexibility of the base.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the load cell includes a plurality of strain gauges, one strain gauge being located below each of the plurality of notched sections for generating the output signal in response to bending of the base.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the adjusting means includes means for independently adjusting the level of a first end of the load cell support relative to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second end of the load cell support relative to a second side of the conveyor frame.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes a first coupler plate for coupling a first end of the load cell support to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second coupler plate for coupling a second end of the load cell support to a second side of the conveyor frame.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame includes at least one shim configured to be selectively positioned between the first coupler plate and the first end of the load cell support, 


between the first coupler plate and the first side of the conveyor frame, between the second coupler plate and the second end of the load cell support, or between the second coupler plate and the second side of the conveyor frame.
10. A belt scale apparatus for weighing material moving on a conveyor belt supported by a series of idler assemblies, the apparatus comprising: a load cell support; a load cell coupled to the load cell support for generating an output signal proportional to the weight of material passing over the load cell on the conveyor belt; means for coupling the load cell support to a conveyor frame to suspend to load cell below the conveyor belt; and an idler support coupled to the load cell, the idler support including a top surface for supporting an idler assembly and a bottom surface abutting the load cell, the idler support applying a force to the load cell as the material moves on the conveyor belt over the idler support to generate the output signal proportional to the weight of the material, the coupling means including means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to a conveyor frame to align the idler assembly coupled to the idler support at substantially the same level as an adjacent idler assembly in said series of idler assemblies to improve the accuracy of the output signal from the load cell. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the load cell includes a generally rectangular base and a contact portion extending upwardly from the base, the base of the load cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion, thereby generating the output signal. 



 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the load cell support is formed to include a central aperture therein for receiving the contact portion of the load cell therethrough. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the load cell support includes a top surface, and the means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support includes a first fastener for coupling a first end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, a second fastener for coupling a second end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, and first and second shims located between the load cell and the top surface of the load cell support adjacent the first and second ends of the load cell, respectively, to elevate the load cell above top surface of the load cell support to permit the base of the load cell to bend.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 , wherein the first and second shims are insensitive to temperature changes. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the top surface of the load cell support is formed to include a recessed portion located below the load cell to permit further bending of the load cell.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the idler support includes an aperture extending between the top and bottom surfaces, and further comprising a fastener extending through the aperture in the idler support for coupling the load cell to the bottom surface of the idler support. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the bottom surface of the idler support is formed to include a recessed portion positioned over the contact portion of the load cell.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of 


notched sections therein to increase the flexibility of the base.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the load cell includes a plurality of strain gauges, one strain gauge being located below each of the plurality of notched sections for generating the output signal in response to bending of the base.
20. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the adjusting means includes means for independently adjusting the level of a first end of the load cell support relative to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second end of the load cell support relative to a second side of the conveyor frame.
21. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes a first coupler plate for coupling a first end of the load cell support to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second coupler plate for coupling a second end of the load cell support to a second side of the conveyor frame.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame includes at least one shim configured to be selectively positioned between the first coupler plate and the first end of the load cell support, between the first coupler plate and the first side of the conveyor frame, between the second coupler plate and the second end of the load cell support, or between the second coupler plate and the second side of the conveyor frame.
23. A belt scale apparatus for weighing material moving on a conveyor belt supported by a conveyor frame, the apparatus comprising: a load cell including a generally rectangular base and a contact portion extending upwardly away from 


the base, the contact portion including a contact surface and the base of the load cell being formed to include at least one notched section formed on a first side of the contact portion and at least one notched section formed on a second side of the contact portion opposite from the first side so that the base of the load cell bends in response to a force applied against the contact surface so that the load cell generates an output signal proportional to the force; a load cell support; means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support; means for coupling the load cell support to. the conveyor frame to suspend to load cell below the conveyor belt; and means for applying a downwardly directed force to the contact surface of the load cell to deflect the base of the load cell in response to the material passing over the load cell on the conveyor belt, thereby changing the output signal generated by the load cell in proportion to the weight of the material.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the means for applying a downwardly directed force to the contact surface of the load cell includes an idler support coupled to the load cell abutting the contact surface, the idler support being configured to receive an idler roller assembly thereon for supporting the conveyor belt, the idler support applying the downwardly directed force on the contact surface of the load cell to deflect the load cell in response to the material passing over the idler support on the conveyor belt.
25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the idler support includes a top surface, a bottom surface, and an aperture extending between the top and bottom surfaces, and further comprising a fastener extending 


through the aperture in the idler support for coupling the load cell to the bottom surface of the idler support.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the bottom surface of the idler support is formed to include a recessed portion positioned over the contact surface of the load cell.
27. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the load cell support is formed to include a central aperture therein for receiving the contact portion of the load cell therethrough.
28. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the load cell support includes a top surface, and the means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support includes a first fastener for coupling a first end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, a second fastener for coupling a second end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, and first and second shims located between the load cell and the top surface of the load cell support adjacent the first and second ends of the load cell, respectively, to elevate the load cell above top surface of the load cell support to permit the base of the load cell to bend.
29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the first and second shims are insensitive to temperature changes.
30. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the top surface of the load cell support is formed to include a recessed portion located below the load cell to permit further bending of the load cell. 31. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase the flexibility of the base.
32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the load cell includes a plurality of strain gauges, one 


strain gauge being located below each of the plurality of notched sections for generating the output signal in response to bending of the base.
33. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame.
34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the adjusting means includes means for independently adjusting the level of a first end of the load cell support relative to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second end of the load cell support relative to a second side of the conveyor frame.
35. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes a first coupler plate for coupling a first end of the load cell support to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second coupler plate for coupling a second end of the load cell support to a second side of the conveyor frame.
36. The apparatus of claim 35, further comprising the means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame, the adjusting means including at least one shim configured to be selectively positioned between the first coupler plate and the first end of the load cell support, between the first coupler plate and the first side of the conveyor frame, between the second coupler plate and the second end of the load cell support, or between the second coupler plate and the second side of the conveyor frame.
37. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving on a conveyor belt supported by an idler assembly, the apparatus comprising: a load cell support including a top surface; 


 a load cell including a base having a first end and a second end, a contact portion extending upwardly away from the base, and a bottom surface opposite from said contact portion, the base of the load cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion to generate an output signal proportional to the force; means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support including means for rigidly supporting the first and second ends of the base of the load cell a predetermined distance above the top surface of the load cell support to elevate the bottom surface of the load cell above the top surface of the load cell support to permit the base of the load cell to bend; means for coupling the load cell support to a conveyor frame to suspend the load cell below the conveyor belt; and means for coupling an idler assembly to the contact portion of the load cell, the idler assembly applying a downwardly directed force to the contact portion of the load cell to bend the base of the load cell in response to material moving on the conveyor belt over the idler assembly to change the output signal generated by the load cell in proportion to the weight of the material.
38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the means for rigidly supporting the first and second ends of the base includes a first fastener for coupling the first end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, a second fastener for coupling the second end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, and first and second shims located between the load cell and the top surface of the load cell support adjacent the first and second ends of the load cell, respectively, to elevate the load cell above top surface 


of the load cell support to permit the base of the load cell to bend.
39. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the first and second shims are insensitive to temperature changes.
40. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the top surface of the load cell support is formed to include a recessed portion located below the load cell to permit further bending of the load cell. 41. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame.
42. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein the adjusting means includes means for independently adjusting the level of a first end of the load cell support relative to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second end of the load cell support relative to a second side of the conveyor frame. 43. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes a first coupler plate for coupling a first end of the load cell support to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second coupler plate for coupling a second end of the load cell support to a second side of the conveyor frame, and further comprising the means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame, the adjusting means including at least one shim configured to be selectively positioned between the first coupler plate and the first end of the load cell support, between the first coupler plate and the first side of the conveyor frame, between the second coupler plate and the second end of the load cell support, or between the second coupler plate and the second side of the conveyor frame. 


 44. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving in a downstream direction on a conveyor belt supported by a conveyor frame, the apparatus comprising: an upstream idler station; a downstream idler station; a measuring idler station situated between the upstream idler station and the downstream idler station; means for measuring the weight of material moving on the conveyor belt, the measuring means being coupled to the measuring idler station; means for coupling the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station together to form a scale unit; and means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame so that the conveyor belt passes over the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station.
45. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein the means for coupling the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station together to form the scale unit includes first and second alignment bars coupled to opposite end portions of the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station. 46. The apparatus of claim 45, wherein the means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame includes a first set of coupler plates for coupling a first side of the scale unit to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second set of coupler plates for coupling a second side of the scale unit to a second side of the conveyor frame.
47. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein the measuring means includes a load cell coupled to the measuring idler station. 


 48. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the load cell includes a base and a contact portion extern-ding upwardly away from the base, the base of the load cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion to generate an output signal proportional to the force.
49. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase the flexibility of the base.
50. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein the measuring idler station includes a load cell support, means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support, an idler support for supporting an idler assembly thereon, and means for coupling the idler support to the contact portion of the load cell, the idler support applying a downwardly directed force to the contact portion of the load cell to bend the base of the load cell in response to material moving on the conveyor belt over the idler support to change the output signal generated by the load cell in proportion to the weight of the material.
51. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station each include a top surface for supporting an idler assembly thereon, and the means for coupling the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station together to form the scale unit aligns said top surfaces to lie substantially in a single plane.
52. The apparatus of claim 44, further comprising a second measuring idler station situated adjacent first measuring idler station, second means for measuring the weight of material moving along the conveyor belt, the second measuring means being coupled 



to the second measuring idler station, and means coupled to the first and second measuring means for averaging the weight of material measured by the first and second measuring means. 53. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving in a downstream direction on a conveyor belt supported by a conveyor frame, the apparatus comprising: an upstream idler station; a downstream idler station; a measuring idler station situated between the upstream idler station and the downstream idler station, the measuring idler station including a load cell support, a load cell coupled to the load cell support for generating an output signal proportional to the weight of material passing over the load cell on the conveyor belt, and an idler support coupled to the load cell for supporting an idler assembly thereon, the idler support including a bottom surface abutting the load cell so that the idler support applies a force to the load cell as the material moves on the conveyor belt over the idler support to generate the output signal proportional to the weight of the material; means for coupling the measuring idler station to the upstream idler station and to the downstream idler station to form a scale unit; and means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame to suspend the scale unit below the conveyor belt so that the conveyor belt passes over the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station.
54. The apparatus of claim 53, wherein the load cell includes a generally rectangular base and a contact portion extending upwardly from the base, the base of the load cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion 


by the idler support, thereby generating the output signal.
55. The apparatus of claim 54, wherein the load cell support includes a top surface, and further comprising a first fastener for coupling a first end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, a second fastener for coupling a second end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, and first and second shims located between the load cell and the top surface of the load cell support adjacent the first and second ends of the load cell, respectively, to elevate the load cell above top surface of the load cell support to permit the base of the load cell to bend. 56. The apparatus of claim 55, wherein the top surface of the load cell support is formed to include a recessed portion located below the load cell to permit further bending of the load cell.
57. The apparatus of claim 54, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase the flexibility of the base.
58. The apparatus of claim 57, wherein the load cell includes a plurality of strain gauges, one strain gauge being located below each of the plurality of notched sections for generating the output signal in response to bending of the base.
59. The apparatus of claim 53, wherein the means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame includes a first set of coupler plates for coupling a first side of the scale unit to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second set of coupler plates for coupling a second side of the scale unit to a second side of the conveyor frame. 


 60. The apparatus of claim 53, wherein the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station each include a top surface for supporting an idler assembly thereon, and the means for coupling the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station together to form the scale unit aligns said top surfaces to lie substantially in a single plane.
61. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving in a downstream direction on a conveyor belt supported by a conveyor frame, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of idler stations, each idler station including a top surface for supporting an idler assembly thereon; means for coupling the plurality of idler stations together to form a scale unit, the coupling means aligning the top surfaces of the plurality of idler stations to lie substantially in a single plane; means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame so that the conveyor belt passes over the plurality of idler stations; and means for measuring the weight of material moving along the conveyor belt, the measuring means being coupled to a selected one of the plurality of idler stations so that the measuring means generates an output signal proportional to the weight of material passing over the measuring means on the conveyor belt.
62. The module of claim 61, wherein the plurality of idler stations include an upstream idler station, a downstream idler station, and a measuring idler station situated between the upstream idler station and the downstream idler station, the measuring means being coupled to the measuring idler station.
63. The apparatus of claim 61, wherein the means for coupling the plurality of idler stations 


together to form the scale unit includes first and second alignment bars coupled to opposite end portions of each of the plurality of idler stations.
64. The apparatus of claim 61, wherein the means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame includes a first set of coupler plates for coupling a first side of the scale unit to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second set of coupler plates for coupling a second side of the scale unit to a second side of the conveyor frame.
65. The apparatus of claim 61, the wherein the measuring means includes a load cell coupled to the selected idler station.
66. The apparatus of claim 65, wherein the load cell includes a base and a contact portion extending upwardly away from the base, the base of the cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion to generate an output signal proportional to the force. 67. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase the flexibility of the base.
68. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the selected idler station includes a load cell support, means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support, an idler support for supporting an idler assembly, and means for coupling the idler support to the contact portion of the load cell so that the idler support applies a downwardly directed force to the contact portion of the load cell to bend the base of the load cell in response to material moving on the conveyor belt over the idler support to change the output signal generated by the load cell in proportion to the weight of the material. 


 69. The apparatus of claim 61, further comprising second means for measuring the weight of material moving along the conveyor belt, the second measuring means being coupled to a second selected idler station, and means coupled to the first and second measuring means for averaging the weights measured by the first and second measuring means. 

AMENDED CLAIMS received by the International Bureau on 05 October 1993 (05.10.93); original claims 10-43, 51 and 62 cancelled; original claims
2,4,6,7,9,44,57,61,65 and 67-69 amended; claims 44-50,52-61 and 63-69 renumbered as claims 10-16,
17-26 and 27-33 (9 pages)]
1. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving on a conveyor belt supported by an idler assembly, the apparatus comprising: a load cell support formed to include an aperture therein; a load cell including a base and a contact portion extending upwardly away from the base, the base of the load cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion to generate an output signal proportional to the force; means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support so the contact portion of the load cell extends upwardly through the aperture formed in the load cell support; means for coupling the load cell support to a conveyor frame to suspend the load cell below the conveyor belt; an idler support for supporting the idler assembly; and means for coupling the idler support to the contact portion of the load cell, the idler support applying a downwardly directed force to the contact portion of the load cell to bend the base of the load cell in response to material moving on the conveyor belt over the idler support to change the output signal generated by the load cell in proportion to the weight of the material. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the idler support includes a top surface, a bottom surface, and an aperture extending between the top surface and the bottom surface, and further comprising a fastener extending through the aperture in the idler support for 



coupling the load cell to the bottom surface of the idler support.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the bottom surface of the idler support is formed to include a recessed portion positioned over the contact portion of the load cell.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase flexibility of the base.
5. The apparatus "of claim 4, wherein the load cell includes a plurality of strain gauges, one strain gauge being located below each of the plurality of notched sections for generating the output signal in response to bending of the base.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes means for adjusting a level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the adjusting means includes means for independently adjusting a level of a first end of the load cell support relative to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second end of the load cell support relative to a second side of the conveyor frame.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the means for coupling the load cell support to the conveyor frame includes a first coupler plate for coupling a first end of the load cell support to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second coupler plate for coupling a second end of the load cell support to a second side of the conveyor frame.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the means for adjusting the level of the load cell support relative to the conveyor frame includes at least one shim 


configured to be selectively positioned between the first coupler plate and the first end of the load cell support, between the first coupler plate and the first side of the conveyor frame, between the second coupler plate and the second end of the load cell support, and between the second coupler plate and the second side of the conveyor frame.
10. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving in a downstream direction on a conveyor belt supported by a conveyor frame, the apparatus comprising: a nonmeasuring upstream idler station; a nonmeasuring downstream idler station; a measuring idler station situated between the upstream idler station and the downstream idler station; means for measuring the weight of material moving on the conveyor belt, the measuring means being coupled to the measuring idler station; means for coupling the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station together to form a scale unit, the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station each having a top surface for supporting an idler assembly thereon, the means for coupling the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station together to form the scale unit configured to align the top surfaces of the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station substantially in a single plane; and means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame so that the conveyor belt passes over the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the means for coupling the upstream idler station, the 


measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station together to form the scale unit includes first and second alignment bars coupled to opposite end portions of the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame includes a first set of coupler plates for coupling a first side of the scale unit to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second set of coupler plates for coupling a second side of the scale unit to a second side of the conveyor frame.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the measuring means includes a load cell coupled to the measuring idler station.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the load cell includes a base and a contact portion extending upwardly away from the base, the base of the load cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion to generate an output signal proportional to the force.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase the flexibility of the base.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the measuring idler station includes a load cell support, means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support, an idler support for supporting an idler assembly thereon, and means for coupling the idler support to the contact portion of the load cell, the idler support applying a downwardly directed force to the contact portion of the load cell to bend the base of the load cell in response to material moving on the conveyor belt over the idler support to change the output signal 


generated by the load cell in proportion to the weight of the material.
17. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a second measuring idler station situated adjacent first measuring idler station, second means for measuring the weight of material moving along the conveyor belt, the second measuring means being coupled to the second measuring idler station, and means coupled to the first and second measuring means for averaging the weight of material measured by the first and second measuring means.
18. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving in a downstream direction on a conveyor belt supported by a conveyor frame, the apparatus comprising: an upstream idler station; a downstream idler station; a measuring idler station situated between the upstream idler station and the downstream idler station, the measuring idler station including a load cell support, a load cell coupled to the load cell support for generating an output signal proportional to the weight of material passing over the load cell on the conveyor belt, and an idler support coupled to the load cell for supporting an idler assembly thereon, the idler support including a bottom surface abutting the load cell so that the idler support applies a force to the load cell as the material moves on the conveyor belt over the idler support to generate the output signal proportional to the weight of the material; means for coupling the measuring idler station to the upstream idler station and to the downstream idler station to form a scale unit; and means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame to suspend the scale unit below the conveyor belt so that the conveyor belt passes over the 



upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the load cell includes a generally rectangular base and a contact portion extending upwardly from the base, the base of the load cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion by the idler support, thereby generating the output signal. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the load cell support includes a top surface, and further comprising a first fastener for coupling a first end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, a second fastener for coupling a second end of the load cell to the top surface of the load cell support, and first and second shims located between the load cell and the top surface of the load cell support adjacent the first and second ends of the load cell, respectively, to elevate the load cell above top surface of the load cell support to permit the base of the load cell to bend.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the top surface of the load cell support is formed to include a recessed portion located below the load cell to permit further bending of the load cell.
22. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase flexibility of the base. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the load cell includes a plurality of strain gauges, one strain gauge being located below each of the plurality of notched sections for generating the output signal in response to bending of the base. 


 24. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame includes a first set of coupler plates for coupling a first side of the scale unit to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second set of coupler plates for coupling a second side of the scale unit to a second side of the conveyor frame.
25. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station each include a top surface for supporting an idler assembly thereon, and the means for coupling the upstream idler station, the measuring idler station, and the downstream idler station together to form the scale unit aligns said top surfaces to lie substantially in a single plane.
26. A scale apparatus for weighing material moving in a downstream direction on a conveyor belt supported by a conveyor frame, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of idler stations including a nonmeasuring upstream idler station, a nonmeasuring downstream idler station, and a measuring idler station situated between the upstream idler station and the downstream idler station, each idler station including a top surface for supporting an idler assembly thereon; means for coupling the plurality of idler stations together to form a scale unit, the coupling means aligning the top surfaces of the plurality of idler stations to lie substantially in a single plane; means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame so that the conveyor belt passes over the plurality of idler stations; and means for measuring the weight of material moving along the conveyor belt, the measuring means being coupled to the measuring idler station so that the measuring means generates an output signal proportional 


to the weight of material passing over the measuring idler station on the conveyor belt.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the means for coupling the plurality of idler stations together to form the scale unit includes first and second alignment bars coupled to opposite end portions of each of the plurality of idler stations.
28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the means for coupling the scale unit to the conveyor frame includes a first set of coupler plates for coupling a first side of the scale unit to a first side of the conveyor frame and a second set of coupler plates for coupling a second side of the scale unit to a second side of the conveyor frame. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, the wherein the measuring means includes a load cell coupled to the measuring idler station.
30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the load cell includes a base and a contact portion extending upwardly away from the base, the base of the cell being configured to bend in response to a force being applied to the contact portion to generate an output signal proportional to the force.
31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the base of the load cell is formed to include a plurality of notched sections therein to increase flexibility of the base.
32. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the measuring idler station includes a load cell support, means for coupling the load cell to the load cell support, an idler support for supporting an idler assembly, and means for coupling the idler support to the contact portion of the load cell so that the idler support applies a downwardly directed force to the contact portion of the load cell to bend the base of the 


load cell in response to material moving on the conveyor belt over the idler support to change the output signal generated by the load cell in proportion to the weight of the material. 33. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising second means for measuring the weight of material moving along the conveyor belt, the second measuring means being coupled to a second measuring idler station, and means coupled to the first and second measuring means for averaging the weights measured by the first and second measuring means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
