<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650783</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Needle blank sorting apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21G100	B21G100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21G	B21G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21G1	B21G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an apparatus 10 
and method for sorting needle blanks. Generally, the 

apparatus includes a needle transferring assembly 14 which 
receives needle blanks at a needle loading position and 

sequentially transfers the needle blanks to a needle 
identifying position 16 and to a needle sorting position 

18. An imaging assembly 76 has a focus aligned with the 
needle identifying position so as to identify whether an 

end face of the needle blank has a solid or hollow cross-section. 
A needle blank sorting assembly 18 is provided to 

operate when the needle blanks are transferred to the 
needle sorting position. The needle blank sorting assembly 

responds to the imaging assembly so as to sort the needle 
blanks with the hollow cross-section from the needle blanks 

with the solid cross-section. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRSCH RONALD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRSCH, RONALD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a needle blank 
sorting machine. More particularly, the present invention 
relates to a needle blank sorting machine which 
sequentially examines and sorts needle blanks according to 
their end face character. The production of needles involves many processes 
and different types of machinery in order to prepare 
quality needles from raw stock. These varying processes 
and machinery become more critical in the preparation of 
surgical needles where the environment of intended use is 
in humans or animals. Some of the processes involved in 
the production of surgical grade needles include, inter 
alia: straightening spooled wire stock; cutting needle 
blanks from the wire stock; providing a bore for receiving 
suture thread at one end of the blank; tapering or grinding 
points on the other end of the blank; flat pressing a 
portion of the needle barrel to facilitate easier grasping 
by surgical instrumentation; and curving the blanks where 
curved surgical needles are desired. Conventional needle 
processing is, in large part, a labor intensive operation 
requiring highly skilled labor wherein extreme care must be 
taken to ensure that only the intended working of the 
needle is performed and the other parts of the needle 
remain undisturbed.  The present invention relates to a highly cost 
efficient apparatus and method for sorting needle blanks so 
that the end face of the blanks are oriented in the same 
direction after a bore has been created in one end face of 
the blank. The present invention relates to an apparatus and 
method for sorting needle blanks. The apparatus includes 
means for transferring needle blanks between a needle 
loading position and a needle identifying position, means 
aligned with the needle identifying position for 
identifying the orientation of the needle blanks with 
respect to the needle transferring means and sorting means 
associated with the identifying means for sorting needle 
blanks in response to the identified orientation. The 
apparatus of the present invention may also include means 
for feeding a plurality of needle blanks to the needle 
transferring means. Preferably, the orientation of the 
needle blanks is defined between needle blanks having a 
solid cross-section in an end face thereof facing a first 
direction and needle blanks having a hollow cross-section 
in an end face thereof facing a second direction so that 
the needle blanks are sorted by their cross-sectional 
characteristics at one end face thereof. Generally,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for sorting needle blanks, which 
comprises: 

   means for transferring needle blanks between a 
needle loading position and a needle identifying position; 

   means aligned with said needle identifying 
position for identifying the orientation of the needle 

blanks with respect to said needle transferring means; and 
   sorting means associated with said identifying 

means for sorting needle blanks in response to said 
identified orientation. 
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said transferring means comprises a rotatable member having 

means on an outer surface portion thereof to transfer 
needle blanks between said needle loading position and at 

least one of said needle identifying position and a needle 
sorting position. 
The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein 
said orientation of the needle blanks is defined between 

needle blanks having a solid cross-section in an end face 
thereof facing a first direction and needle blanks having a 

hollow cross-section in an end face thereof facing a second 
direction. 
The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein 
said needle blank identifying means comprises: 

   imaging means for acquiring an image of the end 
face of the needle blanks and for comparing said acquired 

image to predetermined parameters to determine if the end 
face of the needle blank so imaged has either said solid 

cross-section or said hollow cross-section. 
The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein 
said imaging means comprises a video camera. 
The apparatus according to any of the 
preceding claims, wherein said sorting means includes at 

least one storage member for storing the sorted needle 
blanks. 
The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein 
said sorting means comprises: 

   a first storage member configured to receive and 
store needle blanks having the solid cross-section in an 

end face thereof facing said first direction; 
   a second storage member configured to receive and 

store needle blanks having the hollow cross-section in an 
end face thereof facing said second direction; 

   a first sorting member aligned with at least a 
portion of said needle blank transferring means and 

responsive to said needle blank identifying means such that 
said first sorting member facilitates movement of needle 

blanks having the solid cross-section end facing said 
second direction into said first storage member; and 

   a second sorting member aligned with at least a 
portion of said needle blank transferring means and 

responsive to said needle blank identifying means such that 
said second sorting member facilitates movement of needle 

blanks having the hollow cross-section end facing said 
first direction into said second storage member. 
The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein 
each of said first and second storage members comprises a 

cascade type cartridge and a guide member for receiving the 
needle blanks from said needle blank transferring means and 

guiding the needle blanks to said cascade type cartridge. 
The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein 
each said first and second sorting members comprises a 

pusher arm which pushes the needle blanks at least 
partially into either said first or second storage members. 
The apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising means for feeding 

needle blanks to said needle blank transferring means. 
The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein 
said needle blank feeding means comprises a vibratory 

container configured to transfer needle blanks from a base 
of said container to a needle guide rail connected to a 

side wall of said container, said guide rail extending 
between said container and said needle blank transferring 

means and configured to sequentially present the needle 
blanks thereto. 
The apparatus according to claim 2 or any of 
claims 3 to 11 as dependent on claim 2, wherein said means 

on said outer surface portion of said needle blank 
transferring means to transfer needle blanks comprises a 

plurality of recesses. 
The apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said means for transferring 

comprises a rotating member adapted to releasably maintain 
a plurality of needle blanks and to sequentially transfer 

the needle blanks from a needle loading position to a 
needle identifying position and to a needle sorting 

position; 
   said means aligned with said needle identifying 

position identifies needle blanks having a hollow cross-section 
in an end face thereof facing a first direction and 

needle blanks having a solid cross-section in the end face 
thereof facing a second direction; and

 
   said sorting means comprises a sorting member 

associated with said identifying means and adapted to sort 
needle blanks at said needle sorting positio
n between 
needle blanks having said hollow cross-section in an end 

face thereof facing said first direction and needle blanks 
having said solid cross-section in the end face thereof 

facing said second direction. 
The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein 
said sorting member comprises first and second pusher 

members aligned with said needle sorting position and 
adapted to selectively engage said needle blanks so as to 

eject at least a portion of said needle blanks from said 
rotating member. 
The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein 
said sorting member further comprises first and second 

guide members aligned with said needle sorting position, 
said first guide member being adapted to receive at least 

said portion of said needle blanks ejected by said first 
pusher member and said second guide member being adapted to 

receive at least said portion of said needle blanks ejected 
by said second pusher member. 
The apparatus according to claim 4 or any of 
claims 5 to 15 as dependent on claim 4, comprising: 

   control means for receiving said image of the end 
face of the needle blank and comparing said received image 

to predetermined characteristics to determine whether the 
end face of the needle blank so imaged has a bore therein; 

and 
   means associated with said control means for 

grouping the needle blanks between needle blanks with a 
bore detected in the end face thereof and needle blanks 

without a bore detected in the end face thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
