<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619023</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DOPPLER TRACKING METHOD FOR OBJECT IMAGING FROM RADAR RETURNS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S7292	G01S1300	G01S7292	G01S1390	G01S1350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S7	G01S13	G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of tracking an object in the Doppler dimension that provides for improved imaging. The method tracks the centroid of the object's Doppler and smooths out noisy estimates of its phase history. The tracking and smoothing combine to improve tracking performance and image quality. Doppler signals are generated by a coarse Doppler tracker that removes translational motion of the object. Pulse pair processing produces an estimate of the Doppler centroid of the object. For each pair of adjacent pulses, pulse pair processing is applied to individual range bins, and the outputs are combined to estimate the Doppler centroid of the object at that particular time. A low pass filter is used after pulse pair processing to smooth out phase increments. Phase increment smoothing then filters the output signals from the filter with a smooth curve, such as a second-degree polynomial. Phase recursion then produces a phase history. The recursive phase history is differenced with updated, appropriately delayed phases. The difference phases are compensated from the radar return from the coarse Doppler tracker. Fast Fourier transform processing then produces a Fourier transformed image. The output from the filter is also processed to update the phase and the phase updated signals are fed back to the coarse Doppler tracker. The phase updating integrates the output of the filter to update the phase history of the object based on phase increments derived from the filter. The phase update is also delayed in order to match these phases in timing with those from the phase recursion step.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN ERNEST C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, ERNEST, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a Doppler tracking method 
that provides for object imaging from radar return signals, 
the method comprising tracking an object by means of a coarse 
Doppler tracker that processes the radar return signals and 
removes translational motion of the object. The invention, further, relates to a Doppler tracking 
apparatus that provides for object imaging from radar return 
signals, the apparatus comprising means for tracking an object 
by a coarse Doppler tracker that processes the radar return 
signals and removes translational motion of the object. The method and apparatus mentioned above are known from 
document "Prickett and Chen, Principles of Inverse Synthetic 
Aperture Radar (ISAR) Imaging, IEEE RECORD OF THE EASCON 
CONFERENCE 1980, pages 340 - 345". This document mentions two methods of motion compensation 
for ISAR radar, the scatterer point referencing and the track-the-target-centroid 
method. Currently, the most widely known method of object tracking 
using an inverse synthetic array radar (ISAR) system is the 
scatterer point referencing what is known as "hot spot" tracker. 
The hot spot tracker relies on assumption that the object  
 
contains an isolated strong scatterer. Unfortunately, such a 
scatterer may not exist on any target and/or at any particular 
moment. The tracked scatterer often scintillates, which adversely 
affects image quality. The tracked scatterer may also fade away 
in terms of its radar cross section (RCS) or be blocked by other 
parts of the object as time goes on. If and when these events 
happen, another isolated strong scatterer must be acquired. 
Even if such a replacement scatterer is obtained, a transition 
period will exist during which images may jump and defocus in 
the Doppler dimension. These undesirable effects may be 
alleviated to some degree by using a long time constant for 
the tracking filter. However, the filter is less responsive 
to the dynamic motion of the object, such as acceleration or 
maneuvers, for example. According to the second known method mentioned above the 
target centroid is tracked so that the target scatterer's average 
Doppler is zero. To this end the Doppler of the target centroid 
is calculated by averaging the scatterer's overall range bins. 
Motion compensation forces this average Doppler to be zero and 
moves the radar centroid to the center of the cross-range 
dimension of the image. Although the overall target and not 
any particular target scatterer is tracked to do the motion 
compensation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A Doppler tracking method that provides for object 
imaging from radar return signals, the method comprising tracking 

an object by means of a coarse Doppler tracker (11) that 
processes the radar return signals and removes translational 

motion of the object, characterized by the steps of: 

pulse pair processing (12) output signals from the 
coarse Doppler tracker (11) to produce an estimate 

of the Doppler centroid of the object; 
filtering (13) output signals from the pulse pair 
processing step (12) with a predetermined low pass 

filter that is used to smooth out phase increments 
generated in the pulse pair processing step (12); 
smoothing (14) output signals from the filtering step 
(13) with a predetermined smooth curve; 
recursively filtering (15) output signals from the 
smoothing step (14) to produce a phase history; 
differencing the recursively filtered phase history 
with the updated phases that have been appropriately 

delayed; 
compensating (19) the difference phases from radar 
return from the coarse Doppler tracker (11); 
Fourier transforming (16) the phase compensated 
signals to produce a Fourier transformed (FFT) image; 
phase updating (17) the output signals from the 
filtering step (13) to integrate the output of the 

filtering step (13) to update the phase history of 
the object based on phase increments derived from 

the filtering step (13);  
 
delaying (18) output signals from the phase updating 
step (17) to match in timing the phases provided by 

the phase update step (17) with those from the phase 
recursion step (15); and 
feeding back output signals from the phase updating 
step (17) formed by the coarse Doppler tracker (11). 
The method of claim 1, characterized in that the step 
of pulse pair processing (12) the output signals from the coarse 

Doppler tracker (11) comprises, for each pair of adjacent pulses, 
the step of pulse pair processing (12) individual range bins, 

and combining the outputs of each range bin to estimate the 
Doppler centroid of the object at a particular time. 
The method of claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the step of smoothing (14) output signals from the filtering 

step (13) comprises smoothing (14) output signals from the 
filtering step (13) with a predetermined order polynomial. 
The method of any of claims 1 - 3, characterized in 
that the step of pulse pair processing (12) the output signals 

from the coarse Doppler tracker (11) implements the equations: 


 
and 


ε
ΔΘ
k
 = tan
-1
Im
(
D
k
)
Re
(
D
k
)
 
where C
k,m
 is a complex sample at the m-th range bin and the k-th 
pulse and 
C
 is a complex conjugate of C, and where the summation 
is over the target range extent.  

 
A Doppler tracking apparatus that provides for object 
imaging from radar return signals, the apparatus comprising 

means for tracking an object by a coarse Doppler tracker that 
processes the radar return signals and removes translational 

motion of the object, characterized by: 

pulse pair processing means (12) processing output 
signals from the coarse Doppler tracker (11) to 

produce an estimate of the Doppler centroid of the 
object; 
filtering means (13) for filtering output signals 
from the pulse pair processing means (12) with a 

predetermined low pass filter that is used to smooth 
out phase increments generated in the pulse pair 

processing step (12); 
smoothing means (14) for smoothing output signals 
from the filtering means (13) with a predetermined 

smooth curve; 
recursive filtering means (15) for recursively 
filtering output signals from the smoothing means 

(14) to produce a phase history; 
differencing means for differencing the recursively 
filtered phase history with the updated phases that 

have been appropriately delayed; 
compensating means (19) for compensating the difference 
phases from radar return from the coarse Doppler 

tracker (11); 
Fourier transforming means (16) for Fourier transforming 
the phase compensated signals to produce a 

Fourier transformed (FFT) image; 
phase updating means means (17) for phase updating 
the output signals from the filtering means (13) to 

integrate the output of the filtering means (13) to  
 

update the phase history of the object based on phase 
increments derived from the filtering means (13); 
delaying means (18) for delaying output signals from 
the phase updating means (17) to match in timing the 

phases provided by the phase updating means (17) with 
those from the phase recursion means (15); and 
feedback means for feeding back output signals from 
the phase updating means (17) formed by the coarse 

Doppler tracker (11). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
