<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655782</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Resin-sealed semiconductor device and method of fabricating same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2152	H01L2328	H01L2328	H01L2348	H01L23495	H01L2350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Peel preventing bars (10) are formed in a grid form 
in an opening (41) provided at the center portion of a 

bed (62). A semiconductor chip (4) is adhered onto the 
bed (62) by an mount agent (8), which is prevented from 

flowing over the grid type peel preventing bars (10) in 
the opening (41). This structure can allow a mold resin 

(1) to sufficiently enter between the chip (4) and the 
peel preventing bars (10), thus preventing the resin (1) 

from peeling due to high temperature after hardening. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOKYO SHIBAURA ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOBAYASHI KAZUHITO C O INTELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOMENAKA KAZUICHI C O INTELL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOBAYASHI, KAZUHITO, C/O INTELL.PROP.DIV.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOMENAKA, KAZUICHI, C/O INTELL.PROP.DIV.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a resin sealing 
structure for a resin-sealed semiconductor device and a 
structure of a lead frame for use in this semiconductor 
device. Since resin-sealed semiconductor device are easy to 
be packaged and are suitable for mass-production, they 
are used typically. Such a resin-sealed semiconductor 
device is manufactured by using a lead frame which is 
formed by etching or pressing (punching) a thin metal 
plate of copper or an iron-nickel based alloy. The 
lead frame has a pattern for a chip mounting portion 
(hereinafter called "bed") where a semiconductor 
element, such as a semiconductor integrated circuit, 
(hereinafter called "chip") is mounted within the frame, 
suspending pin portions for supporting the bed, lead 
portions to which bonding wires are to be connected, 
etc. After the chip is mounted, the lead frame is 
placed in a mold, the bed portion including the chip, 
the bonding wires, the suspending pin portions and 
portions of the leads are sealed with a resin using a 
transfer mold method or the like, and unnecessary 
portions of the pattern are cut away, thus fabricating 
a semiconductor device. The lead portions which are 
unsealed with a resin and are exposed outside are shaped 
and are connected as outer leads to a printed circuit 
pattern of a printed circuit board. The distal end  
 
portions of the leads where the chip, bonding wires and 
the like are connected may be plated with gold or silver 
to improve the reliability of the connection. FIG. 1 presents a perspective view of a 
conventional TSOP (Thin Small Outline Package) 
resin-sealed semiconductor device. The figure shows the 
outline of the semiconductor device, which is specifically 
is a 400 mil and 40 pin type. The package body of 
the semiconductor device is made of a mold resin such as 
epoxy resin and is a rectangle having long sides and 
short sides. Leads (outer leads) 2, one row consisting 
of 10 pins, protrude from inside a two-row mold resin 1, 
and this semiconductor device has 40 pin leads, including 
the leads on the opposite side, which are electrically 
connected to a chip sealed in the mold resin 1. FIG. 2 shows inside the mold resin 1. The mold 
resin portion 1 is indicated by broken lines to clearly 
shown the interior. Accommodated in the mold resin 1 is 
a lead frame excluding portions of the leads 2, the 
outer lead portions at the distal ends of the leads 2 
being exposed from the mold resin 1. A bed 6 
constituting the lead frame is placed nearly in the 
center of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor device characterized by 
comprising: 

   a bed (62) having a substantially rectangular 
opening (41) at a center thereof; 

   a plurality of peel preventing bars (10) arranged 
inside the opening; 

   a semiconductor element (4) mounted on said bed, 
said semiconductor element covering said rectangular 

opening, peel preventing bars, and a peripheral portion 
of said rectangular opening of said bed; 

   a mounting agent (8) formed on said peripheral 
portion for bonding said semiconductor element onto a 

surface of said bed, said mounting agent having a predetermined 
thickness; and 

   a molding material (1) sealing said bed, said 
semiconductor element and said mounting agent, and 

filling a region between said peel preventing bars and 
said semiconductor element. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said peel preventing bars 

comprising: 
   a first bar arranged across the opening along a 

first direction; and 
   a second bar arranged across the opening along a 

second direction. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 2, 
characterized in that said first direction is perpendicular 

to said second direction. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said peel preventing bars comprise 

a plurality of bars parallely arranged across the 
opening. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said bed has a first edge of the 

opening and a second edge of the opening opposite said 
 

first edge, and said peel preventing bars comprise a 
plurality of first bars extending from the first edge 

toward the second edge and a plurality of second bars 
extending from the second edge toward the first edge. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said rectangular opening has a 

first, a second, a third and a fourth corners, and said 
peel preventing bars comprise a first bar diagonally 

arranged between the first and the third corners and a 
second bar diagonally arranged between the second and 

the fourth corners. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said peel preventing bars are 

arranged in a "#" shape. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said peel preventing bars comprise 

a first, a second, a third and a fourth bars so 
interconnected to form a closed rectangular shape and a 

plurality of connecting bars for connecting said first, 
second, third and fourth bars to the bed. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said peel preventing bars are 

arranged in a diamond grid form. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said semiconductor element has a 

first surface facing said bed and a second surface opposite 
to the first surface, and a first thickness of a 

first portion of said molding material on said first 
surface of said semiconductor element is larger than a 

second thickness of a second portion of said molding 
material on said first surface of said semiconductor 

element. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 10, 
characterized in that said second thickness is larger 

than a distance between said peel preventing bars and 
said semiconductor element. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
 

characterized by further comprising means (9, 90, 91, 
92) for preventing said mounting agent to penetrate on a 

surface of said peel preventing bars. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized by further comprising means (9, 90, 91) 

for keeping a distance between said peel preventing bars 
and said semiconductor element. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 12, 
characterized in that said preventing means is a dam 

having the predetermined thickness. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 12, 
characterized in that said preventing means is a dam 

formed on said bed, said dams being made of plating 
material. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 15, 
characterized in that said plating material is Ag. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 12, 
characterized in that said preventing means is a dam 

formed on said bed, said dams being made of a polyimide 
film. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 12, 
characterized in that said preventing means is a dam 

formed on said peripheral portion, said dam surrounding 
said rectangular opening. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 12, 
characterized in that said preventing means are dams 

each formed on an area where said peel preventing means 
is connected to the bed. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 19, 
characterized in that a part of said dams are arranged 

to form a continuous strip. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 12, 
characterized in that said preventing means are holes 

(92) each formed on an area where said peel preventing 
means is connected to the bed. 
The semiconductor device according to 
claim 21, characterized in that each of said holes is 

 
substantially rectangular form, and a long side of each 

of said holes is larger than a width of each of said 
peel preventing bars. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 12, 
characterized in that said preventing means are a 

plurality of narrow necked portions of said peel 
preventing bars. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said peel preventing bars has a 

plurality of narrow necked portions for preventing said 
molding agent to penetrate on a surface of said peel 

preventing bars. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that a first thickness of said bed is 

larger than a second thickness of a center portion of 
said peel preventing bars. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 1, 
characterized in that a center portion of said peel preventing 

bars is half-eched. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 25, 
characterized by further comprising a dam (9, 90, 91) 

formed on said peel preventing bars, said dam surrounding 

said center portion of said peel preventing bars. 
The semiconductor device according to claim 27, 
characterized in that said bed is recessed to expand 

said rectangular opening. 
A method of fabricating a semiconductor device 
characterized by comprising the steps of: 

   preparing a bed (62) having an opening (41) and a 
plurality of peel preventing bars (10) arranged in said 

opening; 
   supplying a mounting agent (8) onto the bed at a 

peripheral portion surrounding said opening; 
   mounting a semiconductor element (4) on said bed 

with the mounting agent (8); and 
   sealing said bed, said mounting agent and said 

semiconductor element with a molding material (1). 
The method of fabricating a semiconductor 
device according to claim 29, characterized by further 

comprising the step of: 
   forming a dam (9, 90, 91) on said bed at the 

peripheral portion, before supplying the mounting 
agent. 
The method of fabricating a semiconductor 
device according to claim 29, characterized by further 

comprising the step of: 
   forming a plurality of holes (92) on areas where 

said peel preventing means are connected to the bed. 
A method of fabricating a semiconductor device 
characterized by comprising the steps of: 

   preparing a bed (62) having an opening (41) and a 
plurality of peel preventing bars (10) arranged in said 

opening, a center (102) of said peel preventing bars 
being half-etched; 

   supplying a mounting agent (8) onto the bed at a 
peripheral portion surrounding said opening; 

   mounting a semiconductor element (4) on said bed 
with the mounting agent; and 

   sealing said bed, said mounting agent and said 
semiconductor element with a molding material (1). 
The method of fabricating a semiconductor 
device characterized by comprising the step of: 

   forming a dam (9, 90, 91) on said bed around the 
center portion, before supplying the mounting agent. 
A method of fabricating a semiconductor device 
characterized by comprising the steps of: 

   preparing a bed (62) having an opening (41) and a 
plurality of peel preventing bars (10) arranged in said 

opening, said peel preventing bars having a plurality of 
narrow necked portions (101); 

   supplying a mounting agent (8) onto the bed at a 
peripheral portion surrounding said opening; 

   mounting a semiconductor element (4) on said bed 
with the mounting agent; and

 
   sealing said bed, said mounting agent and said 

semiconductor element with a molding material (1). 
A resin-sealed semiconductor device characterized 
by comprising: 

   a semiconductor element (4); 
   a semiconductor element mounting portion (62) where 

said semiconductor element is to be mounted and which 
has an opening; 

   leads (2) arranged apart from one another around 
said semiconductor element mounting portion; 

   a mounting agent (8) for bonding said semiconductor 
element to said semiconductor element mounting portion; 

   bonding wires (3) for connecting connection 
electrodes (7), formed on a surface of said semiconductor 

element, to said leads; and 
   a mold resin (1) for covering said semiconductor 

element, said semiconductor element mounting portion, 
said mounting agent, said bonding wires and portions of 

said leads, 
   said opening of said semiconductor element mounting 

portion having a plurality of peel preventing bars (10) 
for preventing said mold resin from peeling from a back 

of said semiconductor element, said mold resin filling 
space between said peel preventing bars and said semiconductor 

element mounting portion. 
The resin-sealed semiconductor device according 
to claim 35, characterized in that inhibiting means (9, 

90, 91, 92) for inhibiting said mount agent from flowing 
over said peel preventing bars is formed around said 

opening of said semiconductor element mounting portion. 
The resin-sealed semiconductor device according to any one 
of claims 1; 2, 35 or 36, characterized in that at least some of said 

plurality of peel preventing bars (10) are connected to 
an inner periphery of said opening, and a portion (102) 

of said peel preventing bar to be connected to the inner 
periphery of said opening is thinner than the other 

portion. 
The resin-sealed semiconductor device according to any one 
of claims 1, 2, 3, 35, 36 or 37, characterized in that said peel preventing 

bars are made thinner than said semiconductor element 
mounting portion so that a distance between a bottom of 

said semiconductor element and said peel preventing bars 
is greater than a distance between said bottom of said 

semiconductor element and a surface of said semiconductor 
element mounting portion. 
The resin-sealed semiconductor device according to any one of 
claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 35, 36, 37 or 38, characterized in that said opening is 

covered with said semiconductor element to be connected 
to said semiconductor element mounting portion, and at 

least one recess or through hole is formed around said 
opening, at least a portion of said recess or through 

hole being not covered with said chip. 
A method of fabricating a resin-sealed 
semiconductor device characterized by comprising the 

steps of: 
   providing a plurality of peel preventing bars (10) 

at an opening (41) formed in a center portion of a semiconductor 
element mounting portion (62); 

   supplying a mounting agent (8) to said semiconductor 
element mounting portion from a plurality of 

nozzles; 
   placing a semiconductor element (4) on said 

semiconductor element mounting portion and pressing 
said semiconductor element to adhere said semiconductor 

element to said semiconductor element mounting 
portion; 

   arranging leads (2) apart from one another around 
said semiconductor element mounting portion; 

   electrically connecting connection electrodes (7), 
formed on a surface of said semiconductor element, to 

said leads with bonding wires (3); and 
   covering said semiconductor element, said 

semiconductor element mounting portion, said mounting 
agent, said bonding wires and portions of said leads 

with a mold resin (1),
 

   whereby at a time of supplying said mount agent 
from said nozzles, supply positions of said mount agent 

are adjusted in such a way that when said semiconductor 
element is placed on and pressed against said semiconductor 

element mounting portion, said mount agent 
does not flow over said peel preventing bars formed at 

said opening. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
