<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0566262</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Field effect transistor with a deep P body contacted by the source electrode.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L218249	H01L2706	H01L2706	H01L2902	H01L2906	H01L2910	H01L2940	H01L29417	H01L2966	H01L2978	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A field effect transistor, either with or without a 
lightly doped N- drain, incorporates a relatively 

conductive deep P body contact source plug to reduce 
parasitic resistance underneath an N+ source region and to 

prevent a parasitic bipolar transistor from latching on 
when the voltage between the drain electrode and the P 

well changes rapidly. In a lightly doped drain an N+ 
source region extends into a P well from an upper surface 

of the P well and a N- drain region extends into the P 
well so that the N+ source region and the N- drain region 

are separated by a channel region. An N+ drain contact 
region extends into the lightly doped N- drain region to a 

depth less than the depth of the N- drain region so that a 
portion of the N- drain region separates the N+ drain 

contact region from the channel and from the underlying P 
well. A deep P body contact source plug region extends 

into the P well at a location underneath the source 
electrode so that the deep P body contact source plug 

region extends toward the channel region at least partly 
underneath the N+ source region. A gate insulating layer 

is disposed on the upper surface of the substrate over the 

channel region and a gate is disposed over the insulating 
layer so that the gate overlies the channel region. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT SEMICONDUCTOR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRATHALL, ROBERT S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to field effect transistors. 
More particularly, this invention relates especially to 
high power, high current, high switching speed N channel 
field effect transistors. A lightly doped drain field effect transistor 
structure is conventionally used in high power switching 
applications. Figure 1A (Prior Art) shows such a 
conventional lightly doped drain N channel field effect 
transistor. In such a transistor, an N+ substrate 1 has 
an N- epitaxial layer 2 deposited upon it. The upper 
surface of the epitaxial layer 3 therefore becomes the 
upper surface of the resulting substrate. A P well 4 is 
diffused from the upper surface 3 of the substrate into 
the epitaxial layer to a depth shown as dotted line 5 in 
Figure 1A. An oxide is disposed on the upper surface of 
the substrate to form a gate oxide 6 and an isolating 
oxide 15. Gate oxide 6 is disposed over a channel region 
7 and a gate 8 is disposed over the gate oxide 6 so that 
the gate overlies the channel region. A heavily doped N+ 
source region 9 extends into the P well from the upper 
surface of the substrate. This N+ source region 9 abuts 
the left side of the channel region 7 electrically 
connected to a source electrode 10. A shallow P+ region 
16 abuts the left side of source region 9 to make contact 
with the underlying P well 4. A source electrode 10 is 
disposed on the upper surface of the substrate so as to be 
in electrical contact with the N+ source region 9 and with 
the P+ region 16. An N- lightly doped drain region 11 is  
 
also provided. This lightly doped N- drain region abuts 
the right side of the channel region 7 shown in Figure 1A 
so that the channel region 7 separates the N+ source 
region 9 from the N- drain region 11. A shallow N+ drain 
contact region 12 is formed inside the lightly doped N-drain 
region 11 to extend from the upper surface of the 
substrate into the epitaxial layer to a depth which is 
less than the depth of the N- drain region. A drain 
electrode 13 is disposed on the upper surface of the 
substrate to form an electrical contact with the highly 
doped N+ drain contact region 12. In operation, the conventional lightly doped drain 
device of Figure 1A switches on when a inversion layer is 
formed in the channel region underneath the gate. Accordingly, 
a conduction path is formed from the drain 
electrode 13, to the N+ drain contact region 12, to the N-drain 
region 11, through the inversion layer in the 
channel region 7, to the N+ source region 9, and to the 
source electrode
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A field effect transistor comprising: 
   a semiconductor body of a first conductivity 

type having an upper surface; 
   a gate insulating layer disposed on said upper 

surface and overlying a channel region located in 
said body at said upper surface; 

   a gate, disposed on said gate insulating layer 
and overlying said channel region; 

   a lightly doped drain region of a second 
conductivity type disposed in said body and abutting 

said channel region, said lightly doped drain region 
extending into said body from said upper surface to a 

first depth; 
   a drain contact region disposed in said body and 

separated from said channel region by a portion of 
said lightly doped drain region, said drain contact 

region extending into said lightly doped drain region 
from said upper surface to a second depth smaller 

than said first depth; 
   a source region disposed in said body and 

extending from said upper surface into said body to a 
third depth, said source region abutting said channel 

region; and 
   a deep body contact region of said first 

conductivity type disposed in said body and extending 
into said body to a fourth depth, a portion of said 

deep body contact region extending underneath at 
least a part of said source regio
n. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
said deep body contact region does not abut said channel 

region. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
 

said fourth depth is greater than said first depth. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
said deep body contact region is formed by diffusion. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
said deep body contact region has a substantially vertical 

side surface which faces the channel region and the 
lightly doped drain region. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
said deep body contact region has a side surface which 

faces the lightly doped drain region, and wherein the 
lightly doped drain region has a side surface which faces 

the deep body contact region, said deep body contact 
region being disposed so that said side surface of said 

deep body contact region is substantially equidistant from 
said side surface of said lightly doped drain region over 

an area of said side surface of said deep body contact 
region. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
said gate comprises polysilicon. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
said gate functions as a mask when dopants are implanted 

to form said source region and said lightly doped drain 
region, said source and lightly doped drain regions being 

self aligned with said gate. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 8, wherein 
said dopants are diffused toward each other after being 

implanted, said lightly doped drain region extending a 
distance underneath said gate and said source extending a 

distance underneath said gate. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
an epitaxial layer is disposed over a bulk region, said 

epitaxial layer being comprised of a lightly doped 
semiconductor material of said second conductivity type, 

said body being a well region diffused from said upper 
surface into said epitaxial layer. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 10, wherein 
said epitaxial layer extends from said upper surface into 

said substrate to a fifth depth, said well region being 
diffused into epitaxial layer to a sixth depth, said sixth 

depth being smaller than said fifth depth. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, further 
comprising: 

   a source electrode disposed over said upper 
surface, said source electrode being in contact with 

said source region; and 
   a drain electrode disposed over said upper 

surface, said drain electrode being in contact with 
said drain contact region. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
said semiconductor material of said first conductivity 

type is P type silicon, and wherein said semiconductor 
material of said second conductivity type is N type 

silicon. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 1, wherein 
said body is an epitaxial layer disposed on a substrate. 
A method of preventing a parasitic bipolar 
transistor from turning on in a field effect transistor, 

said field effect transistor having a drain contact region 
and a source region separated at least in part by a 

channel region, said drain contact region and said source 
 

region extending into a lightly doped well region of 
semiconductor material of a first conductivity type, said 

source region and said drain contact region comprising a 
semiconductor material of a second conductivity type, 

comprising the steps of: 
   providing a shallow lightly doped drain region 

underneath said drain contact region and between said 
drain contact region and said channel region, said 

shallow lightly doped drain region being comprised of 
a lightly doped semiconductor material of said second 

conductivity type; and 
   providing a deep body region underneath at least 

a portion of said source region, said deep body 
region being comprised of a semiconductor material of 

said first conductivity type. 
The method of Claim 15, wherein said deep body 
region does not abut said channel region. 
The method of Claim 15, wherein said well region 
of semiconductor material of a first conductivity type has 

an upper surface, and wherein said deep body region 
extends into said well region from said upper surface to a 

first depth, and wherein said shallow lightly doped drain 
region extends into said well region from said upper 

surface to a second depth, said first depth being greater 
than said second depth. 
The method of Claim 17, wherein said semi-conductor 
material of said first conductivity type is P 

type silicon, and wherein said semiconductor material of 
said second conductivity type is N type silicon. 
The method of Claim 18, wherein said step of 
providing said deep body region comprises a diffusion 

step. 
The method of Claim 15, further comprising the 
steps of: 

   forming a gate insulating layer over said 
channel region on said upper surface of said well 

region; 
   forming a gate on said gate insulating layer; 

and 
   using said gate as a mask during a self-aligning 

implanting step wherein dopants are implanted in said 
upper surface of said well region to form said source 

region and said shallow lightly doped region so that 
said source region and said shallow lightly doped 

drain region are self-aligned with said gate. 
A power field effect transistor device, 
comprising: 

   a mesh-shaped gate defining a plurality of cell 
regions in an underlying semiconductor material, each 

of said plurality of cell regions extending from an 
upper surface of said semiconductor material; 

   a plurality of deep P source plug regions, one 
of said plurality of deep P source plug regions being 

disposed in each of alternate ones of said plurality 
of cell regions; 

   a plurality of annular N source regions, one of 
said plurality of annular N source regions being 

disposed in each of said alternate ones of said 
plurality of cell regions; 

   a plurality of relatively lightly doped N drain 
regions, one of said plurality of relatively lightly 

doped N drain regions being disposed in each of said 
cell regions other than said alternate ones; 

   a plurality of relatively highly doped N drain 
contact regions, one of said plurality of relatively 

highly doped N drain contact regions being disposed 
in each of said cell regions other than said 

 
alternate ones; 

   an insulating layer overlying at least part of 
said mesh-shaped gate; 

   a source electrode connecting said plurality of 
annular N source regions and said plurality of deep P 

source plug regions through first contact windows in 
said insulating layer; and 

   a drain electrode connecting said plurality of 
relatively lightly doped N drain regions through 

second contact windows in said insulating layer. 
The power field effect transistor device of 
Claim 21, wherein said cell regions have a polygonal 

shape. 
The power field effect transistor device of 
Claim 22, wherein said deep P source plug regions extend 

into said semiconductor material to a first depth, and 
wherein said relatively lightly doped N drain regions 

extend into said semiconductor material to a second depth, 

said first depth being deeper than said second depth. 
In a transistor having a channel disposed 
between a drain and a source, a method of reducing a 

magnitude of a voltage produced by a displacement current, 
said displacement current flowing in a current path to or 

from a PN junction between said drain and a substrate, 
said method comprising the step of: 

   disposing an amount of low resistance 
semiconductor material in said current path and 

outside said channel, said low resistance 
semiconductor material having a resistance lower than 

a resistance of a semiconductor material comprising 
said substrate. 
The method of Claim 24, wherein said low 
 

resistance semiconductor material is disposed to be 
separated from said junction. 
The method of Claim 25, wherein said low 
resistance semiconductor material is disposed to contact 

said source. 
The method of Claim 26, wherein said transistor 
comprises a source electrode, wherein said displacement 

current flows to or form said source electrode, and 
wherein said low resistance semiconductor material is 

disposed to contact said source electrode. 
The method of Claim 27, wherein said source has 
an annular shape and wherein said drain surrounds said 

source. 
A field effect transistor comprising: 
   a substrate having an upper surface; 

   a well region, disposed in said substrate, said 
well region being comprised of a lightly doped 

semiconductor material of a first conductivity type; 
   a gate insulating layer disposed on said upper 

surface, said gate insulating layer overlying a 
channel region, said channel region being located in 

said substrate at said upper surface; 
   a gate, disposed on said gate insulating layer, 

said gate overlying said channel region; 
   a drain region comprised of a semiconductor 

material of a second conductivity type, said drain 
region abutting said channel region, said drain 

region extending into said well region from said 
upper surface to a first depth; 

   a source region comprised of a semiconductor 
material of said second conductivity type, said 

source region extending from said upper surface into 
 

said well region to a second depth, said source 
region abutting said channel region; and 

   a deep body contact region comprised of a semi-conductor 
material of said first conductivity type, 

said deep body contact region extending into said 
well region to a third depth, a portion of said deep 

body contact region extending underneath at least a 
part of said source region, said third depth being 

greater than said first and second depths. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 29, wherein 
said deep body contact region does not abut said channel 

region. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 29, wherein 
said deep body contact region has a substantially vertical 

side surface which faces the channel region and the drain 
region. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 29, wherein 
said deep body contact region has a side surface which 

faces the drain region, and wherein the drain region has a 
side surface which faces the deep body contact region, 

said deep body contact region being disposed so that said 
side surface of said deep body contact region is 

substantially equidistant from said side surface of said 
drain region over an area of said side surface of said 

deep body contact region. 
The field effect transistor of Claim 29, wherein 
said gate functions as a mask when dopants are implanted 

to form said source region and said drain region, said 
source and drain regions being self aligned with said 

gate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
