<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632493</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device with twice-bonded wire and method for manufacturing.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2148	H01L2160	H01L21607	H01L2348	H01L23495	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to semiconductor devices having 
improved quality and reliability features, wherein the wire 

leads which connect the semiconductor chip to the pins 
extend unbroken and are bonded twice on each pin to improve 

the bonding reiability. 
The invention also concerns a method for manufacturing such 
a semiconductor device. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to semiconductor devices having 
improved quality and reliability features, and to a 
corresponding manufacturing method. As is well known in the specific field of this invention, 
electric connections require to be established between a 
chip of a semiconductor device and corresponding pins 
provided on a supporting metal frame. The semiconductor device may be of various kind, such as a 
transistor, an integrated circuit, etc.. The semiconductor chip is provided with predetermined 
contact pads to which external terminations of the 
semiconductor device are led. On the other hand, the frame is formed with connection pins 
for mounting and connecting the semiconductor device, at 
the end of the manufacturing process, on a pre-printed 
electronic board. Wires of a conductive material are connected between the 
pads on the chip and the inward ends of the pins. This step of connecting the semiconductor chip to 
corresponding pins is a critical for a proper performance 
of the ultimate semiconductor device. As a matter of fact, it should be considered that at this 
stage of the manufacturing process, the chip has already 
passed an electric test checking the proper performance of 
its circuitry. Thus, unless the wire connections are absolutely faultless, 
the semiconductor may fail to operate, or reveal  
 
malfunctions and shall be rejected. In particular, the device may fail to operate correctly 
during the electric testing thereof, as the result of a 
faulty bonding. But still worse and hence more undesirable 
is the risk of faulty operation of the semiconductor 
device, or that the device may fail to operate after some 
time in use, due to any faulty bonded connection. It can be appreciated, therefore, that there exist aspects 
of the device quality and reliability which do depend on 
successful bonding of the connecting wires. Also evident is 
the importance of such aspects to the manufacturers of 
semiconductor circuits. In order to provide bonded connections of good quality and 
reliability, stitch wire bonding equipment has been 
employed. Each equipment carries, on its end portion, an 
automatically operated bonding head for bonding the ends of 
a wire lead to the chip and to the post lead portions of 
the metal frame contact pins, respectively. While substantially achieving its objective, such equipment 
isn't yet ensuring a sufficient degree of accuracy and 
reliability to avoid all the problems with which bonded 
wire connections have been beset. It should be further
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor device having improved quality and 
reliability features and comprising at least one 

semiconductor chip (1) soldered to a metal supporting frame 
provided with connection pins (7), and wire leads (8) 

connecting said pins to selected points (6) on the chip, 
characterized in that it comprises an unbroken connecting 

wire (8) and two serially arranged bondings (10,11) of said 
wire on each pin (7). 
A device according to Claim 1, characterized in that 
both bondings (10 and 11) of the wire (8) on each pin (7) 

are located on the post lead portion (6) thereof 
confronting the chip edge. 
A device according to Claim 1, characterized in that the 
spacing between centers of the two bondings (10,11) on the 

pin (7) side is at least twice the diameter dimension of 
the connecting wire. 
A device according to Claim 3, characterized in that the 
connecting wire (8) forms a bend (12) between the two 

bondings (10,11) on each pin (7). 
A method for bonding wire leads (8) between a 
semiconductor chip (1) and corresponding pins (7) of a 

semiconductor device, having improved quality and 
reliability features, characterized in that it comprises 

the following steps: 

bringing the connecting wire (8), held in a groove of a 
bonding tip (13), on a post lead end (6) of a pin (7); 
performing a first bonding (10) of said connecting wire 
on said pin; 
shifting the bonding tip (14) with the wire (8) beneath 
to a second peripheral portion (6) of the pin (7) and 

 
performing a second bonding (11) close to the first (10) 

one; 
setting the bonding tip (15), with the same connecting 
wire (8) beneath, on the semiconductor chip (1) and 

performing a corresponding third bonding (9); and 
while holding the tip (15) firmly against the third 
bonding (9), parting the connecting wire. 
A method according to Claim 5, characterized in that the 
amount of displacement of the tip over the pin is at least 

twice the diameter dimension of the wire (8) and such that 
a bend (12) is formed in the connecting wire (8) between 

said bonding positions (10,11). 
A manufacturing method according to Claim 5, 
characterized in that the sequence of three bondings is 

reversed to first perform the bonding on the chip (1) and 
end by performing the third bonding on the pin (7). 
A manufacturing method according to either Claim 5 or 7, 
characterized in that the connecting wire (8) is unbroken 

and is curved between each bonding pair. 
A manufacturing method according to either Claim 5 or 7, 
characterized in that the wire (8) bondings (10,11) to each 

pin (7) are restricted to the terminating portion (6) 
thereof confronting the chip edge. 
A manufacturing method according to Claim 9, 
characterized in that the spacing of the two bondings 

(10,11) on each pin (7) is at least twice the diameter 
dimension of the connecting wire (8). 
A manufacturing method according to either Claim 5 or 
7, characterized in that all the connecting wire bondings 

(9,10,11) are performed using stitch wire bonding 
techniques and have substantially equal areas. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
