<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654513</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AQUEOUS RESIN COMPOSITION FOR CAN EXTERIOR COATING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09D16120	C09D16700	C09D16132	C09D13304	C09D13306	C08L3300	C09D16700	C09D13304	C09D13306	C09D16120	C08L6700	C08L3300	C08L6700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C08L	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09D161	C09D167	C09D161	C09D133	C09D133	C08L33	C09D167	C09D133	C09D133	C09D161	C08L67	C08L33	C08L67	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An aqueous resin composition for can exterior coating, which is excellent in retorting resistance, hardness and 
processability, reduced in fuming, and comprising 30-70 parts by weight of a cross-linking agent (A) and 70-30 parts 

by weight of a film-forming resin (B). The component (A) comprises a cocondensate of an alkyl-etherified amino resin 
with a hydroxy carboxylic acid. The component (B) comprises an acrylate or polyester resin. It is necessary that both 

components can be dissolved or dispersed in an aqueous medium. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUI CYTEC LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUI CYTEC LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUTANI MANABU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUTANI, MANABU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an aqueous
resin composition for outer surface coating of cans,
which gives a coating film of excellent resistance to
pasteurization, excellent hardness and excellent processability
and which generates, during baking of
the coating film, a reduced amount of a vapor or mist
of low-molecular weight (low fuming) from an alkyletherified
amino resin component of the composition.In recent years, conventional solvent type
coatings are being replaced by aqueous coatings in order
to prevent the air pollution caused by the organic
vapors emitted from said solvent type coatings.Ordinary aqueous coatings for cans comprise a
film-forming resin and a crosslinking agent. As the
crosslinking agent, there is mainly used an alkyl-etherified
melamine resin or an alkyl-etherified benzoguanamine
resin.As these amino resins, there is used an
alkyl-etherified amino resin containing a functional 
group such as imino group, methylol group or the like,
or a completely alkyl-etherified amino resin. There is
also used an amino resin containing a mononuclear
component in a large amount, in order to allow the
resulting aqueous coating to have sufficient water
solubility.When such an amino resin is used as the
crosslinking agent, however, a vapor of low-molecular
weight substance is emitted from the alkyl-etherified
amino resin during the baking of the aqueous coating
composition containing the amino resin. The vapor reaches the
inner wall of the curing oven and condenses; the condensate
drops on the coated article. Thus,
problems arise such as the deterioration of the coated
surface, and the necessity of frequent cleaning of ovens.
Hence, an improvement therefor
is desired.There also remain, in some cases, a problem
of insufficient stability of coating caused by an
alkyl-etherified amino resin of insufficient water
solubility, and a problem of poor resistance to pasteurization,
insufficient hardness and processability,
caused by the high content of mononuclear component.The techniques for making water-soluble a
water-insoluble alkyl-etherified amino resin are disclosed 
in U.S. Patent No. 3,464,946, U.S. Patent No.
3,444,114, etc. When the resulting amino resin is
used as a crosslinking agent for outer surface coating
of cans, however, the coating is not satisfactory in
fuming during baking as well as in film properties such
as resistance to pasteurization, hardness, processability
and the like.The object of the present invention is to
provide an aqueous resin composition for outer surface
coating of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of roll coating outer surfaces of cans,
comprising roll coating the outer surfaces of cans using an

aqueous resin composition comprising (a) 30-70 parts by
weight of a crosslinking agent (A) which is soluble or

dispersible in an aqueous medium, and which is obtainable
by subjecting (i) 100 parts by weight of a resin addition

product of an amine, a paraformaldehyde and an alcohol,
which product contains a mononuclear component, and (ii)

0.5 to 50 parts by weight of a hydroxycarboxylic acid to
co-condensation until the mononuclear component is present

in an amount of from 7 to 40% by weight, and then
subjecting the ensuing product to neutralization or partial

neutralization with a basic compound, and (b) 70-30 parts
by weight of a film-forming resin (B) which is at least one

resin selected from acrylic resins and polyester resins and
which is soluble or dispersible in an aqueous medium and

reactive with the crosslinking agent; and thereafter baking
the coating at 100-250°C for 5 seconds to 20 minutes.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the
resin addition product is based on an aminotriazine resin

or a urea derivative resin. 
The method according to claim 2, wherein an
alcohol used in preparing the resin addition product is

selected from aliphatic alcohols, aromatic alcohols and
ether alcohols.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the
hydroxycarboxylic acid is selected from citric acid, malic

acid, tartaric acid, lactic acid, gallic acid, salicylic
acid and dimethylolpropionic acid.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the co-condensation
reaction is conducted in an organic solvent in

the temperature range of 60 to 130°C.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the
proportions of the resin addition product and the

hydroxycarboxylic acid are such that the proportion of the
latter is in the range of 5 to 30 parts by weight per 100

parts by weight of the former.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the
basic compound is an alkylamine or an alkanolamine.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the
acrylic resin is obtainable from an α,β-monoethylenically 

unsaturated carboxylic acid, an alkyl or hydroxyalkyl ester
thereof or an acrylamide derivative, or from one of these

monomers and a vinyl compound copolymerizable therewith.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the
polyester resin is an oil-free polyester resin or a resin

obtainable by modifying an oil-free polyester resin with an
oil or a fatty acid.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the oil-free
polyester resin is obtainable by polycondensation

between an acid component selected from dicarboxylic acids
and polycarboxylic acids and a glycol component selected

from glycols and tri- or higher alcohols.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the oil-modified
polyester resin is obtainable by polycondensation

between an acid component selected from dicarboxylic acids
and polycarboxylic acids, a glycol selected from glycols

and tri- or higher alcohols, and an oil or a fatty acid.
The method according to claim 1, the crosslinking
agent (A) and the film-forming resin (B) are compounded

with at least one additive selected from the group
consisting of a surface-smoothening agent, a dispersing 

agent, a tackifier, a defoaming agent, a pigment and a
curing aid, selected from an aromatic sulfonic acid and an

amine-blocked aromatic sulfonic acid.
An aqueous roll-coating resin composition, for
outer surface coating of cans according to the method of

claim 1, comprising (a) 30-70 parts by weight of a
crosslinking agent (A) which is soluble or dispersible in

an aqueous medium, and which is obtainable by subjecting
(i) 100 parts by weight of a resin addition product of an

amine, a paraformaldehyde and an alcohol, which product
contains a mononuclear component, and (ii) 0.5 to 50 parts

by weight of a hydroxycarboxylic acid to co-condensation
until the mononuclear component is present in an amount of

from 7 to 40% by weight, and then subjecting the ensuing
product to neutralization or partial neutralization with a

basic compound, and (b) 70-30 parts by weight of a film-forming
resin (B) which is at least one resin selected from

acrylic resins and polyester resins, which is soluble or
dispersible in an aqueous medium, and which is reactive

with the crosslinking agent.
A resin composition according to claim 13,
wherein the resin addition product is based on an

aminotriazine resin or a urea derivative resin. 
A resin composition according to claim 14,
wherein an alcohol used in preparing the resin addition

product is selected from aliphatic alcohols, aromatic
alcohols and ether alcohols.
A resin composition according to claim 13,
wherein the hydroxycarboxylic acid is selected from citric

acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, lactic acid, gallic acid,
salicylic acid and dimethylolpropionic acid.
A resin composition according to claim 13,
wherein the co-condensation reaction is conducted in an

organic solvent in the temperature range of 60 to 130°C.
A resin composition according to claim 13,
wherein the proportions of the resin addition product and

the hydroxycarboxylic acid are such that the proportion of
the latter is i
n the range of 5 to 30 parts by weight per
100 parts by weight of the former.
A resin composition according to claim 13,
wherein the basic compound is an alkylamine or an

alkanolamine.
A resin composition according to claim 13, 
wherein the acrylic resin is obtainable from an α,β-monoethylenically

unsaturated carboxylic acid, an alkyl or
hydroxyalkyl ester thereof or an acrylamide derivative, or

from one of these monomers and a vinyl compound
copolymerizable therewith.
A resin composition according to claim 13,
wherein the polyester resin is an oil-free polyester resin

or a resin obtainable by modifying an oil-free polyester
resin with an oil or a fatty acid.
A resin composition according to claim 21,
wherein the oil-free polyester resin is obtainable by

polycondensation between an acid component selected from
dicarboxylic acids and polycarboxylic acids and a glycol

component selected from glycols and tri- or higher
alcohols.
A resin composition according to claim 21,
wherein the oil-modified polyester resin is obtainable by

polycondensation between an acid component selected from
dicarboxylic acids and polycarboxylic acids, a glycol

selected from glycols and tri- or higher alcohols, and an
oil or a fatty acid. 
A resin composition according to claim 13, which
is obtainable by compounding the crosslinking agent (A) and

the film-forming resin (B) with at least one additive
selected from a surface-smoothening agent, a dispersing

agent, a tackifier, a defoaming agent, a pigment and a
curing aid, selected from an aromatic sulfonic acid or an

amine-blocked aromatic sulfonic acid.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
