<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616763</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stable with feeding system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K110	A01K502	A01K100	A01K500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K1	A01K5	A01K1	A01K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stable with a dwelling area (2) for animals, a feeding 
area (1) for storing and presenting feed (5) and a partition 

(3) between the dwelling area (2) and the feeding area (1), 
provided with openings for allowing the heads of animals in 

the dwelling area (2) access to the feeding area (1), is 
equipped with a feed slide (6) moveable from a starting 

position through the feeding area (1) towards the partition 
(3), for pushing feed (5) stored in the feeding area (1) over 

the floor (4) of the feeding area (1) towards the partition 
(3) and with means for driving the feed slide (6). 
By means of the feed slide, feed (5) can be pushed 
towards the partition (3) according as the feed (5) is being 

eaten, so that at all times a substantially constant small 
amount of feed is accessible to the animals. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEELINK JOHANNES M W
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEELINK, JOHANNES MARTINUS WILLIBRORDUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEELINK JOHANNES MARTINUS WILL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEELINK, JOHANNES MARTINUS WILLIBRORDUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a stable according to the 
preamble of claim 1. Such a stable is disclosed in 
EP-A-0 043 098. In stables of this type the feed is placed in the part 
of the feeding area between the partition and the feed slide. An animal in the dwelling area can reach the feed placed 
in the feeding area by sticking its head through an opening in 
the partition.  
 By means of the feed slide moveable from a starting 
position through the feeding area to the partition, feed 
stored in the feeding area can be pushed over the floor of the 
feeding area towards the partition, the feed slide being 
driven by the means for driving the feed slide. Thus, the feed 
can be moved up towards the partition when it has been partly 
eaten, so that the distance from the partition to the feed can 
be kept substantially constant and at all times only a small 
portion of the feed is accessible to the animals behind the 
partition. However, in the stable known from EP-A-0 043 098 the 
floor is provided with slots within which the hauling elements 
are provided in form of endless cables passing over sheaves 
arranged in the slots adjacent the ends of the slots. The 
provision of such slots is costly. Moreover, dirt and feed 
would tend to accumulate in the slots, which makes it relatively 
difficult to clean the floor. The present invention is aimed at solving the problem of 
providing a stable with driven feed slides which are easier to 
install and of which the drive system for the feed slides is 
of a more simple construction. According to the invention this problem is solved by 
providing a stable of the above-identified type with the 
characterizing features of claim 1. Thus the need of providing a slot or slots is obviated 
and the disadvantages associated therewith are avoided while 
at the same time a simple construction is provided.  
 In a stable according to the invention the feed can be 
placed in a random position on the hauling element or elements 
as well as on the floor, so the positions of the hauling 
element or elements extend need not be taken into 
consideration when placing the feed. The hauling element or 
elements need not be lowered to allow a tractor to drive into 
the feeding area to place the feed. The feeding area can 
readily be walked through even when the hauling element or 
elements is or respectively are in operation. The 
accessibility of the feed to the animals is not hampered by 
the hauling element or elements. In spite of the fact that the packs of feed have a large 
weight
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A stable, in particular a cubicle stable for keeping 
cows, comprising a dwelling area (2) for animals, a feeding 

area (1) with a floor (4) for storing and presenting feed (5) 
and a partition (3) between the dwelling area (2) and the 

feeding area (1) with openings allowing heads of animals in 
the dwelling area (2) access to the feeding area (1), at least 

one feed slide (6) moveable from a starting position through 
the feeding area (1) to the partition (3) for pushing fee
d (5) 
stored in the feeding area (1) over the floor (4) of the 

feeding area (1) to the partition (3) and means for driving 
the feed slide (6) comprising at least one flexible hauling 

element (7) between the feed slide (6) and the partition (3) 
for hauling the feed slide (6) towards the partition (3), the 

hauling element or at least one of the hauling elements (7) 
extending in front of a part of the feed slide (6) between 

lateral ends of the feed slide, 
characterized in that
 the 
or each hauling element (7) in tensioned condition extends 

closely above the floor (4) of the feeding area (1), in such a 
manner that feed (5) can be placed in a random position on the 

floor (4) and on the hauling element or elements (7) extending 
over the floor. 
A stable according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
means for driving the feed slide (6) are equipped with at 

least one down-holder wheel (22) over which pass the hauling 
element or elements (7, 10).  

 
A stable according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the feed slide (6) comprises a substantially vertical screen 

(24) and a support (25) projecting on the side of the screen 
(24) remote from the partition (3). 
A stable according to any one of claims 1-3, 
characterized in that the or each hauling element (7) is 

designed as a hauling band. 
A stable according to any one of claims 1-4, 
characterized by means (27), arranged on the side of the 

feeding area (1) in front of the partition (3), for removing 
adherent feed from the hauling element or elements (7). 
A stable according to claim 5, characterized in that the 
or each means for removing adherent feed from the hauling 

element or elements is designed as a scraper (27). 
A stable according to claim 5, characterized in that the 
or each means for removing adherent feed from the hauling 

element or elements is designed as a brush. 
A stable according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the feed slide (6) is made up of a 

plurality of feed slide modules pivotally coupled to each 
other with some play in horizontal direction parallel to the 

feed slide (6), and the means for driving the feed slide are 
made up of a plurality of drive modules, corresponding in 

number with the number of feed slide modules, each coupled for 
driving the displacement of a certain feed slide module. 
A stable according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the means for driving the feed slide (6)  

 
comprise at least one reel (8) for winding up the hauling 

element or elements (7). 
A stable according to claim 9, characterized in that the 
or each reel (8) is arranged in the area of the partition (3), 

and that the means for driving the feed slide (6) are equipped 
with a divert wheel (9) mounted on the side of the feed 

slide (6) remote from the partition (3) and a further hauling 
element (10) extending by way of the divert wheel (9), between 

the feed slide (6) and a further reel (11), coupled with said 
reels (8), for winding up said further hauling element (10). 
A stable according to claim 10, characterized in that the 
further reel (11) along with the first-mentioned reel or reels 

(8) are mounted on a common shaft (12). 
A stable according to claim 10 or 11, characterized in 
that the means for driving the feed slide (6) are equipped 

with a tensioner (13) for keeping the further hauling element 
(10) tensioned between the further reel (11) and the feed 

slide (6). 
A stable according to any one of claims 9-12, 
characterized in that the or each reel (8) is coupled with a 

ratchet wheel (14) operable by a pawl (15) coupled with a 
working cylinder (16). 
A stable according to claim 11 or 12 and according to 
claim 13, characterized in that the pawl (15) and the ratchet 

wheel (14) are adapted for driving the ratchet wheel (14) in 
both directions. 
A stable according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the feed slide (6) comprises a screen  

 
(24) projecting upwards from a point near the floor (4), of 

which screen a first part (31) near the floor (4) is located 
closer to the partition (3) than a second part (32) located 

above said first part (31). 
A stable according to claim 15, characterized in that the 
screen (24) slants away from the partition (3) continuously 

from a point near the floor (4) to near its top. 
A stable according to claim 15, characterized in that the 
screen (24) comprises at least two panels (33, 34, 35) located 

above each other, each slanting away from the partition (3), a 
lower part of the upper panel (34, 35) being located closer to 

the partition (3) than an upper part of the lower panel (33 
and 34, respectively). 
A stable according to claim 16, characterized in that the 
second part (32) of the screen (24) adjoins the first part 

(31) thereof and slants away from the partition to a higher 
degree than the first part (31). 
A stable according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the feed slide (6) comprises a screen 

(24) projecting upwards from a point near the floor (4) and a 
screen part (36) spaced from the floor (4), projecting from 

the screen (24) towards the partition (3). 
A system for fitting up a stable according to claim 1, 
comprising a feed slide (6) moveable over a floor for pushing 

feed over said floor, means for moving the feed slide (6) over 
said floor, said means comprising at least one flexible 

hauling element (7) extending from a lower part (31) of the 
feed slide (6) such that, when tensioned in operating  

 
condition, said hauling element or elements (7) extend(s) 

closely above said floor (4), the hauling element or at least 
one of the hauling elements (7) extending from a part of the 

feed slide (6) between lateral ends of the feed slide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
