<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635373</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ink jet recording apparatus using recording unit with ink cartridge having ink inducing element
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2175	B41J2175	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ink cartridge (3) including an ink reservoir 
portion having a porous member (37) for storing ink 

and an ink supply portion (39) has an ink inducing 
element (47) disposed between the ink reservoir 

portion and the ink supply portion (39). The ink 
inducing element (47) is made of bundle of fibers in 

which each fiber is disposed in parallel to the 
direction of ink supplying from the ink reservoir to 

the ink supply portion (39), and one end of the ink 
inducing element (47) is press-touched to the porous 

member (37). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKENOUCHI MASANORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUKUDA KEIICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UJITA TOSHIHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKENOUCHI, MASANORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUKUDA, KEIICHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UJITA, TOSHIHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an ink-jet recording
apparatus, and more particularly to an ink cartridge
(hereinafter also referred to as an ink tank) for storing ink
to be supplied to an ink-jet head, a recording unit which
integrally includes the ink cartridge and the ink-jet head,
which are removably connected with each other, and the ink-jet
recording apparatus on which the recording unit can be
removably mounted. In the following description, the term
record" includes a meaning of printing characters, images or
the like on cloth, paper, plastic sheet, or the like.EP-A-0 536 980 shows a recording head integrally formed
together with a reservoir. The reservoir includes a sponge
and is movable by a carriage. If the carriage moves the head-reservoir-combination
in a park position, the reservoir comes
in touch with an ink container integrally formed with a
sleeve wherein the sleeve but not the container contains a
fibrous material having a plurality of capillary ducts. Several types of recording apparatuses on which
a recording head of one's own method such as: wire-dot
method; thermal recording method; thermal-transfer
method; and ink-jet method, is mounted, and
which record characters, images or the like on a
recording medium such as a paper, have been
proposed. Among these methods, the ink-jet
recording method is one of non-impact methods and
includes the steps of ejecting ink droplets and
depositing these ink droplets on the recording
medium. Thereby, a recording apparatus using a
recording unit of this method can perform recording
with high-speed and high-density. As a result, they 
have been provided as printers as output terminals
of an information processing systems e.g., copying
machines, facsimiles, printing machines, word
processors, work stations, or the like; or they have
been provided as handy- or portable-printers of
personal computers, host computers, optical disc- or
video- equipment or the like.In the case of that the ink-jet recording
apparatus is used in these system, the ink-jet
recording apparatus is constructed so as to accord
with respective particular function and condition
for use of these systems. To miniaturize a size of
the information processing system is one of main
current demand. Accordingly, the recording unit and
the main body of the ink-jet recording apparatus
using this unit are demanded to be miniaturized.While such a miniaturizing is realized on an
actual apparatus base, however, it is need for the
recording unit or the like to maintain performance
which have
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ink cartridge comprising:

an ink-reserving portion with a porous member for
storing ink;
an ink-supply portion for supplying ink from said ink-reserving
portion to an outside of said ink cartridge;

characterized in that
an ink-inducing element is arranged between said
ink-reserving portion and said ink-supply portion so as to

press said porous member of said ink-reserving portion so
that said porous member is deformed;
a holding member for holding said ink inducing element;
a restriction member to limit said ink inducing element
to slide toward said ink-supply portion;
said ink-inducing element is
slidably held by said holding member, and is formed as a

bundle of fibers in which each fiber is provided along a
sliding direction of said ink-inducing element.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,

characterized in that said bundle of fibers of said ink-inducing
element has a hardened region around a peripheral

surface thereof to hold said fibers together.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that said bundle of fibers is formed by

permeating a binder into a peripheral surface of said ink-inducing
element.
An ink cartridge according to claim 1 for storing
ink to be supplied to a recording head through an ink-inlet

portion of said recording head, wherein

said ink supply portion is for connecting to said
ink-inlet portion;
said ink-inducing element has a first end portion
press-contacting with said ink-inlet portion and a second end

portion press-contacting with said porous member.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that said first end of said ink inducing

element has an area press-contacting with an area of a
filter in said ink-inlet portion of said recording head, and

said former area being larger than said latter area.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that said ink-inducing element of said ink

cartridge is disposed so that a press-contacting portion of
said ink-inducing element with said ink inlet portion is

positioned inside of a peripheral surface of said ink-inducing
element.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 6,
characterized in that said press-contacting portion is over

0.5 mm away from said peripheral surface of said ink-inducing
element along a radial direction thereof.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that said ink-inducing element is able to

slide along a direction of connecting said recording head
with said ink cartridge. 
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that a slide distance of said ink-inducing

element is in a range of 0.1 mm to 3 mm.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that said bundle of said fibers is made of

polyester fibers with average diameters in a range of 0.01
mm to 0.05 mm.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that said bundle of fibers of said ink-inducing

element is formed by permeating a binder into a
peripheral surface of said ink-inducing element.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 11,
characterized in that said binder is polyetherpolyol

urethane.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that said ink-supply portion of said

cartridge which is in an envelope is sealed with a sealing
member which can be easily removed when said ink cartridge

is put into use. 
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 13,
characterized in that space formed between said sealing

member and said ink-inducing element is communicated with
space formed in said ink cartridge.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 13,
characterized in that said sealing member is an aluminum-laminated

film.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 13,
characterized in that said sealing member comprises a

plurality of layers in which at least one layer is made of
polyolefin as a contact layer to be contacted with said ink

cartridge by means of thermal welding.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 13,
characterized in that an ink absorber is placed between

said sealing member and said ink-inducing element.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 17,
characterized in that said ink-absorber is made of an expanded resin

such as polyvinyl alcohol. 
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 17,
characterized in that said ink-absorber is fixed on said

sealing member by means of thermal welding.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 17,
characterized in that said ink absorber is made of same

material as that of said contact layer of said sealing
member.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that a capillary force of said ink inducing

element is higher than that of said porous member,
and also a pressure loss of said ink inducing element is 20

mmAq or under.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that a capillary force of said ink

inducing element is in a range of 85 mmAq to 400 mmAq.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that an average size of space between said

fibers in said ink-inducing element is in a range of 0.01
mm to 0.05 mm. 
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that a length of said ink inducing element

along the direction of supplying ink is in a range of 2 mm
to 6 mm.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that said ink-inducing element has a

region with a fiber density in said range of 100 to 200
fibers/mm
2
.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that an effective diameter of said

ink-inducing element is in a range of 1 mm to 18 mm.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that said ink-inducing element is disposed

in a center region of a cross section of said porous member
in a direction of supplying ink.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that said ink-inducing element is disposed

in a center region of a cross section of said ink cartridge
in a direction of supplying said ink. 
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that said ink-inducing element is disposed

in a center region of a cross section of said porous member
in a direction of supplying said ink.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 4,
characterized in that said ink-inducing element is disposed

in a center region of a cross section of said ink cartridge
in a direction of supplying said ink.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 1,
characterized in that said ink-supply portion has an air

path for letting air to be introduced into said ink
cartridge from said ink-supply portion escape to an outside

of said ink cartridge when said ink-inlet portion of said
recording head is inserted into said ink-supply portion.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 31,
characterized in that said air path is formed as a groove

on an inner wall of said ink-supply portion.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 31,
characterized in that said air path is communicated with an 

air communicating port through an inner space of said ink
cartridge to communicate with an outside of said ink

cartridge.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 31,
characterized in that a capillary force of said ink inducing

element is higher than that of said porous member,
and also a pressure loss of said ink guide member is 20

mmAq or under.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 31,
characterized in that said capillary force of said ink

inducing element is in a range of 85 mmAq to 400 mmAq.
An ink cartridge as claimed in claim 31,
characterized in that an average size of space between said

fibers in said ink-inducing element is in a range of 0.01 mm
to 0.05 mm.
An ink-jet recording apparatus comprising:
a recording unit including:


a recording head with a plurality of ejection
ports;
an ink cartridge according to one of the preceding
claims and
a carriage being provided for detachably mounting
said recording unit.
An ink-jet recording unit comprising:

a recording head with a plurality of ejection ports for
ejecting ink; and
an ink cartridge according to one of claims 1 to 36.
An ink-jet recording unit as claimed in claim 37
or 38, characterized in that an air path for letting air escape

to an outside is formed in said ink-supply portion which is
formed when said recording head and said ink cartridge are

connected with each other and is disposed in a space between
said ink inducing element and a wall of said ink supply portion.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
