<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653053</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPENSATED LOAD MEASURING DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F302	B65F302	G01G300	G01G314	G01G1908	G01G1912	G01L120	G01L122	G01L126	G01L126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B65F	G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F3	B65F3	G01G3	G01G3	G01G19	G01G19	G01L1	G01L1	G01L1	G01L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In weighing apparatus (10) in which weight is measured by the response of a principal strain gauge (15), additional strain gauges (16) are located to respond to secondary strain representing the influence of secondary forces on the response of the principal gauge.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KELLENBACH ARTHUR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KELLENBACH, ARTHUR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLENBACH ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLENBACH, ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPENSATED LOAD MEASURING DEVICEFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to devices in which strain is measured to determine the value of a force, particularly an applied force, typically weight. The invention is especially suited to the measurement of loads on structures not specially designed for weight measurement.BACKGROUND ARTIn conventional weight measurement, a carefully designed and machined device such as a load cell is employed, in conjunction with a load receptor such as a platform, bin, tank, hopper, silo, pan, etc.The load cell is a costly device of high grade material such as heat-treatable high tensile strength tool steel or aluminium, machined with precision to a geometry designed to minimise the sensitivity of the cell to extraneous strain and to minimise variations in the strain field orientation at the strain sensor location or locations.An example is what is commonly known as a single point loadcell. This type of loadcell relies on complex and costly machining to produce a parallelogram structure and general geometry intended mechanically to prevent unwanted bending and twisting forces from acting on the strain sensing devices of the loadcell.Another example is what is commonly known as a shearbea loadcell. Again, the structure of this type of loadcell is intended to provide sensitivity only toSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

shear forces at the strain sensing location. Such a loadcell is, however, still sensitive to secondary forces at the strain sensing location despite most careful and accurate mechanical design, and complex machining. This sensitivity results in stringent requirements for accurate installation and load line maintenance. Costly components are necessary to meet the requirements.Strain in materials can arise from a variety of stress patterns due to a variety of forces such as shear forces, bending forces, torsional forces, tension forces, compression forces, etc. Where apparatus is supported on more than one weight sensing device, or where two or more weight sensing devices are mechanically linked by a weight-receiving structure, for example through a bin, pallet, bag or baled materials, and particularly where it is required to measure weight by strain measurement on a pre-existing structure which has not or cannot be designed for the minimisation of extraneous strain, such problems are less controllable. As result, little success has been achieved in obtaining reliable and accurate load measurement in such circumstances.Many instances exist, however, where weighing of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. Apparatus in which a principal force which causes principal strain in a structure is measured by the response of a principal strain sensing means, characterised in that the apparatus further comprises means responsive to secondary strain caused by force other than said principal force, said secondary strain representing the influence of secondary force on the response of said principal strain sensing means.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which said means responsive to secondary strain includes a secondary strain sensor responsive to said secondary strain, the response of said secondary strain sensor being scaled and combined with the response of said principal strain sensing means.
3. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which said principal strain sensing means includes a principal strain gauge having a primary ,sensing axis on which it responds to said principal strain and said means responsive to secondary strain includes a secondary strain gauge having a primary sensing axis orientated for response to secondary strain.
4. Apparatus according to claim 3 in which said secondary strain gauge is orientated for response to strain arising from a chosen secondary force.
5. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which said principal strain sensing means includes a principal strain gauge having a primary sensing axis on which it responds to said principal strain and said means responsive to secondary strain includes a plurality of secondary strain gauges each having a primary sensing axis orientated for response to secondary strain. 


6. Apparatus according to claim 5 in which each respective secondary strain gauge is orientated for response to secondary strain arising from a respective chosen secondary force.
7. Apparatus for the measurement of a load in which shear strain is measured by principal strain sensing means having primary strain sensing axes orientated for response to shear strain arising from said load, characterised in that said apparatus includes secondary strain sensing means responsive to secondary strain being strain other than said shear strain, said secondary strain representing the influence on said principal strain sensing means of secondary force being force other than said load.
8. Apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said secondary strain includes bending strain.
9. Apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said secondary strain includes bending strain in a plane containing the direction in which said load acts on said structure.
10. Apparatus according to claim 7 in which said secondary strain includes bending strain in a plane substantially normal to the direction in which said load acts on said structure.
11. Apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 10 in which said secondary strain includes compression strain.
12. Apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 10 in which said secondary strain includes tensile strain. 


13. Apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 10 in which said secondary strain includes both tensile and compressive strain.
14. Apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 10 in which said secondary strain includes strain due to torque.
15. Apparatus according to any one of claims 7 to 10 in which said secondary strain includes strain due to torque and to compression.
16. Apparatus for the measurement of a load in which compression strain is measured by principal strain sensing means having a primary strain sensing axis orientated for response to compression strain arising from said load, characterised in that said apparatus includes secondary sensing strain means responsive to secondary strain being strain other than said compression strain, said secondary strain representing the influence on said principal strain sensing means of secondary force being force other than said load.
17. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said secondary strain includes bending strain.
18. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said secondary strain includes tension strain.
19. Apparatus for the measurement of a load in which tension strain is measured by principal strain sensing means having a primary strain sensing axis orientated for response to tension strain arising from said load, characterised in that said apparatus includes secondary sensing strain means responsive to secondary strain being strain other than said tension strain, 



said secondary strain representing the influence on said principal strain sensing means of secondary force being force other than said load.
20. Apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said secondary strain includes bending strain.
21. Apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said secondary strain includes compression strain.
22. Load measurement apparatus including a load receiving body, first strain gauge means located on said body and orientated for response to shear in said body due to said load, second strain gauge means located adjacent said first strain gauge means and orientated for response to secondary strain being strain other than that due to said shear.
23. Apparatus according to claim 22 wherein the response of said second strain gauge means is scaled according to the influence of ,said secondary strain on said first strain gauge means and combined with the response of said first strain gauge means.
24. Apparatus according to claim 22 further comprising third strain gauge means located adjacent said first strain gauge means and orientated for response to strain other than that due to shear and other than that to which said second strain gauge means is responsive.
25. Apparatus according to claim 24 wherein the response of said third strain gauge means is scaled according to the influence of secondary strain on said first strain gauge means and combined with the response of said first and second strain gauge means. 


26. Apparatus according to claim 24 wherein said secondary strain includes strain caused by bending.
27. Apparatus according to claim 22 further including means for the support of said load receiving body at one end thereof.
28. Apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said support means includes a support plate attached to said end.
29. Apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said support means includes a slot for the reception of said plate.
30. Apparatus according to claim 29 wherein said support means includes a support flange extending from said plate in a plane normal thereto.
31. Apparatus according to claim 29 wherein said support means includes a sleeve attached to said end and a pin adapted for reception in said sleeve.
32. Apparatus according to claim 22 in which said first and said second strain gauge means are spaced from the neutral axis of the body with respect to bending in response to said load.
33. Apparatus according to claim 32 in which said first and second strain gauge means are located substantially on a common axis substantially parallel to said neutral axis.
34. Apparatus according to claim 24 in which said first second and third strain gauge means are spaced from the neutral axis of the body with respect to bending in response to said load. 


35. Apparatus according to claim 32 in which said first, second and third strain gauge means are located substantially on a common axis substantially parallel to said neutral axis.
36. Apparatus according to claim 32 in which said second strain gauge means responds to strain arising from bending in the plane containing the direction of said load.
37. Apparatus according to any one of claims 22 to 36 wherein said body includes a web and upper and lower flanges substantially forming an I-beam configuration, said strain gauge means being located on said web.
38. Load measurement apparatus including a load receiving body supported at spaced support regions, first and second strain gauge means located on said body and orientated for response to shear in said body due to said load, third and fourth strain gauge means respectively located adjacent said first and second strain gauge means and orientated for response to secondary strain being strain other than that due to said shear.
39. Load measurement apparatus according to claim 38 in which said third and fourth strain gauge means are orientated for response to bending strain.
40. Load measurement apparatus according to claim 39 in which the responses of said third and fourth strain gauge means are scaled and combined with the response of said first and second strain gauge means.
41. Load measurement apparatus including a load receiving body supported at spaced support regions, 


first and second strain gauge means located on said body and orientated for response to shear in said body due to said load, said apparatus further comprising third and fourth strain gauge means the response of said third and fourth strain gauge means representing the influence of secondary strain respectively on said first and second strain gauge means.
42. Load measurement apparatus according to claim 41 in which said third and fourth strain gauge means are orientated for response to bending strain.
43. Load measurement apparatus according to claim 41 in which the responses of said third and fourth strain gauge means are scaled and combined with the response of said first and second strain gauge means.
44. Apparatus for the measurement of a principal force on a structure, in which principal strain arising from said force is measured at a strain measurement location on the structure, characterised in that the apparatus further comprises means responsive to secondary strain at said location arising from secondary forces, said secondary strain representing the influence of said secondary forces on the measurement of said principal strain.
45. Apparatus for the measurement of a principal force on a structure, in which the primary sensing axis of principal strain gauge means is orientated for response to variation in said principal force, characterised in that the apparatus further comprises secondary strain gauge means the primary sensing axis of which is orientated for response to variation in secondary forces, the response of said secondary strain gauge means representing the influence of said secondary forces on the measurement of said principal 


strain .
46. Apparatus for the measurement of a load supported on a pair of members in each of which shear strain is measured by principal strain sensing means having primary strain sensing axes orientated for response to shear strain arising from said load, characterised in that said apparatus includes on each member secondary sensing strain means responsive to secondary strain being strain other than said shear strain.
47. Apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said secondary strain includes bending strain.
48. Apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said secondary strain includes bending strain in a plane containing the direction in which said load acts on said structure.
49. Apparatus according to claim 46 in which said secondary strain includes bending strain in a plane substantially normal to the direction in which said load acts on said structure.
50. Apparatus according to any one of claims 46 to 49 in which said secondary strain includes compression strain.
51. Apparatus according to any one of claims 46 to 49 in which said secondary strain includes tensile strain.
52. Apparatus according to any one of claims 46 to 49 in which said secondary strain includes both tensile and compressive strain.
53. Apparatus according to any one of claims 46 to 49 



in which said secondary strain includes strain due to torque.
54. Apparatus according to any one of claims 46 to 49 in which said secondary strain includes strain due to torque and to compression. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
