<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647653</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improved method for prepari8ng saccharide fatty acid polyesters by transesterification.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07H1300	C07H1306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07H	C07H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07H13	C07H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved method for the preparation of 
saccharide fatty acid polyesters via a two-step process 

is provided. In the first step, a saccharide is 
partially esterified so as to contain, on average, 

between about 1.5 to 3.5 lower acyl ester groups. In the 
second step, the partially esterified saccharide is 

reacted with a fatty acid-containing reagent (for 
example, fatty acids, fatty acid esters, salts of fatty 

acids, or fatty acid anhydrides) whereby the lower acyl 
ester groups and the hydroxyl groups on the partially 

esterified saccharide are replaced with fatty acid ester 
groups in a transesterification reaction to form a 

saccharide fatty acid polyesters. The use of a partially 
esterified saccharide as a reactant in the 

transesterification reaction allows for a more 
homogeneous reaction system, less caramelization or other 

decomposition reactions, and less low molecular weight 
ester by-product formation. The saccharide fatty acid 

polyesters, especially the sucrose fatty acid polyesters, 
are useful as fat substitutes or low-calorie fats in food 

compositions. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN FOODS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRAFT GENERAL FOODS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASENHUETTL GERARD LEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASENHUETTL, GERARD LEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention provides an improved method for 
the preparation of saccharide fatty acid polyesters, 
especially sucrose fatty acid polyesters, via a two stage 
process involving intermolecular esterification and 
transesterification reactions of the acyl ester and 
hydroxyl groups of a partially esterified saccharide with 
a fatty acid-containing reagent such as fatty acids, 
fatty acid esters, salts of fatty acids, and fatty acid 
anhydrides. The improved method of this invention allows 
for the preparation of saccharide fatty acid polyesters 
with less caramelization and with less generation of low 
molecular weight ester by-products. The reduction of 
caramelization allows for the formation of products 
having better (i.e., lighter) color characteristics. The 
reduction in low molecular weight ester by-products 
reduces the amount of waste material which must be 
disposed of or treated for recycling. The sucrose fatty 
acid polyesters produced by the improved method of this 
invention are especially useful as fat substitutes in 
food applications and products. The human consumption of fats in various 
foodstuffs contributes significantly to obesity. High 
fat diets also contribute to various human diseases such 
as heart and coronary diseases. One method of reducing 
obesity and/or diseases such as heart and coronary 
diseases in the human population is to reduce the 
consumption of fat. In recent years, fat substitutes or 
low-calorie fats have attracted increasing attention as a 
method of reducing the fat and calorie content of  
 
foodstuffs. The objective is to provide edible fats with 
reduced absorption and digestive properties with minimal 
side effects and with acceptable taste and feel 
characteristics when incorporated into food compositions. Transesterification reactions have been used to 
prepare saccharide polyesters with reduced absorption and 
digestive properties. Such transesterification reactions 
generally required high temperatures and/or toxic 
solvents (such as dimethylacetamide, dimethylformamide, 
dimethylsulfoxide, and the like) and were not, therefore, 
generally suitable for the preparation of fat substitutes 
for use in food applications. For example, Rizzi et al., U.S. Patent 
3,963,699 (issued June 15, 1976), provided a solvent-free 
process whereby sucrose and fatty acid lower alkyl esters 
are simply heated together in an inert atmosphere at or 
above the melting point of sucrose (about 185°C). After 
only a few minutes at 185°C or above, sucrose begins to 
decompose
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for making a saccharide fatty acid 
polyester comprising: 


(1) esterifying hydroxyl groups of a saccharide to 

form a partially esterified saccharide having, on average, 
between about 1.5 and 3.5 lower acyl ester groups; 
(2) mixing the partially esterified saccharide, a 
fatty acid-containing reagent, and a transesterification 

catalyst under essentially anhydrous conditions to form a 
reaction mixture, wherein the fatty acid-containing reagent 

is selected from the group consisting of fatty acids, fatty 
acid salts, lower alkyl esters of fatty acids, fatty acid 

anhydrides, and mixtures thereof; and 
(3) heating the reaction mixture to about 95° to 
200°C for a time sufficient to form the saccharide fatty 

acid polyester. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the 
partially esterified saccharide has, on average, between 

about 2 and 3 lower acyl ester groups and the reaction 
mixture is heated to about 95° to 125°C. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein 
the saccharide is sucrose. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein the partially esterified saccharide is sucrose 

having, on average, 2 to 3 ester groups of general formula 
-OOCR, where R is an aliphatic group containing from 1 to 6 

carbon atoms. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein the partially esterified saccharide is treated prior 

to being added to the reaction mixture to reduce the level 
 

of free organic acid therein to less than 0.25 weight 
percent. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, 
wherein a non-fatty acid-containing lower alkyl ester by-product 

and a non-fatty acid-containing lower alkyl alcohol 
by-product are removed from the reaction mixture. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, 
wherein by-product non-fatty acid-containing, low molecular 

weight ester and alcohol are continuously removed from the 
reaction mixture during the heating step. 
A method according to claim 7, wherein the non-fatty 
acid-containing lower alkyl ester by-product and the 

non-fatty acid-containing lower alkyl alcohol by-product are 
continuously removed from the reaction mixture by drawing a 

vacuum of less than about 250 mm Hg (about 333 millibar) 
over the reaction mixture. 
A method according to claim 8, wherein the vacuum 
is less than about 15 mm Hg (about 20 millibar). 
A method according to claim 6 or claim 7, wherein 
the non-fatty acid-containing lower alkyl ester by-product 

and the non-fatty acid-containing lower alkyl alcohol by-product 
are continuously removed from the reaction mixture 

by sparging with a dry inert gas. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, 
wherein the fatty acid-containing reagent is a fatty acid or 

a mixture of fatty acids and the transesterification 
catalyst is an acid catalyst. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein the fatty 
acid-containing reagent is selected from the group 

consisting of stearic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid, 
lauric acid, linoleic acid, and mixtures thereof and the 

transesterification catalyst is selected from the group 
consisting of p-toluenesulfonic acid, phosphoric acid, 

polyphosphoric acid, phosphorous pentoxide, sulfuric acid, 
stannous chloride, and zinc oxide. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, 
wherein the fatty acid-containing reagent is a fatty acid 

ester or a mixture of fatty acid esters and the 
transesterification catalyst is a base catalyst. 
A method according to claim 13, wherein the fatty 
acid-containing reagent is selected from the group 

consisting of methyl stearate, methyl oleate, methyl 
palmitate, methyl laurate, methyl linoleate, and mixtures 

thereof and the transesterification catalyst is selected 
from the group consisting of alkali metals, alkali metal 

carbonates, alkaline earth carbonates, alkali metal 
hydrides, alkaline earth hydrides, alkali metal alkoxides, 

and alkaline earth alkoxides. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
