<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658253</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF PROTECTING OPTICAL ELEMENTS FROM DOWN-HOLE FLUIDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B4701	E21B4700	E21B4700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B47	E21B47	E21B47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surfactant composition is used to repel down-hole fluids such as crude oil and water to prevent remote viewing cameras (38) from being obscured by such fluids, for extended periods of time. An effective amount of a down-hole fluid repelling surfactant, preferably in the form of a liquid solution, is aplied to an exterior surface of an optical element of the viewing instrument, dried, and polished to prevent down-hole fluids from adhering to the surface of the optical element. A preferred liquid surfactant solution contains as an active ingredient an amount of tricresyl phosphate effective to repel down-hole fluids such as oil and water.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DHV INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DHV INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON JACK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON, JACK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to viewing down-hole conditions in a well, and
more particularly concerns use of a surfactant to prevent a down-hole viewing
instrument from being obscured by down-hole fluids such as oil and water.Remote video camera systems incorporated in down-hole instrument probes
can be particularly useful for visually examining wells. One of the more common
uses is leak detection. The camera system may detect turbulence created by a leak
and may identify different fluids leaking into the well bore. Particulate matter
flowing out through a hole can be detected. Damaged, parted, or collapsed tubings
and casings may also be detected. The severity of scale buildup in downhole
tubulars, flow control devices, perforations and locking recesses in landing nipples
can be seen and analyzed.Additional uses for video camera systems include the detection of formation
fractures and their orientations. Video logging provides visual images of the size and
extent of such fractures. Downhole video is also useful in identifying downhole fish
and can shorten the fishing job. Plugged perforations can be detected as well as the
flow through those perforations while the well is flowing or while liquids or gases are
injected through the perforations. Corrosion surveys can be performed with
downhole video and real-time viewing with video images can identify causes for loss
ofproduction, such as sand bridges, fluid invasion or malfunctioning down-hole flow
controls.In all the above uses for down-hole video, it is important for the optical
elements of such video camera systems, including windows, lens systems and lighting
systems, to remain clear. A substantial amount of time can be involved in lowering
the instrument into the well, raising the instrument up out of the well to clean the
viewing or lighting elements of adherent fluids such as oil residing in the well which
obscure the camera's view or attenuates the light output from the lighting system, and
then lowering the instrument again. A video camera system that becomes fogged or
obscured by crude oil will provide no useful data, and can delay operations. The 
presence of down-hole fluid, which can include oil, water, and gases, is common in
such wells, and the video camera system is more efficient if the viewing and lighting
elements of the video camera system are unobscured by such fluids for extended
periods of time. As used herein, the term "optical element" is meant to not only
apply to the elements through which images pass to reach the camera,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for protecting an optical element of a
down-hole viewing instrument used for examining the

interior of a well, the optical element having an
exterior surface exposed in the well to down-hole fluid

including oil, comprising the step of:

applying a surfactant solution to an exterior
surface of the optical element, said surfactant solution

containing tricresyl phosphate as an active ingredient to
impede said down-hole fluid from adhering to the exterior

surface of said optical element.
The method, according to claim 1, comprising
the steps of:


applying the surfactant solution with a solvent
vehicle for the tricresyl phosphate;
drying the surfactant solution to evaporate
said solvent vehicle to leave a dry film of tricresyl

phosphate on the exterior surface of said optical
element; and
polishing said dry film of tricresyl phosphate
on the exterior surface of said optical element.
The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
said surfactant solution consists essentially of about 9%

to about 25% tricresyl phosphate, about 7% to about 12.5%
ethanol, and about 84% to about 62.5% water, by weight.
The method according to claim 1, 2 or 3,
wherein the surfactant solution consists essentially of

approximately 25% tricresyl phosphate, 12.5% ethanol, and
62.5% water, by weight.
The method according to claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, 
including a lighting device having a protective window,

and further comprising the steps of:

applying said surfactant solution to an exterior
surface of the protective window of the lighting device;
drying said surfactant solution to leave a dry
surfactant film on the exterior surface of the protective

window; and
polishing the dry surfactant film on the
exterior surface of the protective window to prevent said

down-hole fluid from adhering to the exterior surface of
the protective window of the lighting device.
A system for transmitting images of conditions
in a well hole comprising a camera located in a down-hole

instrument in the well hole,

an optical element having an outer surface
exposed to the conditions down-hole and through which the

images must pass to reach the camera; and
a coating applied to the outer surface of the
optical element, the coating containing tricresyl

phosphate as an active ingredient effective to repel well
fluid including oil from the outer surface of the optical

element.
The system according to claim 6, wherein the
optical element comprises a lens which focuses images for

the camera or a window used to seal the camera from
substances existing down-hole.
The system according to claim 6 or 7, wherein
the coating is applied to the outer surface of said

optical element as a surfactant solution consisting

essentially of about 9% to about 25% tricresyl phosphate, 
about 7% to about 12.5% ethanol, and about 84% to about

62.5% water, by weight.
The system according to claim 6, 7 or 8, wherein
the coating is applied to the outer surface of said

optical element as a surfactant solution consisting
essentially of approximately 25% tricresyl phosphate,

12.5% ethanol, and 62.5% water, by weight.
The system according to claim 6, 7, 8 or 9,
wherein the coating applied to the outer surface of the

optical element includes a solvent vehicle for the
tricresyl phosphate that dissipates to leave a dry film of

tricresyl phosphate on the exterior surface of said
optical element; and


the dry film of tricresyl phosphate is polished.
The system of claim 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10, wherein
the optical element is formed of borosilicate glass.
A method of preventing down-hole well fluids
from adhering to a down-hole instrument exposed to such

down-hole well fluid, comprising the step of:

applying a down-hole well fluid repelling
surfactant to an exterior surface of the instrument, said

surfactant containing tricresyl phosphate as an active
ingredient to prevent said down-hole well fluid from

adhering to the surface of said instrument.
The method of claim 12, wherein said down-hole
well fluid repelling surfactant is applied in the form of

a surfactant solution, and the step of applying the down-hole
well fluid repelling surfactant comprises:


applying the surfactant solution to a surface of
the instrument, and drying the surfactant solution on the 

surface of the instrument to provide a layer of dry
surfactant on the surface of the instrument.
The method of claim 13, further including the
step of polishing the layer of dry surfactant on the

surface of the instrument.
A system for providing signals representative of
a condition in a well, the well containing a fluid that

tends to adhere to a down-hole instrument placed in the
well, the system comprising:


a sensor mounted in the instrument, the sensor
operating in conjunction with a first external surface

that is exposed to the down-hole fluid; and
a coating applied to the first external surface,
the coating containing tricresyl phosphate as an active

ingredient effective to repel well fluid from adhering to
the first external surface.
A down-hole instrument for use in a well in
which a down-hole fluid may exist, the instrument

comprising:

a sensor for sensing a condition in a well hole;
an external surface exposed to the down-hole
fluid and operating with the sensor through which the

sensor senses the condition; and
a coating applied to the first external surface,
the coating containing tricresyl phosphate as an active

ingredient effective to repel well fluid from the first
external surface.
The down-hole instrument of claim 16, further
comprising:


an energy source for providing energy to pass 
through the down-hole fluid before reaching the sensor;
a second external surface exposed to the down-hole
fluid and operating with the energy source through

which the energy provided by the energy source must pass
before reaching the down-hole fluid; and
a coating applied to the second external
surface, the coating containing tricresyl phosphate as an

active ingredient effective to repel well fluid from the
second external surface.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
