<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615423</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEPOLARIZED PRE-GELLED ELECTRODES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B504	A61B504	A61B50408	A61B50408	A61B505	A61B505	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOFIELD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOFIELD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAUPEL MARK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAHN STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAUPEL MARK L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAHN STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DEPOLARIZED PRE-GELLED ELECTRODESTechnical FieldThe present invention relates generally to electrodes for detecting the potential of the electric field present on the tissue or skin of a living organism, and more particularly to a structure which operates to maintain electrodes in a depolarized state prior to use.Background ArtRecent advances in medical technology have often involved the measurement or recording of electrical activity which occurs as a function of underlying biological activity. This in turn has led to considerable research and development in the field of sensing electrodes adapted for use in a number of applications where biopotentials are measured on the skin or tissue of a living organism. Silver-silver chloride electrodes combined with an electroconductive paste or gel have been found to be particularly suitable for biopotential measurements, as illustrated by U.S. Patent Nos. 4,328,809 to B.H. Hirschowitz, et al. and 4,270,543 to K. Tabuchi et al. Electrodes of this type have been previously assembled in matrix configurations for use in screening and mapping applications as illustrated by U.S. Patent Nos. 4,416,288 to Freeman, 4,486,835 to Bai and 4,628,937 to Hess et al.Many electrodes are packaged in a pre-gelled state wherein an electrolytic paste or gel is packaged as part of the electrode. The gel may be located in a central gel reservoir consisting of a molded cup, or it may be contained in a dye-cut hole in a foam which encapsulates a gel saturated 

 open cell compressible foam column, such as shown by U.S. Patent No. 3,868.946. In most instances, the pre-gelled electrodes are sold ready for use with an electrically conductive material such as metal or a metal chloride in contact with the electrolyte gel.A pre-gelled electrode system is generally not a battery by itself, but forms a part of a battery system consisting of two or more electrodes placed on the body. In such a system, a complex battery is formed consisting of many interactive components including the electrode material (frequently silver/silver chloride), the electrode gel, internal body chemistry and external skin conditions, skin preparation, temperature, air condition and chemistry, etc. Obviously, some of these factors are not subject to control, but in order to get the best data possible, especially in instances where DC biopotentials are of interest, artifacts, such as DC offsets, should be reduced to the lowest level. Clearly, pre-gelled electrodes can possibly represent such undesired DC voltage
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 jaims
1. A pre-gelled, depolarized electrode assembly comprising a base means, electrode means for sensing biopotentials mounted upon said base means, electrical lead means for conducting a potential from said electrode means connected to said electrode means, electrolyte means mounted in contact with said electrode means but spaced from said lead means and electrically conductive means removably mounted in contact with electrolyte and lead means and extending therebetween to provide a short circuit connection.
2. The electrode assembly of claim 1, wherein said electrically conductive means is formed of material which is inert relative to said electrolyte means to avoid degradation of said electrolyte means.
3. The electrode assembly of claim 1, wherein said electrically conductive means includes a sheet of conductive material covering said electrolyte means and contacting said lead means.
4. The electrode assembly of claim 3, wherein said sheet of conductive material includes an inert conductive material.
5. The electrode assembly of claim 1 , wherein said electrode means include a plurality of electrodes mounted in spaced relationship on said base means, said lead means including a separate conductive lead connected to each such electrode and spaced from the conductive leads connected to the remaining electrodes, and said electrolyte means including electrolyte 


 contacting each said electrode and spaced from the electrolyte contacting the remaining electrodes.
6. The electrode assembly of claim 5, wherein said electrically conductive means includes a single sheet of conductive material covering said electrolyte means and contacting said lead means.
7. The electrode assembly of claim 6, wherein said base means is formed from flexible, electrical insulating material.
8. The electrode assembly of claim 6, wherein said electrodes and conductive leads are applied as overlying layers on a surface of said base means, said conductive leads extending in spaced relationship from said electrodes to spaced terminal points on said base means.
9. The electrode assembly of claim 8, wherein a face sheet is mounted in contact with said base means, said face sheet having a plurality of spaced apertures extending therethrough and each aperture being positioned to overlie an electrode when said face sheet is mounted on said base means, said electrolyte being mounted in said spaced apertures.
10. The electrode assembly of claim 9, wherein said single sheet of conductive material is positioned to close said apertures.
11. The electrode assembly of claim 10, wherein said face sheet is formed to expose the terminal points of said conductive leads, said sheet of conductive material contacting said terminal points. 


 12. The electrode assembly of claim 11, wherein said base means is formed from flexible, electrical insulating material.
13. The electrode assembly of claim 12, wherein a backing sheet is mounted in contact with said base means, said base means bein positioned between said face and backing sheets.
14. A depolarizing packaging assembly for a pre-gelled, biopotential electrode assembly having at least one electrode, an electrolyte in contact with said electrode and conductor means spaced from said electrolyte and connected to conduct a potential from said electrode, comprising an electrically conductive depolarizing sheet means removably mounted to cover and contact said electrolyte and extending from said electrolyte into electrical contact with said conductor means.
15. The depolarizing packaging assembly of claim 14, wherein said electrically conductive depolarizing sheet means is a material "which is inert relative to said electrolyte to avoid degradation thereof.
16. The depolarizing packaging assembly of claim 15, wherein packaging means of electrically insulating material is mounted to enclose said electrically conductive depolarizing sheet means and pre-gelled biopotential electrode assembly.
17. An electrode assembly comprising a substrate, electrode means for sensing biopotentials mounted upon said substrate, said electrode means including a plurality spaced electrodes deposited as a coating on one surface of said substrate, electrically conductive lead means for conducting 


 a potential from said electrode means mounted upon said substrate and connected to said electrode means, said electrically conductive lead means including an electrical lead for each electrode deposited as a coating on one surface of said substrate, and an electrolyte in contact with each of said spaced electrodes.
18. The electrode assembly of claim 17 which includes packaging means for enclosing said electrolyte, electrode means and lead means, said packaging means including a face sheet having a plurality of spaced apertures extending therethrough mounted to contact said substrate, each aperture being positioned to overlie an electrode when said face sheet is mounted in contact with said substrate, said electrolyte being mounted in said spaced apertures.
19. The electrode assembly of claim 18, wherein said packaging means includes electrically conductive means removably mounted to close said apertures and contact said electrolyte and said electrically conductive lead means to depolarize said electrode means.
20. The electrode assembly of claim 19, wherein said face sheet is a sheet of electrical insulating material, said electrically conductive means including a sheet of electrically conductive material overlying said face sheet and contacting said electrically conductive lead means.
21. The electrode matrix assembly of claim 20, wherein said face sheet is formed of an electrically insulating foam material, said substrate being formed of a flexible sheet of electrical insulating material, and said sheet of electrically conductive material being formed by a sheet of 


 material which is inert relative to said electrolyte to avoid degradation thereof.
22. A pre-gelled, depolarized electrode assembly comprising first and second electrode units, each of said electrode units including a support means, at least one electrode means mounted by said support means, an electrolyte mounted by said support means in contact with said electrode means, conductor means spaced from said electrolyte and connected to conduct a potential from said electrode means, mounting means to mount said first and second electrode units with the electrolyte of said first electrode unit in electrical contact with the electrolyte of said second electrode unit and electrically conductive means mounted in contact with the conductor means of said first and second electrode units and extending therebetween to provide a short circuit connection.
23. The electrode assembly of claim 22 wherein the mounting means mounts said first and second electrode units with the electrolyte of said units in direct physical contact.
24. The electrode assembly of claim 23 wherein said mounting means includes a separation sheet extending between said first and second electrode units, said separation sheet including at least one opening to permit the electrolyte of said first electrode unit to contact the electrolyte of said second electrode unit.
25. The electrode assembly of claim 24 wherein said support means forms an open ended chamber to receive said electrolyte, said 


separation sheet extending across the open end of the open ended chambers of said first and second electrode units.
26. The electrode- assembly of claim 22 wherein said support means forms a chamber with ah open end to receive said electrolyte, said mounting means operating to mount the open end of the chamber of said first electrode unit in juxtaposition with the open end of the chamber of said second electrode unit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
