<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619572</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of driving a liquid crystal display panel
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G336	G09G336	G09G320	G09G320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is to provide a driving method 
for driving a liquid crystal display panel of the active 

matrix type which uses, as switching elements, non-linear 
resistance elements that exhibit asymmetric non-linear 

characteristics depending upon the polarity of the 
applied voltage, without causing flickering or scorching 

of the display. 
The amplitude of the data signal is changed 
depending on the characteristics of the non-linear 

resistance element, such as a2 in the positive-side field 
and b2 in the negative-side field, and the panel is 

driven in a manner that the transmission factor 
modulation range is the same in the positive-side field 

and in the negative-side field. In the gradation display 
based on the pulse width modulation, the pulse width is 

adjusted depending on the non-linear characteristics in 
the positive-side field and in the negative-side field, 

such that the relationship between the degree of 
gradation and the transmission factor is the same on the 

positive side and on the negative side. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a
liquid crystal display panel of the active
matrix type which uses non-linear resistance elements as
switching elements. In particular, the invention relates
to a liquid crystal display panel
having non-linear resistance elements that exhibit
asymmetric non-linear characteristics depending upon the
polarity of a voltage applied to the elements.The liquid crystal display panels are becoming
large, and the liquid crystal display panels of a simple
matrix constitution which employ multiplex drive systems
have a problem of a decrease in contrast with an increase
in the rate of time division, making it difficult to
obtain a sufficient degree of contrast in the case when
they have 200 or more scanning lines. In order to
eliminate the above defect, therefore, there has been
employed a liquid crystal display panel of the active
matrix type in which the individual liquid crystal pixels
are provided with a switching element. The liquid
crystal display panels of the active matrix type can
roughly be divided into those of the three-terminal type
which use thin-film transistors and those of the two-terminal
type which use non-linear resistance elements.
From the standpoint of construction and fabrication,
however, the panels of the two-terminal type are
superior. The panels of the two-terminal type include
those of the diode type, varistor type, MIM (metal-insulator-metal)
type and the like types. Among them,
however, the panel of the MIM type is particularly simple
in construction and can be fabricated using a reduced
number of steps. Fig. 10 shows a constitution of a liquid
crystal display panel which employs non-linear resistance
elements. Scanning electrodes S1 to SN and signal
electrodes D1 to DN are provided on the opposing surfaces
of two pieces of glass substrate. A display pixel
consisting of a non-linear resistance element 41 and a
liquid crystal pixel 42 is formed at each intersecting
portion of the scanning electrode and the signal
electrode. When a drive voltage is applied to turn the
liquid crystal pixel 42 on, the non-linear resistance
element exhibits a small resistance and the liquid
crystal pixel is turned on with a small time constant.
When the drive voltage is turned off, the non-linear
resistance element exhibits a large resistance and the
electric discharge takes place with a large time
constant. The result therefore is an increase in the
ratio of effective values of voltages applied to the
liquid crystals when they are to be turned on and off,
making it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A liquid crystal display device capable of a
gradational display, including a plurality of scanning

electrodes (S1 to SN) and a plurality of signal electrodes
(D1 to DN); a matrix of display elements corresponding to

points of intersection of the scanning electrodes and the
signal electrodes, each of the display elements having both

a liquid crystal pixel (42) and a non-linear resistance
element (41) that exhibits asymmetric non-linear

characteristics, depending on the polarity of the applied
voltage, so as to exhibit asymmetric electro-optical

characteristics; means for supplying scanning signals to
the scanning electrodes; and means for supplying a data

signal which comprises gradational information (Ta, Tb, Tc,
Td) to the signal electrodes, characterised in that:

   said data signal is in the form of a bipolar pulse (a2,
b2) in which the ratio of the width (f) of the positive

portion to the width (e) of the negative portion is
determined by the gradation to be displayed, said ratio

being set independently for the positive-side field and for
the negative-side field, according to the asymmetric

electro-optical characteristics of the display elements, so
as to converge the display intensity at the maximum (Ta),

minimum (Td) and intermediate values (Tb, Tc) of the
gradation during the positive-side field and negative-side

field.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 1
wherein the amplitude (a2, b2) of said bipolar pulse is

different in the positive-side field (a2) and the negative-side
field (b2). 
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 1
wherein the amplitude of said bipolar pulse is the same in

the positive-side field and the negative-side field.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 1,
wherein the amplitude of said bipolar pulse is set

independently for the positive-side field and for the
negative-side field, according to the asymmetric electro-optical

characteristics of the display elements, so as to
converge the display intensity at the maximum, minimum and

intermediate values of the gradation during the positive-side
field and negative-side field.
A liquid crystal display device according to any
preceding claim wherein the bipolar pulse has equal

positive and negative excursions.
A liquid crystal display device according to any
preceding claim, wherein the scanning signal comprises a

component which has one form during positive-side fields
and a polarity inverted form during negative-side fields,

and a bias component selected to provide, in conjunction
with the data signal, equal display intensity at both

extremes of the displayed gradation for both positive-side
fields and negative-side fields.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
