<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616682</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXPLOSIVE PACKAGING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F42B300	F42B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F42B	F42B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F42B3	F42B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A packaging system for explosives having a thin walled water resistent tube (11) containing a low-sensitivity explosive (65) therein. A first cap (33) is fitted about one end of the tube and has a re-entrant portion (30) that projects into the tube about which the explosive material (65) is filled. The other end of the tube is sealed with a second cap (16) to create a substantially water-tight explosive package. An initiator is received within an open-ended cavity (37) formed in the re-entrant portion (30) of the first cap and is detonated for setting off the explosive charge.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLLOCK EDWARD S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLLOCK, EDWARD S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLLOCK EDWARD S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLLOCK, EDWARD S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EXPLOSIVE PACKAGING SYSTEMFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates in general to a packaging system. More particularly, the invention relates to a packaging system for low sensitivity or other types of explosives that is easily and economically constructed and which seals the explosives in a substantially water- tight package for detonation.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In conventional blasting operations, at construction sites, quarries, and the like, the location and placement of the charges of explosives is first determined and then blast holes are drilled. An explosive charge is then positioned within each of the blast holes with the size of the charge being dependent on the size of the blast required and the terrain or configuration of the site itself, and, thereafter, the charge is detonated. There are, in general, two principal types of explosives commonly used for blasting operations. The first type is hard powder explosives such as dynamite. The second type used is low sensitivity explosives such as an ammonium nitrate/diesel fuel mixture known as "AMFO" . Dynamite is probably the most common explosive used in conventional blasting operations. This is because 

dynamite, and other similar hard powder explosives, can be easily measured and sized to ensure a high degree of control of the blasting. Additionally, dynamite, because it is substantially unaffected by moisture, can be used for blasting holes where there is a high moisture content as is typically present at most conventional blasting sites. The main drawback to such hard powder explosives is their expense. Hard powder explosives such as dynamite are very expensive to use, thus significantly increasing the costs of blasting. Additionally, dynamite is a Class A explosive, requiring strict compliance with a number of federal regulations governing its transport, storage, and use. Another drawback to the use of dynamite is that it is often difficult to position the dynamite sticks in a blasting hole. Often, roots and rock outcroppings project into the blasting hole and can catch or block the path of the dynamite sticks. The dynamite sticks also have a tendency to twist and catch the sides of the blasting hole, often causing blockage thereof. This prevents the charge from being seated properly for blasting and can even cause the sticks to be broken so that they cannot be completely exploded.Low sensitivity explosives, such as AMFO, are easier to handle and are more stable than the hard explosives. Perhaps the biggest advantage of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A packaging system for explosives, comprising: a tubular member having first and second open ends, an outer side wall, and an inner side wall defining a holding chamber for containing an explosive material therein; a first cap having a closed end, an open end, said closed end having a smaller cross-sectional area than said open end, and a side wall extending from said closed end toward said open end and defining a chamber for receiving and containing an initiator for the explosive material contained in said tubular member in proximity thereto, with said open end of said first cap adapted to engage said outer side wall of said tubular member for attaching said first cap to said first open end of said tubular member for sealing said first open end; and a second cap adapted to be received over said second open end of said tubular member and having a side wall having an inside diameter greater than the outer side wall of said tubular member, for engaging said outer side wall for sealing said second open end of said tubular member.
2. The packaging system of claim 1 and wherein said side wall of said first cap includes a re-entrant portion having an end closure wall, an open end remote from said end closure wall, with said side wall defining an elongate cavity within said re¬ entrant portion.
3. The packaging system of claim 1 and wherein said second cap further comprises a recessed transverse wall and a centrally positioned cylindrical member projecting from said recessed wall and spaced from said side wall, defining a recess therebetween adapted to receive a first cap of an adjacent tubular member in a seated engagement to enable stacking of successive packaging systems in series. 


 4. The packaging system of claim 1 and wherein said second cap is configured to receive and hold a first cap of another packaging system.
5. The packaging system of claim 1 and wherein said tubular member is a pipe of a desired length formed from a polyvinyl chloride material.
6. The packaging system of claim 1 and further including a passage formed through said first cap adjacent its closed end adapted to receive a detonating means for said initiator therein.
7. The packaging system of claim 1 and further including terminal connectors extended through said side wall of said first cap and engaging the initiator for connecting the initiator to an electric circuit for detonating the initiator.
8. A material container comprising: a tubular member having outer and inner walls and first and second open ends defining an open ended holding chamber; a first cap member having an outer tubular portion and an inner re-entrant portion at one end thereof, said re-entrant portion having an end closure wall remote from said one end; said outer tubular portion being adapted to fit slidably over said outer wall of said tubular member at the first open end thereof, and a second cap member adapted to fit slidably over said second end of said tubular member.
9. The material container of claim 8 and wherein said first cap member further includes an outer sleeve spaced from said re-entrant portion and adapted to slidably engage said outer side wall of said tubular member for sealing said first end of said tubular member. 


 10. The material container of claim 8 and wherein said second cap member further comprises a recessed transverse wall and a centrally positioned cylindrical member projecting from said recessed wall and spaced from said side wall, defining a recess therebetween adapted to receive the first cap member of one adjacent tubular member in a seated engagement to enable stacking of successive material containers in series.
11. The material container of claim 8 and wherein said re¬ entrant portion includes a substantially cylindrical side wall defining an open ended cavity within said first cap member.
12. The material container of claim 8 and wherein said tubular member is a pipe of a desired length formed from a polyvinyl chloride material.
13. An explosive package, comprising: an open-ended tube adapted to receive an explosive material therein; a first cap member having an inner re-entrant portion adapted to project into said tube and the explosive material therein, and an outer sleeve spaced from said re-entrant portion for engaging a first open end of said tube for sealing said first open end; a second cap member adapted to engage and fit about a second open end of said tube for sealing said second end of said tube; and an initiator positioned within said re-entrant portion of said first cap member for initiating detonation.
14. The explosive package of claim 13 and wherein said re¬ entrant portion of said first cap is a substantially cylindrical member having an end closure wall, an open end opposite said end closure wall, and a substantially cylindrical side wall defining an elongate cavity therein. 


 15. The explosive package of claim 13 and wherein said tubular member is a pipe of a desired length formed from a polyvinyl chloride material.
16. The explosive package of claim 14 and wherein said first cap member further includes at least one slot formed in said side wall of said re-entrant portion adjacent said open end of said re-entrant portion.
17. A method of fabricating an explosive containing sealed container comprising the steps of: cutting an elongated tubular member to a length sufficient to contain a predetermined amount of explosive; sealing one end of the tubular member with a first cap member having a chamber therein which communicates with the tubular member; filling the chamber with an initiator; filling the tubular member with a desired quantity of explosive material sufficient to create a desired explosive blast; and sealing the other end of the tubular member with a second cap member.
18. The method of claim 17 and wherein the step of filling the chamber with an initiator comprises pouring an explosive booster material into the chamber and inserting a blasting cap into the explosive booster material for detonating the explosive booster material.
19. The method of claim 17 and wherein the step of sealing one end of the tubular member comprises applying an adhesive about the one end of the tubular member and urging the first cap member over the one end of the tubular member, engaging the adhesive to secure the first cap member about the one end of the tubular member. 


 20. The method of claim 17 and wherein the step of sealing the other end of the tubular member comprises applying an adhesive about the other end of the tubular member and urging the second cap member over the other end of the tubular member, engaging the adhesive to secure the second cap member about the tubular member.
21. The method of claim 17 and further including the step of stacking explosive containers in series by engaging a top portion of the second cap member with a bottom portion of a first cap member of an adjacent tubular member for stacking explosive containers in series. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
