<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654112</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TUNNEL LINER BUILDING METHOD AND BUILDING PANELS THEREFOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04B708	E04B708	E04C208	E04C208	E21D1110	E21D1110	E21D1114	E21D1114	E21D1115	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04B	E04B	E04C	E04C	E21D	E21D	E21D	E21D	E21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04B7	E04B7	E04C2	E04C2	E21D11	E21D11	E21D11	E21D11	E21D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Tunnel liners are formed from panels (10) of arched, bendable sheet material. The panels include a central portion (12), inclined side portion (14, 16), wing portions (18, 20), and hook (22) and receptacle portions (28) an opposite sides of each panel (10). Panels are joined with the hook portion of one panel fitting into the receptacle portion of the other panel and are then continuously seamed from the underside, i.e., the inside of the arched assembly.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIC IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
M.I.C. INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORELLO FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORELLO, FREDERICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TUNNEL LINER BUILDING METHOD AND BUILDING PANELS THEREFORFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to the art of forming tunnel liners and particularly to improvements for forming such tunnel liners of panels of arched bendable sheetmetal material, and includes a unique method of building such tunnel liners and unique panels and assemblies of panels.BACKGROUND AND PRIOR ART Machines which form bendable materials, such as sheetmetal, into panels and curve the panels for making continuous arched buildings or roofs for buildings by seaming the panels together are known in the art. Such machines are commercially available from M.I.C. Industries, Inc. of Reston, Virginia and are shown, at least partially, in U.S. Patents 3,842,647, 3,902,288, 3,967,430 and 4,364,253, all owned by M.I.C. Industries, Inc. In this prior art, the panels formed from the sheet steel or the like are used with a seaming apparatus which operates from the top of the structure to seam adjacent panels and secure these panels together.A problem exists with the prior art described above when attempting to construct a structure within a closed space, such as a lining for a tunnel, or when a 

distance between the top of the panels and the existing structure is so limited that seaming cannot be accomplished.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a tunnel liner structure, panel and building method in which curved continuous arched panels of bendable. sheetmetal material are seamed together from the underside of the structure. The individual panels have a central main portion, a pair of inclined side wall portions, one on each side of the main portion, and extending at an inclined angle to the main portion. Extending from each of the inclined side wall portions are wing portions which are generally parallel to the main portion. On one side of each panel is a hook portion which extends from one wing and on the other side of each side of each panel there is a receptacle portion extending from the end of the other wing. The receptacle portion includes hem portion at its end. I this manner, assembling the panels side-by-side and bending the hem down onto the hook provides for a continuous seam between adjacent panels, which seam ca be made from the underside of the panel.The invention also comprises a method of forming tunnel liners by making arched continuously curved-shaped panels of bendable sheet material, in situ, the panels being the shape as described above. Several plurality of the panels are assembled together on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A tunnel liner structure comprising:
(a) a plurality of arched continuously curved panels positioned side by side;
(b) each of the panels being constructed of bendable sheet metal material and having a central main portion, a pair of inclined side wall portions, one on each end of and connected to the main portion and extending at a angle to the plane of the main portion, a pair of wing portions connected to the inclined side wall portions and extending outwardly therefrom in a plane generally parallel to the main portion, a hook portion extending from the end of one wing portion, and a receptacle portion extending from the end of the other wing portion, the receptacle portion being shaped to complementary to the hook portion to receive the hook portion therein, the receptacle portion also having a hem section at an outer end thereof; and
(c) continuous seams between the plurality of adjacent panels, the seams formed by the hem portion of each panel being bent over the hook portion of an adjacent panel on the inside of the panels when assembled.
2. A tunnel liner structure as in Claim 1 wherein the hook portion includes an inclined section and an end section parallel to the main and wing portions.
3. A tunnel liner structure as in Claim 2 wherein the receptacle portion includes an intermediate inclined section parallel to the inclined section of the hook portion and of substantially the same length, and an intermediate section connected to the inclined 


 section and parallel to the end section of the hook portion, the intermediate section being connected to the hem section.
4. An arched continuously curved panel for forming a tunnel liner structure, the panel comprising:
(a) a central main portion;
(b) a pair of inclined side wall portions, one on each side of and connected to the central main portion and extending at an inclined angle to the plane of the main portion;
(c) a hook portion extending from the side of the panel; and wing portion; and
(d) a receptacle portion extending from the other side of the receptacle portion being complementary shaped to receive the hook portion, the receptacle portion also having a hem section at the end thereof;
(e) the panel having equal cross-sectional areas on each side of a center of the main panel.
5. A panel as defined in Claim 4 further comprising a pair of wing portions connected to the inclined side wall portions and extending outwardly therefrom in a plane generally parallel to the main portion, the wing having the hook and receptacle -. portions extending therefrom. 6. A panel as defined in Claim 5 wherein the hook portion includes an inclined section and an end section parallel to the main and wing sections; and wherein the receptacle portion includes an intermediate inclined section parallel to the inclined section hook 0 portion of substantially the same length, and a central section connected to the inclined section parallel to the end section of the hook portion, the central section being connected to the hem section, the entire 


panel having equal cross sections on each side of the center of the main central portion.
7. A method of constructing tunnel liners of arched continuously curved shaped panels of bendable sheet metal material, the method comprising:
(a) forming a plurality of curved arched panels of bendable sheet metal material, each panel having a central portion, a pair of inclined sides with a hook on one side and a complementary receptacle with a hem section on the other side;
(b) assembling the panels in side-by-side relationship with the hook side of one panel adjacent and fitted into the receptacle side of adjacent panels; and (c) seaming sides of adjacent panels by bending the hem on the receptacle of one panel over the hook on the adjacent panel to form a continuous seam on the inside of the assembly of assembled panels when the panels are positioned as an arch. 8. A method as in Claim 7 wherein a plurality of the panels are assembled side-by-side on the ground and seamed together, erecting the plurality of seamed together panels adjacent a similar plurality of seamed together panels, and then seaming the edges of the assemblies of the two pluralities of seamed together panels . 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 7 December 1993 (07.12.93); original claims 1-8 replaced by amended claims 1-8 (3 pages)]
1. A tunnel liner structure comprising:
(a) a plurality of arched continuously curved panels positioned side by side; b) each of the panels being constructed of bendable sheet metal material and having a central main portion, a pair of inclined side wall portions, one side wall portion on each end of and connected to the main portion and extending at an angle to the plane of the main portion, a pair of wing portions connected to the inclined side wall portions and extending outwardly therefrom in a plane generally parallel to the main portion, a hook portion extending from the end of one wing portion, and a receptacle portion extending from the end of the other wing portion, the receptacle portion being shaped complementary to the hook portion to receive the hook portion therein, the receptacle portion also having an edge section at an outer end thereof; and
(c) continuous seams between the plurality of adjacent panels, the seams formed by the edge portion of each panel being bent over the hook portion of an adjacent panel on the inside of the panels when assembled.
2. A tunnel liner structure as in Claim 1 wherein the hook portion includes an inclined section and an end section, the end section being parallel to the main and wing portions.
3. A tunnel liner structure as in Claim 2 wherein the receptacle portion includes an intermediate inclined section parallel to the inclined section of the hook portion and of substantially the same length, and an intermediate section connected to the inclined 

section and parallel to the end section of the hook portion, the intermediate section being connected to the edge section.
4. An arched continuously curved panel for forming a tunnel liner structure, the panel comprising:
(a) a central main portion;
(b) a pair of inclined side wall portions, one on each side of and connected to the central main portion and extending at an inclined angle to the plane of the main portion;
(c) a hook portion extending from one of the side wall portions of the panel; and
(d) a receptacle portion extending from the other side wall portion of the panel, the receptacle portion opening in an upward direction away from said main portion and being complementarily shaped to receive the hook portion, the receptacle portion also having an edge section at the end thereof;
(e) the panel having equal cross-sectional areas on each side of a center of the main panel.
5. A panel as defined in Claim 4 further comprising a pair of wing portions connected to the inclined side wall portions and extending outwardly therefrom in a plane generally parallel to the main portion, the wing portions having the hook and receptacle portions extending therefrom.
6. A panel as defined in Claim 5 wherein the hook portion includes an inclined section and an end section, the end section being parallel to the main and -wing sections; and wherein the receptacle portion includes an intermediate inclined section parallel to the inclined section hook portion of substantially the same length, and a central section connected to the inclined section parallel to the end section of the hook portion, the central section being connected to the edge section, the entire 



panel having equal cross sections on each side of the center of the main central portion.
7. A method of constructing tunnel liners of arched continuously curved shaped panels of bendable sheet metal material, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) forming a plurality of curved arched panels of bendable sheet metal material, each panel having a central portion, a pair of inclined sides with a hook on one side and a complementary receptacle with an edge section on the other side;
(b) assembling the panels in side-by-side relationship with the hook side of one panel adjacent and fitted into the receptacle side of adjacent panels; and
(c) seaming sides of adjacent panels by bending the edge on the receptacle of one panel over the hook on the adjacent panel to form a continuous seam on the inside of the assembly of assembled panels when the panels are positioned as an arch.
8. A method as in Claim 7 with steps including a plurality of the panels assembled side-by-side on the ground and seamed together, erecting the plurality of seamed together panels adjacent a similar plurality of seamed together panels, and then seaming the edges of the assemblies of the two pluralities of seamed together panels. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
