<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621883</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CURABLE RESIN SYSTEMS AND APPLICATIONS THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08J328	C08J328	C08K900	C08K910	F16L55162	F16L55165	F16L5518	F16L5518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08J	C08J	C08K	C08K	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08J3	C08J3	C08K9	C08K9	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of producing resin articles from a resin reaction system including an uncured resin material and added radiation activatable matter therein. In one case said matter is microencapsulated catayst and, upon application of ultrasonic energy the catalyst is released to initiate cure of the resin. The catalyst is one which is water insoluble and encapsulated with gelatin. In another case, radiation reactive particles such as iron oxide particles are incorporated in the resin and are caused to heat by application of an alternating magnetic field to cure the resin. The field is generated by annular electromagnetic means (14X) borne by a core member (10X) drawn by a cable (12X) through the pipe (1X) and tube (2X). The process is particularly well suited to a replacement pipe and method of installing the replacement pipe within an existing conduit with the resin being cured by passing appropriate radiation generator through a fluid inside the inflated replacement pipe. The invention is of particular interest in mending leaky sewer pipes and the like as the presence of flowing liquid or the like does not affect the radiation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHANDLER BRIAN BURNETT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITCHELL DAVID C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHANDLER, BRIAN BURNETT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITCHELL, DAVID CAMPBELL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANDLER BRIAN BURNETT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITCHELL DAVID CAMPBELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANDLER, BRIAN BURNETT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITCHELL, DAVID CAMPBELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CURABLE RESIN SYSTEMS AND APPLICATIONS THEREOFBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION' This invention relates generally to curable resins and more particularly to resins which have been conditioned in order that they may be cured to produce rigid articles in a most convenient and efficient manner.The use of curable synthetic resins to produce rigid articles is extensive, indeed nearly all plastics whilst too numerous to mention here, are synthetic resins initially, which means that they go through a liquid or plastic phase before being shaped and hardened into the final article.In the majority of uses, the processing of the resin including the curing of same is performed under controlled conditions according to manufacturing methods established over many years, but circumstances do arise wherein it is required to control the hardening or curing of the resin until the appropriate instant in time to ensure best utilization of the resin.A particularly good example of this situation arises in connection with the curing of a resin which is used to impregnate a resin absorbent tubular structure (herein the "lining tube or pipe") which is to be used for lining an underground pipeline or passageway such as a sewer. In such utilization, which is now practiced widely throughout the world, the impregnated lining tube is inflated (by gas such as air, steam and/or liquid such as water) against the jl pipeline or passway surface whilst the resin is uncured, and whilst the lining tube is so held in position, the resin is allowed or caused to cure whereby the cured resin with the absorbent tubular structure embedded therein forms a selfSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

supporting rigid pipe, which may or may not bond to the pipeline or passageway wall. The purpose of this operation is to rehabilitate and/or repair the passageway or pipeline. A particular advantage of the provision of a self supporting rigid pipe is that bonding to the existing pipeline is not necessary, as is the case with some lining systems but it is to be mentioned that this invention can be applied to pipe¬ lining systems where the impregnated tube does bond to the existing pipeline or passageway, such systems being those wherein the lining tube is of relatively small thickness e.g. 5 mm or less and the resin acts like a bonding medium rather than an impregnating medium.Also the lining tube when the resin is in the uncured state may not strictly be a tube in that it may be a web folded into tubular form so that its edges overlap and such edges become fused or held
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A resin system including the resin in which is embodied or which has adjacent thereto inert matter which is not affected by ambient conditions such as ambient heat and light, but such matter is susceptible to applied radiation to such an extent to cause curing or commencement of curing of the resin.
2. A resin system according to claim 1, wherein the resin includes micro encapsulated catalyst, the shells or coatings of which form the said inert matter, which can be ruptured by the application of ultrasonic radiation.
3. A resin system according to claim 2, wherein said shells are of gelatin.
4. A resin system according to claim 3, wherein the micro capsules are formed by a process using twelve parts catalyst to one part gelatin to provide that the said shells have a thinness ensuring that they will rupture under ultrasonic radiation.
5. A resin system according to any preceding claim, wherein the inert matter includes material susceptible to electro magnetic radiation.
6. A resin system according to claim 5, wherein the said material comprises magnetisable particles, such as iron oxide particles.
7. A resin system according to claim 6 wherein the resin system includes a fibrous layer embedded therein, and the said particles are included in the fibres. 


8. A resin system according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the resin system is of a nature which has a high cure temperature e.g. 110°C and more.
9. A resin system according to any of claims 1 to 6 whereas the resin includes a fiborous layer embedded therein.
10. A tubular structure comprising a layer of absorbent material impregnated with a resin system according to any one of claims 1 to 6.
11. A tubular structure comprising a fibrous layer impregnated with a resin system according to claim 8,
12. A tubular structure according to claim 10 or 11 including an outer layer of impermeable film or coating.
13. A tubular structure according to claim 10, 11 or 12 including an inner layer of impermeable film or coating.
14. A method of lining a pipeline or passageway comprising placing the tubular structure according to claim 10, 11, 12 or 13 on the pipeline or passageway surface to line same, followed by curing the resin by applying to the structure the appropriate activating radiation.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the radiation is applied by moving an appropriate radiation generator along the inside of the tubular structure whilst it is held against the pipeline or passageway surface.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the method is applied to the lining of an underground pipeline or passageway in which a liquid flows and the liquid is caused to continue to flow through the inside of the tubular 


structure whilst the generator is moved along the inside of same.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the said liquid serves to hold the tubular structure against the pipeline or passageway.
18. A method of forming a cured resin article, comprising:
providing a quantity of uncured resin material that is in a substantially stable uncured condition at room temperature;
dispersing an effective amount of a microencapsulated catalyst in the resin material for polymerizing the resin, the catalyst being isolated from the resin so that it will not react with and cure the resin while encapsulated;
forming the uncured resin material into a predetermined shape;
applying ultrasonic energy to the shaped resin material having microencapsulated catalyst dispersed therein to rupture the microcapsules and release the catalyst from the microcapsules; and
allowing the resin material to cure and form a rigid resin article.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the article has a substantially tubular shape and is within an existing conduit to be lined before the tube is cured.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein pressurized liquid is disposed within the tubular article and ultrasonic energy is applied by transporting an ultrasound device through the
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


liquid along the longitudinal axis of the interior of the tube.
21. The method of claim 18, wherein the ultrasonic energy is applied at a frequency between about 20 to 100 kHz.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein at least one of a second catalyst and a cure initiator is also dispersed in the uncured resin material.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein the encapsulated catalyst includes benzoyl peroxide.
24. The method of claim 19, wherein the encapsulated catalyst is included in an amount of about 1-4% by weight of the resin composition.
25. A replacement pipe product for lining an existing conduit, comprising:
a tube including uncured resin material formulated in a substantially stable uncured condition at room temperature, the resin material having an effective amount of microencapsulated catalyst dispersed therein and chemically isolated from the resin for polymerizing the resin, the microcapsule of a material which will rupture and release the catalyst upon application of ultrasonic energy.
26. The replacement pipe according to claim 25, wherein the pipe includes a layer of absorbent material impregnated with the resin
27. The replacement pipe according to claim 26, wherein the absorbent material is a fibrous layer. 


28. The replacement pipe of claim 27, wherein the resin material includes a thermosetting vinyl ester.
29. The replacement pipe of claim 27, wherein the resin includes a polyester resin.
30. The replacement pipe of claim 27, wherein the encapsulated catalyst is water insoluble.
31. The replacement pipe of claim 27, wherein the encapsulated catalyst is an organic peroxide.
32. The replacement pipe of claim 31, wherein the encapsulated catalyst is benzoyl peroxide.
33. The replacement pipe of claim 27, wherein the encapsulated catalyst is benzoyl peroxide, present in an amount of from 1 to 10% by weight of the resin composition.
34. The replacement pipe of claim 32, wherein the encapsulated catalyst is benzoyl peroxide, present in an amount of from 2 to 6% of the resin composition.
35. The replacement pipe of claim 27, wherein the uncured resin material is substantially thermally stable at room temperature before the microcapsules are ruptured.
36. The replacement pipe of claim 27, including a second catalyst which is thermally stable at normal room temperature, but will assist in the polymerization of the resin upon application of heat from an exothermic polymerization reaction initiated by the released encapsulated catalyst.
37. The replacement pipe of claim 27, wherein the resin 


material includes an initiator.
38. The replcement pipe of claim 37, wherein the initiator is Trigonox 42S.
39. The replacement pipe of claim 38, wherein the catalyst includes benzoyl peroxide.
40. The replacement pipe of claim 27, including catalysts and initiators selected from the group consisting of benzoyl peroxide, Trigonox 42S, Trigonox 44B and cobalt octate.
41. The replacement pipe of claim 40, wherein the resin is Crystic 491.
42. A method of curing uncured resin having microencapsulated catalyst particles for curing the resin dispersed therein, comprising:
applying a fluid against the uncured resin; and applying ultrasonic energy to the resin to release the catalyst.
43. A method of curing a heat-curable substance, e.g. a polymer resin, contained in a pipe liner, which comprises heating the substance by subjecting magnetizable matter in or adjacent said substance to a varying, e.g. alternating, magnetic field to cause at least some of said matter to heat, and transferring at least some of the resulting heat to said substance to cure the latter.
44. A method as in claim 43, wherein magnetizable matter is in the liner.
45. A method as in claim 43 or 44, wherein magnetizable 


matter is in or on the pipe, adjacent the liner.
46. A method as in any preceding claim 43 to 45, wherein said field is applied over a predetermined width and is progressively moved along the pipe and liner.
47. A method according to any of claims 43 to 46 wherein the resin is a pre-preg type which cures at a high temperature e.g. 110°C or more.
48. Apparatus for curing in a pipe a heat-curable substance, e.g. a polymer resin, contained in a sleeve-like pipe liner, which comprises means arranged to move within and along said pipe and liner for generating a varying, e.g. alternating, magnetic field such as to cause magnetizable matter in or on said pipe or liner to heat and thereby cure by heat transfer said substance.
49. Apparatus as in claim 48, wherein said means include one or more units arranged to be, during operation, adjacent a circumferential band of the inner surface of the liner.
50. Apparatus as in claim 49, wherein said means are borne by a core member, said core member being located substantially centrally in relation to said means and said means being connected to said core member by spacer arms to provide a throughflow passage for liquid and other matter flowing along the pipe and liner.
51. A sleeve-like pipe-liner comprising a heat-curable substance, e.g. a polyester resin, and magnetizable matter capable of being caused to heat by a varying, e.g. alternating, magnetic field to cure said substance.
52. A pipe liner as in claim 50, wherein said magnetizable 


matter is contained in the heat-curable substance.
53. A pipe liner as in claim 51 or 52, wherein said heat- curable substance and said magnetizable matter are contained in fibrous material, e.g. polyester felt.
54. A pipe liner according to any of claims 51 to 53 wherein the resin comprises a pre-preg type resin which cures at a high temperature e.g. 110°C or more. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
