<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642963</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plural service rate sensitivity control valve
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60T1500	B60T1542	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60T	B60T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60T15	B60T15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control valve having, in a series with a first inlet valve (40) of a quick brake 
volume, two different rates of flow restrictions operable as a function of the 

position of the piston (12). The first flow rate of one first restriction is 
insufficient to 

cause the piston (12) to assume a braking position for applying a minimum service 
application for first range of piston positions which would generally be produced 

by the mechanical vibration. The second restriction has a greater flow and will 
accelerate the piston (12) to a braking position for a second range of piston positions 

which will be produced by the reduction of the brake pipe pressure on one face 
of the piston (12). By providing two flow rates, the valve becomes insensitive to 

mechanically produced forces while maintaining the reaction time of the valve to 
fluidically produced reduction of brake pipe pressure. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KNORR BRAKE HOLDING CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KNORR BRAKE HOLDING CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAYFER ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LISTL HEINZ-JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAYFER, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LISTL, HEINZ-JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to brake control valve systems for
operating a vehicle's air brakes, in response to brake pipe pressure in a brake
pipe, and more specifically to a brake control valve system which is insensitive to
increased mechanical vibrations.Brake control valve systems for a vehicle having air brakes generally
include a brake control valve responsive to the brake pipe pressure in a brake
pipe to operate the brakes of a vehicle. For a reduction of brake pipe pressure,
the brakes are proportionally applied. For an increase in brake pipe pressure, the
brakes may be released totally or gradually. In the AAR system, the brake
control valves include a service section and an emergency section which are
responsive respectfully to a service rate of reduction and emergency rate of
reduction to apply the brakes appropriately. Each section includes a separate
diaphragm responsive to the brake pipe pressure on one side and a reference
pressure on the other. Not only must the brake control valve differentiate
between a service and an emergency application, but also must react in a specific
amount of time to apply the brakes and propagate the signal throughout the
brake system.Historically the control valves have been designed to be substantially
insensitive to pneumatic noise signals in the brake pipe which could cause
undesired emergency (UDE) braking and undesired release (UDR). Various
mechanisms have been used, for example, chokes or restrictions interconnecting
the brake pipe and the reference chamber of the diaphragms, to accommodate
pneumatic noise. The pneumatic noise or shock is produced by the mechanical
vibration of the vehicle. A major identifiable source of this mechanical vibration
is in the longitudinal motion or slack action between the different cars of the
vehicle or train. The insensitivity or the stability built into the brake control
valves to accommodate the pneumatic noise or shock have, unbeknownst to the
designers, accommodated and therefor masked, mechanically produced vibration
on the brake control valve which can produce undesired minimum (UDM) service
braking. With the introduction of aluminum and other building materials as well as
the modification of other portions of a car of a train, the empty car gross weight
has been reduced from the range of 25,000 to 29,500 kgs. (55,000 to 65,000 lbs.) to
18,000 to 20,500 kgs (40,000 to 45,000 lbs.)
For these lighter cars, it has been noticed that the control brake valves have been
experiencing an undesired minimum
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A brake control valve system operating a vehicle's
air brakes in response to brake pipe pressure in a brake

pipe, comprising:

a housing (10) including a quick 
service chamber
 (44);
piston means (12) in said housing (10) and subject to
brake pipe pressure on one side thereof for assuming a

plurality of positions in response to said brake pipe
pressure on said one side;
first valve means (40) in said housing (10) for
reducing brake pipe pressure by connecting brake pipe

pressure to said quick 
service chamber
 (44) when open to
accelerate the response of said piston means (12) to a

drop in brake pipe pressure;
operator means (46) for controlling the opening of
sa
id first valve means (40) in response to the position of
said piston means (12);
first restriction means (54, 58) for defining a first
rate of flow through said first valve means (40)

   
characterized in that
the first rate of flow through said first valve means
(40) is
 insufficient to reduce said brake pipe pressure
alone to cause said piston means (12) to assume a braking

position for a first range of first valve open positions
of said piston means (12); and
second restriction means (56, 58; 105, 110) for
defining a second rate of flow through said first valve

means (40) greater than said first rate of flow to
accelerate said piston means (12) to said braking position

for a second range of first valve open positions of said
piston means (12) subsequent to said first range of piston

means positions.
A brake control system according to Claim 1
including a bore (58) adjacent to and connected to said 

first valve means (40) and wherein said operator means
(46) includes an actuator in said bore (58) and

interconnecting said piston means (12) and said first
valve means (40).
A brake control system according to Claim 2
wherein:


said first restriction means includes said bore (58)
and a first portion (54) of said actuator defining

therebetween said first rate of flow when said first
portion (54) is in said bore (58); and
said second restriction means includes said bore (58)
and a second portion (56) of said actuator defining

therebetween said second rate of flow when said second
portion (56) is in said bore (58).
A brake control system according to Claim 3 wherein
said first portion (54) of said actuator has a greater

cross-sectional area than said second portion (56) of said
actuator.
A brake control system according to Claim 3 wherein
said first portion (54) is in said bore (58) for said

first range of piston means positions and out of said bore
(58) for said second range of said piston means positions.
A brake control system according to Claims 2-5
wherein at least a portion of said second portion (56) of

said actuator is in said bore (58) for said first and
second ranges of piston means positions.
A brake control system according to Claims 2-6
wherein said operator means includes means (47, 49, 51)

connecting said actuator to said piston means (12) for
freely aligning said actuator to said bore (58). 
A brake control system according to Claims 1-8
wherein said first valve means (40) is a poppet valve

having a valve seat (42) adjacent said bore (58).
A brake control system according to Claim 2
wherein:


said first restriction means includes said bore (58)
and a first portion (54) of said actuator defining

therebetween said first rate of flow; and
said second restriction means includes a passage (105)
in said actuator connecting said brake pipe pressure from

a first port (106; 108, 52) in said actuator to a second
port (110) in said first portion (54) of said actuator,

said passage (105) defining said second flow rate and
operates in parallel to said first restriction means for

said second range of piston means positions.
A brake control system according to Claims 1-8
wherein said first and second restriction means are in

series fluidically.
A brake control system according to Claims 1-8
wherein said first and second restriction means are in

parallel fluidically.
A brake control system according to Claims 1-11
wherein said one side of said piston means (12) is

connected to said first valve means (40) by said first and
second restriction means.
A brake control system according to Claims 1-12
including a third restriction means (110) for defining a

third rate of flow through said first valve means greater
than said second rate of flow for a third range of first

valve open positions of said piston means (12) subsequent
to said second range of piston means positions. 
A brake control system according to Claims 1-13
including:


a second valve means (76) for providing air pressure
to said brakes when open; and
means (64) interconnecting said first (40) and second
valve (76) means to open said second valve means (76) in

response to said braking position of said piston means
(12) in a fourth range of second valve open positions of

said piston means (12) subsequent to said first and at
least a portion of said second range of piston means

positions.
A brake control system according to Claim 14
including biasing means (96) for biasing said piston means

(12) towards said braking position with a first force
insufficient to cause said piston means (12) to assume a

braking position for said first range of piston means
positions and with a second force greater than said first

force to accelerate said piston means (12) to its braking
position for a fifth range of first valve open positions

of said piston means (12) subsequent to said first range
and prior to said fourth range of piston means positions.
A brake control system according to Claim 1
including biasing means (96) for biasing said piston means

(12) towards said braking position with a first force
insufficient to cause said piston means (12) to assume a

braking position for said first range of piston means
positions and with a second force greater than said first

force to accelerate said piston means (12) to its braking
position for another range of first valve open positions

of said piston means (12) subsequent to said first range
of piston means positions.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
