<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655582</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Incinerating halogenated organic compounds.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23G508	F23G512	F23G514	F23G514	F23G700	F23G700	F23L700	F23L700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F23G	F23L	F23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23G5	F23G5	F23G5	F23G5	F23G7	F23G7	F23L7	F23L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Halogenated organic compounds are burned in the presence of oxygen or oxygen-enriched 
air in incinerator 26 to produce gaseous combustion products. The gaseous combustion 

products potentially include unreacted oxygen and halogenated organic compounds which 
can react with oxygen to produce halogenated furans and dioxins. The formation of the 

halogenated furans and dioxins is minimized by operating burners 42 and 44 to burn a 
hydrogen containing fuel at a fuel-rich stoichiometry, in the presence of the combustion 

products so that the fuel reacts with the unreacted oxygen. This further combustion 
reduces formation of the halogenated furans and dioxins. Any of the halogenated furans 

and dioxins that are formed are substantially eliminated by the reaction of hydrogen 
supplied by the fuel with the halogenated furans and dioxins. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOC GROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOC GROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAP LOO T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAP, LOO T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process and an incinerator for incinerating halogenated 
organic compounds such as PCBs, solvents and by-products of chemical and 
pharmaceutical production. More particularly, the present invention relates to such a 
process and incinerator in which the halogenated organic compounds, if desired in 
combination with a heating-value boosting fuel are incinerated in the presence of oxygen 
or oxygen-enriched air and the combustion products of such incineration are introduced 
into a post-combustion zone in which a hydrogen-containing fuel is burned in the presence 
of oxygen at a fuel-rich stoichiometry to minimize formation of (poly)halogenated furans 
and dioxins. Halogenated organic compounds, for instance PCBs, must be disposed of as a hazardous 
waste. Generally, such materials are treated incinerated. Ideally, as a result of the 
incineration, carbon atoms are converted to carbon dioxide, hydrogen atoms form water 
and halogens are combusted in hydrogen to form HCl, HBr, HF and HI. The incineration is carried out by burning the halogenated organic compounds in the 
presence of a surplus of oxygen. If the incineration is carried out under oxygen-lean 
conditions, there exists the danger that some of the halogenated organic compounds will 
be, at best, only partially oxidized. These partially oxidized chlorocarbons are generally 
very toxic. On the other hand, the usual oversupply of oxygen can cause the halogenated 
compounds to form halogenated furans and dioxins in trace concentrations. However, 
even trace amounts of these compounds, such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzodioxin are 
undesirable because they represent some of the most potent known carcinogens. As will be discussed, the present invention provides a method and an incinerator by which 
halogenated organic compounds are incinerated such that the formation of polyhalogenated 
furans and dioxins is minimized.  The present invention provides a method of incinerating halogenated organic compounds. 
In accordance with the method, the halogenated organic compounds are incinerated in the 
presence of oxygen or oxygen-enriched air to produce combustion products potentially 
including halogenated furans and dioxins. The halogenated furans and dioxins are 
produced through reactions between unreacted oxygen and halogen-containing organic 
compounds also potentially present within the combustion products. A hydrogen-containing 
fuel is burned at a fuel-rich stoichiometry in the presence of oxygen and the 
combustion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for incinerating halogenated organic compounds, said method comprising 
the steps of: 


i) incinerating the halogenated organic compounds in the presence of oxygen 
or oxygen-enriched air to produce gaseous combustion products. 
ii) burning, at a fuel-rich stoichiometry, a hydrogen-containing fuel in the 
presence of oxygen and the combustion products so as to form an exhaust 

gas; and 
iii) discharging the exhaust gas from the process; 
 
whereby the said burning step limits the concentration of any halogenated furans 

and dioxins in the exhaust gas by reducing the availability of oxygen for 
participation in reactions by which halogenated furans and dioxins that are formed 

and by providing hydrogen so as to dehalogenate at least a proportion of any 
halogenated furans and dioxins that are formed. 
A process as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: 
measuring the concentration of oxygen within the exhaust gas; and 

metering the oxygen supplied to the burning of the hydrogen-containing fuel so 
that said exhaust oxygen concentration is maintained within a desired range. 
A process as claimed in claim 2, further comprising measuring the temperature of 
the exhaust gas and metering the hydrogen-containing fuel so that the exhaust gas 

temperature is maintained within an exhaust gas temperature range, below which 
carbon monoxide concentration increases within the exhaust gas and above which 

 
the concentration of halogenated furans and dioxins increase within the exhaust 

gas. 
A process according to claim 3, further comprising: 
conducting the incineration and the burning of the hydrogen-containing fuel within 

an incinerator having a zone for incinerating the halogenated organic compounds 
and a post-combustion zone for receiving the combustion products from the 

incineration zone and for burning the hydrogen-containing fuel; 
measuring the temperature of the gaseous combustion products within the post-combustion 

zone at a region upstream of the burning of the said hydrogen-containing 
fuel and metering the halogenated organic compounds supplied to the 

incinerator so that the post-combustion zone temperature is within a temperature 
range below which halogenated organic compounds do not react with the oxygen 

or oxygen-enriched air and above which operational temperature limitations of the 
incinerator are exceeded; 

while the halogenated organic compounds are metered, metering the oxygen or 
oxygen enriched air supplied to the incineration of the halogenated organic 

compounds to maintain stoichiometry of said incineration; and 
with the said post-combustion zone temperature within the said temperature range, 

measuring the oxygen concentration of the gaseous combustion products at a 
region upstream of the burning of the hydrogen-rich fuel and further metering said 

oxygen or oxygen-enriched air supplied to the incineration so that said oxygen 
concentration is within a range calculated such that said exhaust gas oxygen can be 

controlled to be within said exhaust oxygen concentration range. 
A process according to claim 4, further comprising measuring a carbon monoxide 
concentration within said exhaust gas, still further metering the oxygen or oxygen-enriched 

 
air supplied to said incineration of the halogenated organic compounds so 

that the carbon monoxide level is below a maximum valve indicative that 
dehalogenation of halocarbons is effected and carbon is converted to CO₂. 
An incinerator for incinerating halogenated organic compounds, said incinerator 
comprising: 

an incineration zone having means for incinerating the halogenated organic 
compounds in the presence of oxygen or oxygen-enriched air to produce gaseous 

combustion products potentially including a concentration of halogenated furans 
and dioxins produced through reactions between unreacted oxygen and halogen-containing 

organic compounds also potentially present within the combustion 
products; 

a post-combustion zone in communication with the incineration zone; 
an exhaust means in communication with the post-combustion zone so that the 

combustion products pass through the post-combustion zone and then, through the 

exhaust means; and 
at least one burner firing into the post-combustion zone, said burner having fuel 

and oxygen inlets and means for burning, at a fuel-rich stoichiometry, a hydrogen-containing 
fuel in the presence of oxygen, whereby, in operation, said burner limits 

the concentration of any halogenated furans and dioxins in the exhaust gas by 
reducing the availability of oxygen for participation in reactions by which 

halogenated furans and dioxins are formed and by providing hydrogen so as to 
dehalogenate at least a proportion of any halogenated furans and dioxins that are 

formed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
