<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641492</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTRACAVITY HARMONIC SUB-RESONATOR WITH EXTENDED PHASE MATCHING RANGE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F135	G02F135	G02F137	H01S3109	H01S3109	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosure is made of a laser system comprising a non-linear crystal that converts light at a fundamental wavelength to light at a harmonic wavelength and that has a thickness such that there is a phase mismatch between light at the fundamental wavelength and light at the harmonic wavelength in said crystal; first means for forming one of a travelling wave optical cavity and a standing wave optical cavity at the fundamental wavelength; and second means for forming one of a travelling wave and a standing wave optical cavity at the harmonic wavelength, the first means and said second means are located relative to the faces of said crystal such that the total phase mismatch of the light at the fundamental wavelength and the light at the harmonic wavelength, in the round trip path through the crystal and between each face of the crystal and the first means and the second means, is equal to an integral multiple of 2 pi .
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIXON GEORGE JEFFERIES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIXON, GEORGE, JEFFERIES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTRACAVITY HARMONIC SUB-RESONATOR WITH EXTENDED PHASE MATCHING RANGETechnics Fierø This invention relates to the general subject of solid-state lasers and, in particular, to a method and apparatus for intracavity generation of a harmonic output using quasi phase-matching.Background of the Invention The process of "second harmonic generation" (SHG) is one of a number of non-linear optical (NLO) processes (e.g., difference-frequency generation, sum-frequency generation, optical mixing, parametric oscillation, etc.) by which light at one wavelength is converted into light of another wavelength. Specifically, in a SHG process, light at a fundamental wavelength (i.e., angular frequency ω) is converted to light having a wavelength of one half (i.e.,2ω) of the fundamental (e.g., the second harmonic). Thus, using an appropriate NLO material, two photons can be added together in a SHG process to result in a single photon of higher energy. Second harmonic generation has been reviewed by A. Yariv in Quantum Electronics. 2nd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1975, pp. 407-434 and by W. Koechner in Solid State Laser Engineering. Springer-Verlag, New York, 1976, pp. 491-524.Materials having non-linear optical properties are well known. For example, U.S. Patent No. 3,949,323, issued to Bierlein et al. on April 6, 1976, discloses that non-linear optical properties are possessed by materials having the formula MTiO (X04) where "M" is at least one of K, Rb, Ti, or NH4 and "X" is at least one of P or As, except when NH4 is present, then "X" is only P. This generic formula includes potassium titanyl phosphate, KTiOP04, or KTP, which is a particularly useful non-linear material. Other known non-linear optical materials include, but are not limited to, KH2P04 or KDP, LiNb03, KNb03, β-BaB204, Ba2NaNb50i5, Lil03, HI03, KB508 4H20, potassium lithium niobate and urea. A review of the non-linear optical properties of a number of different uniaxial crystals has been published in Sov. J. Quantum Electron .. Vol. 7, No. 1 , January 1977, pp. 1-13. Non-linear optical materials have also been reviewed by S. Singh in the CRC Handbook of Laser Science and Technology. Vol. Ill, M. J. Weber, Ed., CRC Press, Inc. Boca Raton, Florida, 1986, pp. 3-228. 

 Electromagnetic waves having a frequency in the optical range and propagating through a non-linear crystal induce polarization waves which have frequencies equal to the sum and difference of those of the exciting waves. Such a polarization wave can transfer energy to an electromagnetic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS I claim:
1. A laser system, comprising: a) a non-linear crystal having two opposite faces, said crystal when said faces are pumped with laser light at a fundamental wavelength producing light at a harmonic wavelength, said crystal having a thickness between said faces such that there is a phase mismatch between light at said fundamental wavelength and light at said harmonic wavelength in said crystal; b) first means, disposed toward each of said faces of said crystal, for forming one of a travelling wave optical cavity and a standing wave optical cavity at said fundamental wavelength; and c) second means, disposed toward each of said faces of said crystal, for forming one of a travelling wave and a standing wave optical cavity at said harmonic wavelength, said first means and said second means being located relative to said faces of said crystal such that the total phase mismatch of said light at said fundamental wavelength and said light at said harmonic wavelength in the round trip path through said crystal and between each face of said crystal and said first means and said second means is equal to an even integral multiple of 2π.
2. The laser system of Claim 1 , wherein said first means forms a travelling wave optical cavity at said fundamental wavelength; wherein said second means forms a travelling wave optical cavity at said harmonic wavelength; and wherein said first means and said second means are located relative to said faces of said crystal to have each of said travelling wave cavities in resonance.
3. The laser system of Claim 1 , wherein said first means forms a standing wave optical cavity at said fundamental wavelength; wherein said second means forms a travelling wave optical cavity at said harmonic wavelength; and wherein said first means and said second means are located relative to said faces of said crystal to have said standing wave optical cavity and said travelling wave cavity in resonance.
4. The laser system of Claim 1 , wherein said first means forms a traveling wave optical cavity at said fundamental wavelength; wherein said second means forms a standing wave optical cavity at said harmonic 


wavelength; and wherein said first means and said second means are located relative to said faces of said crystal to have said traveling wave optical cavity and said standing wave cavity in resonance.
5. The laser system of Claim 1 , wherein said first means forms a standing wave optical cavity at said fundamental wavelength; wherein said second means forms a standing wave optical cavity at said harmonic wavelength; and wherein said first means and said second means are located relative to said faces of said crystal such that the phase mismatch between said light at said fundamental wavelength and said light at said harmonic wavelength in the path from each face of said crystal and to said first means and said second means and back through said crystal to the opposite face of said crystal is equal to an even integral multiple of 2π.
6. The laser system of Claim 5, where at least one of said first means and said second means comprises at least one mirror that reflects light at said fundamental wavelength and light at said harmonic wavelength int he direction of said one face of said crystal, and that is spaced apart from said one face.
7. The laser system of Claim 6, wherein said one mirror is coated for reflection of said light; and wherein a light transmissive medium is located between said crystal and said one mirror.
8. The laser system of Claim 6, wherein said one mirror is coated for reflection of said light; and wherein a birefringent medium occupies at least part of the space between said one face of said crystal and said one mirror.
9. The laser system of Claim 6, wherein said one mirror comprises a reflective coating on a quartz substrate for reflection of light at said fundamental wavelength and light at said harmonic wavelength; and wherein at least one of said crystal and said one mirror are temperature controlled.
10. The laser system of Claim 9, wherein said crystal comprises LiNbO
3
; and wherein the crystallographic axes of said crystal and said quartz are generally parallel.
11. The laser system of Claim 1 , where said second means comprises a coating, carried on at least said one face of said crystal, for reflecting light at said harmonic into said crystal. 


 12. The laser system of Claim 1 , wherein said first means and said second means comprise: two mirrors on each side of said crystal that are highly reflective at said harmonic wavelength and at said fundamental wavelength; and two additional mirrors which receive light from said two mirrors such that light at said harmonic wavelength and light at said fundamental wavelength travels along a four legged path, one of said two additional mirrors being highly reflective at said harmonic wavelength and the other of said two additional mirrors being highly reflective at said fundamental wavelength and reflective at said harmonic wavelength.
13. The laser system of Claim 12, wherein said one mirror is coated for reflection of light at said fundamental wavelength and light at said harmonic wavelength; and wherein a dispersive medium occupies at least part of the space between said crystal and said one mirror.
14. The laser system of Claim 13, wherein said medium is both birefringent and dispersive.
15. A laser system, comprising: a) a crystal that has two opposite flat faces, that when pumped with laser light at a fundamental wavelength produces laser light at a harmonic wavelength, and that has a thickness "L" such that when the wave vector mismatch of light at said fundamental wavelength and light at said harmonic wavelength in said crystal is zero at one face of said crystal, the wave vector mismatch at the opposite face has a non-zero value "Δk
c
"; b) reflective means, disposed toward each of said faces of said crystal, for forming a standing wave optical cavity at said fundamental wavelength; c) coating means, disposed toward each of said faces of said crystal, for forming a standing wave optical cavity at said harmonic wavelength, the wave vector mismatch between said light at said fundamental wavelength and said light at said harmonic wavelength along the path from one face of said crystal through said crystal and back to the opposite face of said crystal having a value "ΔA", the wave vector mismatch between light at said fundamental wavelength and said light at said harmonic wavelength along the path from said opposite face of said crystal through said crystal and back to said one face of said crystal having a value "ΔB"; and 


 d) condition means for achieving the conditions:
Δk
c
L + ΔA = z/τq and 2(Δk
c
)(L) + ΔA + ΔB = 2πp where "p" and "q" are zero or an integer.
16. The laser system of Claim 15, wherein said light at said harmonic wavelength is orthogonally polarized relative to said light at said fundamental wavelength; and wherein said condition means comprises a birefringent plate, inserted between said faces of said crystal, said first means and said second means, and comprises means for regulating the temperature of said birefringent
- plate to achieve said condition.
17. A laser system, comprising: a) a traveling wave optical cavity, characterized by a- cavity length, for light having a fundamental wavelength; b) harmonic sub-resonator means, located in said cavity and pumped by laser, for generating laser light whose wavelength is a harmonic of said fundamental wavelength, said harmonic sub-resonator means comprising an etalon of a non-linear optical material having two opposite ends and having a thickness that is measured between said ends and that is less than the coherence length for the interaction of said radiation of said fundamental wavelength therewith to yield said harmonic radiation; and c) length control means, operatively connected to said traveling wave optical cavity, for adjusting said cavity length such that the wave vector mismatch at each end of said optical material is negligible.
18. The laser system of Claim 17, wherein said traveling wave optical cavity has at least three substantially straight light paths; wherein said harmonic sub-resonator means is located in one of said three light paths; and wherein said length control means comprises means for controlling the relative length of at least one of said legs.
19. The laser system of Claim 17, wherein said harmonic sub-resonator means is pumped by a laser that produces light at said fundamental wavelength, and that is located outside said traveling wave optical cavity. 


 20. The laser system of Claim 17, wherein said etalon is birefringent material having two opposite faces, one of said faces being highly transmissive at said fundamental wavelength and much more reflective than transmissive at said harmonic wavelength.
21. The laser system of Claim 17, wherein said traveling wave optical cavity has four legs, one of said four legs having located therein said sub-resonator means; and further including: means, in said traveling wave optical cavity, for producing laser light at said fundamental wavelength; and direction control means, in said traveling wave optical cavity, for causing light to travel substantially in one direction in said cavity.
22. The laser system of Claim 17, wherein said traveling wave cavity has at least four straight light paths.
23. The laser system of Claim 17, wherein said traveling wave optical cavity includes pumping means, operating in response to an external source, for producing in said cavity said laser light at said fundamental wavelength. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
