<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654133</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHASE RESPONSIVE FLUID DELIVERY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F17C700	F17C702	F17C1300	F17C1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F17C	F17C	F17C	F17C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F17C7	F17C7	F17C13	F17C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for delivering fluid, e.g. liquefied petroleum gas or "LPG", through a delivery path (10) under pressure. A delivery control valve (16) is selectably operable to close and open the delivery path (10) and monitors a parameter of the fluid, e.g. dielectric constant, and to sense the presence of vapour or gas phase in the fluid. A control means (30) responsive to the indicating signal from the sensing means (20) causes the delivery control valve (16) to close the delivery path upon sensing the presence of a significant proportion of vapour or gas phase in the fluid. A gas introduction point (35) upstream of the sensing means (20) enables gas to be introduced so as to knowingly expose the sensing means (20) to fluid containing gas phase and thereby enable controlled testing of the correct functioning of the sensing means (20). In the case of the fluid being liquefied gas, pumping  means (45) upstream of the sensing means (20) can continue operation after closure of the delivery control valve (16) so that the gas or vapour phase will undergo compression and as a result will liquify and the control means (30) will then cause re-opening of the delivery control valve (16). The closure of the delivery control valve (16) prevents liquefied gas having a significant proportion of gas or vapour phase passing through a metering means (15) downstream of the sensing means (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LPG ENG PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LPG ENGINEERING PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK JOHN KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, JOHN, KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PHASE RESPONSIVE FLUID DELIVERY This invention relates to delivery of fluids and particularly, although not exclusively, to the delivery of liquefied gas such as liquefied petroleum gas ("LPG"). In currently known dispensing systems the dispensing of LPG from a supply tank involves passing a supply line from the tank to a vapour eliminator. The vapour eliu nator oat-prises a vessel into which the LPG is introduced. The function of the vapour el ininator is to allow any LPG in vapour or gas phase which may have formed, e.g. in the supply line eatending from the tank to the vapour eliiαinator, to rise to the top of the vapour eliminator vessel and to be returned to the main supply tank through a selectively operated valve. In one known system, the vapour return valve has been controlled by mechanical means, the particular arrangement being such that the presence of a vapour space in the top of the vapour elirriinator vessel causes a float to open the vapour return valve. In another type of vapour elirriinator, a constant bleed of liquid and any vapour that may be collecting at the top of the vapour eliininator vessel is returned to the main supply tank at all times. A sensitive differential valve associated with this bleed return line is used to sense when the vapour is being el-Lminated and to stop the metered dispensing of LPG from the vapour eliiι_inator vessel.In patent specification No. WO 91/14130 there is described and illustrated an LPG dispensing system in which there is provided a sensor in the top of the vapour eliininator vessel. This sensor senses the -phase of the material within the vapour elirninator vessel by sensing the electrical properties, particularly the dielectric csonstant, of the material within the vessel. This system enables more accurate sensing of the presence of vapour or gas phase, even if a distinct and significant volume of vapour space does not develop above the liquid in the vessel. Also the system does not rely upon mechanical valves such as a float valve or sensitive differential valve since the detection of vapour or gas phase by electrical means enables solenoid valves to be used to acihieve greater reliability and positive operation. 

 In the system disclosed in WD 91/14130, d-iwnstream of the vapour eliminator, the liquid phase LPG is passed ithrough metering means and through delivery control valve means. Flow tJrough the metering apparatus is most desirably prevented when there is vapour or gas phase present since such vapour or gas phase will introduce
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A fluid delivery system for delivering a fluid through a delivery path (10), the system in use being in c-ccimmication with a source of the fluid, the fluid being delivered through the delivery path (10) under pressure,
"
 the system including a delivery control valve (16) associated with the delivery path and which is selectably operable to close and open the delivery path (10) for controlling the delivery of fluid through the delivery path, the system being characterised by sensing means (20) operatively associated with the delivery path so that in use the fluid passes the sensing means (20) in travelling along the delivery path (10) to the delivery control valve (16), the sensing means being operative to monitor a parameter of the fluid and to sense the presence of vapour or gas phase in the fluid passing the sensing means (20) along the delivery path as indicated by a change in the parameter being monitored, the -sensing means (20) being operative to generate an indicating signal indicative of the phase of the fluid, the system further including a control means (30) responsive to the indicating signal and operative to cause the delivery control valve (16) to close the delivery path upon sensing the presence of a significant proportion of vapour or gas phase in the fluid passing the sensing means (20), and being further operative to re-open the delivery control valve (16) when a significant proportion of vapour or gas phase is no longer sensed by the sensing means (20). 2. A system as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the sensing means (20) is operative to sense an electrical parameter of the fluid.
3. A system as claimed in claim 2 characterised in that the parameter comprises the dielectric constant of the fluid. 4. A system as claimed in claim 2 or 3 characterised in that the sensing means (20) cxxtprises a sensitive element (21) which is located directly in the flow of fluid in the delivery path (10), the sensitive element having electrical characteristics which change in the presence of fluid having a significant proportion of gas or vapour phase at the sensitive element (21) .
5. A system as claimed in claim 4 characterised in that the sensitive element (21) comprises a capacitive element (71, 72) arranged so that the fluid flowing through the delivery path (10) 


flows through the capacitive element, the capacitance of the capacitive element (71, 72) changing upon the introduction of a significant proportion of gas or vapour phase in the fluid.
6. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims c-haracterised in that there is provided a gas - troduction point (35) in the delivery path (10) at or upstream of the sensing means (20) whereby gas phase can be introduced into the delivery path so as to knowingly expose the sensing means (20) to fluid containing gas phase and thereby enable controlled testing of the correct functioning of the sensing means (20).
7. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims characterised in that there is further provided a tapping line (40) and an associated tapping control valve (41), the tapping line (40) extending from the delivery path (10) downstream of the sensing means (20) and upstream of the delivery control valve (16), the tapping control valve (41) being responsive to the sensing means (20) so as to open the tapping line (40) to enable fluid to be tapped from the delivery path (10) for as long as the significant proportion of gas or vapour phase is being detected by the sensing means (20), the delivery control valve (16) being maintained closed during the flow of fluid through the tapping line (40).
8. A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 the fluid being liquefied gas, the system including pumping means (45)-upstream of the sensing means (20), and the gas or vapour phase sensed by the sensing means (20) being gas or vapour phase of the liquefied gas to be delivered, the system being cJiaracterised in that the sensing means (20) is operative to monitor the parameter of the liquefied gas, and the control means (30) is responsive to the indicating signal indicating the presence of gas or vapour phase at the sensing means (20) to cause closure of the delivery control valve (16), the purrping means (45) being operative to continue operation after closure of the delivery control valve (16) and thereby increase pressure of the liquefied gas upstream of the delivery control valve (16) whereupon material in the gas or vapour phase will undergo compression and as a result will liquify and the indicating signal will indicate presence of substantially pure liquid phase at the sensing means (20) and the control means (30) will then cause re-opening of the delivery control valve (16). 


9. A system as claimed in claim 8 characterised in that there is provided metering means (15) in the delivery path (10) d_wnstream of the sensing means (20) and upstream of the delivery control valve (16), the closure of the delivery control valve (16) in response to sensing of gas or vapour
"
phase at the sensing means (20) preventing liquefied gas having a significant proportion of gas or vapour phase passing through the metering means (15).
10. A system as claimed in claim 9 characterised in that the system includes a filter (12), the sensing means (20) being located in the delivery path (10) imnediately downstream of the filter (12) and upstream of the metering means (15) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
