<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641472</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THREE-DIMENSIONAL BEAD SYSTEM FOR CRAFT ARTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B44D200	B44D200	B44D300	B44D300	B44D322	B44D322	C09D528	C09D528	G09B1100	G09B1100	G09B1110	G09B1900	G09B1900	G09B1910	G09B1910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B44D	B44D	B44D	B44D	B44D	B44D	C09D	C09D	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B44D2	B44D2	B44D3	B44D3	B44D3	B44D3	C09D5	C09D5	G09B11	G09B11	G09B11	G09B19	G09B19	G09B19	G09B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A novel craft art form product, system, and method including patterns (90, 130), paint, and applicators (150) enabling craft paint to form three-dimensional color bead matrix patterns (10) having high degree of visual resolution and color saturation. Precisely located and closely spaced geometric shapes (80) associated with a set (86, 88) of color symbols (84) are used to form matrix designs in patterns (90, 130). Each symbol (84) represents an artistic expression which is assigned to a particular color. Each color symbol (84) has a color darkness value which may also correspond to the darkness value of the assigned color. The craft paint material has the characteristics of forming a discrete substantially uniform and homogeneous, three-dimensional bead (14) to overlay the color symbol (84) associated with each geometric shape (80). The craft paint material can form discrete beads (14) placed closely together without running together, yet retain sufficient fluidity to settle into smooth, substantially uniform beads (14). A fine tip applicator (150) applies the craft paint material to each geometric shape.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYMERICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYMERICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGE RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LICHFIELD WILLIAM H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOFTUS JOHN T JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'MEARA TIMOTHY F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THIESS WILLIAM K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILCOX REED N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGE, RICHARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LICHFIELD, WILLIAM, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOFTUS, JOHN, T., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'MEARA, TIMOTHY, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THIESS, WILLIAM, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILCOX, REED, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THREE-DIMENSIONAL BEAD SYSTEM FOR CRAFT ARTSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1» Field of the Invention: The present invention relates to the field of providing stylized decorative designs on surfaces, and particularly to the field of craft paints for forming painted designs with hand- applied, color bead matrix patterns of three- dimensional beads of paint closely spaced together to visually merge to form designs of lines or fields of color.2. Statement of the Problem: There is great consumer interest in forming decorative designs on surfaces. These surfaces include such application surfaces as fabrics, wood, leather, vinyl, and painted and other surfaces. Conventional decorative designs include needlecraft (such as embroidery) on fabric surfaces, dyeing threads on a fabric surface, and craft painting on a variety of surfaces. Each of these techniques enjoy certain advantages as well as suffer from certain disadvantages. 

 a. Needlecraft Embroidery A popular technique for creating a stylized decorative design on fabric surfaces is needlecraft embroidery. Needlecraft embroidery includes needlepoint, candlewicking, embroidery, cross- stitching, etc. Needlepoint stitching is embroidery worked over or on a fabric in simple even stitches across counted threads. Cross-stitching is similar to needlepoint but includes any needlework stitch that forms an "X" or cross. Needlepoint and cross- stitching, historically, are favored by many people since they provide an elegant, fine, textured appearance on textile surfaces, whether the textile surface is in the form of apparel or in an embroidered artwork or craftwork.Typically, needlepoint consists of 11 to 24 stitches across a corresponding 11 to 14 thread count textile material. Thread counts are defined by the number of threads per inch. Needlepoint and cross- stitching provide a dimensional perspective to the textile surface, particularly when the color of the stitching is varied from the background textile surface and from adjacent stitching. Needlepoint and cross-stitching are usually performed according to a pre-designed pattern which serves as a guide for forming the final needlecraft design. The pattern is generally laid out in a grid array of squares with the squares appropriately marked according to the particular color, thread or stitch to be used. The threads on the textile surface are counted according to the pattern and the appropriate stitch is applied. Needlepoint and cross-stitching according to the pattern provides an appearance exhibiting texture and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A craft art system for forming a three- dimensional color dot matrix design onto a surface, said system comprising: at least one colored craft paint material having the characteristics of providing a discrete, uniform, homogeneous bead when applied onto said surface; a pattern of circles for providing said design on said surface onto which said at least one paint material can be applied, said pattern of circles being provided in a density in the range of about 4.5 to 8.5 circles per linear inch in a line and 36 to 81 circles per square inch in an array; a color symbol formed in each said circle for identifying said at least one paint material; and a fine-tipped applicator having a dispensing end with an outside diameter less than about 0.060 inches for applying said at least one paint material onto said surface in said discrete, uniform, homo¬ geneous beads overlaying said circles to form said three-dimensional color dot matrix design.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein said system further comprises: means for holding said fine-tipped applicator in an inverted position when not in use to minimize the formation of air bubbles in said colored craft paint material.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein said applicator holding means include: 


 a cap removably affixed to said applicator; and a holder formed around said cap for holding said applicator and said cap in a substantially vertical position with said applicator tip extending downward so that the craft paint in said applicator bottle flows downward against said applicator tip and any air contained in said applicator bottle stays against the end of said applicator bottle away from said applicator tip; said holder including: a base portion having a diameter substantially equal to the largest diameter of said applicator bottle to provide stability in holding said applicator and said cap in said substantially vertical position; an upper portion; an interior cavity formed in said upper portion and extending downwardly therein; a threaded portion formed in said interior cavity for engagement with said threaded portion on said applicator bottle; a first portion on said threaded portion for engaging said applicator tip in said downwardly extending position for temporarily holding said applicator; a second portion on said threaded portion for engaging said applicator tip in said downwardly extending position for storing said applicator; and an inner end wall formed in said interior cavity for engaging said dispensing end of said applicator tip to prevent leakage of craft paint out of said applicator. 


 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said at least one paint material further includes a craft paint formulation comprised of:
(a) an acrylic copolymer which constitutes from about 64 to about 79 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation;
(b) a thickening agent which constitutes from about .27 to about .37 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation, and wherein said thickening agent is, in turn, comprised of:
(i) a medium viscosity hydroxyethyl cellulose which constitutes from about 0.04 to about 0.05 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation; (ii) a high viscosity hydroxyethyl cellulose which constitutes from about 0.04 to about 0.06 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation; and
(iii) a nonionic thickener which constitutes from about 0.19 to about 0.26 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation; and
(c) an ultrafine insoluble material which constitutes about 5.4 to about 7.3 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein said ultrafine insoluble material includes mica which constitutes about 6.4 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation.
6. The system of claim 4 wherein said medium viscosity hydroxyethyl cellulose has a viscosity of about 52,000 centipoise and constitutes about 0.05 


percent by weight of the craft paint formulation; said high viscosity hydroxyethyl cellulose has a viscosity of about 100,000 centipoise and constitutes about 0.05 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation; and said nonionic thickener includes synthetic polyurethane polymer system and constitutes about 0.22 percent by weight of the craft paint formulation.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein said dispensing end has: sidewalls formed in the range of about 0.005 - 0.015 inches.
8. A pattern on a surface carrying a design, said pattern comprising: (a) a plurality of spaced circles forming said design, said plurality of spaced circles having a count density C
Q
 of about 4.5 to 8.5 circles per linear inch when formed in a continuous line with each of said spaced circles having a diameter D between about .8 C to .4 C, where C is the center point spacing equal to the inverse of the count density, each of said spaced circles in said continuous line having a spacing S between adjacent circles wherein S = C-D; (b) a plurality of symbols, each of said symbols assigned to represent a different color;
(c) each of said symbols having a darkness value corresponding to the darkness of the assigned color; and (d) each of said plurality of spaced circles containing one of said symbols, said design in said pattern on said surface being visually repre- 


sented by said amount of darkness of one or a plurality of said contained symbols in said plurality of spaced circles.
9. A color coded craft paint system for creating decorative matrix designs, said system comprising: a plurality of patterns, each of said patterns carrying a unique design, a plurality of colored craft paints, a plurality of bottles, each one of said plurality of bottles containing a different one of said plurality of paints, a set of symbols, each symbol in said set of symbols assigned to identify a different one of said plurality of colored craft paints, each of said symbols having a darkness value corresponding to the darkness of the assigned color, a plurality of spaced geometric shapes forming each said unique design, said plurality of spaced geometric shapes having a count density of about 4.5 to 8.5 spaced geometric shapes per linear inch when said spaced geometric shapes are adjacent to each other, each of said plurality of spaced geometric shapes containing one of said symbols in said set, each of said unique designs in said plurality of patterns being visually represented in degrees of darkness by said darkness value of said one or a plurality of said contained symbols in said plurality of spaced geometric shapes before the assigned colored craft paint identified by the aforesaid contained symbols is applied from said plurality of bottles, each said unique design in said plurality of patterns 


being visually represented in color when the assigned colored craft paint is applied to cover the geometric shape containing the symbol identifying the aforesaid craft paint.
10. A craft art system for forming a three- dimensional color dot matrix design onto a surface, said system comprising: at least one colored craft paint material having the characteristics of providing a discrete, uniform, homogeneous bead when applied onto said surface; a pattern of geometric shapes for providing said design on said surface onto which said at least one paint material can be applied, said pattern of geometric shapes being provided in a density in the range of about 4.5 to 8.5 geometric shapes per linear inch in a line and 36 to 81 geometric shapes per square inch in an array; a color symbol formed in each said geometric shape for identifying said at least one paint material; and a fine-tipped applicator having a dispensing end with an outside diameter less than about 0.060 inches for applying said at least one paint material onto said surface in said discrete, uniform, homogeneous beads overlapping said geometric shapes to form said three-dimensional color dot matrix design.
11. A craft art system for forming a three- dimensional color bead matrix design onto a surface, said craft art system comprising: a plurality of colored craft paint materials, 


said craft paint materials exhibiting three- dimensionality when applied to said surface, said surface carrying a pattern, said pattern having a design, said pattern comprising: (a) a plurality of closely spaced geometric shapes forming said design,
(b) a plurality of symbols, each of said symbols assigned to represent a different color corresponding to one of said plurality of colored craft paint materials,
(c) each of said plurality of closely spaced geometric shapes associated with one of said symbols, a plurality of applicators; each of said plurality of applicators holding one of said plurality of colored craft paint materials; each of said plurality of applicators applying said colored craft paint material held therein onto said surface; said craft paint material providing said three- dimensionality by forming substantially discrete uniform and homogeneous beads overlaying both of said closely spaced geometric shapes and said symbols to form said three-dimensional color bead matrix design; and wherein (1) said discrete substantially uniform and homogeneous beads visually merge together with sufficient color density to permit visual perception of said design, (2) said craft paint material is sufficiently fluid enough to form a substantially rounded bead that is sufficiently stable so as to preserve said discreetness of beads at a given density range without collapsing and running together with adjacent beads, and (3) said beads applied colored craft paint material after drying strongly adhere to said surface and wherein said applied colored craft 


paint material after drying strongly adhere to said surface.
12. The craft art system of claim 11 wherein at least one of said plurality of closely spaced geometric shapes is an open geometric shape.
13. The craft art system of claim 12 wherein said symbol is placed within said open geometric shape.
14. The craft art system of claim 11 wherein at least one of said plurality of said geometric shapes is a closed geometric shape.
15. The craft art system of claim 14 wherein said symbol is placed near said closed geometric shape and wherein said applied colored craft paint material overlays said closed geometric shape and said placed near symbol.
16. The craft art system of claim 14 wherein said symbol is formed in said closed geometric shape.
17. The craft art system of claim 11 wherein: each of said symbols has a darkness value corresponding to the darkness of the assigned color, and said design in said pattern visually represented by said darkness values of said symbols associated with said plurality of closely spaced geometric shapes. 


 18. The craft art system of claim 11 wherein said plurality of closely spaced geometric shapes are circles having a count density range of about 4.5 to 8.5 circles per inch.
19. The craft art system of claim 11 wherein each said applicator has a fine-tip of about 0.06 inches or less.
20. The craft art system of claim 11 wherein said symbols are identical for a plurality of said designs.
21. A craft art method for forming a three- dimensional color bead design onto a surface, said craft art method comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of colored craft paint materials, the craft paint materials exhibiting three- dimensionality when applied to the surface, creating the design using a plurality of geometric shapes oriented in a matrix pattern, each of the geometric shapes spaced apart from each other in a predetermined range, applying the plurality of the craft paint materials onto the surface with a plurality of applicators, each of the plurality of applicators holding one of the plurality of colored craft paint materials, each of the plurality of applicators directly applying the colored craft paint material held therein onto the surface to form the design with discrete, substantially uniform and homogeneous beads corresponding in shape to each of the geometric shapes in the design, the craft paint providing the three- dimensionality by forming said discrete substantially 


uniform and homogeneous beads which visually merge together to permit visual perception of the design, the applied colored craft paint material after drying strongly adhering to the surface.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the predetermined range for geometric shapes formed in circles is about 4.5 to 8.5 circles per inch.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the predetermined range for geometric shapes formed in the shape of stitches is about 4 to 9 stitches per inch.
24. A craft art product comprising: a surface, a finely detailed, textured, stylized decorative design on said surface, at least one type of geometric shape, a plurality of said at least one type of geometric shapes forming said design, said plurality of at least one type of geometric shapes spaced from each other in a predetermined range of about 4 to 9 per inch without touching each other, a plurality of colored craft paint materials, said plurality of colored craft paint materials on top of said surface formed in discrete substantially uniform and homogeneous three- dimensional beads corresponding in configuration to said at least one type of geometric shape, each of said beads having substantially the same width W and height H as adjacent beads, said colored craft paint materials providing a predetermined coloring to said design, said discrete substantially uniform and 



homogeneous three-dimensional beads visually merging together with sufficient color density to permit visual perception of said design, each of said beads, after drying, strongly adhering to said surface so as to withstand rubbing and scraping during use.
25. A craft art product comprising: a surface, a pattern containing a finely detailed, textured, stylized and decorative design on said surface, a plurality of circular geometric shapes having a diameter D forming said design, said plurality of circular geometric shapes spaced from each other in a count density C
D
 range of about 4.5 to 8.5 circles to the inch where the centerpoint spacing, C is 1/C
D
, a plurality of colored craft paint materials, said plurality of colored craft paint materials (i) on top of said surface formed in discrete substantially uniform and homogeneous three- dimensional beads firmly adhering to said surface so as to withstand rubbing and scraping during use and (ii) corresponding in configuration to said circular geometric shape, each of said beads having a diameter D in a range of about .8C to .4C inches and having substantially the same height H as adjacent beads, said colored craft paint materials providing a predetermined coloring to said design, said discrete substantially uniform and homogeneous three- dimensional beads visually merging together with sufficient color density to permit visual perception of said design. 


 26. A craft art system for forming a dimensional color bead matrix design said craft art system comprising: a surface, a plurality of colored craft paint materials, said craft paint materials exhibiting dimensionality when applied, a pattern formed on said surface, said pattern having a design, said pattern having a plurality of closely spaced targets forming said design, each different type of said targets (i) representing an application point and (ii) representing a different color corresponding to one of said plurality of colored craft paint materials, a plurality of applicators, each of said plurality of applicators holding one of said plurality of colored craft paint materials, each of said plurality of applicators applying said held colored craft paint material directly onto to the targets corresponding to the color of said held colored craft paint material on said surface in discrete substantially uniform and homogeneous circular beads to form said dimensional color bead matrix design, said applied colored craft paint material firmly adhering to said surface so as to withstand rubbing and scraping during use, said applied circular beads having a count density C
D
 in the range of about 4.5 to 8.5 beads per inch, a spacing C of 1/C
D
, a diameter D in the range of about .8C to .4C inches, substantially the same height H as adjacent beads, and a spacing S between adjacent beads in the range of about C-D inches, said applied circular beads forming a finely detailed, textured matrix that visually merges together with sufficient color density to permit 


visual perception of said design, said applied beads after drying strongly adhering to said surface.
27. The craft art system of claim 26 wherein each of said targets at least comprises a color symbol.
28. The craft art system of claim 26 wherein each of said targets at least comprises a geometric shape.
29. The craft art system of claim 26 wherein each said applicator has a fine-tip of about 0.06 inches or less.
30. A method of constructing a decorative article, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a surface, (b) providing a pattern having a predetermined decorative design formed therein, the design being formed in the pattern by a plurality of discrete geometric shapes having a count density range C
D
 of about 4 to 9 shapes per inch, (c) affixing the pattern to the surface,
(d) applying a discrete bead of colored craft paint material onto the surface to cover a selected geometric shape, the applied bead corresponding in color to the color assigned to the selected geometric shape, the applied bead of craft paint material having the shape of the selected geometric shape and further having a distinct dimensional height sc hat the applied bead of paint sits above the surface wherein the height of the applied bead is substantially the same as adjacent 


beads, the craft paint material having sufficient fluidity to form a substantially rounded bead and to maintain the spacing from an adjacent bead,
(e) iteratively repeating step (d) for different colored craft paint materials until the predetermined decorative design is effected on the surface by the applied beads which, although discrete, visually merge together with sufficient color density to create a finely detailed and textured appearance to the predetermined decorative design,
(f) drying the beads of applied craft paint material for a predetermined period of time so that the craft paint firmly adheres to the surface and resists scraping and rubbing off during use of the decorative article.
31. A method of constructing a stylized, decorative three dimensional color bead matrix design, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a decorative pattern containing a design by the steps of:
(i) closely spacing a plurality of geometric shapes having a density range of about 4 to
9 geometric shapes per inch, each of the geometric shapes spaced a predetermined distance from each other based upon the density range,
(ii) assigning each of a plurality of symbols to represent a different color, and
(iii) associating each of the plurality of symbols with one of the spaced geometric shapes, the design in said pattern visually represented by the symbols associated with the plurality of spaced geometric shapes; 


 (b) imprinting the decorative pattern onto a surface,
(c) providing a plurality of colored dimensional craft paint materials, in colors corresponding to the colors represented by the plurality of symbols,
(d) providing a plurality of fine tipped applicators for applying the plurality of colored craft paint materials, (e) selecting one of the fine tipped applicators containing craft paint material of the color corresponding to that represented by one of the plurality of symbols associated with one of the spaced geometric shapes in the pattern, (f) positioning the tip of said fine tipped applicator of colored craft paint material directly above one of the spaced geometric shapes associated with the symbol of the corresponding color,
(g) applying a discrete, three-dimensional, substantially rounded bead of the colored craft paint material contained within the selected applicator to the surface in the position indicated by the spaced geometric shape in the pattern in response to the aforesaid step of positioning, (h) iteratively repeating steps (e) through
(h) in the density range until the predetermined stylized, three dimensional color bead matrix decorative design is effected, each of the applied beads of craft paint holding a discrete rounded shape without coalescing or running together,
(i) drying the applied beads of craft paint material in the three dimensional color bead matrix decorative design for a predetermined period of time, the dried beads of paint retaining their three- 



dimensional shape with the height of each bead substantially the same as adjacent beads and firmly adhering to the surface.
32. A method of constructing a stylized, decorative three dimensional color bead matrix design, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a decorative pattern containing a design by the steps of:
(i) assigning each of a plurality of targets to represent a different color, and
(ii) closely spacing targets in a density range of about 4 to 9 targets per inch to form the decorative pattern, each of the targets spaced a predetermined distance from each other based upon the density range,
(b) imprinting the decorative pattern onto a surface,
(c) providing a plurality of colored dimensional craft paint materials, in colors corresponding to the colors represented by the plurality of targets,
(d) providing a plurality of fine tipped applicators for applying the plurality of colored craft paint materials, (e) selecting one of the fine tipped applicators containing craft paint material of the color corresponding to that represented by one of the plurality of targets in the pattern,
(f) positioning the tip of said fine tipped applicator of colored craft paint material directly above one of the spaced targets,
(g) applying a discrete, three-dimensional, substantially rounded bead of the colored craft paint 


material contained within the selected applicator to the surface in the position indicated by the spaced target in the pattern in response to the aforesaid step of positioning, (h) iterativelyrepeating steps (e) through
(h) in the density range until the predetermined stylized, three dimensional color bead matrix decorative design is effected, each of the applied beads of craft paint holding a discrete rounded shape without coalescing or running together,
(i) drying the applied beads of craft paint material in the three dimensional color bead matrix decorative design for a predetermined period of time, the dried beads of paint retaining their three- dimensional shape with the height of each bead substantially the same as adjacent beads and firmly adhering to the surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
