<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616743</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMBINATION OF TWO SIGNALS, THE SECOND APPEARING AS A NOISE FOR THE FIRST ONE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B7185	H04B7185	H04L100	H04L100	H04L108	H04L108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	H04L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Users in a satellite communications network transmit signals to and receive signals from a satellite (2). In order to transmit a plurality of signals within the constraints of the available communications channel bandwidth, a first signal is combined with a second signal by introducing modifications into the second signal at predetermined intervals. The combining of signals may be carried out at the transmitter or at the satellite (2). For the purpose of separating out the second signal, the modifications are treated as errors due to noise and corrected when the combined signal is passed through a decoder (29, 75). For the purpose of separating out the first signal, the timing of the modifications is identified and the values of the combined signal at such times are determined.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIGNAL PROCESSORS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIGNAL PROCESSORS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCFARTHING ANTHONY LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TERRELL PETER MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCFARTHING, ANTHONY LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TERRELL, PETER MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
COMBINATION OF TWO SIGNALS, THE SECOND APPEARING AS A NOISE FOR THE FIRST ONEThis invention relates to a method and apparatus for combining signals for transmission and reception 5 and/or recording, and to a signal itself. The invention is primarily, but not exclusively, concerned with the combination of communication signals transmitted and received via a satellite.10 In order to transmit two or more signals, a frequency division multiplex (FDM) technique may be employed, in which the transmission channel bandwidth is divided into frequency bands. Signals may then be transmitted in parallel using different frequency15 bands. If the bandwidth of a single frequency band allows, two signals may be combined within that frequency band. In this case, if the first signal has a bit rate of M bits per second and the second signal has a bit rate of N bits per second, then a bit rate20 of M + N bits per second will be required in order to transmit the combined signal at a single carrier frequency. Such techniques are of limited utility where the available frequency band bandwidth is restricted. 

 "Specification of the Systems of the MAC/Packet Family", EBU, Tech 3258-E, October 1986, Part 3 (copies of which can be obtained from the British Lending Library, London or the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) Technical Centre, Brussels) discloses a technique in which information in a first signal is transmitted in blocks. Associated with each block at a defined position within the block is a "parity" bit. The value of the parity bit is set according to the sum of the information bits within the block, and is used to detect when the information has been corrupted. The document teaches a method of combining and transmitting signals whereby the parity bit in each block of information is modified by combining it with a bit from a second signal by modulo-2 addition. On receipt, the parity bit from each block is stripped off and the second signal is reconstructed using a majority decision technique. That is, each bit in the second signal is transmitted an odd number of times, for example 9 times, and the value on receipt is determined on the basis of whether a 0 or 1 is received the most (eg a value 1 is assigned if out of the 9 transmissions five Is are received and 4 0s). The parity bits are then returned to their original 

values so that the first signal may be recovered. This technique suffers from three disadvantages. Firstly, the ability of the code to detect when errors have occured is reduced since if there is an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A method of combining a first signal containing first information and a second signal containing second information, the method comprising modifying the values of the first signal at predetermined intervals in such a way that the resulting modified values contain said second information and such that said modified values appear in the first signal as intermittant errors due to noise.
2. A method according to claim 1, in which said first signal is encoded in such a way as to allow errors therein to be detected and corrected.
3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which the second signal is encoded in such a way as to allow errors therein to be detected and corrected.
4. A method according to claim 2, in which said first signal is encoded according to a code chosen to provide a high ability to detect and correct said errors. 


 5. A method according to claim 4, in which said code is a Viterbi code.
6. A method according to claim 2, in which said first signal is encoded according to first and second codes to provide a high ability to detect and correct errors.
7. A method according to claim 6, in which said first code is a Trellis code and said second code is a
Reed-Solomon code.
8. A method according to claim 3, in which said second signal is encoded with a code chosen to provide a high ability to detect and correct errors and to increase the length of said second signal by only a small amount.
9. A method according to claim 8, in which said code is a Trellis code.
10. A method according to claim 3, in which said second signal is encoded according to first and second codes to provide a high ability to detect and correct 


errors and to increase the length of said second signal by only a small amount.
11. A method according to claim 10, in which said first code is a Trellis code and said second code is a
Reed-Solomon code.
12. A communication system comprising: a transmitter which includes: means for providing a first signal containing first information; means for providing a second signal containing second information; means for modifying the values of the first signal at predetermined intervals in response to the second signal such that the resulting modified values contain said second information and such that said modified values appear in the first signal as intermittent errors due to noise; and means for transmitting the first signals with the modified values therein; and a receiver which includes: means for receiving said transmitted first signal with said modified values therein; 


 means for deriving said first information from said first signal; and means for detecting said modified values and deriving said second information therefrom.
13. A communication system according to claim 12 in which said system is a satellite communication system.
14. A communicating system according to claim 13 in which said means for modifying the values of the first signal includes the satellite.
15. A communicating system according to claim 12 or claim 13 in which said means for modifying the values of the first signal includes an exclusive OR gate.
16. A signal generator comprising: means for generating a first signal containing first information; means for generating a second signal containing second information; means for modifying the values of the first signal at predetermined intervals in response to said 


second signal such that the resulting modified values contain said second information and such that said modified values appear in the first signal as intermittant noise.
17. A signal generator according to claim 16 further comprising means for transmitting the first signal with the modified values therein.
18. A signal receiver for receiving a signal with modified values therein transmittedt by a signal generator according to claim 16 comprising means for deriving first information from the signal and means for detecting said modified values and deriving therefrom second information.
19. A signal modified at predetermined intervals such that the resulting modified values contain information from a second signal and such that the modified values appear in the first signal as intermittant errors due to noise. 



 20. A recording device comprising means for recording a first signal containing first information and means for modifying the recorded values of the first signal at predetermined intervals in such a way that the resulting modified recorded values contain second information from a second signal and such that the modified recorded values appear in said recorded values as intermittent errors due to noise.
21. A recording of a signal modified at predetermined intervals such that the resulting modified values contain information from a second signal and such that the modified values appear in the first signal as intermittent errors due to noise.
22. A method of combining and subsequently separating signals comprising the steps of: modifying the values of a first signal which is forward error correction encoded at predetermined intervals such that the modified values contain information from a second signal, thereby producing a resultant signal; recovering the first signal by decoding the resultant signal; 


 recovering the second signal by re-encoding the recovered first signal and combining it with the resultant signal in such a way as to reverse the process by which the first signal was modified.
23. A communication system comprising: a transmitter which includes: means for providing a first signal containing first information and which is forward error correction encoded; means for modifying the values of said first signal at predetermined intervals such that the modified values contain information from a second signal, thereby producing a resultant signal; and means for transmitting the resultant signal; and a receiver which includes: means for receiving said transmitted resultant signal; means for recovering said first signal by decoding the resultant signal; and means for recovering the second signal by re-encoding the decoded first signal and combining it with the resultant signal in such a way as to reverse the process by which said first signal was modified. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
