<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653833</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A brushless electric motor and a method for controlling the motor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02P600	H02P610	H02P608	H02P600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02P	H02P	H02P	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	H02P6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The phases (W1, W2, W3) of the direct-current brushless electric motor 
are energized sequentially in a manner such that there is a 

period of time during which both of the two phases being 
switched are energized. Moreover, the motor is configured 

in a manner such that the electromotive forces (E1, E2, E3) 
induced in the phases (W1, W2, W3) are superposed, that is, 

there are periods during which the electromotive forces in 
two adjacent phases are both at their maximum value. By 

virtue of these characteristics, the motor according to the 
invention has very little variation of the torque (TQ) and 

of the current (IL) and consequently generates very little 
acoustic or electrical noise. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GATE SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GATE S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ACQUAVIVA SEBASTIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ACQUAVIVA, SEBASTIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a brushless electric motor,
particularly to a brushless motor with low torque variation,
of the kind defined in the preamble of Claim 1 and a method
for controlling such a motor as defined in the preamble of Claim 18.Brushless motors with permanent magnets are alternating-current
machines having electronic commutators. The
purpose of the electronic commutator is to energize the
windings of the motor in the correct relationship with the
induced electromotive forces, sometimes known as the EMFs,
so that the motor produces an optimal torque.In conventional direct-current motors, the number of phases
of the motor is equal to the number of windings and all the
phases are in series and are short-circuited to one another.
The voltage/speed ratio of the motor determines the total
number of turns required in the motor. Each coil must have
a number of turns equal to the total number of turns of the
motor divided by half the number of phases in series.
Small direct-current motors (50-300 watts) may include from
6 to 20 phases.Brushless direct-current motors require at least one
electronic power switch for each phase of the motor. In
order to minimize cost and the complexity of the electronics
necessary for the switching, the number of phases must be
minimized. In typical configurations, brushless motors
have two or three phases. The performance of a three-phase,
direct-current, brushless motor is comparable to that
of a conventional direct-current motor. In a direct-current
brushless motor, the number of turns for each phase
is determined by the voltage/speed ratio of the motor and,
typically, is higher than the number of turns in a
conventional motor, since the phases are not in series. The higher number of turns results in a higher phase
inductance and a correspondingly higher electric time
constant.During switching, the electric time constant determines the
amount of time necessary for the phase current to rise from
an initial level to the desired value. The torque produced
by the phase of the motor is low during the switching period
because of the low energization of the phase whilst the
current rises to the desired value.If the electric time constant is high, the phase current
cannot rise to the desired steady value during the period
intended for the excitation of that phase at the operative
speed, giving rise to low torque performance at high speed
in the steady state. Moreover, the current-rise period
generates a large current variation both in the motor and in
the supply
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A direct current brushless motor comprising a
plurality of windings or phases (W1, W2, W3) and a control

system (1) for energising the said phases (W1, W2, W3)
sequentially in a manner such that during the de-energising

of a first phase (W1, W2, W3) and the
energising of a second phase (W2, W3, W1) there is a

period of time in which said first (W1, W2, W3) and second
phases (W2, W3, W1) are both energised and the sum of the

currents in said first (W1, W2, W3) and second phases (W2,
W3, W1) equals a predetermined reference signal (Iref);

   characterised in that said control system (1) is
configured for letting, in said period of time, the

current in said second phase (W2, W3, W1) to freely
increase according to the electric time constant of said

second phase (W2, W3, W1) until said current reaches the
value corresponding to said reference signal (Iref). 
A motor according to Claim 1,
characterized in that the reference signal (Iref) is

substantially constant.
A motor according to Claim 1,
characterized in that the reference signal (Iref) is

dependent on the rate of revolution of the motor.
A motor according to Claim 1,
characterized in that the reference signal (Iref) is

dependent on the torque of the motor.
A motor according to any one of Claims 1 to 4,
characterized in that the sum of the currents in the first

and second phases is substantially equal to the value of the
current in the first and second phases when they are

energized individually.
A motor according to Claim 5, characterized in that the
control system (1) is configured for controlling the current

by pulse-width modulation.
A motor according to Claim 5 or Claim 6, characterized
in that the control system (1) is configured for controlling

the current in a closed loop.
A motor according to any one of Claims 1 to 7,
characterized in that the control system (1) comprises 

current-sensor means (P) for detecting the current (IL)
absorbed by the motor.
A motor according to Claim 7 or Claim 8, characterized
in that the control system (1) comprises further current-sensor

means (P1, P2, P3) for detecting the currents (i1,
i2, i3) in the phases (W1, W2, W3).
A motor according to Claim 8 or Claim 9, characterized
in that the sensor means (P) and the further current-sensor

means (P1, P2, P3) comprise shunt sensors.
A motor according to any one of Claims 1 to 10,
characterized in that the period of time during which the

first and second phases are both energized is determined on
the basis of logic control signals (H1, H2,H3) indicative of

the angular position of the rotor of the motor.
A motor according to Claim 11, characterized in that the
logic control signals (H1, H2, H3) are generated on the

basis of the electromotive forces (E1, E2, E3) induced in
the phases (W1, W2, W3) of the motor.
A motor according to Claim 12, characterized in that the
logic control signals (H1, H2, H3) are generated by

comparing the induced electromotive forces (E1, E2, E3) with
a reference value.
A motor according to Claim 11, characterized in that the
logic control signals (H1, H2, H3) are generated by Hall-effect

position sensors.
A motor according to any one of Claims 11 to 14,
characterized in that the control logic signals (H1, H2, H3)

are variable in order to modify the time period. 
A motor according to Claim 15, characterized in that the
logic control signals (H1, H2, H3) are variable in

dependence on the rate of rotation of the motor and/or on
the current absorbed by the motor.
A motor according to Claim 1, characterized
in that the control system (1) is configured in a manner

such that, in the said time period, if the current flowing
through the second phase exceeds the value determined by the

reference signal (Iref), it is made subject to the control
of a closed-loop current control arrangement and the first

phase is cut off.
A method of controlling a direct-current brushless
electric motor comprising a plurality of phases (W1, W2,

W3), in which the phases (W1, W2, W3) are energized
sequentially, comprising the step of

energizing the phases (W1, W2, W3) in a manner such that: 
during the de-energizing of a first phase and the energizing

of a second phase, there is a period of time in which the
first and second phases are both energized, and

the sum of the currents in said first and second phases is
substantially equal to a

predetermined reference signal (Iref);
characterized in that in said period of time the current in said

second phase is let to freely increase according
to the electric time constant of said second phase until said

current reaches the value corresponding to said reference signal (Iref).
A method according to Claim 18,
characterized in that the reference signal is substantially

constant.
A method according to Claim 18, 
characterized in that the reference signal (Iref) is

dependent on the rate of revolution of the motor.
A method according to Claim 18,
characterized in that the reference signal (Iref) is

dependent on the torque of the motor.
A method according to any one of Claims 18 to 21,
characterized in that the sum of the currents in the first

and second phases is substantially equal to the value of the
current in the first and second phases when they are

energized individually.
A method according to Claim 22, characterized in that it
comprises the step of controlling the current by pulse-width

modulation.
A method according to Claim 22 or Claim 23,
characterized in that it comprises the step of the closed-loop

control of the current.
A method according to any one of Claims 18 to 24,
characterized in that it comprises the step of detecting the

current (IL) absorbed by the motor.
A method according to Claim 25, characterized in that it
comprises the step of detecting the currents (i1, i2, i3) in

the phases (W1, W2, W3).
A method according to any one of Claims 18 to 26,
characterized in that it comprises the step of determining

the period of time in which the first and second phases are
both energized, on the basis of logic control signals (H1,

H2, H3) indicative of the angular position of the rotor of
the motor. 
A method according to Claim 27, characterized in that it
comprises the step of generating the logic control signals

(H1, H2, H3) on the basis of the electromotive forces (E1,
E2, E3) induced in the phases (W1, W2, W3) of the motor.
A method according to Claim 28, characterized in that it
comprises the step of generating the logic control signals

(H1, H2, H3) by comparing the induced electromotive forces
(E1, E2, E3) with a reference value.
A method according to Claim 27, characterized in that it
comprises the step of generating the logic control signals

(H1, H2, H3) by means of Hall-effect position sensors.
A method according to any one of Claims 27 to 30,
characterized in that it comprises the step of varying the

logic control signals (H1, H2, H3) in order to modify the
time period.
A method according to Claim 31, characterized in that it
comprises the step of varying the logic control signals (H1,

H2, H3) in dependence on the speed of rotation of the motor
and/or the current absorbed by the motor. 
A method according to Claim 18,
characterized in that, if the current flowing through the

second phase exceeds the value determined by the reference
signal (Iref) during the said time period, it comprises the step

of making said current subject to the control of a closed-loop
current control arrangement and cutting off the first

phase.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
