<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655013</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GAS SEPARATIONS UTILIZING GLASSY POLYMER MEMBRANES AT SUB-AMBIENT TEMPERATURES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D6902	C01B2100	C08G6410	B01D7148	B01D7164	C08G7500	B01D5322	B01D7166	C01B1302	C01B1302	C08G6400	C08G7526	C08L7112	C01B2104	B01D7152	B01D7162	B01D5326	B01D5326	B01D7150	C08L7100	C08G7506	B01D7172	B01D7100	B01D6900	B01D5322	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	C01B	C08G	B01D	B01D	C08G	B01D	B01D	C01B	C01B	C08G	C08G	C08L	C01B	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C08L	C08G	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D69	C01B21	C08G64	B01D71	B01D71	C08G75	B01D53	B01D71	C01B13	C01B13	C08G64	C08G75	C08L71	C01B21	B01D71	B01D71	B01D53	B01D53	B01D71	C08L71	C08G75	B01D71	B01D71	B01D69	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a method of and apparatus for separating component gases in a gas mixture employing a glassy polymer membrane at temperatures at or slightly above the freezing point of the liquid present so as to achieve superior separation of gas components. The composition of certain monomers and polymers are claimed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYNARA CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE CYNARA COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALES STEPHEN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECK HENRY N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURMESTER ALAN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOTZ CHARLES Z
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEANES THOMAS O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LACHER RONALD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCREYNOLDS KENT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLL DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUARDERER GEORGE J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH BETHANNE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESSLING RITCHIE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG THOMAS C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALES, STEPHEN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECK, HENRY, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURMESTER, ALAN, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, JAMES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOTZ, CHARLES, Z.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEANES, THOMAS, O.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LACHER, RONALD, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCREYNOLDS, KENT, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLL, DAVID, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUARDERER, GEORGE, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, BETHANNE, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESSLING, RITCHIE, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, THOMAS, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of separating a gas mixture employing a
membrane having a discriminating layer or region of a glassy polymer operated at
sub-ambient temperatures. This invention also relates to apparatus for such method.The use of membranes to separate various components of gas mixtures is
known. Membranes have been used to separate, remove, purify, or partially recover
a variety of gases, including hydrogen, helium, oxygen, nitrogen, argon, carbon
monoxide, carbon dioxide, ammonia, water vapor, methane and other light
hydrocarbons.Membrane separations are based on the relative permeability of two or more
component gases through the membrane. To separate a gas mixture into two
portions, one richer and one leaner in at least one component gas, the gas mixture
is brought into contact with one side of the membrane through which at least one of
the component gases selectively permeates. A component gas which selectively
permeates through the membrane passes through the membrane more readily than at
least one other component gas of the gas mixture. The gas mixture is thereby
separated into a steam which is enriched in the selectively permeating component
gas or component gases and a stream which is depleted in the selectively permeating
component gas or component gases. A relatively non-permeating component gas
passes less readily through the membrane than at least one other component gas of 
the gas mixture. An appropriate membrane material is chosen so that some degree
of separation of the gas mixture can be achieved.D. W. Brubaker et al., Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Vol. 46, pp.
1465-1473 (1953), disclose gas permeation through various films and parameters
which affect such permeation. R. W. Roberts, Journal of Applied Polymer Science,
Vol. 7, No. 6, pp. 2183-2197 (1963), examined the effect of temperature on
permeation through a variety of polymer films.S. Srinivasan, at the Gordon Research Conference on Synthetic Membranes
on July 10, 1990, presented a paper entitled "An Extraordinary Polymeric Membrane
That Rejects Light Gases" which reported permeability data on a polytrimethylsilyl
propyne membrane at temperatures down to -40°C for nitrogen and carbon dioxide.
Anomalous mixed gas effects were observed. These effects were explained by
suggesting that the transport in this material was dominated by diffusion in pores and
on the surfaces of those pores, rather than the traditional solution-diffusion
mechanism. Thorogood, at the International Gas Separation Meeting held in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of separating component gases in a gas mixture
comprising:


A/ contacting a first side of gas separation membrane, the
membrane comprising a polymeric discriminitating layer or region, which is at a glassy

state at the conditions, at which the separation is conducted,
with a gas mixture while maintaining a difference in

chemical potential from the first side of membrane to a second side of
the membrane, such that at least one first component gas of the gas

mixture selectively permeates relative to at least one second
component gas in the gas mixture from the first side of the membrane

to the second side of the membrane, said contacting occuring at a
temperature of 5°C or lower, with the proviso that the permeation

occurs at or above the freezing point of any liquid present, the
membrane being selected so that, when using a mixture of 80 mole%

nitrogen and 20 mole% oxygen as a feed at 30°C with a pressure of
205.5 kPa (30 psia) on the first side of the membrane and a vacuum of

less 0.133 kPa (1 mm Hg) on the second side of the membrane, the
permeability of oxygen in barrers is less than 2000 and has the

following relationship to oxygen/nitrogen selectivity:

Permeability 
>
 
2000
(selectivity)
7/2
; and
B/ recovering at least one of the permeate gas or rejected
non-permeate gas, wherein said layer or region effecting the gas separation 

is a glassy polymeric composition of matter
having a repeating unit of the formula



wherein U is independently selected from bromo or chloro.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the
membrane is an asymmetric, anisotropic, or composite

membrane.
A method as described in anyone of claims 1 or 2, wherein
the membrane is in the form of a plurality of hollow fibers.
A method as described in claim 3, wherein the gas mixture
is introduced into the bores of the hollow fibers and the gas which has

permeated through the fibers generally flows countercurrent to the gas
in the bores of the hollow fibers.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 or 2,
wherein the membrane is in the form of a flat sheet or film.
The method as described in claim 3 or 4, wherein the
hollow fibers comprise a discriminating layer or region at or near the

internal surface of the hollow fibers and a generally porous region
extending from the discriminating layer or region to the external

surface of the hollow fibers.
The method as described in claim 3 or 4, wherein the hollow
fibers comprise a generally porous region at or near the external

surface of the hollow fibres, a generally porous region at or near the
internal surface of the hollow fibers, and discriminating layer or 

region generally situated between the two porous surface regions.
The method as described in anyone of the preceding
claims, wherein the first component gas is oxygen and the second

component gas is nitrogen.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the first component gas is carbon dioxyde and the second

component gas is light hydrocarbon.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the first component gas is hydrogen or helium and the second

component gas is a light hydrocarbon.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the first component gas is ethylene and the second component

gas is ethane.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the temperature for separation is in the range from -30°C to

-5°C.
The method as described in claim 8, wherein the
temperature for separation is in the range from -150°C to -5°C.
The method as described in claim 12, wherein the
temperature for separation is in the range from -125°C to -25°C.
The method as described in claim 9, wherein the
temperature for separation is in the range from -40°C to -5°C.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the membrane has a Permselectivity Index of at least 0.25 for

oxygen/nitrogen separation.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the membrane exhibits a Figure of Merit for oxygen/nitrogen

of at least 3.0.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the membrane exhibits a Figure of Merit for carbon

dioxyde/methane separation of at least 25.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the membrane exhibits a Figure of Merit for helium/methane

of at least 15.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7, 
wherein the membrane exhibits at a temperature of at least -5°C or

less a selectivity for oxygen/nitrogen of at least 12 and an oxygen
permeability of at least 1 barrer, as measured using a mixture of

80 mole % nitrogen and 20 mole % oxygen as a feed with a pressure of
205.5 kPa (30 psia) on the first side of the membrane and a vacuum of

less than 0.133 kPa (1 mm Hg) on the second side of the membrane.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the glassy polymer exhibits a glass transition temperature of

at least 100°C.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the membrane has a Figure of Merit for oxygen/nitrogen

separation of at least 1.0.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,

wherein the membrane has a Figure of Merit for carbon
dioxyde/methane separation of at least 20.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the membrane exhibits at a temperature of 5°C or less a

selectivity for carbon dioxyde/methane of at least 40 and a carbon
dioxyde permeability of at least 10 barrers as measured using a

mixture of 5 mole % carbon dioxyde and 95 mole % methane as a feed
with a pressure of 205.5 kPa (30 psia) on the first side of the

membrane and a vacuum of less than 0.133 kPa (1 mm Hg) on the
second side of the membrane.
The method as described in anyone of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the membrane has a Figure of Merit for helium/methane

separation of at least 5.
The method as described in anyone of preceding claims,
further comprising recovering at least one of the rejected non-permeate

gas from the first side of the membrane and at least one of
the permeate gas from the second side of the membrane.
The method as described in anyone of preceding claims,
wherein the temperature of the gas mixture is altered by cooling the

gas mixture using at least one of an external refrigeration system, an
absorptive refrigeration system, an expansion device or the

refrigerating capacity of the permeate gas. 
The method as described in anyone of preceding claims
comprising the additional step of expanding at least the portion of

either the feed gas mixture, the non-permeate gas, or the permeate gas
to cool the gas.
The method as described in claim 27, wherein the gas is
expanding and cooled using a turbine expander.
The method according to anyone of the preceding claims
comprising the additional step of passing the cooled gas through a

means for exchanging heat with the gas mixture to be introduced into
the membrane so as to cool the gas mixture.
The method according to anyone of the preceding claims,
comprising the additional step of pretreating the gas mixture to

substantially remove one or more contaminants having a deleterious
impact on the performance or physical integrity of the membrane or

system components.
The method as described in claim 31, wherein the
contaminants comprise solid particulates or liquid droplets larger than

1 micron, hydrocarbons, glycols, oil field additives, surfactants,
mercury, oils, hydrogen sulfide, water vapor, nitrogen oxides, sulfur

oxides, hydrogen chloride, chlorine, mercaptans, carbonyl sulfide, or a
combination thereof.
The method as described in anyone of the preceding
claims comprising the additional step of recycling at least one of

either the non-permeate gas or the permeate gas.
The method as described in claim 30, comprising the
additional step of using at least a portion of either the non-permeate

gas or the permeate gas to purge or regenerate a pretreatment
equipment.
The method as described in anyone of the preceding
claims operated with two or more membrane devices arranged in series

or cascade configuration, or a combination thereof.
The method as described in claim 35 comprising the
additional step of compression of gas between the devices.
The method as described in claim 35, wherein the
composition of the membrane used in at least one device is different 

than the composition of the membrane used in at least one other
device.
The method as described in claim 35, wherein the
temperature of one device is different from the temperature of at least

one other device.
The method as described in anyone of the preceding
claims, comprising the additional separation step of at least one of

pressure-swing adsorption, temperature-swing adsorption, vaccum-swing
adsorption, fractionation, distillation, rectification, chemical

absorption, chemical reaction, or extraction.
The method as described in claim 33, wherein the
recycled gas is used as a sweep gas on the second side of the

membrane.
An apparatus for separating components of a gas mixture
comprising:


a means (127) for altering the temperature of the gas mixture
to a temperature of 5°C or lower and at or above the freezing point of liquid present, the

means for altering the temperature of the gas having an inlet and an
outlet;
at least one membrane device (133) operated at said
temperature or less having an inlet for introducing a gas mixture to be

separated, a membrane (134) which divides the membrane device into
a first side of the membrane non-permeate chamber and a second side

of the membrane permeate chamber, a non-permeate gas outlet and a
permeate gas outlet;
a means (130) for conveying gas from the outlet of the means
(127) for altering the temperature of the gas mixture to the inlet of the

membrane device (133);
wherein the membrane within the membrane device is as
defined in anyone of claims 1 to 25.
The apparatus according to claim 41, further comprising
means (105) for compressing having an inlet and an outlet, and

conveying means for conveying the gas from the outlet of the
compressing means to the inlet of the altering means.
An apparatus for separating components of a gas mixture 
according to claim 42 wherein said means for altering the temperature

of the gas mixture comprises:

at least one heat exchange device (127) having a first inlet
and first outlet and a second inlet and a second outlet, a first conduit

connecting the first inlet and outlet and a second conduit connecting
the second inlet and outlet, with said first and second conduits being

in thermal contact along a major portion of their respective lengths;
said means for conveying the gas mixture from the outlet of
the gas compressing means (105) to the inlet of said gas temperature

altering means is a means (130) for conveying the gas mixture from
the outlet of the means (105) for compressing the gas to the first inlet

of the heat exchange device (127);
said means for conveying gas from the outlet of the gas
temperature altering means to the inlet of the membrane device (133)

is a means (132) for conveying gas from the first outlet of the heat
exchange device (127) to the inlet of the membrane device (133) and

further comprising an additional means for altering the temperature of
part or all of the gas which exits either the permeate gas outlet or the

non-permeate gas outlet of the membrane device (133), or a
combination thereof, said additional means (129) for altering the

temperature of the gas having an inlet and an outlet;
a means (150) for conveying part or all of the gas from either
the permeate gas outlet or non-permeate gas outlet of the membrane

device (133), or a combination thereof, to the inlet of said additional
means (129) for altering the temperature of the gas; and
a means (150) for conveying gas from the outlet of said
additional means for altering the temperature of the gas to the second

inlet of the heat exchange device (127).
An apparatus for separating components of a gas mixture
according to claim 42, wherein said means for altering the temperature

of the gas mixture comprises:


at least one heat exchange device (127) having a first inlet
and first outlet and a second inlet and a second outlet, a first conduit

connecting the first inlet and outlet and a second conduit connecting
the second inlet and outlet, with said first and second conduits being 

in thermal contact along a major portion of their respective lengths;
said means for conveying the gas mixture from the outlet of
the gas compressing means (105) to the inlet of said gas temperature

altering means is a means (130) for conveying the gas mixture from
the outlet of the means (105) for compressing the gas to the first inlet

of the heat exchange device (127) and further comprising
an additional means (128) for altering the temperature of part
or all of the gas, said additional means for altering the temperature of

the gas having an inlet and an outlet;
a means (131) for conveying the gas mixture from the first
outlet of the heat exchange device (127) to the inlet of said additional

means (128) for altering the temperature of the gas;
a means (132) for conveying gas from the outlet of said
additional means for altering the temperature of the gas to the inlet of

the membrane device (133); and
a means (150-152) for conveying part or all of the gas from
either the permeate gas outlet or non-permeate gas outlet of the

membrane device, or a combination thereof, to the second inlet of the
heat exchange device (127).
The apparatus as described in anyone of claims 41 to 43,
wherein the means for altering the temperature of the gas is an

external refrigeration system.
The apparatus as described in anyone of claims 41 to 43,
wherein the means for altering the temperature of the gas is an

adsorptive refrigeratio system.
The apparatus as described in anyone of claims 41 to 43,
wherein the means for altering the temperature of the gas is an

expansion device.
The apparatus as described in ayone of claims 41 to 43,
additionally comprising:


a means (126) for pretreating the gas mixture for substantial
removal of contaminants having a deleterious impact on the physical

integrity and/or performance of the membrane, the means for
pretreating the gas having an inlet and an outlet; and
a means (130) for conveying pretreated gas to the inlet of the 
means (105) for compressing the gas, the inlet of the means for

altering the temperature of the gas, the first inlet of the heat exchange
device (127), or the inlet of the membrane device (133).
The apparatus as described in anyone of claims 41 to 43,
wherein two or more membrane devices (733, 735) are staged in series

or cascade arrangement, or a combination thereof.
The apparatus as described in claim 49, wherein the
composition of the membrane used in at least one stage is different

from the composition of the membrane used in at least one other stage.
The apparatus as described in anyone of claims 41 to 43,
additionally comprising:


a means for recycling part or all of the gas from either the
permeate gas outlet or non-permeate gas outlet of the membrane

device, or a combination thereof, to the inlet of the means for
compressing the gas, the inlet of the means for altering the

temperature of the gas, the first inlet of the heat exchange device, or
the inlet of the membrane device.
The apparatus as described in claim 51, wherein the
membrane device has an inlet for sweep gas and the apparatus

additionally comprises:

a means of conveying pan or all of the gas from either the
permeate gas outlet or non-permeate gas outlet of the membrane

device, or a combination thereof, to the inlet for sweep gas of the
membrane device.
The apparatus as described in claim 49, which
additionally comprises:


a means for compressing pan or all of the gas from the
permeate gas outlet or non-permeate gas outlet of the membrane

device, or a combination thereof.
An apparatus for separating components of a gas mixture
according to claim 41, further comprising:


a means for recovering the energy of compression from part
or all of the gas from either the permeate gas outlet or the non-permeate

gas outlet of the membrane device, or a combination thereof,
the energy recovered being used to drive a compression device or 

generate electrical power.
An apparatus for implementing the separating method of
claim 1, comprising:


a means for compressing the gas mixture to a desired
pressure, the means for compressing the gas having an inlet and an

outlet;
a heat exchange device (1408) having a first inlet and first
outlet and a second inlet and second outlet, a first conduit connecting

the first inlet and outlet and a second conduit connecting the second
inlet and outlet, with said first and second conduits being in thermal

contact along a major portion of their respective lengths;
a means (1406) for conveying the gas mixture from the outlet
of the means for compressing the gas to the first inlet of heat exchange

device;
at least one membrane device (1412)
having an inlet for introducing a gas mixture to be separated, a gas

separation membrane which divides the membrane device into a permeate
chamber and a non-permeate chamber,

said membrane being as set forth in claim 1,
a permeate gas outlet and a

non-permeate gas outlet;
a means (1410) for conveying gas from the first outlet of the
heat exchange device to the inlet of the membrane device;
a turbine expander (1424) for expanding part or all of the
permeate gas or non-permeate gas which exits the membrane device so

as to cool said gas, the turbine expander having an inlet and an outlet
and being connected so as to at least partially power a second means

for compressing gas;
a second means (1416) for compressing gas having an inlet
and an outlet;
a means (1422) for conveying part or all of the permeate gas
or non-permeate gas from the membrane device to the inlet of the

turbine expander;
a means (1414) for conveying part or all of the permeate gas
or non-permeate gas from the membrane device to the inlet of the

second means (1416) for compressing gas; and
a means for conveying gas from the outlet of the turbine 
expander (1424) to the second inlet of the heat exchange device

(1408).
An apparatus for implementing the method of claim 1,
comprising:


a first means (1504, 1508) for compressing the gas mixture to
a desired pressure, the first means compressing the gas having an inlet

and an outlet and optionally more than one stage with intermediate
inlets;
a heat exchange device (1512) having a first inlet and first
outlet; a second inlet and second outlet, and a third inlet and third

outlet, a first conduit connecting the first inlet and outlet, a second
conduit connecting the second inlet and outlet, and a third conduit

connecting the third inlet and outlet, with said first, second and third
conduits being in thermal contact along a major portion of their

respective lengths;
a means (1510) for conveying the gas mixture from the outlet
of the first means for compressing the gas to the first inlet of heat

exchange device (1512);
a first membrane device (1516), having
an inlet for introducing a gas mixture to be separated, at least one gas

separation membrane which divides the membrane device into permeate chamber
and at least a non-permeate chamber,

said gas separation membrane being as set forth in claim 1,
a permeate gas outlet and a non-permeate

gas outlet;
a means (1514) for conveying gas which connects the first
outlet of the heat exchange device (1512) to the inlet of the first

membrane device (1516);
a second membrane device (1520) having an inlet for
introducing gas, at least one membrane which divides the membrane

devices into at least one permeate chamber and at least one non-permeate
chamber, a permeate gas outlet and a non-permeate gas

outlet;
a means (1518) for conveying gas from the first membrane
device (1516) to the inlet of the second membrane device (1520);
a turbine expander (1534) for expanding pan or all of the gas
which exits the non-permeate outlet of the first membrane device 

(1516) so as to cool said gas, the turbine expander having an inlet and
an outlet and being connected so as to at least partially power a second

means for compressing gas;
a second means (1524) for compressing gas having an inlet
and an outlet;
a means (1522) for conveying gas from the non-permeate
outlet of the first membrane device (1516) to the inlet of the turbine

expander (1534);
a means (1536) for conveying gas from the outlet of the
turbine expander (1534) to the second inlet of the heat exchange

device (1512);
a means (1522) for conveying gas from the permeate outlet of
the second membrane device (1520) to the inlet of the second means

for compressing gas (1524);
a means (1540) for conveying gas from the second outlet of
the heat exchange device (1512) to either the inlet of the first means

(1504, 1508) for compressing gas or an intermediate inlet for such
means; and
a means (1530) for conveying gas from the non-permeate
outlet of the second membrane device (1520) to the third inlet of the

heat exchange device (1512).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
