<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631683</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN OBJECT MONITORING SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08G104	G08G1052	G06T720	G08G1017	G01P338	G08G104	G08G1054	G06T500	G06T720	G01P336	G08G1017	G06T500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08G	G08G	G06T	G08G	G01P	G08G	G08G	G06T	G06T	G01P	G08G	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08G1	G08G1	G06T7	G08G1	G01P3	G08G1	G08G1	G06T5	G06T7	G01P3	G08G1	G06T5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An object monitoring system includes a camera node (2) for monitoring movement of an object (18) to determine an acquisition time when an image of the object (18) is to be acquired and acquiring the image at the predetermined time. The system includes a camera (6) which is able to monitor moving objects (18), and image processing circuitry (10), responsive to the camera (6), which is able to detect a predetermined moving object (18) from other moving and static objects. From the image acquired, information identifying the object (18) can be automatically extracted. The system is particularly suited to monitoring and discriminating large vehicles (18) from other vehicles over a multi-lane roadway, and acquiring high resolution images of the large vehicles (18) at a predetermined acquisition point (22). Image data acquired by a plurality of camera nodes (2) can be sent over a digital telecommunications network (45) to a central image processing system (42) which can extract vehicle identifying data, such as licence plate details, and obtain information on vehicle travel between nodes (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an object monitoring system and, in particular, to
a system for monitoring vehicles.Authorities responsible for traffic management and the laws which govern the use
of vehicles require systems which can monitor traffic continuously and detect breaches
of the law, without requiring the expense of having personnel present at the scene of the
infringement. Systems which are able to monitor a large number of locations, detect
infringements and issue infringement notices are particularly advantageous as they relieve
personnel, such as police, from the task of traffic management and allow them to pursue
other tasks. By continuously monitoring a location the systems also act as a deterrent to
infringers and may assist in reducing accidents which cause road fatalities and casualties.
It would also be advantageous to be able to monitor road usage in order to make
decisions on road damage caused by heavy vehicles.A number of traffic management systems are presently in use, such as speed
cameras and red light cameras for road traffic. The known systems employ cameras
which are triggered when an infringement is detected. Optical sensors placed on the side
of the road, pressure sensors placed underneath the road and radar signals reflected from
vehicles are used to detect the presence of a vehicle and determine infringement. The
sensors and radar signals are used to generate a trigger signal to activate a camera to take
a picture of the vehicle which includes details from which the vehicle can be identified, such
as a car licence plate. Use of road based sensors is disadvantageous as they require the
road to be altered or excavated for installation or, when placed on the side of the road,
can be easily detected and damaged. Also electrical cabling needs to be installed and
connected between the sensors and the camera. The use of electromagnetic signals which
are transmitted to and reflected from a vehicle, such as radar signals, to detect presence
and infringement is also disadvantageous as these signals can be detected by detection
units placed in a vehicle to alert the driver as to their presence. It is advantageous therefore to provide a system which can detect vehicle presence
and infringement without transmitting any electromagnetic signals or using road based
sensors.The cameras presently in use also use photographic film which has the
disadvantage that it needs to be continually replaced at the location of the camera.
Accordingly, a number of red light cameras in metropolitan
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An object monitoring system comprising camera means (6,8,30,34), characterised in
that the camera means is adapted to monitor movement of an object (18) to predetermine,

based on the monitored movement of the object, an acquisition time at which an image can
be acquired at a predetermined position (22) of said object relative to said camera means, and

to acquire an image at the predetermined acquisition time and the predetermined position.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said camera means
(6,8,30,34) is adapted to detect said object (18) and discriminate said object from static

objects and other moving objects.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the camera means
(6,8,30,34) includes video camera means (6) for monitoring a respective area (12) in which

objects move, and image processing means (30) for subtracting a background image of said
area from images of said area generated by said video camera means so as to produce

difference images representative of moving objects in said area.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 3, wherein said image processing
means (30) includes classification means (80) for forming clusters from parts of said

difference images which correspond to the same moving object (18).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said image processing
means (30) processes each cluster to determine if it corresponds to said object (18) and

determines said acquisition time.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 5, wherein said image processing
means (30) filters said difference images to disregard pixels within a predetermined level

range (79).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 6, wherein said image processing
means (30) includes segmentation means (78) for processing said difference images to

generate segmented images which include regions corresponding to parts of moving objects 

in said area that produce at least a predetermined light level at said camera means.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 7, wherein said classification means
(80) analyses and generates measurements of the shape of said regions and on the basis of the

analysis and measurements determines valid regions and invalid regions to be disregarded.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said classification means
(80) includes clustering means (174) for generating said clusters, each cluster comprising the

valid regions which are considered to correspond to an object, said regions being extended
to determine if regions overlap with and have to be combined with another to form a cluster.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said classification means
(80) includes labelling means (178) for assigning a label to each cluster for each image to

identify respective clusters and for matching and separating clusters over consecutive images
to determine if labels are to be inherited or new labels assigned.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said classification means
(80) is adapted to classify said clusters as corresponding to predetermined objects by

comparing characteristics of said clusters with classification data of said system, such that
said classification means is adapted to identify a cluster corresponding to said object (18).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 11, including means (190) for
maintaining a histogram (150) of said characteristics for objects monitored by said camera

means (6,8,30,34), and adjusting said classification data on the basis of said histogram.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 12, including light intensity means
(190) for monitoring a lighting level of said area, and wherein said predetermined level

range, said analysis of said regions, the extension applied to said regions by said clustering
means (174), and said classification data are adjusted depending on said lighting level.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said image processing
means includes means (180) for tracking the cluster corresponding to said object over

consecutive images, comprising transformation means for transforming coordinates of said 
cluster to compensate for a perspective view of said camera means, and means for predicting

the speed and position of said cluster for each succeeding image.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 14, wherein said tracking means
(180) determines said acquisition time on the basis of said predetermined position (22) and

the predicted speed and position of said cluster.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 15, wherein said camera means
(6,8,30,34) includes image capture camera means (8,34) to acquire said image of said object

(18) at said acquisition time.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the image capture
camera means (8,34) is adapted to acquire a high resolution image of said object.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 17, wherein said video camera means
(6) has a wide field view (12) relative to said image capture camera means (8,34), which has

a limited field of view (20).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 18, including an infrared flash (40)
which is synchronised with said image capture camera means (8,34), the energy level of said

flash being dependent on said lighting level.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 19, wherein said image capture
camera means (8,34) includes image sensor means (371) and exposure control means (40) for

inhibiting saturation of said image sensor means in response to said lighting level.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 20, wherein said flash includes
means for inhibiting the emission of visible light therefrom.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 21, wherein said extension applied
by said clustering means (174) is increased when said lighting level corresponds to a night

condition. 
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 22, wherein said extension is less
for regions corresponding to objects distant from said camera means (6,8).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 23, wherein said labelling means
(178) performs said matching and separating on the basis of comparing boundaries or centres

of said clusters for consecutive images.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 24, wherein said difference images
are filtered and used to update said background image.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 25, including means (84) for
triggering said image capture camera means (8,34) at said acquisition time, comprising means

(352) for receiving and storing a number of a scan line corresponding to said acquisition time
from said tracking means (180), means (358) for counting scan lines of said images, and

means (356) for generating a trigger signal for said image capture camera means when said
count reaches said number.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 26, wherein said light intensity
means (190) generates a histogram (150) of pixel grey levels for said images generated by

said video camera means, and determines a day, night or twilight light condition on the basis
of the median of said histogram.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 27, wherein said predetermined level
range is determined on the basis of the minimum, median and peak of said histogram.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 28, wherein said measurements
comprise circularity and coverage of said regions.
An object monitoring system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 29, including
recognition means (51) for processing the acquired image to obtain information identifying

said object (18).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 30, including a plurality of said 
camera means (6,8,30,34) for monitoring respective areas and adapted to communicate with

one another so as to transfer information on said object (18).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 30 or 31, including a plurality of
said camera means (6,8,30,34) for monitoring respective areas, and adapted to communicate

with a central station (47) so as to transfer information on said object (18).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 32, wherein said information on said
object (18) is acquired by at least two of said camera means (6,8,30,34) and said information

can be used to determine the time which said object took to travel between at least two of said
areas.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 33, wherein said central station (47)
includes remote control means (53) for controlling said camera means from said central

station.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 34, wherein said central station (47)

and said plurality of camera means (6,8,30,34) include respective telecommunications
controllers (55) and communicate using a digital telecommunications network (45).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 35, including means (49) for
archiving said information and allowing subsequent access thereto.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 36, wherein said information
includes acquired images of said object and the times of acquisition, and said central station

(47) includes said recognition means (51).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 36, wherein said information
includes said identifying information and the times of acquisition of acquired images of said

object (18), and a plurality of said recognition means (51) are connected to said plurality of
camera means (6,8,30,34), respectively, at the sites of said plurality of camera means.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 37 or 38, wherein said recognition 
means (51) is adapted to process said acquired image to locate pixels representative of

characteristic pixels identifying said object (18).
An object monitoring system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 39, wherein said
object (18) is a vehicle.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 40 when dependent on claim 30,
wherein said recognition means comprises means for locating a licence plate in said image

and means for determining the characters of said licence plate, said characters comprising
said identifying information.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 41 when dependent on claim 6
wherein said predetermined level range covers pixel levels produced by shadows of said

vehicle.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 42 when dependent on claim 8,
wherein said invalid regions correspond to headlight reflections produced by said vehicles or

road lane markings within said area.
An object monitoring system as claimed in any one of claims 40 to 43, wherein said
vehicle is a large vehicle, such as a bus or truck.
A monitoring system as claimed in any of claims 1 to 44, wherein said object (18) is
a vehicle and wherein said camera means (6,8,30,34) is adapted to monitor said vehicle to

detect a law infringement and captures an image of said vehicle at said predetermined time
in response to detecting said infringement.
A monitoring system as claimed in claim 45, including recognition means (51) for
processing said images to obtain information identifying said vehicle.
A monitoring system according to claim 1, wherein the camera means (6,8,30,34)
generates images of an area and acquires an image of a predetermined object, including image

processing means (30) having: 

means (70,72,74,76) for subtracting a background image of said area from said images
of said area to generate difference images representative of moving objects in said area;
segmentation means (77,78) for processing said difference images to generate region
images representative of regions corresponding to parts of said moving objects in said area;
classification means (80) for processing said region images, said classification means
including means (176) for analysing the shape of said regions and, on the basis of the

analysis, determining valid regions and invalid regions, clustering means (176) for
generating, on the basis of said valid regions, clusters corresponding to respective ones of

said moving objects, and means (176) for classifying said clusters by comparing at least one
characteristic of said clusters to classification data of said system to determine if one of said

clusters corresponds to said predetermined object; and
tracking means (180) for tracking said one of said clusters corresponding to said
predetermined object to determine an image acquisition time for acquiring said image of said

predetermined object.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 47, wherein said image processing
means (30) filters said difference images to disregard pixels within a predetermined intensity

range.
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 48, wherein said parts of moving
objects correspond to at least a predetermined light level received at said camera means

(6,8,30,34).
An object monitoring system as claimed in claim 49, wherein said classification means
(80) extends said valid regions to determine if said valid regions have to be combined to form

said clusters.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
