<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625293</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISTRIBUTED SUPERVISORY CONTROL AND DATA ACQUISITION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B714	H04B714	H04B726	H04B726	H04L1256	H04L1256	H04Q736	H04Q736	H04Q738	H04Q738	H04Q900	H04Q900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04L12	H04L12	H04Q7	H04Q7	H04Q7	H04Q7	H04Q9	H04Q9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A SCADA communication and control system is used for controlling power distribution. The system includes a master controller, a master radio and a plurality of remote terminal units (RTUs). A communication link between the master controller (12) and the master radio (14) has two channels. A first channel is for sending master controller messages to the master radio (14). The second channel is for the master radio (14) to send the RTU response messages back to the master controller (12). A supplemental controller (32) along with supplemental remote terminal units (SRTUs) (34) also are included for expanding the range of the system. A switch (38) is included in the second channel so as to selectively link either the supplemental controller (32) or the master radio (14) to the master controller (12) for providing response messages. The supplemental controller (32) monitors the first channel to identify messages having an STRU address. When such a message is identified, the switch (38) is set to select the supplemental controller (32). The supplemental controller (32) includes a main task for monitoring and testing master controller messages.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITRON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITRON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLUM WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLUM WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DISTRIBUTED SUPERVISORY CONTROL AND DATA ACQUISITION SYSTEMNOTICE REGARDING COPYRIGHTED MATERIAL A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the public Patent and Trademark Office file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a communication and control system, and more particularly to a distributed supervisory control and data acquisition ("SCADA") system. A SCADA communication and control system is a wide area network of remote terminal units communicating by short bursts at the 900 MHz radio frequency range. The remote terminal units are, e.g. , power control stations used by a utility company for controlling power distribution over a specific area. A typical SCADA system 10 is shown in FIG. l, including a master controller 12 coupled to a master radio unit 14 via modem 16 and microwave link 18. Messages from the master controller 12 are sent to the master radio 14 for broadcast to multiple remote terminal units 22. By including only one master radio 14, however, the network communication distances are limited, especially in rugged terrain. Further, by using telephone-type modems 16, acquisition times are relatively slow. Accordingly, there is a need for systems having enhanced range and throughput.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION According to the invention, a conventional SCADA system is expanded to include a supplemental controller and additional remote terminal units which share the same radio 

channels. A master controller controls the power distribution over the network of remote terminal units (RTUs) and supplemental remote terminal units (SRTUs) . The supplemental controller enables an expanded network by monitoring master controller messages and generating response messages for the SRTUs.According to one aspect of the invention, the supplemental controller monitors master controller transmissions to identify messages destined for one or more of the SRTUs. When a SRTU destination address is identified, the supplemental controller takes control of the 900 MHz transmission channel and the master controller link. The supplemental controller then transmits the message to the destination SRTU. The SRTU performs the requested command and responds with status information and, depending on the specified function, analog
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A distributed radio communication and control system, comprising: master control means for controlling communications with a plurality of remotely-located first stations and a plurality of remotely-located second stations, the master control means generating master control means messages, each said message having a destination address; master radio means for transmitting a master control means message to one of said first stations and for sending a response message to said master control means from said one first station; supplemental control means for monitoring said master control means messages and for determining whether an address of one of said second stations corresponds to said destination address, said supplemental control means transmitting a supplemental control means message to said one second station when said one second station corresponds to said destination address, said supplemental control means sending a response message to said master control means based upon a response from said one second station to said supplemental control means message; and means for selectively coupling a communication channel from either one of said master radio means and said supplemental control means to said master control means across which a response message is sent; wherein said supplemental control means controls the coupling means to select the supplemental control means channel when said destination address corresponds to a second station address.
2. The system of claim 1, in which said master radio means is disabled from transmitting to a first station when a destination address corresponding to a second station is identified. 


 3. The system of claim 2, in which said master radio means is enabled for transmitting to a first station when a destination address which does not correspond to a second station is identified.
4. The system of claim 3 in which said supplemental control means controls said disabling and enabling of said master radio means.
5. The system of claim 1 in which said master radio means and said supplemental control means are located at a common site remote from said master control means.
6. The system of claim 1, in which said supplemental control means comprises: means for executing a main task for monitoring and testing master control means messages; means for executing a network task for communicating with said one second station; and data interface means between said main task and said network task for storing second station response information, said network task gathering said response information, said main task accessing said response information to generate a response message to be sent to said master control means.
7. The system of claim 6, in which said data interface means comprises a data table of sections, each section of the table allocated to store response information for one of said plurality of second stations.
8. The system of claim 7, in which said response information comprises status data, error data digitized representations of analog data.
9. A distributed radio communication and control system, comprising: master control means for controlling communications with a plurality of remotely-located first stations and a 


plurality of remotely-located second stations, the master control means generating master control means messages, each said message having a destination address; master radio means for transmitting a master control means message to one of said first stations and for sending a response message to said master control means from said one first station; supplemental control means for monitoring said master control means messages and for determining whether an address of one of said second stations corresponds to said destination address, said supplemental control means transmitting a supplemental control means message to said one second station when said one second station corresponds to said destination address, said supplemental control means sending a response message to said master control means based upon a response from said one second station to said supplemental control means message; and means for selectively coupling a communication channel from either one of said master radio means and said supplemental control means to said master control means across which a response message is sent; wherein said supplemental control means controls the coupling means to select the supplemental control means channel when said destination address corresponds to a second station address; and wherein said supplemental control means comprises: a) means for executing a main task for monitoring and testing master control means messages; b) means for executing a network task for communicating with said one second station; and c) data interface means between said main task and said network task for storing second station response information, said network task gathering said response information, said main task accessing said response information to generate a response message to be sent to said master control means. 



 10. The system of claim 9, in which said master radio means is disabled from transmitting to a first station when a destination address corresponding to a second station is identified.
11. The system of claim 10, in which said master radio means is enabled for transmitting to a first station when a destination address which does not correspond to a second station is identified.
12. The system of claim 11, in which said supplemental control means controls said disabling and enabling of said master radio means.
13. The system of claim 12, in which said master radio means and said supplemental control means are located at a common site remote from said master control means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
