<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623723</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Drive apparatus and portable power source for computerized combination locks.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B4700	E05B4700	G07C900	G07C900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	G07C	G07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B47	E05B47	G07C9	G07C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A drive apparatus for use with a computerized 
combination dial lock includes a rotating (1) or 

longitudinally translating member which imparts motion to 
an electrical generator (23) for powering the electrical 

components of the computerized combination dial lock. 
The drive apparatus is independent of the combination 

dial (2) of the computerized lock. In one embodiment, the 
dial ring (1) of the combination dial is rotatable to drive 

the electrical generation for power output to the 
computerized lock components. Alternatively, the 

combination dial and spindle are spring biased for 
longitudinal translation thereof to drive the electrical 

generator. In another embodiment, a lever member 
adjacent the dial ring or a key inserted in a keyway is 

rotated for powering the computerized lock. In yet 
another embodiment, a portable power source (101) is in the 

form of a key and a portable power source contained 
therein. The key is designed to engage a keyway (109) mounted 

in or adjacent the combination dial lock assembly to 
provide power to the electrical components therein. The 

power source can include a battery (105) or solar power, or be 
developed by mechanical energy. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCKMASTERS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCKMASTERS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JASPER THOMAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JASPER, THOMAS E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a manually 
driven electricity generator for powering electronically 
controlled combination locks. It has been proposed to substitute, for conventional 
mechanical door locks, systems of various sorts in which 
a physical or code-generated "key" is recognized by an 
electronic circuit which enables a locking bolt to be 
withdrawn. However, these types of electronic locks 
require a battery or other power source, such as a solar 
cell, to be incorporated in the lock housing. Failure to 
change the lock battery or inadequate ambient lighting 
makes it impossible to reliably operate conventional 
electronic locks. Attempts have been made to utilize in-the-door power 
generation to eliminate the need for an external power 
source in electronic locks. PCT International 
Publication No. WO 80/02710 shows the use of an in-the-door 
electrical generator to power electronic decision 
makers to move bolts or gates which allow latches to be 
moved. United States Patent No. 4,433,355 to Chew et al. 
discloses an electronic lock for a door including a 
built-in generator for generating electrical energy to 
operate an electronic code recognition circuit. The 
generator is linked to a door handle spindle.  United States Patent No. 4,912,460 to Chu discloses 
an electromechanical gating mechanism including 
electrical energy generating means which generates 
electrical energy in response to and utilizing energy 
derived from mechanical motion continuously generated by 
an individual pushing a key into a lock or operating a 
series of buttons or touch pad areas which produce energy 
piezoelectrically. A computerized combination lock, in accordance with 
the invention, comprises a dial and dial ring assembly 
mounted on a face of the security container, an 
electrical generator, a drive apparatus for imparting 
motion to the electrical generator, and a microprocessor 
and lock assembly arranged within said container to be 
secured and powered by the electrical generator for 
operation of the computerized combination lock. The dial 
ring is rotatably mounted on the face of the container 
for limited rotational movement and the drive apparatus 
further comprises means for transmitting the rotational 
movement of the dial ring to the electrical generator for 
powering the microprocessor and lock assembly. The dial ring can directly engage the electrical 
generator when the electrical generator is mounted 
adjacent the dial ring and outside of the security 
container. Alternatively, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computerized combination lock for a security 
container comprising: 


a) a dial and a dial ring mounted on a face of said 
security container; 
b) an electrical generator; 
c) a drive apparatus for imparting motion to said 
electrical generator; 
d) a microprocessor and lock assembly arranged 
within said security container and being powered by said 

electrical generator for operation of said computerized 
combination lock; 
e) wherein said dial ring is rotatably mounted to 
said face of said security container for limited 

rotational movement, said dial being rotatable 
independently of said dial ring; and 
f) said drive apparatus further comprises means for 
transmitting said limited rotational movement of said 

dial ring to said electrical generator for powering said 
microprocessor and lock assembly. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 1 
wherein said electrical generator is mounted within said 

security container and said means for transmitting said 
limited rotational movement further comprises a spindle 

mounted on one end thereof to a rear face of said dial 
ring and extending through said face of said security 

container, said spindle including means on the other end 
for engaging said electrical generator to transmit 

rotational movement imparted to said spindle to said 
electrical generator. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 2 
wherein said drive apparatus includes means for biasing 

 
said dial ring in a direction opposite said limited 

rotational movement. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 3 
wherein said biasing means comprises at least one spring 

arranged in an arcuate slot in said dial ring. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 1 
wherein said dial ring has at least one arcuate slot 

therein and said face includes at least one stop 
extending outwardly therefrom and positioned within said 

slot to limit rotational movement of said dial ring. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 5 
wherein said dial ring has a pair of diametrically 

opposed arcuate slots. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 2 
wherein said means for engaging said electrical generator 

comprises a geared surface on said other end of said 
spindle. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 1 
wherein said electrical generator is mounted inwardly of 

a peripheral flange of said dial ring and said peripheral 
flange includes a geared portion for transmitting 

rotational movement imparted to said dial ring to said 
electrical generator by engagement with said electrical 

generator. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 8 
wherein said drive apparatus includes m
eans for biasing 
said dial ring in a direction opposite said limited 

rotational movement. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 9 
wherein said biasing means comprises at least one spring 

arranged in an arcuate slot in said dial ring. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 8 
wherein said dial ring has at least one arcuate slot 

therein and said face includes at least one stop 
extending outwardly therefrom and positioned within said 

slot to limit rotational movement of said dial ring. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 11 
wherein said dial ring has a pair of diametrically 

opposed arcuate slots. 
A computerized combination lock for a security 
container comprising: 


a) a dial and a dial ring mounted on a face of said 
security container, said dial ring including a peripheral 

flange; 
b) an electrical generator; 
c) a drive apparatus for imparting motion to said 
electrical generator; 
d) a microprocessor and lock assembly arranged 
within said security container and being powered by said 

electrical generator for operation of said computerized 
combination lock; 
e) wherein said drive apparatus further comprises 
a lever rotatably mounted adjacent said dial ring for 

limited rotational movement, said dial being rotatable 
independently of said dial ring; and 
f) means for transmitting said limited rotational 
movement of said lever to said electrical generator for 

powering said microprocessor and lock assembly. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 13 
wherein said electrical generator is mounted inwardly of 

 
said peripheral flange of said dial ring and said means 

for transmitting said limited rotational movement 
comprises a geared portion on said lever member for 

engaging said electrical generator to transmit said 
limited rotational movement imparted to said geared 

portion to said electrical generator. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 14 
wherein said drive apparatus includes means for biasing 

said lever member in a direction opposite said limited 
rotational movement. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 15 
wherein said means for biasing comprises at least one 

spring arranged arcuately on said dial ring and at least 
one stop arranged on said dial ring to limit travel of 

said lever member. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 13 
wherein said electrical generator is mounted within said 

security container and said means for transmitting said 
limited rotational movement comprises: 


a) a spindle having opposing geared end portions 
said spindle extending through said dial ring 

and said security container; and 
b) an arcuate geared portion on said lever member, 
one of said geared end portions engaging said 

arcuate geared portion of said lever member with 
the other geared end portion of said spindle 

engaging said electrical generator, rotation of 
said lever member being transmitted to said 

electrical generator for powering said 
microprocessor and lock assembly by rotation of 

said lever member and said spindle. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 17 
wherein said drive apparatus includes means for biasing 

said lever member in a direction opposite said limited 
rotational movement. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 18 
wherein said means for biasing comprises at least one 

spring arranged arcuately on said dial ring and at least 
one stop arranged on said dial ring to limit travel of 

said lever member. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 13 
wherein said dial ring has a slot and said lever member 

has a handle extending through said slot. 
A computerized combination lock for a security 
container comprising: 


a) a dial and dial ring mounted on a face of said 
security container; 
b) an electrical generator mounted within said 
security container; 
c) a drive apparatus for imparting motion to said 
electrical generator; 
d) a microprocessor and lock assembly arranged 
within said security container and being powered by said 

electrical generator for operation of said computerized 
combination lock; 
e) said drive apparatus further comprising means 
for transmitting axial translation of said dial ring to 

said electrical generator for powering said 
microprocessor and lock assembly. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 21 
wherein said means for transmitting said axial 

translation comprises: 
a) a spindle extending from a rear face of said 
dial ring and through said face of said security 

container; 
b) means for biasing said dial ring axially and 
outwardly from said face; and 
c) a rack gear arranged on an end portion of said 
spindle for engaging said electrical generator such that 

axial translation of said dial ring imparts motion to 
said electrical generator to power said microprocessor 

and lock assembly. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 22 
wherein said means for biasing said dial ring axially and 

outwardly from said face comprises: 

i) a guide bushing mounted on said face, said guide 
bushing housing at least a portion of said dial ring; and 
ii) a spring mounted on said spindle and positioned 
between said rear face of said dial ring and said face of 

said security container, said guide bushing providing a 
limit to said biasing of said dial ring axially and 

outwardly from said base. 
In a computerized combination lock for a 
security container having a combination dial mounted on 

a face of the security container, a microprocessor and 
lock assembly for computerized control of combination 

lock operation, said microprocessor and lock assembly 
being powered by a source of electrical power, the 

improvement comprising: 

a) a key containing a portable source of electric 
power; 
b) a keyway adapted to receive said key, said 
keyway arranged externally of said security container; 

and 
c) means for connecting said portable source of 
electric power to said microprocessor and lock assembly 

 
to provide electric power thereto for computerized 

combination dial lock operation. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 25 
wherein said keyway is located in a combination dial of 

said computerized combination lock. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 25 
wherein said portable source of electric power is a 

battery and said means for connecting comprises 
electrical wiring connecting said battery to said 

microprocessor and lock assembly. 
A computerized combination lock for a security 
container comprising: a) a combination dial mounted on 

a face of the security container; b) an electrical 
generator; c) a drive apparatus for imparting motion to 

said electrical generator; d) a microprocessor and lock 
ass
embly for computerized control of combination lock 
operation, said microprocessor and lock assembly being 

powered by said electrical generator; 

e) a key having an elongated portion; 
f) a keyway adapted to receive said elongated 
portion, said keyway arranged externally of said security 

container and permitting rotation of said elongate 
portion in said keyway; and 
g) wherein said drive apparatus includes means 
for transmitting said rotation of said elongate portion 

to said electrical generator for powering said 
microprocessor and lock assembly. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 27 
wherein said keyway is located in a combination dial of 

said computerized combination lock. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 27 
wherein said means for transmitting said rotation 

comprises: 

i) a spindle extending through said security 
container, said spindle having means on one end 

for engaging said electrical generator; and 
ii) means on the opposite end of said spindle 
and on said elongate portion of said key for 

connecting said key to said opposite spindle so 
that rotation of said elongate portion is 

transmitted to said electrical generator through 
said spindle for powering said microprocessor 

and lock assembly. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 27 
wherein said elongate portion is removably insertable 

into said keyway. 
The computerized combination lock of claim 27 
wherein said elongate portion is integrally attached to 

said means for transmitting said rotation. 
A combination lock for a container comprising: 
   a moveable first part mountable on the 

container; 
   a microprocessor operated lock assembly; 

   and an electric generator for powering the 
microprocessor; 

   wherein said lock is arranged such that 
movement of said first part is arranged to drive the 

generator thereby causing the generator to provide power 
to the microprocessor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
