<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655012</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ASSEMBLY AND METHODS FOR PROCESSING BLOOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M136	B01D2126	B01D3502	B01D3500	A61M102	A61M136	A61M102	A61M3922	A61M3900	B01D2126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	B01D	B01D	B01D	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	B01D21	B01D35	B01D35	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M39	A61M39	B01D21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Systems and methods for processing blood are disclosed. Blood is directed through the inlet (46) of a separation device (40) for removing undesired matter while directing the blood substantially free of undesired matter from the outlet (48) of the separation device (40) and into a collection container (18) through the first port (P1). Residual air from the collection container (18) is expelled through a second port (P2) different from the first port (P1). The residual air is directed toward the inlet (46) of the separation device (40) to remove residual blood from the separationdevice (40) for collection in the collection container (18) through the first port (P1).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELLOTTI MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON SAMIRA E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARLOVSKY DANIEL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELLOTTI, MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, SAMIRA, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARLOVSKY, DANIEL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention generally relates to blood
processing apparatus and methods. In
a more particular sense, the invention relates to
apparatus and methods for removing white blood cells
from red blood cells prior to transfusion or long
term storage.Most of the whole blood collected from donors
today is not itself stored and used for
transfusion. Instead, the whole blood is separated
into its clinically proven components (typically red
blood cells, platelets, and plasma), which are themselves
individually stored and used to treat a
multiplicity of specific conditions and diseased
states. For example, the red blood cell component
is used to treat anemia; the concentrated platelet
component is used to control thrombocytopenic
bleeding; and the platelet-poor plasma component is
used as a volume expander or as a source of Clotting
Factor VIII for the treatment of hemophilia.Systems composed of multiple,
interconnected plastic bags have met widespread use
and acceptance in the collection, processing and
storage of these blood components. In the United
States, these multiple blood bag systems are subject
to regulation by the government. For example, the 
plastic materials from which the bags and tubing are
made must be approved by the government. In
addition, the maximum storage periods for the blood
components collected in these systems are prescribed
by regulation.In the United States, whole blood
components collected in a nonsterile, or "open",
system (i.e. one that is open to communication with
the atmosphere) must, under governmental
regulations, be transfused within twenty-four hours.
However, when whole blood components are collected
in a sterile, or "closed", system (i.e., one that is
closed to communication with the atmosphere), the
red blood cells can be stored up to forty-two days
(depending upon the type of anticoagulant and
storage medium used); the platelet concentrate can
be stored up to five days (depending upon the type
of storage container); and the platelet-poor plasma
may be frozen and stored for even longer periods.
Conventional systems of multiple, interconnected
plastic bags have met with widespread acceptance,
because these systems can reliably provide the
desired sterile, "closed" environment for blood
collection and processing, thereby assuring the
maximum available storage periods.In collecting whole blood components for
transfusion, it is desirable to minimize the
presence of impurities or other materials that may
cause undesired side effects in the recipient. For
example, because of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A blood processing assembly comprising a container (18) having a
first port (P1) and a second port (P2) different than the first port,


a first fluid flow path (20C,40,20D), comprising tubing (20C,20D), and
separation means (40) for separating undesired matter from blood,
the first flow path having an inlet, and an outlet connected to the first
port (P1) for directing blood from the inlet

of the first fluid flow path
and through the separation

means for removing undesired matter to provide blood substantially free
of undesired matter that is directed from the separation means into the

container (18) through the first port (P1),

   characterised by a second fluid flow path (20E) connected between
the second port (P2) and a position on the first fluid flow path

(20C,40,20D) that is between the inlet and the separation means (40) for
enabling residual air to be expelled from the container (18) through the

second port (P2) and toward the separation means (40) to move residual
blood from the separation means (40) for collection in the container (18)

through the first port (P1).
An assembly according to Claim 1 including collection means (16)
in fluid communication with the first and second flow paths for collecting

the expelled residual air before the expelled residual air is directed toward

the separation means (40).
An assembly according to Claim 1 or 2 including means (16) in
fluid communication with the inlet for introducing additive solution to the

blood.
An assembly according to Claim 1 or 2 and further including means
(16) in fluid communication with the inlet for introducing additive solution 

to the blood before it is directed to the separation means (40).
An assembly according to Claim 2, or Claim 3 or 4 when
dependent from Claim 2, wherein the collection means (16) is a second

container.
An assembly according to Claim 5 wherein the second container
(16) also, in use, holds an additive solution for blood.
An assembly according to any preceding claim including a or the
second container (16) holding an additive solution, and having an inlet for

receiving blood for mixing with the additive solution, and an outlet
connected to the first fluid flow path inlet for directing blood mixed with

the additive solution from the second container (16) through the separation
means (40).
The assembly of any preceding claim, including

a or the second container (16), the second container (16) having a
blood inlet communicating with the first and second fluid flow paths; and
means for directing fluid flow within the assembly including flow
control means operable


(i) in a first mode for directing blood from the second container
(16) through the first fluid flow path (20C,40,20D) for collection in the

first container (18) through the first port (P1),
(ii) in a second mode for expelling residual air from the first
container (18) through the second port (P2) and into the second container

(16), bypassing the separation means (40), and
(iii) in a third mode for directing the expelled residual air from
the second container (16) and toward the separation means (40) to move

residual blood from the separation means for collection in the first 
container (18) through the first port (P1).
The assembly of Claim 1, including a second, primary container
(12) for receiving whole blood for centrifugal processing into a first blood

constituent and a second blood constituent, the primary container (12)
communicating with the inlet of the first fluid flow path (20C,40,20D); a

third fluid flow path (20A) connected between the primary container (12)
and a third container (14) for transferring the first blood constituent from

the primary container (12) to the third container (14) after centrifugation,
and means for directing fluid flow within the assembly including flow

control means operable

(i) in a first mode for directing blood from the primary
container (12) through the first fluid flow path and the separation means

(40) for collection in the first container (18) through the first port (P1),
(ii) in a second mode for expelling residual air from the first
container (18) through the second port (P2), bypassing the separation

means (40), and
(iii) in a third mode for directing the expelled residual air from
the second fluid flow path (20E) and toward the separation means (40) to

move residual blood from the separation means (40) for collection in the
first container (18) through the first port (P1).
The assembly according to Claim 9 including a fourth, mixing
container (16) holding an additive solution for the second blood constituent

and being connected in fluid communication between the primary
container (12) and the inlet of the first fluid flow path (20C,40,20D) for

receiving the second blood constituent for mixing with the additive
solution before the second blood constituent is directed through the

separation means (40). 
The assembly according to Claim 10 wherein the second fluid flow
path (20E) includes an outlet that communicates with the mixing container

(16) for receiving the expelled residual air from the first container (18).
The assembly according to Claim 10 or 11, wherein the primary
container (12) includes a first port communicating with the third fluid flow

path (20A), and a second port that is oppositely spaced from the first port
and communicates with an inlet of the mixing container (16).
The assembly of any preceding claim wherein the separating means
(40) includes means for removing leukocytes from blood.
The assembly according to Claim 13 wherein the separation means
(40) removes leukocytes by filtration.
The assembly according to any preceding claim wherein the
assembly is a sterile, closed system.
The assembly of Claim 1, including a second container (16)
integrally connected to the first fluid path inlet, and a flexible pouch (56)

including a pocket (58) for receiving the separation device (40).
The assembly according to Claim 16 wherein the flexible pouch
(56) presents a thin profile.
The assembly of Claim 16 or 17 in combination with a centrifuge
bucket (50), the containers (16,18) being located within the bucket next to

each other, and the pocket (58) receiving the separation device (40) and
holding the separation device (40) nested between the first and second

containers (16,18) within the bucket (50). 
A method of using the assembly of any preceding claim for
processing blood comprising the steps of:


directing blood from the first fluid path inlet and into the separation
means (40) while directing the blood substantially free of undesired matter

from the separation means (40) and into the first container (18)
through the first port (P1) thereof, and
expelling residual air from the first container (18) while
residual blood occupies the separation device,

   characterised by expelling the residual air from the first
container (18) through the second port (P2) thereof and directing the

expelled residual air through the second fluid path (20E) toward the
separation means (40) to move residual blood from the separation device,

through the first port (P1) of the first container (18) and into
the first container (18).
A method according to Claim 19 and further including the step of
introducing additive solution to the blood.
A method according to Claim 20 and further including the step of
introducing additive solution to the blood before directing the blood into

the separation means (40).
A method according to Claim 19, 20 or 21 including mixing the
blood with an additive solution in a mixing container (16) before directing

the blood into the separation means (40), and directing the expelled
residual air from the second fluid flow path (20E) into the mixing

container (16) for collection of the air in the mixing container (16) before
directing the air toward the separation means (40) to remove residual

blood from the separation means (40). 
The method of any one of Claims 19 to 22, wherein the second
fluid flow path is provided by a tube (20E), the method including sealing

the tube (20E) at a location remote from the second port after the residual
blood has been direc
ted into the first container (18) and expelling
residual air from the tube (20E) into the first container (18) through

the second port (P2) and transferring a sample of the blood from
the first container (18) into the tube (20E) through the second port (P2).
A method according to any one of Claims 19 to 23 including
collecting the residual air expelled from the first container (18), and

wherein, in the step of directing the residual air toward the separation
means (40), it is the collected residual air that is directed.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
