<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651542</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Digital telephone overcoming incompatibilities in international digital telephone standards
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M1253	H04M100	H04M1253	H04M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital telephone (60) comprises send equipment (40) and receive 
equipment (50), coupled via a signal splitter/combiner (61) onto a digital telephone line 

(62) for communication with a remote party (90). The send equipment (40) comprises an 
A-law map (12) and a mu-law map (43). Receive equipment (50) comprises an inverse 

A-law map (14) and an inverse mu-law map (52). Maps (12,43) are selectable by the user 
(80). Similarly, inverse maps (14,52) are also selectable by the user (80). Each of send 

equipment (40) and receive equipment (50) may further comprise an un-quick-fix module 
(45) for removing unwanted insertions of quick fixes (25) inserted into the telephone line 

(62) by international telephone companies. Receive equipment (50) may further comprise 
a digital signal processor (57), computer (56), a set of prestored templates (58) 

corresponding to possible incoming telephone characteristics, and a caller parameter 

decipher module (51). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES-HARTOGS DIRK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES-HARTOGS, DIRK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to the field of digital telephone communications, and
particularly to apparatus and methods for overcoming incompatibilities in international
digital telephone standards.Background references include the following U.S. patents: 4,805,167; 5,050,005;
and 5,150,048. The CCITT standard entitled "Recommendation G.711 -- Pulse Code
Modulation (PCM) of Voice Frequencies" (Geneva 1972) illustrates the operation of A-law
and mu-law. A partial solution to A-law/mu-law incompatibility has been introduced
by certain international carriers and is subsequently described. In addition, the idea of
making a telephone transmission "better" or "more pleasing" has been implemented by
AT&T in "True Voice", in which the lower voice frequencies are accentuated and the
overall signal is amplified 4dB (U.S. patent 5,195,132).It is known from JP-A-01109945 to provide a
telephone having a first encoding and decoding device
using A-law and a second encoding and decoding device
using mu-law, a selection circuit being provided for
selecting use of one of the first and second devices.
When making a call, the selection is determined by use of 
a selecting button and a signal indicating the selection
is sent to a receiving telephone. The selection of a
corresponding encoding and decoding device in the
receiving telephone is controlled according to the
received signal.It is also known from EP-A-0473116 to provide a
modem in which both the coding and decoding of data is
determined using the same code table which can be
selected to be one or other of an A-law table and a mu-law
table.According to the present invention there is
disclosed a digital telephone comprising, at the same
location,
send equipment comprising a first-law map and a
second-law map;receive equipment comprising an inverse first -law
map and an inverse second-law map; andswitching means for selectively switching between
first-law and second-law map operation for overcoming
incompatibility between telephone systems;
characterized in that said switching means
comprises;
a first switch selectively operable to switch
operation of the send equipment between the first-law map 
and the second-law map; anda second switch independent of the first switch,
selectively operable to switch operation of the receive
equipment between the inverse first-law map and the
inverse second-law map.Further aspects of the invention are disclosed in
accordance with the appended claims.A preferred embodiment minimizes or removes flaws
introduced in a telephone signal as a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital telephone (60) comprising, at the same
location,


send equipment (40) comprising a first-law map (12)
and a second-law map (43);
receive equipment (50) comprising an inverse first
-law map (14) and an inverse second-law map (52); and
switching means (41,54) for selectively switching
between first-law and second-law map operation for

overcoming incompatibility between telephone systems;
characterized in that
 said switching means
comprises;


a first switch (41) selectively operable to switch
operation of the send equipment between the first-law map

and the second-law map; and
a second switch (54) independent of the first
switch, selectively operable to switch operation of the

receive equipment between the inverse first-law map and
the inverse second-law map.
The digital telephone of claim 1 wherein the send 
equipment further comprises a caller parameter imprint

module (44) coupled to the first-law map and to the
second-law map.
The digital telephone of any preceding claim,
wherein the receive equipment further comprises a caller

parameter decipher module (57) coupled to the inverse
first-law map and to the inverse second-law map.
The digital telephone of any preceding claim wherein
the send equipment further comprises:


a first un-quick-fix module (45) coupled to the
first-law map and to the second-law map; and
a third switch (42) selectively operable to switch
the first un-quick-fix module in and out of the digital

telephone.
The digital telephone of any preceding claim wherein
the receive equipment further comprises:


a second un-quick-fix module (45) coupled to the
inverse first-law map and to the inverse second-law map; 

and
a fourth switch (53) selectively operable to switch
the second un-quick-fix module in and out of the digital

telephone.
The digital telephone of any preceding claim wherein
the receive equipment further comprises:


a digital signal processor (57) coupled to the
inverse first-law map and to the inverse second-law map;
a computer (56) coupled to the digital signal
processor; and
a set of templates (58) coupled to the computer,
said templates corresponding to characteristics of

incoming signals.
A digital telephone as claimed in any preceding
claim wherein the first-law is A-law and the second-law

is mu-law.
A digital telephone according to any of claims 1 to
7 further comprising a linker (61) for coupling the send 

equipment and the receive equipment to an external
transmission line.
A digital telephone as claimed in claim 2 wherein
the caller parameter imprint module is operable to

impress upon a signal outgoing from the send equipment
whether the first-law map or the second-law map is used.
A digital telephone as claimed in claim 1 comprising
determining means operable to determine the law that a

remote party communicating with the telephone is using.
A digital telephone as claimed in claim 10 wherein
the determining means is operable to determine the law by

deciphering caller ID information sent by the remote
party.
A digital telephone as claimed in claim 10 wherein
the determining means comprises a digital signal

processor (57) for evaluating a test pattern by spectral
analysis and a computer (56) for comparing the analysis 

of the test pattern with a set of pre-stored templates.
A digital telephone as claimed in any of claims 10
to 12 comprising a computer operable to c
ontrol at least
one of the first and second switches in accordance with

the law determined by the determining means.
A digital telephone as claimed in any of claims 10
to 12 comprising an interface (75) for displaying to a

user the law determined by the determining means and
switches (71 to 74) for user actuation to control the

switching means.
A method of operating a digital telephone (60)
comprising, at the same location,


send equipment (40) comprising a first-law map (12)
and a second-law map (43); and
receive equipment (50) comprising an inverse first
-law map (14) and an inverse second-law map (52); the

method comprising;
selectively switching between first-law and second-law 
map operation for overcoming incompatibility between

telephone systems;

   
characterized by
;

selectively operating a first switch (41) to switch
operation of the send equipment between the first-law map

and the second-law map; and
independently of the first switch, selectively
operating a second switch (54) to switch operation of the

receive equipment between the inverse first-law map and
the inverse second-law map.
A method as claimed in claim 15 when communicating
with a remote party over a telephone line, said method

comprising the steps of:

determining the law that the remote party is using;
and
operating the first switch to select a map
corresponding to said remote party's law.
A method as claimed in claim 15, when communicating
with a remote party over a telephone line, said method 

comprising the steps of:

determining the law that the remote party is using;
and
operating the second switch to select an inverse map
corresponding to said remote party's law.
A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 17,
wherein the determining step comprises deciphering caller

ID information that the remote party has sent to the
user.
A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 17,
wherein the determining step comprises the user verbally

interrogating the remote party.
A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 17,
wherein the determining step comprises using a digital

signal processor (57) to evaluate a predetermined test
pattern that has been sent by the remote party.
A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 17, 
further comprising the step of ascertaining whether an

intervening telephone company coupled to said telephone
line has inserted an incomplete solution to said

incompatibility onto said telephone line.
A method as claimed in claim 21, further comprising
the step of switching into said line, at the user

location, circuitry to counter said incomplete solution.
A method as claimed in claim 21, further comprising
the step of switching into said line, at the location of

the remote user, circuitry to counter said incomplete
solution.
A method as claimed in any of claims 21 to 23
wherein the ascertaining step comprises measuring a test

pattern with a spectrum analyzer; and

   comparing said test pattern with a set of pre-stored
templates.
A method as claimed in any of claims 21 to 23 
wherein the ascertaining step comprises a trial-and-error

method.
A method as claimed in any of claims 16 to 17
wherein the ascertaining step comprises building a

histogram of received values; and

   determining from the histogram if a selected value
meets a representation criterion.
A method as claimed in any of claims 15 to 26,
wherein the first-law is A-law and the second-law is mu-law.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
