<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646392</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR INFLUENCING AN OBJECT AND APPARATUS USING SAID DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N500	A61N500	B01J1908	B01J1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	B01J	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N5	A61N5	B01J19	B01J19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for influencing a object participating in a technological process consists in directing an external energy on an 
intermediate element which changes its functional state and influences the object participating in the technological process, 

and the influence is formed as a secondary radiation which is interconnected with the external energy and which is generated 
from the substance contained in the material of the intermediate element. The formation of the secondary radiation flow with 

desired parameters is effected by periodical variation of the vector of anisotropy of the substance of the intermediate element 
and the thus formed flow of the secondary radiation is directed on the object. The device comprises a external energy source 

(2) and a intermediate element (3) capable of generating a influence in the form of secondary radiation matching with the 
external energy from the source (2) and resulting from the periodical change of the vector of anisotropy of the substance 

contained in the material of the intermediate element (3). The device is used as apparatus for programmed stimulation of self-regulation 
of biological objects for correction of their functional state. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KARP YULY SEMENOVICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KARP, YULY SEMENOVICH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARP YULY SEMENOVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARP, YULY SEMENOVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to general-purpose physical means. More 
accurately, the invention pertains to methods for influencing 
an object, devices implementing such methods, and apparatuses 
using such devices. Certain methods of influencing an object participating in a 
process have been reported earlier. They pertain to processes 
of energy interaction among different materials, particularly, 
in chemistry, power engineering, agriculture, biology. One such method is known from the German application 
"Substrate, Method, and Apparatus for Its Production" (DE, AI 
3612315). This method suggests substrates' creation by means of 
excitation of substances from an electromagnetic energy source. 
The substrate acquires special energy properties (i.d. reveals 
an energetically active "charge"), suitable for many 
applications, e.g. in agriculture, and for influencing 
human/animal body processes. The said substrate can be considered an intermediate unit for a 
method of influencing an object participating in a process, 
where an external energy is directed on the said intermediate 
unit, said intermediate unit changes its functional state and 
exerts an influence on, at least, one object participating in a 
process. The foregoing patent application does not disclose either in 
what way do substrate properties change, or by what means are 
they transmitted further. A time diversity exists between such 
process components as creation of a substrate and exertion of 
an influence on an object A nature of the influence is not 
defined; an efficient control over its exertion is not 
available; the substrate's "active charge" may abate or 
dissipate with time; and an immediate, contact, invasive 
influence on substances and materials is required. A device shaped in a specific way amplifies an emission.
 
(FR, A, 2421531). It is suggested for influencing 
geoelectromagnetic field, gravitation, refractive index of the 
air, reactions of combustion, and other objects and processes. An emission from a certain shaped form constitutes an acting 
factor. The said form may be considered an intermediate unit in 
a process where an influence is exerted on, at least, one 
participating in the process object The intermediate unit 
changes its functional state and affects participating object. The said shaped form is connected to electric, and/or magnetic, 
and/or electromagnetic field generator which creates the field 
inside or adjacent to the form. Such generator may constitute  
 
external energy source amplifying form's
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming of an influence on object 
participating in a tecnolodgy process, comprising 

   means of direction of external energy on an intermediate 
unit (3), 

   as a result said intermediate unit (3) changes its 
functional state and influences, at least, one object (1) 

participating in the process wherein; 
   an influence of said intermediate unit (3) on each object 

(1) is formed as a secondary radiation, 
   said secondary radiation interconnected with said external 

energy directed on the intermediate unit (3), 
   and said secondary radiation is emitted from, at least, 

one component substance of said intermediate unit (3),

 
   and formation of said secondary radiation fluxes with 

rdesired parameters is accomplished by means of periodic 
variations of anisotropy vector of, at least, one said 

component substance of the intermediate unit (3), 
   and said formed secondary radiation flux is directed on 

said object (1) of the process. 
A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein; 
   said intermediate unit contains, at least, one component 

substance possessing its own anisotropy. 
A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein; 
   said intermediate unit contains, at least, one component 

substance capable of possessing artificially induced 
anisotropy. 
A method as set forth in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein; 
   parameters of said secondary radiation flux are 

efficiently changed according to a desired program. 
A method as set forth in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein; 
   said influence of the intermediate unit is formed as a 

simultaneous secondary radiation from several component 
substances of the intermediate unit. 
A method as set forth in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein; 
   at least one, additional intermediate unit emits a 

secondary radiation flux which is interconnected with said 
external energy, 

   and said matching secondary radiation flux is directed on 
a main intermediate unit, 

   and said main intermediate unit is interconnected 
parameters of secondary radiation flux emitted from each 

additional intermediate unit with corresponding object of the 
process. 
A method as set forth in claim 5 wherein; 
   at least one, additional intermediate unit emits a 

secondary radiation flux is interconnected with said external 
energy, 

   and said secondary radiation flux is directed on a main 
intermediate unit, 

   and said main intermediate unit matches parameters of 
secondary radiation flux from each additional intermediate unit 

with corresponding object of the process. 
A method as set forth in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein; 
   at least one, said component substance of intermediate 

unit belongs to said object. 
A method as set forth in claim 5 wherein; 
   at least one, said component substance of intermediate 

unit belongs to said object. 
A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein; 
   at least one, said component substance of intermediate 

unit belong to said object. 
A method as set forth in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein; 
   changes of desired parameters of said secondary radiation 

flux from each intermediate unit are accomplished by means of 
optical and/or optoelectronic elements. 
A method as set forth in claim 10 wherein; 
   changes of desired parameters of said secondary radiation 

flux from each intermediate unit are accomplished by means of 
optical and/or optoelectronic elements. 
A method as set forth in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein; 
   at least one, component substance of each intermediate 

unit transmits said secondary radiation to a given direction. 
A method as set forth in claim 9 wherein; 
   at least one, component substance of each intermediate 

unit transmits said secondary radiation to a given direction. 
A method as set forth in claim 12 wherein; 
   at least one, component substance of each intermediate 

unit transmits said secondary radiation to a given direction. 
A method as set forth in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein; 
   objects are influenced by means of direction of opposite 

in effect secondary radiation fluxes on said objects in turns. 
A method as set forth in claim 14 wherein; 
   objects are influenced by means of direction of opposite 

in effect secondary radiation fluexs on said objects in turns. 
A method as set forth in claim 15 wherein; 
   objects are influenced by means of direction of opposite 

in effect secondary radiation fluxes on said objects in turns. 
A method as set forth in claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein; 
   said secondary radiation flux is splitted into para-phase 

signals, 
   and said para-phase signals are directed on, at least, two 

zones of the object. 
A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein; 
   said secondary radiation flux is splitted into para-phase 

signals, 
   and said para-phase signals are directed on, at least, two 

zones of the object. 
A method as set forth in claim 18 wherein; 
   said secondary radiation flux is splitted into para-phase 

signals, 
   and said para-phase signals are directed on, at least, two 

zones of the object. 
A device for forming of influence an object 
participating in a process comprising; 

   an external energy source (2), 
   at least one, intermediate unit (3) connected with said 

external energy source (2), and influencing,
 

   at least one, object (1) of the process wherein; 
   each intermediate unit (3) is designed as means of 

influence exerted in secondary radiation form, 
   and said secondary radiation matches with an external 

energy from said external energy source (2), 
   and said secondary radiation is caused by periodical 

changes of anisotropy vector of at least, one component 
substance of said intermediate unit (3). 
A device as set forth in claim 22 that contains 
   a block (4) which controls parameters of said secondary 

radiation flux is positioned on the axis of a secondary 
radiation flux from corresponding intermediate unit (3). 
A device as set forth in claim 22 that contains 
   a block (5) for programmed control over parameters of said 

secondary radiation flux, 
   and an output of said block (5) is connected to said 

external energy source (2). 
A device as set forth in claim 22 that contains 
   a block (5) for programmed control over parameters of said 

secondary radiation flux, 
   and outputs of said block (5) are connected to said 

external energy source (2) and to said secondary radiation 
flux's parameters control block (4). 
A device as set forth in claim 22 that contains 
   a block (5) for programmed control over parameters of said 

secondary radiation flux, 
   and output of said block (5) is connected to said 

secondary radiation flux's parameters control block (4). 
A device as set forth in claims 24, 25, or 26 that 
contains 

   a pickup device (6) object's functional state, 
   and said pickup's output is connected to an input of said 

block (5) for programmed control over parameters of said 
secondary radiation flux. 
An apparatus for programmed stimulation of self-regulation 
in biological systems for purposes of correction of 

said biological systems' functional state, 
   and said apparatus constitutes a device for forming 

influence an object participating in a process comprising; 
   an external energy sources (2), 

   at least one, intermediate unit (3) connected with said 
exter
nal energy source (2) and influences, at least, on object 
of the process wherein; 

   design of said intermediate unit (3) allows to form an 
influence in secondary radiation form, 

   and said secondary radiation is interconnected with an 
external energy from said external energy source (2), 

   and said secondary radiation is caused by periodical 
changes of anisotropy vector of, at least, one component 

substance of said intermediate unit(3). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
