<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620363</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Integration of combustor-turbine units and pressure processors by means of integral-gear.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01D1500	F01D1508	F02C300	F02C3107	F02C600	F02C602	F02C606	F02C610	F02C700	F02C732	F02C736	F02N1104	F02N1104	F04C1808	F04C1808	F25J304	F25J304	H02K2352	H02K2352	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01D	F01D	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	F02N	F02N	F04C	F04C	F25J	F25J	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01D15	F01D15	F02C3	F02C3	F02C6	F02C6	F02C6	F02C6	F02C7	F02C7	F02C7	F02N11	F02N11	F04C18	F04C18	F25J3	F25J3	H02K23	H02K23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for supplying compressed air (70) 
to a process plant using a combustor-turbine unit (10) 

directly coupled to a bull gear meshing with pinions (44,56) on 
which are mounted gas compression stages (46,50,58,64) and expansion 

stages. Some stages compress a stream of air supplied 
to the combustor-turbine unit for combustion and to the 

process plant. Other stages expand or compress other 
gas streams directed to the combustor-turbine unit or 

to external applications. Direct energy transfers and 
intercooling and aftercooling after compression stages 

enhance the efficiency of the system. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRAXAIR TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WULF JAMES BRAGDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WULF, JAMES BRAGDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This is a continuation in part of application 
Serial Number 07/698,125 filed May 10, 1991. This invention pertains to a system and a method 
for integrating combustor-turbine units and multistage 
integral gear pressure processors for the purpose of 
supplying compressed air to both a process plant and to 
the combustor-turbine units. A process plant compressor is typically driven by 
a motor receiving electricity from a central supply 
system, or by a motor receiving electricity from a 
generator driven by a gas turbine or other engine, or 
directly by a gas turbine engine. Cost of equipment 
and operation, being of prime importance, provides 
incentive to avoid use of a motor and to drive the 
compressor with a gas turbine engine. However, the 
operating speed of the gas turbine engine may not match 
the operating speed of the compressor. To match 
speeds, a gear system is required adding some cost and 
power loss. Process plant compressors are typically radial 
compressors having a large diameter bull gear with 
meshing pinions upon the ends of which compression 
impellers are mounted. The multiple impellers within 
their own respective housings provide several stages of 
compression as desired. The bull gear and its meshing 
pinions are contained within a common housing.  
 
Consequently such compressors are known as 
integral-gear compressors. The pinions may have 
differing diameters to best match the speed 
requirements of the compression impellers that they 
drive. The compressed air between any two stages is 
ducted to an intercooler, wherein it is cooled, thereby 
providing a more efficient compression process. Such 
compressors are not expensive, but are heavy, require 
much space and a supply of coolant for the 
intercoolers. All of these conditions are readily 
acceptable in a process plant such as a cryogenic air 
separation plant which requires a large continuous flow 
of compressed air supplied at minimum cost. Advantageously, an integral-gear compressor may be 
driven by a gas turbine engine with its output shaft 
coupled to the bull gear or to a pinion meshing with 
the bull gear in the processor. Thus the cost and 
power loss of an additional gear system is avoided. 
However still additional improvement is possible by the 
use of this invention. Typically a stationary gas turbine engine has been 
derived from an aircraft gas turbine engine which 
requires low weight, compactness and small frontal 
area. Thus typically gas turbine engines have axial 
compression stages without
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for supplying a portion of a 
compressed gas stream for withdrawal from the system 

comprising: 

(a) a combustor-turbine unit having an 
output shaft; 
(b) a first integral-gear pressure processor 
having: 


(1) a bull gear; 
(2) at least one integral-gear pressure 
processing stage for compressing said gas stream, said 

stage drivingly coupled to said bull gear and having an 
inlet and an exit; 
(c) conduit from one of said at least one 
integral-gear pressure processing stages, for 

withdrawal of a portion of said gas stream; 
(d) conduit from one of said at least one 
integral-gear pressure processing stages to said 

combustor-turbine unit, for ducting a portion of said 
gas stream to said combustor-turbine unit; and 
(e) means for driving said bull gear with 
said combustor-turbine-unit shaft, said means 

comprising a driving pinion coupled to said turbine 
output shaft and meshing with said bull gear; or a 

driving pinion coupled to said turbine output shaft and 
meshing with another pinion meshing with said bull 

gear. 
The apparatus as in claim 1 further 
comprising at least one integral-gear pressure 

processing stage for expansion of a gas stream. 
The apparatus as in claim 1 further 
comprising at least one combustor-turbine-unit pressure 

processing stage drivingly engaged with a turbine shaft 
of said combustor-turbine unit. 
The apparatus as in claim 3 further 
comprising a conduit connecting at least one of said at 

least one combustor-turbine-unit pressure processing 
stages with at least one of said at least one 

integral-gear pressure processing stages. 
The system as in claim 1 further comprising: 

(f) a second integral-gear pressure 
processor having: 


(1) a bull gear; and 
(2) at least one integral-gear pressure 
processing stage drivingly engaged with said bull gear; 

and wherein said means for driving the bull gear of 
said first integral-pressure processor comprises a 

pinion which meshes with both the bull gear of said 
first integral-gear pressure processor and the bull 

gear of said second integral-gear pressure processor. 
The system as in claim 1 further comprising: 

(f) a second integral-gear pressure 
processor having: 


(1) a bull gear drivingly connected to 
said combustor-turbine unit output shaft; and 
(2) at least one integral-gear pressure 
processing stage with an inlet to atmospheric air and 

an exit, said processing stage drivingly connected to 
said bull gear; and 
(g) means for optionally communicating the 
inlet of one of said at least one pressure processing 

stage of said first integral-gear pressure processor 
either to atmospheric air or to the exit of said second 

integral-gear pressure-processor pressure processing 
stage. 
The system as in claim 5 or 6 further comprising 
means for optionally disconnecting driving connection 

between said second integral-gear pressure processor 
and said combustor-turbine unit output shaft. 
A method for supplying a compressed air 
stream to a process plant, said method comprising: 


(a) providing a combustor-turbine unit; 
(b) providing an integral-gear pressure 
processor having at least one pressure processing 

stage; 
(c) driving said integral-gear pressure 
processor with said combustor-turbine unit; 
(d) compressing an air stream in said 
integral-gear pressure processor; 
(e) ducting at least portions of the 
compressed air stream from said integral-gear pressure 

processor to said combustor-turbine unit and to the 
process plant. 
The method as in claim 8 further comprising: 

(f) providing a combustor-turbine unit 
pressure processing stage; and 
(g) driving said combustor-turbine pressure 
processing stage with said combustor-turbine unit. 
The method as in claim 8 further comprising 
the step of connecting said combustor-turbine unit 

pressure processing stage with said at least one 
integral-gear pressure processing stage. 
The method as in claim 8 further comprising 
the step of concurrently pressure processing at least 

one other gas stream in addition to atmospheric air in 
said integral-gear pressure processor. 
The method as in claim 11 wherein at least 
one of said other gas streams processed in said 

integral-gear pressure processor is ducted into said 
combustor-turbine unit for processing therein. 
The method as in claim 11 wherein said at 
least one other gas stream is at a pressure greater 

than that of atmospheric air. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
