<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636263</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A DEVICE FOR SORTING COINS AND THE LIKE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07D314	G07D300	G07D900	G07D900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07D	G07D	G07D	G07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07D3	G07D3	G07D9	G07D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a device for sorting coins and the like, comprising a body (1), a feeder drum (2), a coin track (4) and coin ejecting means (11, 16), whereby the feeder drum (2) is intended for feeding the coins (3) onto the coin track and the ejecting means (11, 16) are intended for guiding the coins (3) off the coin track (4) to a collecting place desired. To provide the device with a small size and a quick and also continuous operation in spite of foreign coins therein, the device is characterized by a combination of the following features: the feeder drum (2) is in a manner known per se in a substantially horizontal plane, the plane defined by the coin track (4) is inclined with respect to the feeder drum (2) plane and forms an angle  beta  with respect to the vertical plane, which angle is small enough for the coin (3) to be removed in a manner known per se from the coin track mainly laterally by shooting with solenoid-controlled (16 to 20) ejecting means (21 to 24), whereby the device comprises a turning means (6) for turning the coin coming from the feeder drum and being in the feeder drum plane to a plane defined by the coin track.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DATALAB OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DATALAB OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIHAVAINEN TERHO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIHAVAINEN, TERHO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a device for sorting 
coins and the like, comprising a body, a feeder drum, 
a coin track and ejecting means for coins, whereby 
the feeder drum is intended for feeding the coins 
onto the coin track and the ejecting means are intended 
for guiding the coins off the coin track to a 
collecting place desired. Several types of machines for sorting and 
counting coins are known. The main parts of the machines 
are the coin feeder and the coin track, from 
which the coins are removed for instance through 
tubes into receptacles or the like situated below (see US-A-4 228 812). One device of a known type comprises a feeder 
in the form of a drum, which drum comprises a rotary 
disc, from which coins are guided on the coin track. 
The coins roll on their sides, i.e. in the vertical 
position, along the coin track and are allowed to go 
off the coin track under the influence of gravity 
through outlets arranged below the track in such a 
way that coins of different values go into separate 
outlets. To this end, deflecting knives are arranged 
in the connection of the coin track at determined 
heights, which knives attend to that coins of different 
sizes go off the coin track at separate places so 
that coins of different values fall into separate receptacles. 
To increase the speed of the device, the 
coin track is inclined in such a way that the end of 
the coin track pointing away from the feeder drum, 
i.e. the free end, is situated lower than the opposite 
end. Because the surface of the coin track supporting 
the coin from the side is in the vertical 
position, efforts have been made to arrange the feeder 
drum also into a position as upright as possible.  
 
However, a vertical rotary disc is not capable of 
lifting coins very effectively from below upwards to 
a place from where they are removed from the feeder 
drum, and therefore, the surface of the rotary disc 
is provided with radial grip projections, the purpose 
of which is to effect that a coin grips the rotary 
disc better. However, grip projections do not solve 
very well the problem of making the coins grip the 
rotary disc, and therefore, the feeder drum is inclined 
about 20° with respect to the vertical axis. As 
to the object of making the coin grip the rotary disc 
better at the initial stage of coin lifting, it is 
known to make the disc flexible so that the lowest 
area of the disc forms a relatively big angle with 
respect to the vertical plane. The maximum speed of 
such a device is, in spite of what has been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for sorting coins and the like, 
comprising a body (1), a feeder drum (2), a coin 

track (4) and coin ejecting means (8, 11 to 24), 
whereby the feeder drum (2) is intended for feeding 

the coins (3) onto coin track and the ejecting means 
(8, 11 to 24) are intended for guiding the coins (3) 

off the coin track (4) to a collecting place desired, 

characterized
 by a combination of the 
following features: 


the feeder drum (2) is in a manner known per 
se in a substantially horizontal plane or at an angle 

α, which deviates relatively little from the horizontal 
plane, 
the plane defined by the coin track (4) is 
inclined with respect to the feeder drum (2) plane 

and forms an angle β with respect to the vertical 
plane, which angle is, on the one hand, big enough 

for the coin (3) to be supported with its one side 
against the coin track under the influence of gravity 

and to move forward supported on this track in a controlled 
manner without any significant sway, and 

which angle is, on the other hand, small enough for 
the coin to be removed in a manner known per se from 

the coin track mainly laterally by shooting with 
solenoid-controlled (16 to 20) ejecting means (21 to 

24), whereby the device comprises a turning means (6) 
for turning the coin coming from the feeder drum and 

being in the feeder drum plane to a plane defined by 
the coin track. 
A device according to claim 1, 

characterized
 in that the angle α is smaller than 
approximately 30°. 
A device according to claim 2,  
 


characterized
 in that the angle α is smaller than 
approximately 20°. 
A device according to any of the foregoing 
claims, 
characterized
 in that the angle 
β is 0 to 60°. 
A device according to claim 4, 

characterized
 in that the angle β is approximately 
10 to 30°. 
A device according to claim 1, 

characterized
 in that the turning means (6) is arranged 

to turn the coin continuously and steplessly 
in such a way that the coin is at the turning means 

and thus at least along a part of the track continuously 
in a different plane when moving on the track, 

which turning means (6) comprises a turning base (27 
to 29) and a drive belt (30) positioned at such a 

distance therefrom that the coin (3) to be moved and 
turned can be brought between the turning base and 

the drive belt in such a way that the drive belt 
presses the coin to be moved and turned against the 

turning base, whereby the turning base comprises a 
low-friction sliding surface (29) parallel with the 

drive belt, which surface is positioned against the 
coin to be turned for guiding the coin with a dragging 

movement and in substantially straight line 
pulled by the drive belt and which surface is shaped 

spiral in the propagation direction of the coin for 
turning the coin about an axis defined by the drive 

belt, whereby the turning base additionally comprises 
means (27, 28) for preventing the coin to be moved 

from being guided off the turning base during turning. 
A device according to claim 6, 

characterized
 in that the drive belt (30) is substantially 
parallel with the longitudinal centre axis  

 
of the sliding surface (29), whereby the drive belt 

is arranged to press the side surface of the coin (3) 
to be moved along a line situated substantially in 

the middle of the side surface of the coin (3). 
A path according to claim 6 or 7, 

characterized
 in that the drive belt (30) has a 
round cross-section. 
A path according to claim 7, 

characterized
 in that the drive belt (30) is flexible. 
A device according to claim 6, 

characterized
 in that the sliding surface (29) 
is made of plastic. 
A device according to claim 6, 

characterized
 in that the turning means (6) is 
arranged to turn the coin (3) round an axis defined 

by the drive belt (30) about an angle  of at least 
appr. 10° and appr. 110° at the most for turning the 

coin to an angle β of 0 to 60° with respect to the 
vertical plane. 
A device according to claim 6, 

characterized
 in that the spiral sliding surface 
(30) of the turning means (6) turns about the angle  

of 90° for turning the coin (3) to be moved mainly 
into vertical position. 
A device according to claim 1, 

characterized
 in that the coin track (4) comprises 
a side and lower support (10), the lower support 

supporting the coin (3) from below in such a way 
that the coin can roll along the lower support and at 

the same time lean by gravity on the conveying belt 
(9) of the side support, which belt is arranged to 

touch the coin from above and to transmit the force 
needed for moving the coin by this contact. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
