<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644063</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Printing tape and printing-tape cartridge.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J1732	B41J1732	B41J3105	B41J3106	B41M540	B41M540	B41M542	B41M544	B41M546	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J17	B41J17	B41J31	B41J31	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a printing tape T having a support sheet 4, a 
heat-sensitive layer 3 including thermal chromogenic material 

formed on one surface of the support sheet 4, a colored 
transparent layer 2 including colorant formed on the 

heat-sensitive layer 3, a transparent protection layer 1 which is 
mainly formed of silicone resin curable at ordinary temperature. 

On the other surface of the support sheet 4, a removable sheet 6 
is adhered through an adhesive layer 5. And a printing-tape 

cartridge C that a tape spool 10 around which the printing tape T 
mentioned above is wound is rotatably supported in a housing 11, 

is disclosed. When images such as characters are recorded on the 
printing tape T, the printing-tape cartridge C is set in a 

printer 20 having a thermal head 15 and the images are recorded 
on the printing tape T by the thermal head 15 while being derived 

from the tape spool 10. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORIMATSU TAKAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORIMATSU, TAKAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a printing tape having a 
heat-sensitive layer or thermal chromogenic layer formed on a 
support sheet, through which images such as characters are 
printed thereon by being heated through a thermal head. In 
particular, the present invention relates to a printing tape 
having a colored transparent layer, on the heat-sensitive layer, 
defining background color of the printing tape and a transparent 
protection layer on the colored transparent layer, thereby the 
images imprinted in the heat-sensitive layer by the thermal head 
can be clearly recognized in the background color. And the 
present invention relates to a printing tape with superior light 
fastness and solvent resistance through which abrasion of the 
thermal head can be prevented and life thereof can be lengthened. 
Further, the present invention relates to a printing-tape 
cassette or cartridge accommodating the above printing tapes, 
which is utilized in a tape printer. Conventionally, there have been proposed various printing 
tapes. These kinds of printing tapes are generally produced by 
forming a heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic layer on a 
film-like support sheet. Here, for instance, in order to form 
the heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic layer, a mixture of 
leuco-dye such as crystal violet lactone ( CVL ), which is  
 
disclosed in the specifications of U.S. Patent Nos. 2,712,507 and 
2,730,457, and organic acid such as phenol compound, is used. The heat-sensitive layer includes a chromogenic material 
which is colored by being heated through the thermal head, 
thereby the images such as characters are formed on the printing 
tape. On the surface of the heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic 
layer, a protection layer for protecting the heat-sensitive or 
thermal chromogenic layer is formed and the protection layer is 
made transparent so that colored portions ( i.e. images such as 
characters ) can be visually recognized through the protection 
layer. Further, on the surface of the support sheet opposite to the 
surface where the heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic layer is 
formed, a colored layer is formed by coating print ink, which 
includes pigments or dyes, so that the images formed in the 
heat-sensitive or thermal chromogenic layer can be recognized in 
the background color defined by the colored layer. At that time, 
the background color of the colored layer is visually recognized 
through the support sheet, the heat-sensitive or thermal 
chromogenic layer and the protection
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A printing tape having a support sheet (4), a heat-sensitive 
layer (3) formed on one surface of the support sheet (4) and a 

transparent protection layer formed on the heat-sensitive layer, 
the printing tape being used for a tape-recording printer including 

a thermal head which thermally records images on the printing 
tape, the printing tape comprising: 

   a colored transparent layer (2) which includes colorant, the 
colored transparent layer (2) being formed between the heat-sensitive 

layer (3) and the protection layer (1). 
The printing tape according to claim 1, wherein the protection 
layer (1) is mainly formed of resin curable at ordinary temperature. 
The printing tape according to claim 2, wherein the resin in 
the protection layer (1) is composed of silicone resin or urethane 

resin which is curable at ordinary temperature. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein 
the colorant is composed of pigment dispersed or of dye dissolved 

in the colored transparent layer (2). 
The printing tape according to claim 4, wherein the pigment is 
organic pigment or inorganic pigment. 
The printing tape according to claim 4, wherein the dye is 
selected from the group consisting of xanthene dye, coumalin dye, 

merocyanine dye, thiazine dye, azine dye, methine dye, oxazine 
 

dye, phenylmethane dye, cyanin dye, azo dye, anthraquinone dye, 

pyrazoline dye, stilbene dye and quinoline dye. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 1 to 6, wherein 
the protection layer (1) is formed on the colored transparent 

layer (2) by coating solution in which the resin curable at ordinary 
temperature and solvent are mixed with each other, and wherein 

the colored transparent layer (2) protects the heat-sensitive 
layer (3) from the solvent in the solution. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 1 to 7, wherein 
the colored transparent layer is formed of one or more water-soluble 

resins which have film-forming ability, the water-soluble 
resin being preferably selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl 

alcohol, methyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl 
cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, polyacrylamide, starch, 

gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone and methoxy cellulose. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 1 to 6, wherein 
the protection layer is formed on the colored transparent layer by 

coating solution in which the resin curable at ordinary temperature 
and water are mixed with each other, and wherein the colored 

transparent layer protects the heat-sensitive layer from the water 
in the solution, and wherein the colored transparent layer preferably 

includes anti-water agent, the anti-water agent being preferably 
selected from the group consisting of formalin, glyoxal, 

chrome alum, melamine, melamine formalin, polyamide resin and 
polyamide epichlorhydrin resin. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 1 to 9, further 
comprising an adhesive layer (5) formed on the other surface of 

the support sheet (4) opposite to the one surface where the heat-sensitive 
layer is formed and a removable sheet (6) adhered on the 

adhesive layer (5). 
The printing tape according to claim 10, wherein the printing 
tape is used so as to adhere on an object through the adhesive 

layer by removing the removable sheet therefrom after the images 
 

are thermally recorded by the thermal head in the tape-recording 
printer. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 1 to 11, wherein 
the protection layer includes ultraviolet absorbing agent. 
A printing tape (U) having a support sheet (34), a heat-sensitive 
layer (33) formed on one surface of the support sheet 

(34) and a protection layer (31) formed on the heat-sensitive 
layer (33), the printing tape being used for a tape-recording 

printer including a thermal head which thermally records images on 
the printing tape through the heat-sensitive layer, 

   wherein the protection layer (31) is mainly formed of silicone 
resin curable at ordinary temperature and includes ultraviolet 

absorbing agent. 
The printing tape according to claim 13, further comprising a 
barrier layer (32) formed between the heat-sensitive layer and the 

protection layer. 
The printing tape according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the 
protection layer (31) is formed on the barrier layer (32) by 

coating solution in which the silicone resin curable at ordinary 
temperature and solvent are mixed with each other, and wherein the 

barrier layer protects the heat-sensitive layer from the solvent 
in the solution. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 13 to 15, wherein 
the barrier layer (32) is formed of one or more water-soluble 

resins which have film-forming ability, the water soluble resin 
being preferably selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl 

alcohol, methyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl 
cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, polyacrylamide, starch, 

gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone and methoxy cellulose. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 13 to 16, wherein 
the protection layer (31) is formed on the barrier layer by 

coating solution in which the silicone resin curable at ordinary 
temperature and water are mixed with each other, and wherein the 

 
barrier layer protects the heat-sensitive layer from the water in 

the solution and wherein the barrier layer preferably includes 
anti-water agent, the anti-water agent being preferably selected 

from the group consisting of formalin, glyoxal, chrome alum, 
melamine, melamine formalin, polyamide resin and polyamide 

epichlorhydrin resin. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 13 to 17, further 
comprising an adhesive layer formed on the other surface of the 

support sheet opposite to the one surface where the heat-sensitive 
layer is formed and a removable sheet adhered on the adhesive 

layer. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 1 to 18, wherein 
the printing tape is used so as to adhere on an object through the 

adhesive layer by removing the removable sheet therefrom after the 
images are thermally recorded by the thermal head in the tape-recording 

printer. 
The printing tape according to one of claims 12 to 19, wherein 
the ultraviolet absorbing agent is composed of benzotriazole 

derivative. 
The printing tape according to claim 20, wherein the 
benzotriazole derivative is selected from the group consisting of 

2-(5-methyl-2-hydroxyphenyl)benzotriazole, 
2-[2-hydroxy-3,5-bis( α, α'-dimethylbenzyl) 

phenyl]2H-benzotriazole, 

2-(3,5-di-t-butyl-5-methyl-2-hydroxyphenyl)benzotriazole, 
2-(3,5-t-butyl-5-methyl-2-hydroxyphenyl)-5-chlorobenzotriazole, 

2-(3,5-di-t-butyl-2-hydroxyphenyl)-5-chlorobenzotriazole, and 
2-(3,5-di-t-amyl-2-hydroxyphenyl)benzotriazole. 
A printing-tape cartridge accommodating a printing tape 
according to one of claims 1 to 21, for use with a tape-recording 

printer including a thermal head which thermally records images on 
the printing tape, the printing-tape cartridge comprising: 

   a housing;
 

   a tape spool disposed inside the housing so that the tape 
spool is rotatable, the printing tape being wound around the tape 

spool. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
