<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651672</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EROSION RESISTANT MIXING IMPELLER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F700	B01F700	B01F1500	B01F1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	B01F	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F7	B01F7	B01F15	B01F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In order to extend the life of mixing impellers which circulate materials, the blades are constructed from plates (40, 42) into an airfoil configuration which does not limit the thickness of the plates and thereby allows the use of thick plates having extended life. An erosion resistant layer (66) is located at least over the leading edge (44) region of the blade and the shape of the blade reduces velocity of flow over the leading edge; the camber of the blade (50) being maximized midway between the leading and trailing edge (46). The suction surface of the blade in the region subject to erosion is continuous thereby avoiding discontinuities which form vortices which enhance erosion. Fins (32), which may be at the tip on the suction side of the blade from midway between the leading and trailing egdes to the trailing edge reduces tip vortices thereby further extending blade life.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN SIGNAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL SIGNAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVERDYKE JONATHAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEHR FREDERICK WILLIAM III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR THOMAS ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEETMAN RONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVERDYKE, JONATHAN, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEHR, FREDERICK, WILLIAM, III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, THOMAS, ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEETMAN, RONALD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EROSION RESISTANT MIXING IMPELLER Description The present invention relates to mixing and circulating impellers, and particularly to such impellers which are erosion resistant and have extended life when used in erosion-producing environments.Erosion resistant impellers in accordance with the invention are especially suitable for use in suspending particles in a tank so as to promote chemical reactions which form the particles as crystallites; such crystallites subjecting the blades of the impeller to erosion encountered both by impact of the particles and by sliding of the particles over the impeller surfaces.Figs. 1 and 2 show the top and tip of an impeller blade in an erosion-producing environment such as produce by particles in a flow stream indicated by lines at the leading edge 10 of the blade. The blade is an airfoil having a pressure surface 12 and a suction surface 14 where the flow velocity is higher than the pressure surface thereby causing lift and enabling fluid to be pumped downwardly in a direction along the axis of rotation away from the pressure surface 12. The angle of attack of 

the blade, which is the angle between the chord (a line between the leading edge 10 and the trailing edge 16) to the flow is an acute angle, for example, about 10°. This angle, the blade shape and the speed of the blade determines the flow velocity. It is desirable to produce maximum flow velocity for the power which drives (rotates) the impeller as to maximize the efficiency and reduce the speed of rotation. Erosion is a limitation on efficiency since it limits velocity. There is a trade off between efficiency and velocity and the lifetime of the impeller. This is because of erosion. Erosion varies as the cube of the velocity. Fig. 3 is a plot of a mixing impeller, a large 127 inch diameter impeller was the basis of the data shown in Fig. 3. Erosion in millimeters from the exterior surface occurs in areas 18 (Fig. 1) closest to the tip where velocity is highest. The amount of erosion increases with velocity.The abscissa of the plot of Fig. 3 shows maximum erosion near the maximum radial length (i.e., near the tip) of the blade. This follows because the velocity is a function of the speed of rotation and the radial distance from the axis of rotation.Erosion results from sliding of the particles over a region near the leading edge and is maximum where the velocity is highest. Erosion also occurs near the leading edge due to impact of the particles in the flow stream at 23 in Fig. 2. The impacts are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C L A I M S 1. In an impeller having an airfoil blade with opposite sides having external surfaces which provide pressure and suction surfaces of said blade, said blade having leading and trailing edges and extending radially of said impeller from an axis of rotation of said impeller between a tip at an outer end thereof and a base at an inner end thereof, said blade being oriented to produce flow of material which causes erosion principally near the leading edge thereof by sliding of the material as it flows over the suction surface and impact with the pressure surface, the improvement which comprises a first plate and a second plate which are disposed in overlapping relationship and respectively define the suction and pressure surfaces of said blade on exterior sides thereof, said exterior sides extending to interior sides over a thickness which extends the life of said blade in the presence of erosion, an edge of said first plate defining the leading edge of said blade and extending continuously toward the trailing edge over at least an area where erosion by sliding of the material principally occurs, said second plate having an edge which contacts the interior surface of said first plate near said edge of said first plate where said blade is subject to erosion by impact, and a layer of erosion resistant material around said the leading edge of said blade over the edge of said first plate which defines said leading edge and the edge. of said second blade and extending toward said trailing edge at least where erosion by sliding and by impact principally occurs thereby further extending the life of said blade in the presence 


 of erosion .
2. The improvement according to claim 1, wherein said first plate overlaps said second plate along said leading edge to define a notch between edges of said plates, a body of material assembling said plates together in said another notch.
3. The improvement according to claim 1, wherein said airfoil blade has a chord between the leading and trailing edges thereof, said airfoil blade having camber and defining a location behind said leading edge where said camber is maximized at a distance about 50% of the length of said chord from said leading edge. 4. The improvement according to claim 1, wherein said blade extends radially from said axis from the base to the tip, the radial distance from said axis to said tip being half the diameter D of said impeller, and said plates each having a thickness between exterior side surfaces and interior side surfaces thereof about equal to 0.05D/2.
5. The improvement according to claim 1, wherein said airfoil blade has a chord length between the leading and trailing edges thereof and said layer extends from said leading edge toward said trailing edge a distance of from about 10 to 20% of said chord length (CL) .
6. The improvement according to claim 3, wherein said blade has a thickness of about 10 percent of the CL at a location where said blade has a maximum height H between the exterior surfaces of said plates.
7. The improvement according to claim 6, wherein said blade has twist which varies over an angle of from about 12° to 17°.
8. The improvement according to claim 7, 


wherein the angle between the chord and the plane at the tip (TCA) from about 10° to 25°.
9. The improvement according to claim 1, wherein said plates are cold rolled steel and said erosion resistant material is much harder than cold rolled steel.
10. The improvement according to claim 9, wherein said erosion resistant material is chrome oxide. 11. The improvement according to claim 9, wherein said erosion resistant material is elastomeric material.
12. The improvement according to claim 11, wherein said elastomeric material is selected from the group consisting of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMW) , rubber, and urethane.
13. The improvement according to claim 1, wherein said impeller has a cylindrical hub comprising a plurality of segments having edges along said axis and being assembled with said edges in abutting relationship, said segments having opposite ends, first and second annular rings extending from said ends inwardly toward said axis, a drive support plate, a drive shaft having a plate assembled therewith, said first annular ring being bolted to said drive support plate being bolted to said flange, plate, a second support plate bolted to said second annular ring, said blades each having a base extending to the tip thereof, each said base being curved complementary to the curvature of said segments, and each said blade being attached at the base thereof to a different one of said segments.
14. The improvement according to claim 1, further comprising a fin disposed at the tip of 


 said blade for decreasing flow of said material around the tip between the pressure and suction surfaces and thereby further reducing erosion at and in the vicinity of said tip. 15. The improvement according to claim 14, wherein said fin is disposed on only one side of said blade and extends above said suction surface from about midway of said suction surface between said leading and trailing edges to at least said trailing edge.
16. In a mixing system wherein a slurry is circulated by an impeller having a plurality of blades subject to erosion as they rotate about an axis, the improvement for extending the life of said impeller characterized in that each said blade of said plurality of blades comprises a first plate and a second plate, said first plate having an exterior surface which defines the suction surface of said blade, said second plate having an exterior surface which defines the pressure surface of said blade, said first plate having an edge which defines the leading edge of said blade, said first plate extending continuously toward an edge of said first plate which defines the trailing edge of said blade at least a distance toward the trailing edge over a region where said first plate is subject to sliding erosion, said first plate having greater curvature than said second plate to define a nest in which said second plate is disposed with said first plate overlapping and second plate along said leading edge to define a wedge shaped notch along and behind said leading edge, said notch being filled with material which assembles said plates together, and a layer of erosion resistant material more resistant to erosion than said plates on exterior surfaces of said 


first and second plates and said material in said notch over at least said distance behind said leading edge to cover said region on said suction surface and another region of area commensurate with said first named region on said suction surface.
17. The improvement according to claim 16, wherein said first plate overlaps said second plate along said trailing edge plates to define a notch between edges of said plates, a body of material assembling said plates together in said another notch.
18. The improvement according to claim 16, wherein said blade is an airfoil having a chord between the leading and trailing edges thereof, said airfoil having camber and defining a location behind said leading edge where the camber is maximized at a distance about 50% of the length of said chord from said leading edge. 19. The improvement according to claim 18, wherein said blade extends radially from said axis from the base to the tip, the radial distance from said axis to said tip being half the diameter D of said impeller, and said plates each having a thickness between exterior surfaces thereof and interior surfaces thereof about equal to 0.05D/2.
20. The improvement according to claim 19, wherein said airfoil blade has a chord length, CL, between the leading and trailing edges thereof and said distance over which said layer extends being from 10% - 20% of said chord length.
21. The improvement according to claim 18, wherein said blade has a thickness of about 10 percent CL at a location where said blade has a height H between the exterior surfaces of said 


plates which is maximum.
22. The improvement according to claim 21, wherein said blade has a twist which varies over an angle of about 12° to 17°. 23. The improvement according to claim 22, wherein the angle between the chord and the plane at the tip (TCA) is about 10° to 25°.
24. The improvement according to claim 16, wherein said plates are cold rolled steel and said erosion resistant material is much harder than cold rolled steel.
25. The improvement according to claim 24, wherein said erosion resistant material is chrome oxide. 26. The improvement according to claim 24, wherein said erosion resistant material is elastomeric material.
27. The improvement according to claim 26, wherein said elastomeric material is selected from the group consisting of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMW) , rubber, and urethane.
28. The improvement according to claim 16, wherein said impeller has a cylindrical hub comprising a plurality of segments having edges along said axis and being assembled with said edges in abutting relationship, said segments having opposite ends, first and second annular rings extending from said ends inwardly toward said axis, a drive shaft having a flange assembled therewith, a drive support plate said first annular ring being bolted to said drive support plate, a second support plate bolted to said second annular ring, said blades each having a base extending to the tip thereof, each said base being curved complementary to the curvature of said segments, and each said blade 


being attached at the base thereof to a different one of said segments. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
