<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651902</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASONIC TOUCH SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3033	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ultrasonic touch system including a substrate and at least an ultrasonic transducing system on one end surface (Z1) of the substrate. The ultrasonic transducing system comprises at least an interdigital transducer (P) and at least an interdigital transducer (Q) corresponding to the interdigital transducer (P). An electric signal having a frequency approximately corresponding to the interdigital periodicity of the interdigital transducer (P) is applied to the interdigital transducer (P), causing the acoustic wave on the end surface (Z1) with a high efficiency, the acoustic wave having a wavelength approximately equal to the interdigital periodicity of the interdigital transducer (P). At this time, an electric signal having a frequency approximately corresponding to the wavelength of the acoustic wave generated on the end surface (Z1) is detected at the interdigital transducer (Q). When touching with a finger or other things on a part of the propagation medium of the acoustic wave on the end surface (Z1), the electric signal detected at the interdigital transducer (Q) is decreased. A touch on the substrate by a finger or other things is accordingly detected with a high sensitivity and a quick response time under operation with low power consumption and low voltage.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TODA KOJI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TODA, KOHJI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODA KOHJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODA, KOHJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ULTRASONIC TOUCH SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention.The present invention relates to an ultrasonic touch system, having asubstrate and an ultrasonic transducing system on one end surface thereof, forsensing a touch on the end surface of the substrate with a finger or otherthings, the ultrasonic transducing system comprising ultrasonic input andoutput devices, composed of at least one interdigital transducer, respectively.2. Description of the Prior Art.Conventional touch panels are classified into two types, resistancefilm— type and ultrasonic type. The resistance film— type touch panel has anelectrically conductive transparent film, the magnitude of the resistance of thetransparent film changing when touching on the transparent film. Theresistance film -type touch panel operating under low power consumption hassome problems on response time, sensitivity, durability and others. Theultrasonic type touch panel has a nonpiezoelectric plate under acoustic 

vibration, which is decreased when touching on the nonpiezoelectric plate.Conventional means for generating the acoustic vibration on a nonpiezoelectricplate include a means for vibrating a nonpiezoelectric plate indirectly by awedge-shaped transducer with a bulk wave vibrator, a means for vibrating anonpiezoelectric plate directly by a piezoelectric thin film transducer and othermeans. The wedge-shaped transducer is used for a non -destructionevaluation by ultrasound and for others under only a comparative low frequencyoperation because of the difficulty on manufacturing accuracy of the wedgeangle and so on. The piezoelectric thin film transducer, in which apiezoelectric thin film made from ZnO and others is mounted on anonpiezoelectric plate with interdigital transducers generating acousticvibration thereon, is used as a high frequency device for the reason that theinterdigital transducer shows various transmission characteristics according tothe structure thereof. However, the piezoelectric thin film transducer hasoperation frequencies limited to the UHF and VHF bands, and has someproblems on manufacturing and mass-producing. Thus, there are someproblems on response time, sensitivity, durability, manufacturing,mass-producing and others in conventional touch panels having limitedoperation frequencies. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAn object of the present invention is to provide a touch system capableof generating an acoustic vibration on a substrate with a high efficiency.Another object of the present invention is to provide a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An ultrasonic touch system including a substrate and at least an
ultrasonic transducing system on one end surface Zl of said substrate, said
ultrasonic transducing system comprising at least one interdigital transducer P
and at least one interdigital transducer Q corresponding to said interdigital
transducer P, said ultrasonic touch system further comprising;
means for applying said interdigital transducer P with an electric
signal having a frequency approximately corresponding to the interdigital
periodicity of said interdigital transducer P, and generating the acoustic wave,
having a wavelength approximately equal to said interdigital periodicity, on said
end surface Zl;
means for delivering an electric signal, having a frequency
approximately corresponding to the wavelength of said acoustic wave generated
on said end surface Zl, from said interdigital transducer Q, said interdigital
transducers P and Q being arranged face to face each other to make a pair such
that the transmitting direction of said acoustic wave by said interdigital
transducer P is the same as the receiving direction of said acoustic wave by
said interdigital transducer Q; and 


 means for sensing a touch with a finger or other things on a part of the
propagation medium of said acoustic wave on said end surface Zl by the
magnitude of said electric signal detected at said interdigital transducer Q.
2. A system as defined in claim 1, wherein said interdigital transducers
P and Q have at least two interdigital periodicities LI and L2, respectively,
along the direction of the electrode finger of said interdigital transducers P or
Q, or the direction vertical to said electrode finger.
3. A system as defined in claim 1 or 2, wherein a display face included
in a display device and indicating at least two kinds of colors is mounted on the
other end surface Z2 of said substrate.
4. A system as defined in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said color
corresponds to said frequency of said electric signal applied to said interdigital
transducer P.
5. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein said substrate
comprises:
an almost transparent piezoelectric ceramic, the direction of the
polarization axis thereof being parallel to the thickness direction thereof, said
interdigital transducers P and Q being mounted on said end surface Zl directly.
6. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein said substrate
comprises: 


 a nonpiezoelectric body, said ultrasonic transducing system comprising
an input device A, consisting of a piezoelectric thin plate TA and said
interdigital transducer P mounted thereon, and an output device B consisting of
a piezoelectric thin plate TB and said interdigital transducer Q mounted
thereon, said piezoelectric thin plates TA and TB being mounted on said end
surface Zl.
7. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 6, wherein the thickness of
said piezoelectric thin plate TA is less than the interdigital periodicity of said
interdigital transducer P, and the thickness of said piezoelectric thin plate TB is
less than the interdigital periodicity of said interdigital transducer Q, said
interdigital periodicities of said interdigital transducers P and Q being
approximately equal to the wavelength of the acoustic wave of the first mode or
the higher modes, the phase velocity of said acoustic wave of said first mode or
said higher modes being approximately equal to the propagation velocity of the
acoustic wave generated on said substrate as a mono— layer medium.
8. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 7, wherein said
piezoelectric thin plates TA and TB are cemented on said end surface Zl
through the end surface with said interdigital transducer P in said piezoelectric
thin plate TA and the end surface with said interdigital transducer Q in said
piezoelectric thin plate TB. 


 9. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 or 8, wherein the other
end surface without said interdigital transducer P in said piezoelectric thin
plate TA and the other end surface without said interdigital transducer Q in
said piezoelectric thin plate TB are covered with metal thin layer, respectively.
10. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 or 9, wherein said
piezoelectric thin plate TA or TB comprises:
a piezoelectric ceramic, the direction of the polarization axis thereof
being parallel to the thickness direction thereof.
11. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 or 9, wherein said
piezoelectric thin plate TA or TB comprises:
a piezoelectric thin film made from highly polymerized compound such
as PVDF and so on.
12. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or 11,
wherein said ultrasonic transducing system comprises:
N interdigital transducers P i (i = 1, 2, 
•
 ' ', N) and N interdigital
transducer groups Qi (i = 1, 2, 
• *
 , N) consisting of at least two interdigital
transducers, Q i - 1 and Q i - 2, said ultrasonic touch system further comprising;
a connection point Mi , each output terminal of said interdigital
transducers Q , - 1 being connected with each other thereat,
a connection point M2, each output terminal of said interdigital 


transducers Q i -2 being connected with each other thereat, a touch with a
finger or other things on a part of the propagation medium of the acoustic wave
on said end surface Zl being detected by the magnitudes of the electric signals
detected at said connection points M i and M2, respectively,
N switches S i (i = 1, 2, 
• • •
 ', N), output terminal thereof being
connected with each input terminal of said interdigital transducers P ; , and
means for controlling turn on and off of said switches S i with a fixed
period in turn.
13. A system as defined in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12,
further comprising:
a connection point MS, each input terminal of said switches S i being
connected with each other thereat,
an amplifier, said connection point M i being connected with said
connection point MS through said amplifier, and
N oscillators H i (i = 1, 2, 
• • • •
, N) including N corresponding
propagation paths D i (i = 1, 2, - 
* • •
, N) as delay elements, said propagation
paths D i comprising said substrate between said interdigital transducers P i
and said interdigital transducers Q ι - ι , the respective signal loops of said
oscillators H i comprising said interdigital transducers P i , said propagation
paths D i , said interdigital transducers Q i - 1 and said amplifier. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
