<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0118743</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CURABLE COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING URETHANES,AND THE USE OF THE COMPOSITIONS IN ELECTRODEPOSITION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G1808	C09D544	C09D544	C08G1880	C08G1864	C08G1800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C09D	C09D	C08G	C08G	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G18	C09D5	C09D5	C08G18	C08G18	C08G18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is herein provided a urethane-containing material 
having one or more moieties of the structure: 


 
wherein R is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group; 

wherein X is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or 
wherein X is a moiety of the strucutre: 


 
of which R₁ and R₂ are, each independently, hydrogen, an 

alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or members of a cyclic or 
heterocyclic group. The urethane-containing material is 

particularly useful as a low temperature curing agent for 
active hydrogen-containing materials. Curable compositions 

containing the urethane curing agent and the active hyd­
rogen-containing materials are useful as electrocoating 

compositions. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORIARITY, THOMAS CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

NOVEL URETHANES, CURABLE COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THE NOVEL URETHANES,
AND THE USE OF THE COMPOSITIONS IN ELECTRODE POSITION
 Background of the Invention
 Field of the Invention: The present invention relates to
 novel urethanes and to the methods of making and using same. More
 particularly, the invention relates to curable compositions   com-   
 prising active hydrogen-containing materials and the novel ure
 thanes, and to the use of these compositions in electrodeposition.


 Brief Description of the Prior Art: Curable compositions
 containing blocked isocyanate crosslinking agents are known in the
 art. some of the crosslinking agents aid in effecting cure of
 these compositions at relatively low temperatures of about 320
   350"F.      (160-177 C.)    over a period of 20 to 30 minutes. Yet, lower
 temperature cure is required for coated substrates which have
 plastic parts which tend to deform at the afore-stated tempera
 tures. Hence, much work has been done to formulate compositions
 that cure effectively at relatively lower temperatures.


 As is the case here, much work has been done in develop
 ing blocked isocyanate crosslinking agents which would aid in
 effecting cure at lower temperatures. The work done has shown that
 proper selection of blocking agents for isocyanate groups is
 determinative in effecting cure at low temperatures. It is believed
 that blocked isocyanates that unblock readily at low temperatures
 effect cure of coatings at low temperatures, However, their use in
 coating compositions is limited in some respects. In one respect,
 coatings derived therefrom, although useful, may have poor solvent
 resistance, indicating a relatively low degree of cure. In another  respect, the coatings, although more completely cured, may have poor appearance. In yet another respect, some of these coating compositions, particularly the water-based compositions, are rather unstable.


 By the present invention, a select group of blocking agents which are superior to blocking agents of the prior art have been found effective in overcoming the afore-stated limitations.  


 Summary of the Invention
 In accordance with the foregoing, the present invention encompasses a urethane-containing material having a moiety of the structure:
EMI3.1     

Preferably, R is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, and X is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or a moiety of the structure:
EMI3.2     

Preferably, R1 and R2 are, each independently, hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group. In this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Therefore, What Is Claimed Is:



 1. A urethane-containing material having one or more moieties of the structure:
EMI31.1     

 wherein R is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group; wherein X is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or wherein X is a moiety of the structure:
EMI31.2     

 of which R1   and R2    are, each independently, hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or members of a cyclic or heterocyclic group.



 2. A urethane-containing material of Claim 1, wherein R is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group.



 3. A urethane-containing material of Claim 2, wherein the alkyl group contains from about 1 to 10 carbon atoms.



 4. A urethane-containing material of Claim 3, wherein the alkyl group contains from about 1 to 5 carbon atoms.



 5. A urethane-containing material of Claim 2, wherein R is hydrogen or a methyl group.



 6. A urethane-containing material of Claim 1, wherein the moiety
EMI31.3     

 of which R1 and R2 are, each independently, hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or members of a cyclic or heterocyclic group.  



 7. A urethane-containing material of Claim 6, wherein the alkyl group contains from about 1 to 26 carbon atoms.



 8. A urethane-containing material of Claim 7, wherein the alkyl group contains from about 2 to 18 carbon atoms.



 9. A urethane-containing material of Claim 8, wherein the alkyl group contains from about 4 to 8 carbon atoms.



 10. A blocked isocyanate obtained by reacting:
 (A) an isocyanate, and

 (B) a compound of the structure:
EMI32.1     

 wherein R is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group; wherein X is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or wherein X is a moiety of the structure:
EMI32.2     


 of which R1 and R2 are, each independently, hydrogen,
 an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or members of a cyclic

 or heterocyclic group.



 11. A compound of Claim 10, which is N,N-dibutylglycolamide,
N, N-dipentylglycolamide, N,N-dibutyllactamide or   aniline.   




 12. A blocked isocyanate of Claim 10 in which the isocyanate is a polyisocyanate.



 13. A blocked isocyanate of Claim 10, wherein the isocyanate is aromatic.



 14. A curable composition comprising an active hydrogencontaining material, and a curing agent having a urethane-containing moiety of the structure:
EMI32.3     

  wherein R is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group; wherein X is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or wherein X is a moiety of the structure:
EMI33.1     

 of which R1 and R2 are, each independently, hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or members of a cyclic or heterocyclic group; said curing agent is present as a separate component or an integral component of the active hydrogen-containing material.



 15. A curable composition of Claim 14, wherein the active hydrogen-containing material is a polymer selected from the group consisting of an epoxy polymer, an acrylic polymer, a polyester polymer, an alkyd polymer, a polyether polymer, a polyurea polymer, a polyurethane polymer, and a mixture thereof.



 16. A curable composition of Claim 15, wherein the polymer is an epoxy polymer or an acrylic polymer.



 17. A curable composition of Claim 14 which is dispersed in aqueous medium.



 18. A curable composition of Claim 17 in which the dispersed phase is stabilized by a cationic base group.


 

 19. A method of electrodeposition of an electroconductive surface serving as an electrode comprising passing an electric current between an anode and a cathode, immersed in an aqueous dispersion, said aqueous dispersion comprising an active hydrogencontaining material which contains an ionic group, and a curing agent having a urethane-containing moiety of the structure:
EMI33.2     

 wherein R is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group; wherein X is hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or wherein X is a moiety of the structure:  
EMI34.1     

 of which R1 and R2 are, each independently, hydrogen, an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group, or members of a cyclic or heterocyclic group; said curing agent is present as a separate component or an integral component of the active hydrogen-containing material.



 20. A method of Claim 19, wherein the ionic group is a cationic base group. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
