<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646172</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RECOMBINANT ENTOMOPOXVIRUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N6300	A01N6300	C07H2100	C07H2104	C07K14005	C07K1401	C12N700	C12N700	C12N701	C12N701	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N15863	C12N15863	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A01N	C07H	C07H	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N63	A01N63	C07H21	C07H21	C07K14	C07K14	C12N7	C12N7	C12N7	C12N7	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Recombinant insect viruses, particularly recombinant Heliothis armigera entomopoxviruses (HaEPV) are described wherein heterologous DNA is located in non-essential regions of the viral genome. Such recombinant viruses are useful as biological insecticides and in the production of desired biologically-active proteins, polypeptides and peptides in cell-culture.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMW SCIENT IND RES ORG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMONWEALTH SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANISATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALL DAVID JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERNON CAROL ANNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SRISKANTHA ALAGACONE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALL, DAVID, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERNON, CAROL, ANNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SRISKANTHA, ALAGACONE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RECOMBINANT ENTOMOPOXVIRUSThis invention relates to the production of recombinant entomopoxviruses (EPV's), particularly recombinant Heliothis armigera entomopoxviruses (HaEPVs), capable of expressing heterologous DNA sequences. Particular applications of the invention include the use of the recombinant entomopoxviruses as biological insecticides and in the production of desired, biologically-active proteins, polypeptides and peptides in cell culture.Entomopoxviruses are large, double-stranded DNA viruses of insects, and have to date been described from species of caterpillars, beetles and locusts (Goodwin et al., 1991 ). The economic importance of these insect groups has led to serious consideration of EPVs as potential biological control agents, and investigation by others has documented various characteristics which support their use in this capacity. For example, while the collective EPV host range is broad, covering the important insect groups, individual EPV isolates generally have a narrow host range, allowing potentially high levels of control specificity. Additionally, vertebrates (and vertebrate cell cultures) exposed to large amounts of infectious EPV have shown no sign of infection or other discernible ill-effect (Buckner & Cunningham, 1972; angridge, 1973) .These factors confer significant potential for the use of EPV's as insect control agents. Unfortunately however, most EPV's exhibit low levels of pathogenicity. This trait, which has prevented serious attempts to develop the viruses as major commercial insecticides, may be overcome, conceivably, by the production of recombinant entomopoxviruses capable of expressing heterologous DNA sequences encoding agents toxic or otherwise deleterious to insects. 

Recombinant entomopoxviruses also hold great potential for the production of homogenous and biologically active proteins, polypeptides and peptides. Such products are presently generated either from recombinant bacteria or through the use of expression vectors in eukaryotic cells. The first method is technically more simple, but suffers from the drawback that many proteins of eukaryote origin are not correctly processed in bacteria. Without correct processing many proteins are biologically inactive, and thus of little use or value. On the other hand, production from expression vectors in vertebrate cells is traditionally more expensive, with smaller yields of protein. Some eukaryotic expression vectors (e.g. baculoviruses) also cause lysis of the host cell.In contrast to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
3/25666 PCI7AU93/00284
CLAIMS
A recombinant entomopoxvirus characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in one or more regions of the genome selected from the group comprising, pll.5 open reading frame (ORF) region; thymidine kinase (TK) encoding region; spindle protein encoding region; and an intergenic region.
A recombinant entomopoxvirus characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in the pll.5 ORF region of the genome.
A recombinant entomopoxvirus characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in the thymidine kinase (TK) encoding region of the genome.
A recombinant entomopoxvirus characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in the spindle protein encoding region of the genome.
A recombinant entomopoxvirus characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in an intergenic region of the genome.
6. A recombinant entomopoxvirus according to claim 5 wherein heterologous DNA is located in the intergenic region between pll.5 ORF and the spindle protein encoding region.
A recombinant entomopoxvirus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the entomopoxvirus is Amsacta moorei EPV, Choristoneura biennis EPV, Heliothis armigera EPV, Choristoneura fumiferana EPV, Aphodius tasmaniae EPV, Dermolepida 


 alJbo irtu-m EPV, Melolontha melolontha EPV or Services this nigrolineata EPV.
8. A recombinant Heliothis armigera entomopoxvirus
(HaEPV) characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in one or more non-essential regions of the genome.
9. A recombinant HaEPV characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in one or more regions of the genome selected from the group comprising: pll.5 open reading frame (ORF) region; thymidine kinase (TK) encoding region; spindle protein encoding region; spheroidin encoding region; and an intergenic region.
10. A recombinant HaEPV characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in the pll.5 ORF region of the genome.
11. A recombinant HaEPV characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in the thymidine kinase (TK) encoding region of the genome.
12. A recombinant HaEPV characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in the spindle protein encoding region of the genome.
13. A recombinant HaEPV characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in the spheroidin encoding region of the genome.
14. A recombinant HaEPV characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in an intergenic region of the genome.
15. A recombinant HaEPV entomopoxvirus according to claim 14 wherein heterologous DNA is located in the 


 intergenic region between pll.5 ORF and the spindle protein encoding region.
16. A recombinant nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) characterised in that heterologous DNA is located in a region of the genome substantially homologous to at least a portion of the pll.5 ORF entomopoxvirus region.
17. A recombinant NPV according to claim 16 wherein the NPV is a baculovirus.
18. A recombinant NPV according to claim 17 wherein the NPV is AcNPV or OpNPV.
19. A recombinant virus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the heterologous DNA comprises at least one gene encoding a substance deleterious to insects.
20. A recombinant virus according to claim 19 wherein the heterologous DNA encodes a substance selected from the group comprising: Bacillus thuringiensis δ -toxin; insect neurohor ones; proteins which interact with insect hormones; insecticidal compounds from wasp, scorpion venom or other heterologous origin; or a ribozyme targeted against an essential insect cellular function.
21. A recombinant virus according to claim 19 wherein the heterologous DNA encodes juvenile hormone esterase.
22. A recombinant virus according to any one of claims 1-18 wherein the heterologous DNA comprises at least one gene encoding a desired biologically-active protein, polypeptide or peptide. 


23. A recombinant virus according to claim 22 wherein the heterologous DNA encodes a substance selected from the group comprising; IFN- , IFN-/3, IFN--5, TPA, lymphotoxin, macrophage activating factor, insulin, epithelial cell growth factor, human growth factor, antibodies and antibody fragments.
24. A recombinant virus according to claim 22 wherein the heterologous DNA encodes fused elements of the variable domains of murine heavy and light immunoglobulin chains directed against neuraminidase of influenza virus.
25. A recombinant virus according to any one of claims 19-24 wherein expression of the heterologous DNA is driven by an entomopoxvirus promoter.
26. A recombinant virus according to claim 25 wherein the entomopoxvirus promoter is the spindle protein promoter, spheroidin promoter or pll.5 ORF promoter from Heliothis armigera EPV.
27. A method for controlling the proliferation of pest insects, comprising applying to an infested area a recombinant virus according to any one of claims 19-21, 25 or 26 optionally in admixture with an acceptable agricultural carrier.
28. A method for producing a desired protein, polypeptide or peptide comprising infecting susceptible host cells with a recombinant virus according to any one of claims 22-26.
29. A recombinant virus according to any one of claims 1-26 wherein the heterologous DNA is located in the viral genome via homologous recombination. 


30. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding Heliothis armigera entomopoxvirus spindle protein or a portion thereof.
31. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence substantially corresponding to nucleotide 443 to nucleotide 1498 in Figure 1.
32. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding pll.5 ORF or a portion thereof.
33. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding Heliothis armigera pll.5 ORF or a portion thereof.
34. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence substantially corresponding to nucleotide 57 to nucleotide 362 Figure 1.
35. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the intergenic region, or a portion thereof, that lies between pll.5 ORF and the spindle protein encoding region of an entomopoxvirus genome.
36. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the intergenic region, or a portion thereof, that lies between pll.5 ORF and the spindle protein encoding region of Heliothis armigera entomopoxvirus genome.
37. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence substantially corresponding to nucleotide 363 to nucleotide 442 Figure 1.
38. An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an entomopoxvirus promoter or functional portion thereof. 


39. An isolated DNA molecule according to claim 38 wherein the promoter is the spindle protein promoter.
40. An isolated DNA molecule according to claim 39
'
 wherein the spindle protein promoter is derived from Heliothis armigera entomopoxvirus.
41 An isolated DNA molecule according to claim 38 wherein the promoter is the pll.5 ORF promoter.
42 An isolated DNA molecule according to claim 41wherein the pll.5 ORF promoter is derived from Heliothis armigera entomopoxvirus.
43 An isolated DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence substantially corresponding to nucleotide 1 to nucleotide 56 in Figure 1.
44 An isolated DNA molecule encoding a fused promoter element comprising an entomopoxvirus spindle protein promoter sequence and a vaccinia consensus late promoter sequence.
45 A recombinant virus substantially as hereindescribed with reference to Example 2. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
