<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611902</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vibration isolating apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F1328	F16F1304	F16F1314	F16F1326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F13	F16F13	F16F13	F16F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vibration isolating apparatus (10) which damps and absorbs 
vibrations from a vibration generating portion (11A). A first 

restricting passage (32), a second restricting passage (36) and a 
third restricting passage (34) are formed in a block member (18). 

Respective transit resistances of these restricting passages 
are different. One end portion of the first restricting 

passage is provided so as to be able to communicate with a 
main liquid chamber (28), and another end portion communicates 

with a sub-liquid chamber (30). One end portion of the second 
restricting passage (36) is provided so as to be able to 

communicate with the main liquid chamber (28), and another end 
portion has an open portion (18). One end portion of the third 

restricting passage (34) communicates with the sub-liquid 
chamber (30), and another end portion communicates with the 

second restricting passage (36). A rotor (52) is rotated to a first 
position at which the main liquid chamber (28) and the sub-liquid 

chamber (30) communicate via the first restricting passage (32) and to 
a second position at which the second restricting passage (36) 

communicates with the main liquid chamber. In accordance 
with the present invention, liquid passes through the first (32), 

second (36) and third (34) restricting passages, and moves 
reciprocally between the main liquid (28) chamber and one of the 

sub-liquid chamber (30) and the second restricting passage (36) in 
accordance with frequency of vibration. Accordingly, 

vibrations of a wide range of frequencies can be absorbed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIDGESTONE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NISSAN MOTOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIDGESTONE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOJIMA HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI YASUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOJIMA, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, YASUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a vibration isolating 
apparatus which is used in an engine mount or the like of a 
vehicle and which damps and absorbs vibrations from a 
vibration generating portion. In automobile engines, a vibration isolating apparatus 
serving as an engine mount is disposed between the engine 
and the vehicle body. The vibration isolating apparatus 
prevents vibration of the engine from being transferred to 
the vehicle body. A main liquid chamber and a sub-liquid chamber are 
formed within the vibration isolating apparatus. Both 
chambers are filled with a liquid. The main liquid chamber 
and the sub-liquid chamber are connected to each other by a 
first restricting passage and a second restricting passage. 
The first restricting passage absorbs shake vibration (e.g., 
vibration of a frequency of less than 15 Hz) and the second 
restricting passage absorbs idle vibration (e.g., vibration 
of a frequency of 20 to 40 Hz) which is of a higher  
 
frequency range than shake vibration. The sectional area of 
the second restricting passage in a direction normal to the 
longitudinal direction (the longitudinal direction is the 
direction in which the liquid passes) is larger than the 
sectional area of the first restricting passage. This 
second restricting passage is provided with a passage opening 
and closing member for setting a state in which the main 
liquid chamber and the sub-liquid chamber communicate with 
each other and a state in which they do not communicate with 
each other. In the above-described vibration isolating apparatus, 
when a vehicle travels at high speeds or the like, shake 
vibration is generated. Here, the second restricting 
passage does not communicate with the main liquid chamber 
due to the passage opening and closing member. Namely, the 
liquid moves reciprocally between the main liquid chamber 
and the sub-liquid chamber via the first restricting passage 
only. The shake vibration is absorbed by resistance when 
the liquid passes through the first restricting passage or 
by liquid-column resonance. On the other hand, when the 
vehicle travels at low speeds of, for example, about 5 km/h, 
idle vibration is generated. Here, the first restricting 
passage becomes clogged and the second restricting passage 
communicates due to the passage opening and closing member. 
The liquid moves reciprocally between the main liquid  
 
chamber and the sub-liquid chamber via the second 
restricting passage. Accordingly, the idle vibration is 
absorbed by resistance when
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vibration isolating apparatus which damps and absorbs 
vibrations from a vibration generating portion comprising: 


an outer cylinder connected to one of a vibration 
generating portion and a vibration receiving portion; 
an inner cylinder connected to another of the 
vibration generating portion and the vibration receiving 

portion; 
an elastic body provided between said outer cylinder 
and said inner cylinder, and deforming when vibration is 

generated; 
a block member provided at an interior of said outer 
cylinder; 
a main liquid chamber formed between said elastic body 
and said block member, and able to expand and contract; 
a sub-liquid chamber separated from said main liquid 
chamber, and able to expand and contract; 
a first diaphragm forming a portion of a partitioning 
wall of said sub-liquid chamber, and permitting expansion 

and contraction of said sub-liquid chamber; 
a first restricting passage which is formed in said 
block member, one end portion of said first restricting 

passage being provided so as to be able to communicate with 
said main liquid chamber via a cylindrical space formed in  

 
said block member, and another end portion of said first 

restricting passage communicating with said sub-liquid 
chamber; 
a second restricting passage which is formed in said 
block member, one end portion of said second restricting 

passage being provided so as to be able to communicate with 
said main liquid chamber via said cylindrical space, another 

end portion of said second restricting passage having an 
open portion which opens so as to oppose an inner 

circumferential surface of said outer cylinder, and a 
transit resistance of said second restricting passage being 

smaller than a transit resistance of said first restricting 
passage; 
a third restricting passage which is formed in said 
block member, one end portion of said third restricting 

passage communicating with said sub-liquid chamber, another 
end portion of said third restricting passage communicating 

with said second restricting passage, and a transit 
resistance of said third restricting passage being larger 

than the transit resistance of said first restricting 
passage; 
a second diaphragm which closes the open portion of 
said second restricting passage, and which is more rigid 

than said first diaphragm with respect to liquid pressure; 
and  

 
a rotor which is formed in a hollow cylindrical shape 
and has an opening in a circumferential wall of said rotor, 

said rotor being rotatably disposed in a rotor-setting-space 
which is formed in a cylindrical space and which is provided 

at an intermediate portion of a cylindrical space of said 
block member, said rotor rotating to a first position at 

which said opening opposes said first restricting passage so 
that said main liquid chamber and said sub-liquid chamber 

are communicated via said first restricting passage and said 
second restricting passage is closed, and said rotor 

rotating to a second position at which said opening opposes 
said second restricting passage so that said second 

restricting passage communicates with said main liquid 
chamber and said first restricting passage is closed. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
further comprising: 


an intermediate cylinder provided between said outer 
cylinder and said inner cylinder, said intermediate cylinder 

communicating with said inner cylinder via said elastic 
body, and being inserted in an inner circumferential portion 

of said outer cylinder so as to be fixed to said outer 
cylinder. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 2,  
 

wherein said block member is formed as a substantially 
semicircular shape as seen in an axial direction of said 

outer cylinder, and said block member is mounted between 
said intermediate cylinder and said outer cylinder. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 3, 
wherein said rotor-setting-space for setting said rotor is 

disposed such that one end surface portion in an axial 
direction of said rotor-setting-space for setting said rotor 

opens to said main liquid chamber, and a radial direction of 
said rotor-setting-space for setting said rotor is provided 

along respective axes of said first restricting passage and 
said second restricting passage which are provided along a 

chord portion of said block member. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 3, 
wherein said third restricting passage is provided along an 

outer peripheral portion of an arc-shaped portion of said 
block member. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
wherein a thin rubber layer is bonded by vulcanization to an 

inner circumferential surface of said outer cylinder, and a 
portion of said thin rubber layer forms said first 

diaphragm.  
 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 6, 
wherein said sub-liquid chamber is formed between said 

intermediate cylinder and said first diaphragm. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
wherein a thin rubber layer is bonded by vulcanization to an 

inner circumferential surface of said outer cylinder, and a 
portion of said thin rubber layer which opposes the open 

portion of said second restricting passage forms said second 
diaphragm. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 8, 
wherein said portion of said thin rubber layer forming said 

second diaphragm is formed thicker than other portions of 
said thin rubber layer. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 8, 
wherein a through-hole is provided at a portion of said 

outer cylinder which opposes the open portion of said second 
restricting passage via said second diaphragm. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
wherein said second diaphragm is a rubber film, and said 

rubber film is fit between said block member and an inner  
 

circumferential portion of said outer cylinder so as to 
close the open portion of said second restricting passage. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 11, 
wherein said rubber film is curved so as to protrude toward 

an interior of said second restricting passage, and an air 
chamber is formed between said rubber film and the inner 

circumferential portion of said outer cylinder. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein an air hole, which is used for air ventilation, is 

formed in said outer cylinder at a portion opposing the open 
portion of said second restricting passage via said rubber 

film. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
wherein said first restricting passage is formed so as to 

absorb idle vibration. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
wherein said second restricting passage is formed so as to 

absorb shaking sounds. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
wherein said third restricting passage is formed so as to  

 
absorb shake vibration. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
wherein said outer cylinder is mounted to the vibration 

receiving portion and said inner cylinder is mounted to the 
vibration generating portion. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 1, 
further comprising: 


a motor for driving said rotor. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 18, 
further comprising: 


control means for controlling said motor. 
A vibration isolating apparatus according to claim 19, 
wherein said control means controls said motor by detecting 

at least one of a speed of an engine main body which serves 
as the vibration generating portion and a speed of a vehicle 

in which the engine main body is installed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
