<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620792</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THRUST REVERSER INTEGRATING A VARIABLE EXHAUST AREA NOZZLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02K100	F02K160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02K	F02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02K1	F02K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AERONAUTICAL CONCEPT OF EXHAUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AERONAUTICAL CONCEPT OF EXHAUST LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAIR JEAN-PIERRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAIR, JEAN-PIERRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a thrust reverser for jet
engines, especially the type used on aircraft. More
particularly, the invention relates to a thrust reverser
which integrates a variable exhaust area nozzle.In order to reduce the landing distance of a jet
engine powered aircraft, as well as to increase the margin
of safety when the aircraft is landing on a wet or icy
runway, thrust reversers are utilized on the jet engines in
order to provide a braking thrust for the aircraft.
Typically, such thrust reversers are formed by thrust
reverser "doors" which are capable of pivoting between two
positions about an axis which is transverse and substantially
diametrical with respect to the jet of the engine.The first position finds the doors in a stowed position,
out of the direct path of the exhaust blast of the
engine. In this position, the doors form the exhaust
nozzle of the gas turbine engine so that the thrust of the
engine is directly rearward, thereby producing the forward
thrust of the aircraft. In the second position, the doors
are pivoted about the pivot axis to a transverse, blast
deflecting or deployed position, to intercept and redirect
the jet blast and produce the braking thrust for the
aircraft when needed. In such thrust reversers, the
trailing edge of the reverser doors must be fully scarfed
to enable the deployment of the doors and the butting of
the trailing edges of the two doors against one another in
the deployed position. This scarfing produces what is
known as a "fishmouth" shape at the exhaust outlet because
of its appearance when viewed from the side.The prior art demonstrates some variable area exhaust
nozzles for thrust reversers, and such devices are shown in 
U.S. Patent 4,966,327 and French Patent 2,614,939. Theoretically,
a variable area exhaust provides certain benefits
for the jet engines, in enabling them to adapt to
different conditions of the flight. For example, different
characteristics of the engines are desirable for take off,
climb and cruise modes of operation, and varying the
exhaust area enables the engine to better achieve the
optimum characteristics.According to the prior patents mentioned above which
integrate a variable exhaust area nozzle with the thrust
reverser, the thrust reverser doors do not (and cannot) in
any of the controllable positions of the reverser doors
define the throat of the exhaust nozzle to be at the
trailing edge of the nozzle/reverser doors. In these prior
patents, the inner flow line of the thrust reverser doors
is convergent to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thrust reverser for jet engines
comprising a pair of symmetrical thrust reverser door

members (24, 30), each of said door members being pivotally
mounted on an axis (40) which is substantially

diametrically positioned with respect to the exhaust nozzle
of an engine so as to pivot between a stowed position in

which said doors are out of the direct path of exhaust from
the engine and a deployed position in which said doors are

in the path of the engine exhaust for deflecting the
exhaust and creating a braking thrust, said doors having a

scarfed trailing edge (42), characterized by a pair of
half-shells (22, 44) surrounding at least the trailing

edges of said doors and forming a planar exhaust outlet for
the engine and being pivotally mounted to a mounting arm

(56), said mounting arm being pivotally mounted to said
axes (40), first actuator means (50) for moving said door

mounting axes and thereby moving said reverser doors and
said half-shells for varying the area of said planar

exhaust outlet between minimum and maximum exhaust area
positions, and second actuator means (52) for pivoting said

doors between said stowed and deployed positions.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 1 and wherein said half-shells (44) are pivotally

mounted to first link arms (56) downstream of said axes
(40) and said link arms are pivotally mounted on said axes

(40).
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 2 and including over-center linkage means (48, 60)

between said first actuator (50) and said axes (40).
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 3 and including a link member (59) connecting said

thrust reverser doors and said half-shells at points spaced
approximately 90° from said axes.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 4 and wherein said first and second actuator means

(50, 52) comprise linear actuators.
A thrsut reverser for jet engines as in 
Claim 3 and wherein said over-center linkage means

comprises at each pivot point, a second link arm (48)
pivotally mounted at one end on said axes (40) and

connected to a third link (60) at the other end, said
second link arm being pivotally mounted to a fixed

structure between said ends, said third links being
connected to said second actuator means.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 6, and wherein said first actuator means moves the

pivot points (40) of said reverser doors in an arcuate
path.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 1 and including seal means (75, 77) for preventing

exhaust gas leakage from the area between said doors and
the engine structure.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 8 and wherein said seal means includes a movable

inner skin (74) for maintaining the seal when the area of
said exhaust outlet is changed.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 1 and including latch means (54) for securing the

rear portion of said doors when in the stowed position.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 10 and wherein said latch means includes means (66)

for accomodating movement of said thrust reverser doors
when the area of said exhaust outlet is varied without

releasing the latch.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 1 and wherein said thrust reverser doors present no

flow discontinuities when said doors are in said stowed

position.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 1 and wherein the exhaust nozzle in said stowed

position is a convergent nozzle.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 1 and wherein the throat area of the exhaust nozzle

is at the trailing edge of the nozzle.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in 
Claim 1 and wherein movement of said thrust reverser doors

drives a corresponding movement of said half-shells.
A thrust reverser for jet engines as in
Claim 15 and including a link member (59) connecting said

doors and said half-shells for moving said half-shells away
from said doors in the deployed position of said doors.
A thrust reverser for jet engines
comprising a pair of symmetrical thrust reverser door

members (24, 30), each of said door members being adapted
to be pivotally mounted on an axis (40) which is

substantially diametrically positioned with respect to the
exhaust nozzle of an engine so as to pivot between a stowed

position presenting no inner or outer flow discontinuities
and a deployed position, said doors having scarfed trailing

edges (42) to enable said pivoting, characterized by a pair
of half-shells (22, 44) surrounding at least the trailing

edges of said doors so as to form a planar exhaust outlet
for the engine and being pivotally mounted, first actuator

means (50) for moving said door mounting axes and thereby
moving said reverser doors and said half-shells for varying

the area of said planar exhaust outlet between minimum and
maximum exhaust area positions, and second actuator means

(52) for pivoting said doors between said stowed and
deployed positions.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
