<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635103</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MINIATURE CORE ADJUST DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C110	F16C110	F16C114	F16C122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C1	F16C1	F16C1	F16C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cable length adjustment device (10) for adjusting a cable (14) comprising an elongated member (24) connected to the core (15) of the cable, a locking member (26) formed to prevent translatory movement of the elongated member (24) when in a first locked position, and allow for translatory movement of the elongated member (24) in a second unlocked position, and a housing substantially encasing the locking member (26).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HANDY 
&
 HARMAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HANDY 
&
 HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEDSTROM KRISTEN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRUMAN MARK R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEDSTROM, KRISTEN, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRUMAN, MARK, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MINIATURE CORE ADJUST DEVICEBackground of the InventionThis invention relates to a cable length adjustment device, and more particularly to a device suitable for length adjustments of cables in any system requiring precise adjustment, such as those found in park interlock cable systems of automobiles. In a park interlock system of an automobile, a cable is utilized to connect a translatable gearshift mechanism to an ignition key tumbler in such a fashion so as to prevent the automobile from shifting out of "park" without an ignition key in the tumbler or to prevent the removal of the ignition key without the gearshift mechanism being in "park". Due to the precise settings required in such systems, the correct cable length is essential to the proper operation of such systems.To ensure that the cable is a proper operating length, cable length adjusters are utilized to perform fine adjustment. The cable length adjusters generally include a cable having a conduit or sheath with a longitudinally extending bore for movably receiving a cable core. An elongated member is attached at one end to the conduit of the cable and at the other end to the gearshift mechanism. A locking member is provided which is mounted on the elongated member in a manner which, when unlocked, allows for sliding movement between the elongated member and the locking member and when locked, prevents movement of the elongated member with respect to the locking member. Adjustment means are provided which allow the locking member to engage the elongated member in predetermined increments along the elongated member thereby adjusting the length of the conduit to achieve the 

appropriate cable length. Examples of such adjusters include U.S. Patent Nos. 4,418,583, 3,710,645 and 3,572,159.The conduit adjust type mechanisms described above suffer from a number of shortcomings. The most significant is the need for there to be sufficient slack in the conduit to allow the elongated member to slide freely within the adjuster. In many cases, the conduit is routed underneath carpet or is fixed in place by a location clip to avoid interference with mating components. In these instances, the conduit cannot move freely and the adjustment is biased or unattainable.Furthermore, the locking members of the prior devices in general, have closed internal diameters. Hence, material must be added to their external circumferences to create raised surfaces for locking features to act against. In addition to not efficiently maximizing valuable space, this design
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A cable length adjustment device comprising: an elongated member having first and second ends, a first exterior portion which is threaded and a second exterior portion which is unthreaded; a housing member having a longitudinally extending bore for receiving and containing said first end of said elongated member for axial translatory movement therein; a locking member rotatably mounted within said housing for rotation between a first locked position and a second unlocked position, said locking member comprising means for engaging the second exterior portion of the elongated member when said locking member is in said first position to prevent axial translatory movement of the elongated member relative thereto, said engaging means aligned in spaced relation from the second exterior portion of the elongated member when said locking means is in said second position to permit axial translatory movement of the elongated member relative thereto to allow axial adjustment of the elongated member. 2. The cable length adjustment device of claim 1 wherein said elongated member is adapted to be connected to the core of a cable.
3. The cable length adjustment device of claim 1 wherein said engaging means of said locking member comprises first and second means for receiving said elongated member, said first and second receiving means being spaced apart sufficiently to accommodate said locking member therebetween.
4. The cable length adjustment device of claim 3 wherein said first and second receiving means each 


has a first generally cylindrical portion with an open longitudinal bore therein which allows axial translatory movement of said elongated member therein, and a raised surface on the external diameter of the cylindrical portion formed to provide a positive stop against the housing member when the locking member is in the first position.
5. The cable length adjustment device of claim 1 further comprising means for biasing the elongated member into the housing to assist in the adjustment of the axial position of the elongated member therein.
6. The cable length adjustment device of claim 1 wherein the first exterior portion of the elongated member is formed around a portion of the circumference of said elongated member and has a first cross sectional radius, and the second exterior portion of thee elongated member is formed around the remainder of the circumference of said elongated member and has a second cross sectional radius; and the locking member includes: means for receiving said elongated member and allowing selective translatory movement therein, means for engaging said exterior threaded portion of said elongated member when said locking device is in said first position to prevent axial translatory movement of the elongated member relative thereto, and to align in spaced relation to the unthreaded portion of the elongated member when the locking member is in said second position to permit axial translatory movement of the elongated member relative thereto to allow axial adjustment of the elongated member.
7. The cable length adjustment device of claim 6 wherein said elongated member is adapted to be connected to the core of a cable. 


 8. The cable length adjustment device of claim
7 wherein said receiving means is two concentric cylinders having a longitudinally extending bore therethrough and wherein said cylinders are connected by a rib member.
9. The cable length adjustment device of claim 8 wherein said housing member further comprises a U-shaped channel formed in a side wall of said housing member for positioning said locking member therein and wherein said engaging means includes said rib member, said rib member having an interior threaded portion formed to engage said exterior threaded portion of said elongated member.
10. The cable length adjustment device of claim 9 wherein said housing member further comprises securing means extending into said U-shaped channel and being formed to mate with said rib member to maintain said locking member in a snap-fit arrangement in said first locked position. 11. The cable length adjustment device of claim 9 wherein said locking member is positioned in said U-shaped channel and said elongated member through said longitudinally extending bore of said housing member and said longitudinally extending bores of said concentric cylinders of said locking member.
12. The cable length adjustment device of claim
8 wherein the external diameters of the cylinders have raised surfaces formed to provide a positive stop against the housing member when the locking member is in said first locked position.
13. The cable length adjustment device of claim 12 wherein said locking member further comprises a first thumb tab to provide a greater surface area with which to promote movement of said locking member with respect to said elongated member. 


 14. The cable length adjustment device of claim
13 wherein said housing member further comprises a second thumb tab formed along the edge of the U-shaped channel of the housing. 15. The cable length adjustment device of claim 6 further comprising means for biasing said elongated member into the housing to assist in the adjustment of the axial position of the elongated member therein.
16. The cable length adjustment device of claim 15 wherein said means for biasing comprises a spring fitted over the circumference of the first end of said elongated member and retained on one side by a flexible circular clip fitted into a circumferential groove formed near said first end of said elongated member and retained on an opposite side by said housing.
17. The cable length adjustment device of claim 16 wherein said housing member further comprises a second U-shaped channel formed through the side wall of said housing member for positioning said spring and said clip therein in axial alignment with said longitudinally extending bore of said housing member.
18. The cable length adjustment device of claim 6 wherein said first end of said elongated member is chamfered; and said housing member contains a recessed area formed to fit said chamfered end of said elongated member.
19. The cable length adjustment device of claim
14 wherein said first and second thumb tabs contain indicia to provide a visual indication of the position of said locking member.
20. The cable length adjustment device of claim 6 wherein said interior and exterior threaded portions include threads which are angled to add or remove 


cable slack during rotation of said locking member into said first position.
21. The cable length adjustment device of claim 6 wherein said first cross sectional radius is greater than said second cross sectional radius.
22. The cable length adjustment device of claim 6 wherein the housing includes a channel formed in a side wall thereof; the locking member is positioned in said housing channel for rotation between a first locked position and a second unlocked position; and the engaging means includes first and second means for receiving said elongated member, said first and second receiving means being spaced apart sufficiently to accommodate said locking member therebetween and each having a first generally cylindrical portion with an open longitudinal bore therein which allows axial translatory movement of said elongated member therein, and a raised surface on the external diameter of the cylindrical portion formed to provide a positive stop against the housing member when the locking member is in the first position, said engaging means being aligned in spaced relation from the second exterior portion of the elongated member when said locking means is in said second position to permit axial translatory movement of the elongated member relative thereto to allow axial adjustment of the elongated means; and the device further comprises means for biasing said elongated member into the housing to assist in the adjustment of the axial position of the elongated member therein, said biasing means including a spring engaging said first end of the elongated member and said housing.
23. The cable length adjustment device of claim 22 wherein said first end of said elongated member is chamfered; and said housing member contains a recessed 


area formed to fit said chamfered end of said elongated member, said engaging means and said second exterior portion of the elongated member include threads which are angled to further adjust the position of the elongated member during rotation of the locking member into the first position; and further comprising indicia to provide a visual indication of the position of said locking member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
