<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636562</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tape cutter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23D3500	B23D3500	B26D101	B26D130	B26D701	B26D701	B26D726	B26D726	B41J336	B41J336	B41J1170	B41J1170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23D	B23D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23D35	B23D35	B26D1	B26D1	B26D7	B26D7	B26D7	B26D7	B41J3	B41J3	B41J11	B41J11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tape cutter for cutting a tape having a width, the 
tape cutter including: a lower cutter portion with a blade 

receiving stand fixed thereto, the blade receiving stand 
having a cutting edge; an upper cutter portion provided 

connected to the lower cutter portion so that the upper 
cutter portion is movable relative to the lower cutter 

portion from an open condition to a cutting condition; an 
upper blade having a cutting edge, the upper blade being 

provided so as to move toward the blade receiving stand when 
the upper cutter portion is moved into the cuttin
g condition, 
the cutting edge of the blade receiving stand and the cutting 

edge of the upper blade defining a cutting area when upper 
cutter portion is in the cutting condition; a tape guide for 

guiding the tape toward the cutting area so that the tape is 
brought into a predetermined relative posture with the 

cutting area. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HISHIDA YUKIO C O BROTHER KOGY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUNO NAOYUKI C O BROTHER KOG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HISHIDA, YUKIO, C/O BROTHER KOGYO K.K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUNO, NAOYUKI, C/O BROTHER KOGYO K.K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a tape cutter 
capable of cutting a tape produced in a tape printer, and 
more particularly to the tape cutter being capable of cutting 
a variety of tapes with different widths. Tapes produced with a tape printer can be used for a 
variety of purposes. Various objectives for such tapes 
require a variety of tapes with different widths. For 
example, a tape for being adhered to a video cassette as an 
identification label would be wider than a tape adhered to an 
audio cassette. There has been known a conventional tape cutter for 
cutting different width tapes to specific lengths. The tape 
cutter is capable of cutting the four corners of tapes into 
rounded shapes, which are more aesthetically pleasing than 
cutting the tapes ends into straight lines. To allow this, 
a plurality of interchangeable blade holders, each 
corresponding to different width tape, are provided to the 
tape cutter. A blade is provided in each blade holder. Each 
blade is shaped for cutting the corners of the corresponding 
width tape into rounded shapes. A fixed blade is fixed to 
the interior of the tape cutter so as to confront a blade  
 
holder mounted in the tape cutter. First, the blade holder corresponding to the width of 
the tape to be cut is mounted in the tape cutter. Next, one 
end of a tape to be cut is inserted into a tape insertion 
slot of the tape cutter and cut by moving the blade holder 
downward. The operation is repeated on the other end of the 
tape so that both ends of the tape are cut to a predetermined 
shape by the blade in the blade holder in cooperation with 
the fixed blade. When a tape with a different width is to be 
cut, the blade holder is removed and the correct width blade 
holder exchanged therefor. The tape cutter thus allows 
cutting both ends of a tape into predetermined shapes 
according to the tape width of each tape. However there has been known a problem with 
conventional tape cutters in that regardless of how carefully 
a user inserts a tape into and through the tape insertion 
slot, the tape sometimes moves at an angle, rather than 
unidirectionally, before it reaches the blade holder. When 
a tape shifts angularly in this way, its corners can not be 
cut by the blade into the predetermined curved shape. Both 
ends of the tape are therefore often cut in undesired shapes 
so that the cut tape appears unattractive. In conventional tape cutters, the distance from the 
edge of an inserted end of the tape to the blade is set to a  
 
fixed length. Because
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tape cutter for cutting a tape having a width, 
the tape cutter comprising: 

   a lower cutter portion with a blade receiving stand 
fixed thereto, the blade receiving stand having a cutting 

edge; 
   an upper cutter portion provided connected to the 

lower cutter portion so that the upper cutter portion is 
movable relative to the lower cutter portion from an open 

condition to a cutting condition; 
   an upper blade having a cutting edge, the upper blade 

being provided so as to move toward the blade receiving stand 
when the upper cutter portion is moved into the cutting 

condition, the cutting edge of the blade receiving stand and 
the cutting edge of the upper blade defining a cutting area 

when upper cutter portion is in the cutting condition; and 
   a tape guide for guiding the tape toward the cutting 

area so that the tape is brought into a predetermined 
relative posture with the cutting area. 
A tape cutter as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
tape guide has a tape guide portion defining a groove having 

a length extending in a lengthwise direction that leads to 
the cutting area, the groove also having a width extending in 

a widthwise direction perpendicular to the lengthwise 
direction, the width of the groove being substantially the 

 
same as the width of the tape so that the tape is guided 

unidirectionally toward the cutting area when inserted 
through the groove. 
A tape cutter as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein 
the tape guide portion defines a plurality of grooves, 

each groove having a width corresponding to a width of a 
tape from a plurality of different width tapes. 
A tape cutter as claimed in one of claims 1 to 3, 
further comprising a pair of positioning members provided 

on either side of the upper blade separated by a distance 
in the widthwise direction, the distance corresponding to 

the width of the tape, so that a tape guided toward the 
cutting area by the tape guide will pass between the 

positioning members and be prevented from moving in the 
widthwise direction. 
A tape cutter as claimed in one of claims 1 to 4, 
further comprising: 

   a tape stopper for stopping a tape guided by the tape 
guide after an end of the tape passes between the upper blade 

and the blade receiving stand and past the cutting area; and 
   a tape margin adjusting means for adjusting a 

distance between the tape stopper and the cutting area. 
A tape cutter as claimed in claim 5 wherein the 
tape margin adjusting means further comprises: 

   a slide guide member in sliding contact with the tape 
stopper for slidingly guiding the tape stopper; and 

   a locking means for locking the tape stopper at a 
desired position on the slide guide member. 
A tape cutter as claimed in claim 6 wherein the 
locking means further includes: 

   a plurality of lock walls formed in the slide guide 
member aligned in a direction followed by the tape stopper 

when the tape stopper is slidingly guided by the slide guide 
 

member, the plurality of lock walls defining a plurality of 
lock grooves; and 

   a resilient arm formed to the tape stopper so as to 
abut against lock walls of the plurality of lock walls as the 

tape stopper is slidingly guided, the resilient arm 
resiliently deforming from a natural shape into a compressed 

shape when abutted against a lock wall, the resilient arm 
returning to the natural shape after overcoming the lock 

wall, thereby locking in a lock groove defined by the lock 
wall. 
A tape cutter as claimed in one of claims 1 to 7, 
further comprising an upper blade holder provided between 

the upper cutter portion and the lower cutter portion so as 
to move toward the cutting area when the upper cutter 

portion is moved into the cutting condition, the upper 
blade holder having an interior, the upper blade being 

housed substantially in the interior of the upper blade 
holder, preferably a pair of positioning members being 

formed to the upper blade holder. 
A tape cutter as claimed in claim 8, further 
comprising a supporting means for supporting the upper blade 

holder so that when the upper blade holder is supported by 
the supporting means and when the upper cutter portion is 

moved into the cutting condition, the upper blade of the 
upper blade holder moves towards the cutting area. 
A tape cutter as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
supporting means includes:

 
   a support portion provided to each of the plurality 

of upper blade holders, each support portion defining a pair 

of support holes separated by a distance and each support 
hole of the pair of support holes having an inner diameter; 

   a pair of shafts provided to the lower cutter portion 
on opposites sides of the blade receiving stand as separated 

by a distance in the widthwise direction, the shafts formed 
so as to protrude toward the upper cutter portion, each shaft 

of the pair of shafts having an outer diameter, the outer 
diameter of each shaft being smaller than the inner diameter 

of each support hole of the pair of support holes so that 
either shaft can be inserted into either support hole of the 

pair of support holes; and 
   a spring provided to each shaft of the pair of shafts 

for urging an upper blade holder mounted on the pair of 
shafts toward the upper cutter portion. 
A tape cutter as claimed in one of claims 1 to 10, 
further comprising a plurality of not-in-use upper 

blade holders each with an interior and an upper blade 
provided to its interior, each upper blade of the 

plurality of not-in-use upper blade holders having a 
width corresponding to a width of one of a plurality of 

different width tapes; and wherein the upper cutter 
portion is movable relative to the lower cutter portion 

from the open condition to the cutting condition and 
further to a closed condition, a housing space being formed 

 
between the upper cutter portion and the lower cutter portion 

when the upper cutter portion is in the closed condition, the 
housing space being capable of housing the plurality of not-in-use 

upper blade holders. 
A tape cutter as claimed in one of claims 1 to 11, 
further comprising a lock means for locking the upper 

cutter portion into the closed condition. 
A tape cutter as claimed in claim 11 or 12, 
further comprising: 

   a pair of shafts for each not-in-use upper blade 
holder, each pair of shafts being provided to the lower 

cutter portion in the housing space separated by a distance. 
each pair of shafts formed so as to protrude toward the upper 

cutter portion, each shaft having a diameter; and 
   a support portion provided to each of the not-in-use 

upper blade holders, each support portion defining a pair of 
support holes separated by a distance corresponding to the 

distance separating each pair of shafts and each support hole 
having a diameter larger than the diameter of each shaft. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
