<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625623</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Parking tower.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04H622	E04H622	E04H628	E04H628	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04H	E04H	E04H	E04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04H6	E04H6	E04H6	E04H6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A parking tower includes a number of layers, one or more parking 
units formed in each of the layers, an elevator (20) movable up and down 

to each of the layers, a longitudinal movement device (40) slidably 
supported on the elevator (20), a lateral movement device (50) slidably 

supported on the longitudinal movement device (40), a rotating device 
(60) rotatably supported on the lateral movement device (50), and a 

frame (65) disposed on the rotating device (60) and rotated by the 
rotating device (60). A carrier (30) is moved and rotated by the 

longitudinal movement device (40), the lateral movement device (50), and 
the rotating device (60) in order to align with the parking units. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TSAI CHI CHUNG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TSAI, CHI CHUNG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSAI CHI CHUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSAI, CHI CHUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a parking tower with 
which the vehicles can be parked effectively. Typical parking lots include a number of layers 
and a spiral passage communicated with the layers such 
that the vehicles may be parked in the layers. Such a 
parking lot occupies a large volume and a large space, 
the vehicles can not be parked effectively. In addition, 
in such a crowded world, the land has become 
short and can not be easily obtained. The present invention has arisen to provide a 
novel parking tower which occupies a compact space. The objective of the invention is to provide a 
parking tower with which vehicles can be parked effectively.
 
In the drawings: 
FIG. 1 is a side schematic view of a parking 
tower; FIG. 2 is a top plane view illustrating one layer 
of the parking tower; FIG. 3 is a partial exploded view of the elevator; FIG. 4 is a top schematic view illustrating the 
bottom portion of the parking tower; FIG. 5 is a side view of a lateral movement device 
of the elevator which is taken from the cross sectional 
lines 5-5 of FIG. 3; FIG. 6 is a side view of the lateral movement 
device which is taken from the cross sectional lines  
 
6-6 of FIG. 3; FIG. 7 is a top schematic view illustrating a 
retaining device; FIG. 8 is a side view of the retaining device as 
shown in FIG. 7; FIG. 9 is a partial cross sectional view of a 
positioning device in an enlarged scale; FIG. 10 is a partial cross sectional view of the 
positioning device, illustrating the operations of the 
positioning device; FIG. 11 is a side view of another type of parking 
tower; FIG. 12 is a plane view illustrating one layer of 
the parking tower as shown in FIG. 11; FIG. 13 is a partial exploded view of another type 
of elevator, in which the carrier is movable either 
longitudinally or laterally; FIG. 14 is a partial exploded view of still another 
type of elevator, in which the carrier is movable 
laterally only; FIG. 15 is a partial front view of another type of 
parking tower which employs the elevator as shown in 
FIG. 16; and FIG. 16 is a top plane view illustrating one layer 
of the parking tower as shown in FIG. 15. Referring to the drawings, and initially to FIGS. 
1 to 3, a parking tower comprises three columns 10, 12 
including a middle column 10 formed between the other  
 
two side columns 12, the elevator 20 moves upwards and 
downwards in the middle column 10, each of the two side 
columns 12 includes a plurality of layers each having 
three parking units 120 formed therein, a carrier 30 is 
provide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A parking tower comprising a plurality layers 
each having at least one parking unit provided therein, 

a first driving means and a plurality of first rolling 
means disposed in said parking unit, an elevator movable 

up and down to each of said layers and including a 
longitudinal direction and a lateral direction perpendicular 

with each other, a first movement means slidably 
supported on said elevator and movable along said 

lateral direction of said elevator, a second movement 
means slidably supported on said first movement means 

and movable along said longitudinal direction of said 
elevator, a rotating means rotatably supported on said 

second movement means, a frame disposed on said rotating 
means and rotated by said rotating means, a second 

driving means and a plurality of second rolling means 
disposed in said frame, and a carrier slidably supported 

on said first and second rolling means and engaged 
with either of said driving means, said carrier being 

moved along said lateral direction of said elevator by 

said first movement means and being moved along said 
longitudinal direction of said elevator by said second 

movement means, and said carrier being rotated by said 
rotating means, whereby, said carrier is caused to move 

between said parking units and said elevator by said 
first and said second driving means. 
A parking tower according to claim 1, wherein 
said elevator includes four corner areas each having a 

 
pulley provided therein, said first movement means 

includes a base slidably supported on said elevator and 
movable along said lateral direction of said elevator, 

at least one rope engaged over two of said pulleys and 
having two ends fixed to said base and arranged in 

order to move said base along said lateral direction of 
said elevator, and means for rotating one of said 

pulleys in order to move said rope so as to move said 
base along said lateral direction of said elevator. 
A parking tower according to claim 1, wherein 
said first movement means includes a pair of male 

tracks provided thereon and arranged in parallel to 
said longitudinal direction of said elevator, a pair of 

pulleys arranged along said longitudinal direction of 
said elevator and spaced apart with each other, said 

second movement means includes a pair of female tracks 
provided on the bottom portion for slidably engaging 

with said male tracks of said first movement means, a 
cable engaged over said pulleys and having two ends 

fixed to said second movement means, and means for 
rotating one of said pulleys in order to move said 

cable so as to move said second movement means along 
said longitudinal direction of said elevator. 
A parking tower according to claim 1, wherein 
said rotating means includes a first ring fixed on said 

second movement means, a bearing means disposed on said 
first ring, a second ring engaged on said bearing means 

such that said second ring is rotatable relative to 
 

said first ring, a motor disposed in said second movement 
means and including a pinion coupled thereto, said 

frame is fixed on said second ring, said second ring 
includes a plurality of teeth formed on a radially 

outer surface thereof for engaging with said pinion 
such that said second ring and said frame are rotated 

by said motor. 
A parking tower according to claim 1 further 
comprising a retaining means disposed on said frame, 

said retaining means including a motor disposed on said 
frame, a pinion secured to said motor, a channel disposed 

in said frame, a retainer slidably engaged in 
said channel and having a groove formed therein, a rack 

fixed to said retainer and extended outward of said 
channel for engaging with said pinion of said motor, 

said carrier including a lug extended downward therefrom 
and engageable in said groove of said retainer, 

whereby, said retainer is moved to engage with said lug 
of said carrier in order to stably retain said carrier 

in place. 
A parking tower according to claim 1, wherein 
said frame includes a pair of actuating means oppositely 

coupled thereto, said carrier includes a hole formed 
in a bottom portion thereof, each of said parking units 

includes a positioning means provided therein, each of 
said positioning means includes a lever having a middle 

position pivotally coupled to said parking unit and 
having a lower portion engageable with said actuating 

 
means, a barrel disposed in each of said parking units, 

a catch slidably engaged in said barrel and movable 
upward beyond said barrel, a roller rotatably secured 

in a lower portion of said barrel, means for biasing 
said catch upward to engage with said hole of said 

carrier so as to retain said carrier in place, and a 
wire having one end fixed to an upper portion of said 

lever and having the other end engaged over said roller 
and fixed to a lower portion of said catch, whereby, 

said catch is pulled inwards of said barrel when said 
lower portion is engaged and pushed by said actuating 

means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
