<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644862</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CARBON MASSES IN PARTICULAR FOR USE IN ALUMINIUM PRODUCTION CELLS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B3700	C04B3700	C25C312	C25C306	C04B3552	C04B35528	C04B3552	C25C308	C25C300	C04B35528	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	C25C	C25C	C04B	C04B	C04B	C25C	C25C	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B37	C04B37	C25C3	C25C3	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C25C3	C25C3	C04B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A carbon containing paste for use in particular as components of electrolytic cells as such or compacted to form anodes, cathodes and cell linings of cells for the electrolysis of alumina for the production of aluminium, consists of a compact mixture of one or more particulate carbonaceous material(s) with a non-carbonaceous non-polluting binder and optionally with one or more fillers, especially alumina and aluminium, the binder being a suspension of one or more colloids such as colloidal silica, alumina, yttria, ceria, thoria, zirconia, magnesia, lithia or being derived from one or more colloid precursors or colloid reagents optionally with one or more chelating agents. Cell components are produced by forming the paste to a desired shape and size, for instance in a mold, an injection die or in a cell bottom, compacting and drying before use, or the paste can be used as such like in a Soderberg type anode, or for bonding together carbon blocks like a ramming paste.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLTECH INVENT SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOLTECH INVENT S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE NORA VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKHAR JAINAGESH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE NORA, VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKHAR, JAINAGESH A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a carbon containing paste
for use in particular as components of electrolytic cells as
such or compacted to form anodes, cathodes and cell linings
of cells for the electrolysis of alumina for the production
of aluminium, as well as masses, bodies and cell components
obtained by solidifying this paste, methods of manufacturing
cell components and other bodies, and their application in
particular as cell components for aluminium production. The
invention also pertains to the carbon containing paste and
resulting solidified bodies for other uses.Aluminium is produced by the electrolysis of alumina
dissolved in molten cryolite. The electrolytic cell known as
the Hall-Héroult cell, uses anodes consisting of a compacted
mixture of petroleum coke and pitch. The cathodes are made
from carbon blocks which are predominantly anthracite,
metallurgical coke, graphite and pitch and form the cell
bottom and the cell walls.Although significant technological refinements in the
cell design and construction have been made, the basic 
process of producing aluminium still remains substantially
similar to what it was one hundred years ago. Carbonaceous
materials are still the main lining material used today in
the cell.The carbon anode blocks are consumed during
electrolysis and must be replaced every four or five weeks of
operation in standard cells. The oxygen resulting from the
decomposition of alumina burns the carbon anode at a
theoretical rate of approximately 330 kg per ton of aluminium
produced, but in practice the carbon consumption is about
450kg per ton of aluminium due to side reactions. This
results in the emission of carbon oxides, sulfur oxides and
other undesirable gases which are now being recognized as
major atmosphere polluants, but such emissions are
considerably less dangerous and less polluting than those
produced during fabrication of the carbon anodes with pitch
as a binder.At present, the method of producing carbon blocks to
be used as anodes and cathodes in aluminium production cells
consists of mixing petroleum coke with pitch for the anode
and anthracite and other carbonaceous materials with pitch
for the cathode, followed by compacting and calcining.
Calcining designates a baking process in which volatiles are
driven off at high temperatures without fusing the material.The fabrication of the carbon anodes and cathodes
involves the use of pitch. During fabrication, gases are
emitted especially from the pitch during the long period
required for calcining the blocks. These
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cell component of an electrolytic cell for the
production of aluminium by the electrolysis of alumina, such

as an anode, a cathode or a cell lining, comprising a
solidified carbon containing paste consisting substantially

of a compact mixture of one or more particulate carbonaceous
material(s) with a non-carbonaceous colloidal binder and

optionally with one or more non-carbonaceous fillers, the
binder being a suspension of one or more colloids, or being

derived from one or more colloid precursors or colloid
reagents optionally with one or more chelating agents.
The cell component of claim 1, in which the binder
is a suspension containing at least one of colloidal silica,

alumina, yttria, ceria, thoria, zirconia, magnesia, lithia
and hydroxides, acetates and formates thereof as well as

oxides and hydroxides of other metals, cationic species and
mixtures thereof.
The cell component of claim 2, in which the binder
is derived from colloid precursors and reagents which are

solutions of at least one salt such as chlorides, sulfates,
nitrates, chlorates, perchlorates or metal organic compounds

such as alkoxides, formates, acetates of silicon, aluminium,
yttrium, cerium, thorium, zirconium, magnesium, lithium and

other metals and mixtures thereof.
The cell component of claim 3, in which the binder
contains a chelating agent such as acetyl acetone or

ethylacetoacetate.
The cell component of claim 3, in which the
solutions of metal organic compounds, principally metal

alkoxides, are of the general formula M(OR)
z
 where M is a
metal or complex cation, R is an alkyl chain and z is a

number. 
The cell component of claim 1, comprising one or
more fillers selected from : antioxidant or oxidation

prevention materials such as boric acid and its salts, and
fluorides; bonding enhancing materials such as methylcellulose,

particulate alumina or urea; metallic,
intermetallic, semi-metallic, polymeric, refractory and/or

ceramic materials such as borides, carbides, nitrides,
silicides, oxides, oxynitrides, and mixtures thereof;

pyrolizable chlorosilanes, polycarbosilanes, polysilanes and
other organometal polymers which pyrolyze to useful products

for oxidation prevention or enhancing bonding, or their
pyrolyzed products; thermosetting resins; thermoplastic

resins; and mixtures thereof.
The cell component of claim 6, comprising metallic
aluminium as filler, in the form of particulates, chips,

turnings or ground scrap pieces, or mixtures thereof.
The cell component of claim 1, in which the
particulate carbonaceous materials are selected from

petroleum coke, metallurgical coke, anthracite, graphite,
amorphous carbon, fullerene or a mixture thereof.
The cell component of claim 8, in which the size of
the particulate carbonaceous material is up to 40mm,

preferably between 1 micrometer and 30mm.
The cell component of claim 8, in which the
particulate carbonaceous material contains between 5% and

40% of particles having a size below 0.2mm.
The cell component of claim 1, in which at least
part of the particulate carbonaceous material, the binder

and/or the filler is fibrous.
The cell component of claim 1, containing 50 to 99
weight% of carbonaceous materials (preferably 50 to 95%), 0 

to 30 weight% of fillers and 1 to 30 weight% of the binder
(preferably 5 to 30%).
The cell component of claim 1, containing 50 to 98
weight% of carbonaceous materials (preferably 50 to 90%), 1

to 60 weight% of fillers (preferably aluminium, and
preferably 5 to 50%) and 1 to 30 weight% of the binder

(preferably 5 to 30%).
The cell component of claim 13, wherein the filler
comprises aluminium, alumina or a mixture of aluminium and

alumina, and the binder comprises colloidal alumina.
The cell component of claim 1, in the form of a
self-supporting block.
The cell component of claim 1, in the form of a cell
lining.
The cell component of claim 16, in which the cell
lining is massive.
The cell component of claim 16, in which the cell
lining is made of several blocks joined by a solidified mass

of the same type of composition as the cell lining blocks.
The cell component of claim 15, in which the block
is an anode block.
The cell component of claim 19, in which the anode
block contains alumina.
The cell component of claim 19, in which the side
surfaces of the anode block are coated with an oxidation-resistant

coating or impregnated with an oxidation-resistant
agent.
The cell component of claim 1, which is a cathode
provided, on a surface thereof which in use contacts molten 

aluminium, with a coating of an aluminium-wettable
refractory material.
The cell component of claim 1, which comprises a
solidified body joined to a current-connecting member by a

solidified mass of the same material.
A method of producing a cell component according to
any one of claims 1 to 23, comprising:


mixing one or more particulate carbonaceous
material(s) with a non-carbonaceous binder and optionally

with one or more fillers to form a fluid paste, the binder
being a suspension of one or more colloids or being derived

from one or more colloid precursors or colloid reagents
optionally with chelating agents; and
forming the paste to a desired shape and size,
compacting and drying before use.
The method of claim 24, in which the paste is
compacted by pressing into the desired shape in a mold at a

pressure between 0.24 to 4.7 MPa (0.1 to 2 tons/cm
2
).
The method of claim 24, in which the paste is
compacted by vibration and the application of pressure in a

mold of the desired shape and size or in an extrusion die.
The method of claim 24, in which the particulate
carbonaceous material is mixed with a filler before mixing

with the binder to form the paste.
The method of claim 24, in which before use the body
is subjected to heat treatment at a temperature from 50 °C

to 300°C, preferably from 150 °C to 200°C.
The method of claim 24, in which the paste is formed
into the shape of a rectangular block, compacted and dried

in a mold and removed from the mold as a self-sustaining
block. 
The method of claim 24, in which the paste is formed
into shape, compacted and dried in an aluminium production

cell.
The method of claim 24, in which the paste is
extruded or otherwise formed into fibers, or a continuous

filament.
The method of claim 24, in which the binder is a
suspension containing colloidal silica, alumina, yttria,

ceria, thoria, zirconia, magnesia, lithia and hydroxides,
acetates and formates thereof as well as oxides and

hydroxides of other metals, cationic species and mixtures
thereof.
The method of claim 32, in which the binder is
derived from colloid precursors and reagents which are

solutions of at least one salt such as chlorides, sulfates,
nitrates, chlorates, perchlorates or metal organic compounds

such as alkoxides, formates, acetates of silicon, aluminium,
yttrium, cerium, thorium zirconium, magnesium, lithium and

other metals and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 33, in which the binder contains
a chelating agent such as acetyl acetone or

ethylacetoacetate.
The method of claim 33, in which the solutions of
metal organic compounds, principally metal alkoxides, are of

the general formula M(OR)
z
 where M is a metal, R is an alkyl
chain and z is a number.
The method of claim 24, comprising adding to the
mixture one or more fillers selected from : antioxidant or

oxidation prevention materials such as boric acid and its
salts, and fluorides; bonding enhancing materials such as

methyl-cellulose, particulate alumina or urea; metallic,
intermetallic, semi-metallic, polymeric, refractory and/or 

ceramic materials such as borides, carbides, nitrides,
silicides, oxides, oxynitrides, and mixtures thereof;

pyrolizable chlorosilanes, polycarbosilanes, polysilanes and
other organometal polymers which pyrolyze to useful products

for oxidation prevention or enhancing bonding, or their
pyrolyzed products; thermosetting resins; thermoplastic

resins; and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 36, wherein the filler is
metallic aluminium in the form of particulates, chips,

turnings or ground scrap pieces, or mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 24, in which the particulate
carbonaceous materials are selected from petroleum coke,

metallurgical coke, anthracite, graphite, amorphous carbon,
fullerene or a mixture thereof.
The method of claim 38, in which the size of the
particulate carbonaceous material is up to 40mm, preferably

between 1 micrometer and 30mm.
The method of claim 39, in which the particulate
carbonaceous material contains between 5% and 40% of

particles having a size below 0.2mm.
The method of claim 24, in which at least part of
the particulate carbonaceous material, the binder and/or the

filler is fibrous.
The method of claim 24, comprising mixing 50 to 95
weight% of carbonaceous materials, 0 to 30 weight% of

fillers and 5 to 30 weight% of the binder.
The method of claim 24, wherein the mixture contains
50 to 98 weight% of carbonaceous materials (preferably 50 to

90%), 1 to 60 weight% of fillers (preferably aluminium, and
preferably 5 to 50%) and 1 to 30 weight% of the binder

(preferably 5 to 30%). 
The method of claim 43, wherein the filler comprises
aluminium, alumina or a mixture of aluminium and alumina,

and the binder comprises colloidal alumina.
An electrolytic cell for the electrolysis of alumina
for the production of aluminium comprising a cell component

made of a carbon containing paste or a solidified carbon
containing paste, which paste consists substantially of a

compact mixture of one or more particulate carbonaceous
material(s) with a non-carbonaceous colloidal binder and

optionally with one or more fillers, the binder being a
suspension of one or more colloids, or being derived from

one or more colloid precursors or colloid reagents
optionally with one or more chelating agents.
The electrolytic cell of claim 45, in which the cell
component is a Soderberg type anode formed of the paste.
The electrolytic cell of claim 45, in which the cell
component is a cell lining formed of a solidified mass of

the paste or formed of blocks made of solidified paste
joined by a solidified mass of the paste.
The electrolytic cell of claim 45, in which the
component is an anode block.
The electrolytic cell of claim 48, in which the
anode block contains alumina.
The electrolytic cell of claim 48, in which side
surfaces of the anode block are coated with an oxidation-resistant

coating or impregnated with an oxidation resistant
agent.
The electrolytic cell of claim 45, in which the cell
component is a cathode provided, on a surface thereof which

in use contacts molten aluminium, with a coating of an
aluminium-wettable refractory material.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
