<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617682</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FILM SEALING AND PACKAGING METHOD AND APPARATUS WITH ADJUSTABLE SEAL QUALITY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B906	B65B906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B9	B65B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A form fill packaging and sealing apparatus (10) comprises a film dispenser (12) and a film forming plow (22) which, together with a roller guide (20), forms the film (16) to be sealed into a tube (14) with the free edges at the side. The object (19) to be packaged is inserted into the film tube. The free edges of the film are longitudinally sealed together at the side of the package by a rotary heat sealer (30) and immediately cooled to approximate impulse sealing. The quality and width of the longitudinal seal (6) can be adjusted by changing the amount that the film is preheated before sealing. A cross seal (5) is made at the front and back of the object to be packaged. The excess gas in the package is pressed out by a presser (78) before the back cross seal is made.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WELDOTRON DELAWARE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WELDOTRON OF DELAWARE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIEGEL MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIEGEL, MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FILM SEALING AND PACKAGING METHOD AND APPARATUS WITH ADJUSTABLE SEAL QUALITYRELATED APPLICATION The present application is a continuation-in-part application of copending U.S. Serial No. 07/725,009, filed on July 2, 1991 by Martin Siegel. The present application hereby incorporates the entire disclosure of U.S. Serial No. 07/725,009 by reference. The present application and U.S. Serial No. 07/725,009 have been commonly assigned to Weldotron, Inc., a Delaware corporation.FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to the field of packaging methods and devices, and more particularly to form-fill packaging and sealing machines and methods and film sealing mechanisms.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONProducts, especially foods, are often packaged in film for sale to consumers. The film typically is wrapped around the product, bringing the edges of the film together forming a tube. The edges are sealed between rollers by pressure and heat, forming a lap seal. The ends of the tube are also sealed with pressure and heat, forming a cross seal. Such packaging and sealing techniques are used, for example, in modified atmosphere packaging, or MAP, also known as controlled atmosphere packaging, or CAP. In MAP, a product is wrapped in a film that is impervious to certain gasses, such as N02 or C02. A hermetic lap seal is formed. One end of the tube is hermetically cross sealed. The selected gas is then injected into the tube, blowing out the air. The 

selected gas inhibits the growth of bacteria and thus increases shelf life.In all film packaging, whether MAP or otherwise, the quality of the seal is affected by the temperature of the film. The film must be at a sufficient temperature that it bonds when it is pressed together. <.The width desired for the seal is affected by the product itself. A wider seal reduces leakage and increases package strength. A thinner seal reduces film used, makes a package easier to open, and gives the package a cleaner, tighter look which is important in a point of sale display. A wider seal is achieved by increasing the temperature of the film when it is pressed together.Merely increasing the temperature of the heated rollers, whether to increase the quality or width of the seal, may result in burning the film. It is therefore desirable to increase the temperature of the film at sealing without increasing the temperature of the rollers.It has been found that preheating the film can improve the seal by assuring that the film is at a certain temperature such that a seal of a desired
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A mechanism for heat sealing film traveling from upstream to downstream along a film path comprising: a housing; a plate pivotally mounted on the housing; a worm gear operably engaged to the plate for pivoting the plate; a heated sealing roller rotatably mounted on the plate; a sealing bed roller rotatably mounted on the plate adjacent to the heating roller such that film passing between the heating roller and the bed roller is pressed together; wherein, when the plate is pivoted, the heated sealing roller is displaced into the film path.
2. The mechanism of claim 1 further comprising a bias roller slidably mounted on the housing along the film path upstream of the heated roller wherein sliding the bias roller can displace the film into the heated sealing roller.
3. The mechanism of claim 2 wherein the bias roller is heated.
4. The mechanism of claim 1 wherein the sealing bed roller is chilled.
5. The mechanism of claim 1 further comprising a cooling means disposed downstream of the heated sealing roller.
6. The mechanism of claim 5 wherein the cooling means comprises a cooling plate, a cooling roller, and a cooling roller assembly. 


 7. The mechanism of claim 1 further comprising cascading heated sealing rollers disposed upstream of the sealing bed roller.
8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plate pivots about the point where the heated sealing roller contacts the sealing bed roller.
9. An apparatus for sealing film traveling along a film path comprising: a housing; a first arm attached to the housing; a heated roller having a center rotatably mounted on the first arm; a second arm attached to the housing; a bed roller having a center rotatably mounted on the second roller; means for pivoting the first arm and the second arm such that the heated roller and the bed roller are disposed adjacently and the film is disposed between the rollers; and a screw operably engaged to the first arm capable of displacing at least the first arm, thereby moving the heated roller a selected distance into the film path.
10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising an air cylinder capable of pivoting at least the first arm such that the heated roller and bed roller are remote from each other.
11. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a bias roller disposed along the film path capable of displacing the film into the heated roller.
12. A film sealing and packaging apparatus for wrapping items in heat sealable film comprising: a film dispenser; 


 a film forming means for forming the film into a tube by drawing edges of the film together; a conveyor for inserting items into the tube; a sealing mechanism for sealing the edges of the film comprising: a housing; a heated sealing roller rotatably mounted on the housing; a sealing bed roller rotatably mounted on the housing adjacent to the heated sealing roller; means for adjustably applying heat to the edges of said film prior to sealing the edges of said film; and a cross sealer.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the sealing mechanism further comprises a means for separating the heated sealing roller and the sealing bed roller.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a sensor that detects an item to be wrapped and activates the separating means if no item is detected.
15. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a bias roller disposed upstream of the heated sealing roller capable of biasing film into the heated sealing roller.
16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the bias roller is heated.
17. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a cooling means disposed downstream of the heated sealing roller for cooling the film after it is sealed.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the cooling means comprises a cooling plate and a cooling roller. 


 19. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the means for adjustably applying heat includes means for moving the heated sealing roller so that the amount of preheating is adjustable.
20. A method of sealing films with seals of adjustable width comprising the steps of: disposing at least two films to be sealed adjacent to one another; inserting the films between at least one heated sealing roller and at least one sealing bed roller wherein centers of the heated sealing roller and the sealing bed roller define a roller axis line; sealing the films by applying pressure and heat between the heated sealing roller and the sealing bed roller; and rotating the roller axis line such that the films are preheated before sealing.
21. The method of claim 20 further comprising the steps of running the film over a bias roller before insertion between the sealing rollers.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the bias roller is heated.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the sealing bed roller is chilled.
24. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of chilling the seal soon after it is formed.
25. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of inserting the films between cascading heated sealing rollers before sealing. 


 26. The method of claim 20 further comprising the steps of: separating the heated sealing roller from the sealing bed roller; sensing an item; inserting the item between the films; and moving the heated sealing roller and the sealing bed roller together.
27. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of cutting the film on one side of the seal.
28. A mechanism for sealing heat-sealable film moving along a film path comprising: at least one heated sealing roller; at least one sealing bed roller disposed adjacent to the heated roller such that film passing between the rollers is pressed together and heated; and means for displacing the heat sealing roller into the film path such that the film lies on the heated sealing roller for a selected portion before the film is sealed.
29. The sealing mechanism of claim 28 further comprising a means for separating the heated sealing roller and the sealing bed roller.
30. The sealing mechanism of claim 29 wherein the means for separating comprises: a first arm on which the heated sealing roller is mounted; a second arm on which the sealing bed roller is mounted; and means for rotating the first arm and the second arm. 


 31. The film sealing mechanism of claim 28 further comprising a cooling means for cooling the film immediately after the film is sealed.
32. The film sealing mechanism of claim 31 wherein the cooling means comprises a cooling plate and a cooling roller.
33. The film sealing mechanism of claim 31 wherein the cooling means comprises a cooling roller assembly.
34. The film sealing means of claim 28 further comprising a film biasing roller disposed upstream of the heated sealing roller for biasing the film into the heated sealing roller.
35. The film sealing means of claim 28 wherein the means for displacing the roller axis line comprises a roller plate mounted to a housing.
36. A method of packaging items in heat-sealable film comprising the steps of: dispensing film; drawing edges of the film together to form a tube; transporting the edges of the film along a film path; inserting items in the tube; sealing the edges of the film by pressing them together at a sealing point between at least one heated sealing roller and at least one sealing bed roller; displacing the heated sealing roller into the film path thereby causing the film to contact the heated sealing roller for a distance before the sealing point.
37. A method of claim 36 further comprising the steps of passing the edges of the film between cascading heated sealing rollers. 


 38. A method of claim 36 wherein the sealing bed roller is chilled.
39. A method of claim 36 further comprising the step of passing the edges of the film over a heated bias roller.
40. A method of claim 39 further comprising the step of translating the bias roller into the film, thereby biasing the film towards the heated sealing roller.
41. A hermetic sealing and packaging apparatus comprising: a film dispenser a film-forming means for forming film into a tube by drawing the edges of the film together; a longitudinal seal section for hermetically sealing the edges by pressing them between a heated sealing roller and a sealing bed roller; a roller axis line defined by the center of the heated sealing roller and the center of the sealing bed roller; a means for displacing the roller axis line; a hermetic cross-sealer; and a gas nozzle for blowing a selected gas into the tube.
42. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising a cooling shied disposed adjacent to the heated sealing roller.
43. The apparatus of claim 42 further comprising a cooling plate mounted on the cooling shield for cooling the edges after they are sealed. 


 44. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein the means for displacing the roller axis line comprises a plate on which the heated sealing roller and the sealing bed roller are mounted and a gear for pivoting the plate.
45. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising cascading heated sealing rollers disposed upstream of the sealing bed roller.
46. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising a bias roller disposed upstream of the heated sealing roller.
47. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein the bias roller is heated.
48. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein the sealing bed roller is chilled.
49. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising a presser for pressing gas out of the tube. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
