<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656152</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOS DEVICE HAVING PROTECTION AGAINST ELECTROSTATIC DISCHARGE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2702	H01L2702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A MOS device having protection against electrostatic discharge includes a protection diode formed below the MOS device so that excess charge buildup in the MOS device is conducted away from the MOS device by the protection diode.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PELELLA MARIO MICHAEL ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PELELLA, MARIO, MICHAEL, ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MOS DEVICE HAVING PROTECTION AGAINST ELECTROSTATIC DISCHARGETECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates generally to MOS devices and, more particularly, to a MOS device having protection against electrostatic discharge and, even more particularly, to a MOS device having protection against electrostatic discharge during manufacturing.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn recent years, electrostatic discharge (ESD) has become an increasingly critical factor in the yield and reliability of MOS-type integrated circuits. Specifically, ESD has been known to result in the destruction of MOS devices to the inputs and/or outputs of the completed integrated circuit of which the MOS device is a component. In reaction, numerous protection circuits have been developed by circuit designers to solve the problem of damage to MOS devices caused by ESD. Some of these protection circuits have been somewhat effective in protecting input and output MOS devices during an ESD transient. However, the problem of ESD has not yet been effectively addressed in regard to protecting MOS devices during early stages of manufacturing or processing of MOS-type integrated circuits, i.e., prior to completion of the MOS-type integrated circuit.As a specific example, protection against ESD damage is particularly important for today's MOSSUBSTITUTESHEET 

transistors which utilize very thin gate oxides and shallow source/drain junctions. For instance, present day MOS transistor gate oxides can have a thickness of approximately 100 Angstroms or less, and source/drain junctions of 2000 Angstroms or less. Such very thin gate oxides and shallow source/drain junctions are highly vulnerable to being damaged by ESD. By way of example, some dry etching technigues implemented during manufacturing, such as reactive ion etching or plasma etching, can create electrostatic charge on a gate which exceeds the dielectric field strength of the gate oxide, thereby causing breakdown of the gate oxide and destruction of the MOS transistor. See, for example, "Dielectric Breakdown of Gate Insulator Due to Reactive Ion Etching", by T. atanabe and Y. Yoshida, Solid State Technolocry. April, 1984, pp. 263-266. Generally, the dielectric field strength of a 100 Angstrom gate oxide is approximately lOMV/cm, and electrostatic charge of 10V would exceed this dielectric field strength so as to cause breakdown of the gate oxide.Thus, there remains a need for protection against damage to MOS-type devices, such as, MOS transistors, caused by ESD. Such protection is more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A MOS device having protection against electrostatic discharge, comprising: a semiconductor substrate; an epitaxial layer grown on said semiconductor substrate; a tie-down region formed in said epitaxial layer; a protection diode formed in said tie-down region; an insulating layer grown on said epitaxial layer, said insulating layer having a buried protection diode window formed therein at a location directly above said protection diode so as to expose said protection diode; a conductive layer deposited on said insulating layer, said conductive layer filling said buried protection diode window and contacting said protection diode, wherein excess charge buildup in the MOS device is conducted through said conductive layer and away from the MOS device by said protection diode.
2. A MOS device according to claim 1, wherein said insulating layer comprises oxide.
3. A MOS device according to claim 1, wherein said insulating layer comprises nitride.
4. A MOS device according to claim 1, wherein said insulating layer comprises oxide and nitride.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 5. A MOS device according to claim 1, wherein said conductive layer comprises polysilicon.
6. A MOS device according to claim 1, wherein said conductive layer comprises metal.
7. A MOS device according to claim 1, wherein said conductive layer comprises single crystal silicon.
8. A process for fabricating a MOS device having protection against electrostatic discharge, comprising the steps of: providing a semiconductor substrate; growing an epitaxial layer on said semiconductor substrate; forming a tie-down region in said epitaxial layer; growing a layer of insulating material on said epitaxial layer; forming a buried protection diode window in said layer of insulating material at a location directly above said tie-down region so as to expose said tie-down region; depositing a layer of conductive material over said insulating material, said layer of conductive material filling said buried protection diode window and forming a protection diode in said tie-down region; and etching said layer of conductive material and said layer of insulating material so as to form a MOS device; wherein excess charge buildup in the MOS device is conducted through said conductive material and away from the MOS device by said protection diode.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 9. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 8, wherein said layer of insulating material comprises oxide.
10. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 8, wherein said layer of insulating material comprises nitride.
11. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 8, wherein said layer of insulating material comprises oxide and nitride.
12. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 8, wherein said layer of conductive material comprises polysilicon.
13. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 8, wherein said layer of conductive material comprises metal.
14. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 8, wherein said layer of conductive material comprises single crystal silicon.
15. A MOS transistor having protection against electrostatic discharge, comprising: a semiconductor substrate; an epitaxial layer grown on said semiconductor substrate; isolations formed in said epitaxial layer; a source region, a drain region and a tie-down region formed in said epitaxial layer between said isolations, said regions being defined by said isolations;
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 a protection diode formed in said tie-down region; a gate insulating layer grown on said epitaxial layer, said gate insulating layer having a buried protection diode window formed therein at a location directly above said protection diode so as to expose said protection diode; a gate conductive layer deposited on said gate insulating layer, said gate conductive layer filling said buried protection diode window and contacting said protection diode, wherein excess charge buildup in the MOS transistor is conducted through said gate conductive layer and away from the MOS transistor by said protection diode.
16. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein said gate insulating layer comprises oxide.
17. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein said gate insulating layer comprises nitride.
18. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein said gate insulating layer comprises oxide and nitride.
19. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein said gate conductive layer comprises polysilicon.
20. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein said gate conductive layer comprises metal.
21. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein said gate conductive layer comprises single crystal silicon.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 22. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein the MOS transistor is a NMOS transistor.
23. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein the MOS transistor is a PMOS transistor.
24. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, further comprising a protective layer between said gate insulating layer and said gate conductive layer.
25. A MOS transistor according to claim 24, wherein said protective layer comprises polysilicon.
26. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein said gate insulating layer has a thickness of less than approximately 100 Angstroms.
27. A MOS transistor according to claim 15, wherein the MOS transistor is implemented in a BiCMOS technology.
28. A MOS transistor according to claim 27, wherein said gate conductive layer of the MOS transistor comprises the same material used to form the base of a bipolar transistor.
29. A MOS transistor according to claim 27, wherein said gate conductive layer of the MOS transistor comprises the same material used to form the emitter of a bipolar transistor.
30. A process for fabricating a MOS transistor having protection against electrostatic discharge, comprising the steps of: providing a semiconductor substrate;
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 growing an epitaxial layer on said semiconductor substrate; forming isolations in said epitaxial layer; forming a source region, a drain region and a tie-down region in said epitaxial layer between said isolations, said regions being defined by said isolations; growing a layer of insulating material on said epitaxial layer; forming a buried protection diode window in said layer of insulating material at a location directly above said tie-down region so as to expose said tie-down region; depositing a layer of conductive material over said layer of insulating material, said layer of conductive material filling said buried protection diode window and forming a protection diode in said tie-down region; and etching said layer of conductive and said layer of insulating material so as to form a gate; wherein excess charge buildup in the MOS transistor is conducted through said conductive material and away from the MOS transistor by said protection diode.
31. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 30, wherein said layer of insulating material comprises oxide.
32. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 30, wherein said layer of insulating material comprises nitride.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 33. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 30, wherein said layer of insulating material comprises oxide and nitride.
34. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 30, wherein said layer of conductive material comprises polysilicon.
35. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 30, wherein said layer of conductive material comprises metal.
36. A process for fabricating a MOS device according to claim 30, wherein said layer of conductive material comprises single crystal silicon.
37. A process for fabricating a MOS transistor according to claim 30, wherein said protection diode is formed in said tie-down region by out-diffusion.
38. A process for fabricating a MOS transistor according to claim 30, wherein said protection diode is formed in said tie-down region by ion implantation.
39. A process for fabricating a MOS transistor according to claim 30, wherein the MOS transistor is a NMOS transistor.
40. A process for fabricating a MOS transistor according to claim 30, wherein the MOS transistor is a PMOS transistor.
41. A process for fabricating a MOS transistor according to claim 30, further comprising the step of
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


depositing a protective layer on said layer of insulating material prior to said step of forming a buried protection diode window, said protective layer protecting said layer of insulating material from contamination during processing.
42. A process for fabricating a MOS transistor according to claim 41, wherein said protective layer comprises polysilicon.
43. A process for fabricating a MOS transistor according to claim 30, wherein said layer of insulating material has a thickness of less than approximately 100 Angstroms.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
