<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
KEYBOARD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F116	G06F116	H01H1314	H01H1314	H01H1370	H01H1370	H01H13705	H01H13807	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved alphanumeric keyboard (10) is illustrated for use in lap top or notebook personal computers (12). The keyboard (10) has a plurality of full travel, self leveling keyswitches (14) for actuating printed circuit electrical contacts (22 and 26) when the keyswitch is depressed. The keyboard (10) includes an integral keyswitch structure (40) that has an integral keytop and keytop support substructure (44) supported on a common integral base sheet (46). Each of the keytop support substructures (44) includes hinge members (50a, 50b, 50c and 50d) that are positioned in a rectangular orientation about the keytop (42). Each hinge member has a rigid upper hinge panel (52) and a lower hinge panel (58) that are integrally interconnected to the keytop (42) and the base sheet (46) for maintaining the keytop in a parallelogram orientation as it is depressed to prevent the keytop from moving laterally or wobbling during depression. The hinge panels (52 and 58) are interconnected by resilient webs (54, 60 and 64) to cause the keytop to be returned to its elevated non-actuating position.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEY TRONIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEY TRONIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPENCE KENNY RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPENCE, KENNY, RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 KEYBOARDTechnical Field This invention is related to keyboards having full travel, self-leveling keyswitches. Background ArtConventional keyboards generally include a high profile, full-travel keyswitches that included a plunger that is slidably mounted within a housing. The plunger is designed to slide downwardly in a linear path when the keytop is depressed. Downward pressure on the keytop actuates an electrical switch beneath the plunger.In many applications, including alphanumeric keyboards for notebook and lap top computers, it is desirable to have keyboards with keyswitches having a shorter overall height, generally referred to as "low profile" keyswitches. One problem which has been encountered in designing low profile keyswitches is that it has been difficult to incorporate desirable characteristics of the prior high profile keyswitches while reducing the keyswitch height. Such desirable characteristics included full-travel so that the amount of downward movement of the keytop would be substantially the same in the "low profile" design as in the "full profile" design. Other favorable features included a tactile field and overtravel. In the past low profile keyboards have been associated with low quality keyswitches that were undesirable for high speed data entry.A full-travel keyboard generally refers to a substantial movement of the keytop so that an operator will only activate a keyswitch through intentional movement of the keytop over a desired depression distance. Generally a "full-travel" keyboard has keyswitches that require downward movement of approximately four millimeters in travel. A "low profile" keyboard generally refers to the height of the keyswitch assembly from the top of the keytop to the lower part of the keyswitch structure. Preferably it should be approximately eight millimeters or less in total height.A further desirable feature is that of overtravel in which the electrical contact is made before the keytop is fully depressed. An over-travel feature provides for more reliable switch operation because keyboard operators often inadvertently fail to press the keyswitch down the entire distance, particularly when typing at high rates of speed. When an over-travel feature is provided, 

the keyswitch will remain activated or "turn on" as long as the plunger is depressed at least to the point where electrical contact is made. The structure provides that the key may be pressed beyond the electrical contact point while maintaining the switch in a closed condition. It is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A keyboard comprising: a) a plurality of full-travel electrical keyswitches arranged in a keyboard pattern at a plurality of keyswitch locations; b) a plurality of keytops arranged in the keyboard pattern at the keyswitch locations for receiving fingers of a keyboard operator; c) a molded unitary keytop support substructure overlying the keyswitches movably supporting the keytops for movement a full-travel distance, comprising: i) a common base member extending between the keyswitch locations; ii) a plurality of individual keytop support means associated with respective keytops, in which individual keytop support means interconnect a respective keytop to the base member (1) for permitting the keytop to move in a substantially linear path the full-travel distance between a non-actuating switch position and a depressed actuating switch position without noticeable lateral movement, and (2) for biasing the respective keytop from the depressed actuating position to the non- actuating position; d) individual keytop support means including a plurality of hinge elements, individual hinge elements having (1) an upper hinge panel hinged to the keytop for pivotal movement about an upper pivot axis between a normally extended orientation when the keytop is in the non-actuating position and a contracted orientation when the keytop is in the depressed actuating position, (2) a lower hinge panel hinged to the base element for pivotal movement about a lower pivot axis in coordination with the pivotal movement of the upper hinge panel between the normally expanded orientation and the contracted orientation, and (3) an elastomeric web integrally interconnecting the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel enabling the upper and lower hinge panels to pivot about an intermediate pivot axis as the panels move between the normally expanded orientations and the contracted orientations while preventing lateral movement of the keytop; e) said elastomeric web being sufficiently resilient to pivot the hinge panels to their expanded orientation when the keytop is released. 


 2. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein individual keytop support means have at least three hinge elements that are spaced about the keytop to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as the keytop moves between the elevated position and the depressed position.
3. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of the hinge elements has actuation means for actuating the associated keyswitch when the hinge element is moved to the contracted position.
4. The keyboard as defined in claim 3 wherein the actuation means includes an integral portion of the lower hinge panel.
5. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein the hinge pivot axes lie in planes that are parallel with each other.
6. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein elastomeric web interconnects the upper and lower hinge panels at an angle of less than 180 degrees about the intermediate pivot axis when the hinge panels are in their extended orientations to cause the hinge panels to fold inward underneath the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
7. The keyboard as defined in claim 6 wherein the angle between the upper and lower hinge panels about the intermediate pivot axis is between 170 degrees and 178 degrees to cause the hinge panels to fold inward underneath the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
8. The keyboard as defined in claim 6 wherein the upper pivot axis, in relation to the linear movement of the keytop, is laterally offset with respect to the lower pivot axis.
9. The keyboard as defined in claim 6 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are oriented substantially upright with a slight bend at the elastomeric web when the hinge elements are in the extended orientations to support the keytop in the non-actuating position and to provide a varying force resistance to depression of the keytop to transmit a varying tactile feel to the keyboard operator. 


 10. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel are oriented to pivot about the intermediate pivot axis at a combined angle of greater than 120 degrees when moved between the extended orientation and the contracted orientation.
11. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein individual keyboard support means include at least two pair of opposing hinge elements to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as it is depressed.
12. The keyboard as defined in claim 11 wherein at least one of the lower hinge panels of individual keytop support means includes a keyswitch actuation means for actuating the corresponding keyswitch when the hinge elements are in the contracted orientation.
13. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel are oriented to fold outward as the keytop is depressed.
14. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein individual keytops have an upper surface for receiving a finger of a keyboard operator, a lower surface, and a keyswitch actuation plunger projecting from the lower surface of the keytop for actuating a corresponding keyswitch when the hinge elements are in the contracted orientation.
15. The keyboard as defined in claim 1 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are aligned along a panel axis between the base element and the keytop, the panel axis relative to the linear path followed by the keytop between the non-actuating and depressed actuating switch positions defining an angle in a range of approximately 25-55 degrees.
16. A full-travel keyboard, comprising: a) a plurality of electrical keyswitches arranged in a keyboard pattern at a plurality of keyswitch locations; b) a unitary molded key structure overlying the keyswitches having (1 ) a plurality of keytops arranged in the keyboard pattern at the keyswitch locations for receiving fingers of a keyboard operator and (2) a keytop 


support substructure integrally molded with the keytops for supporting the keytops a full-travel distance above respective keyswitches; c) said keyboard substructure comprising: i) a common base member extending between the keyswitch locations; ii) a plurality of individual keytop support means associated with respective keytops, in which individual keytop support means integrally interconnect a respective keytop to the base member (1) for permitting the keytop to move the full-travel distance in a substantially linear path between a non-actuating switch position and a depressed actuating switch position without noticeable lateral movement, and (2) for biasing the respective keytop from the depressed actuating position to the non-actuating position; d) individual keytop support means including a hinge element having (1) an upper hinge panel hinged to the keytop for pivotal movement about an upper pivot axis between an extended orientation when the keytop is in the non-actuating position and a contracted orientation when the keytop is in the depressed actuating position, (2) a lower hinge panel hinged to the base element for pivotal movement about a lower pivot axis in coordination with the pivotal movement of the upper hinge panel between the normally expanded orientation and the contracted orientation, and (3) an elastomeric web integrally interconnecting the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel enabling the upper and lower hinge panels to pivot about an intermediate pivot axis as the panels move between the expanded orientations and the contracted orientations while preventing lateral movement of the keytop; e) said elastomeric web being sufficiently resilient to pivot the hinge panels to their expanded orientation when the keytop is released.
17. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein individual keytop support means have at least three hinge elements that are spaced about the keytop to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as the keytop moves between the elevated position and the depressed position. 


 18. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein the hinge element has actuation means for actuating the associated keyswitch when the hinge element is moved to the contracted position.
19. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 18 wherein the actuation means includes an integral portion of the lower hinge panel.
20. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein the hinge pivot axes lie in planes that are parallel with each other.
21. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein elastomeric web interconnects the upper and lower hinge panels at an angle of less than 180 degrees about the intermediate pivot axis when the hinge panels are in their extended orientations to cause the hinge panels to fold inward underneath the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
22. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 21 wherein the angle between the upper and lower hinge panels about the intermediate pivot axis is between 170 degrees and 178 degrees to cause the hinge panels to fold inward underneath the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
23. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 21 wherein the upper pivot axis, in relation to the linear movement of the keytop, is laterally offset with respect to the lower pivot axis.
24. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 21 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are oriented substantially upright with a slight bend at the elastomeric web when the hinge elements are in the extended orientations to support the keytop in the non-actuating position and to provide a varying force resistance to depression of the keytop to transmit a varying tactile feel to the keyboard operator.
25. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel are oriented to pivot about the intermediate pivot axis at a combined angle of greater than 120 degrees when moved between the extended orientation and the contracted orientation. 


 26. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein individual keyboard support means include at least two pair of opposing hinge elements to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as it is depressed.
27. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 26 wherein at least one of the lower hinge panels of individual keytop support means includes a keyswitch actuation means for actuating the corresponding keyswitch when the hinge element is in the contracted orientation.
28. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 27 wherein the lower hinge panel has a keyswitch actuation surface for actuating the corresponding keyswitch when the hinge element is in the contracted orientation.
29. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein the unitary molded key structure includes (1) an upper web integrally interconnecting the upper hinge panel with the keytop and (2) a lower web integrally interconnecting the lower hinge panel with the base member.
30. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 29 wherein the unitary molded key structure is formed of a moldable synthetic resinous material in which the upper, lower and intermediate webs are formed of an elastomeric material for biasing the hinge element to the expanded orientation.
31. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 30 wherein the hinge panels are substantially rigid and inflexible in comparison to the webs to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
32. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 31 wherein the hinge panels are formed a disparate, more rigid synthetic resinous material than the webs to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop is depressed.
33. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel are oriented to fold outward as the keytop is depressed. 


 34. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein individual keytops have an upper surface for receiving a finger of a keyboard operator, a lower surface, and a keyswitch actuation plunger projecting from the lower surface of the keytop for actuating a corresponding keyswitch when the hinge elements are in the contracted orientation.
35. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 16 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are aligned along a panel axis between the base element and the keytop, the panel axis relative to the linear path followed by the keytop between the non-actuating and depressed actuating switch positions defining an angle in a range of approximately 25-55 degrees.
36. A full-travel keyboard, comprising: a) a plurality of electrical keyswitches arranged in a keyboard pattern at a plurality of keyswitch locations; b) a unitary molded key structure overlying the keyswitches having (1) a plurality of keytops arranged in the keyboard pattern at the keyswitch locations for receiving fingers of a keyboard operator and (2) a keytop support substructure integrally molded with the keytops for supporting the keytops a full-travel distance above respective keyswitches; c) said keyboard substructure comprising: i) a common base member extending between the keyswitch locations having apertures formed therein exposing the keyswitches; ii) a plurality of individual keytop support means associated with respective keytops surrounding the apertures, in which individual keytop support means integrally interconnects a respective keytop to the base member (1) for permitting the keytop to move the full-travel distance in a substantially linear path between a non-actuating switch position and a depressed actuating switch position without noticeable lateral movement, and (2) for biasing the respective keytop from the depressed actuating position to the non-actuating position; d) individual keytop support means including a hinge element having (1) an upper hinge panel hinged by an upper elastomeric web to the keytop for pivotal movement about an upper pivot axis between an extended. 


substantially vertical, orientation when the keytop is in the non-actuating position and an inward folded contracted orientation underneath the keytop when the keytop is in the depressed actuating position, (2) a lower hinge panel hinged by a lower elastomeric web to the base element for pivotal movement about a lower pivot axis in coordination with the pivotal movement of the upper hinge panel between an expanded, substantially vertical orientation and an inward folded contracted orientation projecting into the aperture, and (3) an elastomeric web integrally interconnecting the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel enabling the upper and lower hinge panels to pivot about an intermediate pivot axis as the panels fold inward preventing lateral movement of the keytop as the keytop is depressed; e) said elastomeric webs being sufficiently resilient to pivot the hinge panels to their expanded orientations when the keytop is released; and f) said hinge elements having keyswitch actuating means for projecting into the aperture when the keytop is depressed for actuating the keyswitch.
37. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein individual keytop support means have at least three hinge elements that are spaced about the aperture to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as the hinge panels fold inward as the keytop is depressed.
38. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the actuation means forms an integral portion of the lower hinge panel.
39. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the hinge pivot axes lie in planes that are parallel with each other.
40. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the intermediate elastomeric web interconnects the upper and lower hinge panels at an angle of less than 180 degrees about the intermediate pivot axis when the hinge panels are in their extended orientations to cause the hinge panels to fold inward underneath the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
41. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 40 wherein the angle between the upper and lower hinge panels about the intermediate pivot axis is 


between 170 degrees and 178 degrees to cause the hinge panels to fold inward underneath the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
42. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the upper pivot axis, in relation to the linear movement of the keytop, is laterally offset with respect to the lower pivot axis.
43. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are oriented substantially upright with a slight bend at the elastomeric web when the hinge elements are in the extended orientations to support the keytop in the non-actuating position and to provide a varying force resistance to depression of the keytop to transmit a varying tactile feel to the keyboard operator.
44. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel are oriented to pivot about the intermediate pivot axis at a combined angle of greater than 120 degrees when moved between the extended orientation and the contracted orientation.
45. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein individual keyboard support means include at least two pair of opposing hinge elements to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as it is depressed.
46. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the lower hinge panel has a keyswitch actuation surface for actuating the corresponding keyswitch when the hinge element is in the contracted orientation.
47. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the unitary molded key structure is formed of a moldable synthetic resinous material in which the upper, lower and intermediate webs are formed of an elastomeric material for biasing the hinge panels to their expanded orientations.
48. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the hinge panels are substantially rigid and inflexible in comparison to the webs to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as the keytop is depressed. 


 49. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the hinge panels are formed a disparate, more rigid synthetic resinous material than the webs to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop is depressed.
50. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel are oriented to fold outward as the keytop is depressed.
51. The full-travel keyboard as defined in claim 36 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are aligned along a panel axis between the base element and the keytop, the panel axis relative to the linear path followed by the keytop between the non-actuating and depressed actuating switch positions defining an angle in a range of approximately 25-55 degrees.
52. A keyboard, comprising: a) a plurality of electrical keyswitches arranged in a keyboard pattern at a plurality of keyswitch locations; b) a plurality of keytops arranged in the keyboard pattern at the keyswitch locations for receiving fingers of a keyboard operator; c) a plurality of individual keytop support means associated with respective keytops for (1) permitting the keytop to move in a substantially linear path between a non-actuating switch position and a depressed actuating switch position without noticeable lateral movement, and (2) biasing the respective keytop from the depressed actuating position to the non-actuating position; d) individual keytop support means including at least one hinge element coupled to a base element, the hinge element having (1) an upper hinge panel hinged to the keytop for pivotal movement about an upper pivot axis between a normally extended orientation when the keytop is in the non- actuating position and a contracted orientation when the keytop is in the depressed actuating position, (2) a lower hinge panel hinged to the base element for pivotal movement about a lower pivot axis in coordination with the pivotal movement of the upper hinge panel between the normally expanded orientation and the contracted orientation, and (3) a webbing interconnecting the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel enabling the upper and lower hinge panels to pivot about an intermediate pivot axis as the panels move between the 


normally expanded orientations and the contracted orientations while preventing lateral movement of the keytop; and e) the webbing having a joint of first material integrally interconnecting the upper and lower hinge panels and a resilient second material provided at the joint to urge the hinge panels to their expanded orientation when the keytop is released.
53. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein the resilient second material is selected from the group consisting of rubber and elastomers.
54. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein the resilient second material is a composite of rubber and polypropylene.
55. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein: the upper and lower hinge panels have interior and exterior surfaces; and the resilient second material is provided partially on the interior surface of the upper hinge panel, across the joint, and partially on the interior surface of the lower hinge panel.
56. The keyboard as define in claim 52 wherein individual keytop support means has at least three hinge elements that are spaced about the keytop to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as the keytop moves between the elevated position and the depressed position.
57. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein at least one of the hinge elements has actuation means for actuating the associated keyswitch when the hinge element is moved to the contracted position.
58. The keyboard as defined in claim 57 wherein the actuation means includes an integral portion of the lower hinge panel.
59. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein the hinge pivot axes lie in planes that are parallel with each other.
60. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein the webbing interconnects the upper and lower hinge panels at an angle of less than 180 


degrees about the intermediate pivot axis when the hinge panels are in their extended orientations to cause the hinge panels to fold inward underneath the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
61. The keyboard as defined in claim 60 wherein the angle between the upper and lower hinge panels about the intermediate pivot axis is between 170 degrees and 178 degrees to cause the hinge panels to fold inward underneath the keytop as the keytop is depressed.
62. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel are oriented to pivot about the intermediate pivot axis at a combined angle of greater than 120 degrees when moved between the extended orientation and the contracted orientation.
63. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein individual keytops have an upper surface for receiving a finger of a keyboard operator, a lower surface, and a keyswitch actuation plunger projecting from the lower surface of the keytop for actuating a corresponding keyswitch when the hinge elements are in the contracted orientation.
64. The keyboard as defined in claim 52 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are aligned along a panel axis between the base element and the keytop, the panel axis relative to the linear path followed by the keytop between the non-actuating and depressed actuating switch positions defining an angle in a range of approximately 25-55 degrees.
65. A keyboard, comprising: a) a plurality of electrical keyswitches arranged in a keyboard pattern at a plurality of keyswitch locations; b) a plurality of keytops arranged in the keyboard pattern at the keyswitch locations for receiving fingers of a keyboard operator; c) a plurality of individual keytop support means associated with respective keytops for (1) permitting the keytop to move in a substantially linear path between a non-actuating switch position and a depressed actuating switch position without noticeable lateral movement, and (2) biasing the respective keytop from the depressed actuating position to the non-actuating position; 


 d) individual keytop support means including at least one hinge element coupled to a base element, the hinge element having (1) an upper hinge panel hinged to the keytop for pivotal movement about an upper pivot axis between a normally extended orientation when the keytop is in the non- actuating position and a contracted orientation when the keytop is in the depressed actuating position, (2) a lower hinge panel hinged to the base element for pivotal movement about a lower pivot axis in coordination with the pivotal movement of the upper hinge panel between the normally expanded orientation and the contracted orientation, (3) a webbing interconnecting the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel enabling the upper and lower hinge panels to pivot about an intermediate pivot axis as the panels move between the normally expanded orientations and the contracted orientations while preventing lateral movement of the keytop, and (4) a panel stop for holding the upper and lower hinge panels in a selected arrangement when the panels are in their expanded orientations; and e) the upper and lower hinge panels being configured to fold outward as the keytop is depressed.
66. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are aligned along a panel axis between the base element and the keytop, the panel axis being angled relative to the linear path followed by the keytop between the non-actuating and depressed actuating switch positions.
67. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are aligned along a panel axis between the base element and the keytop, the panel axis relative to the linear path followed by the keytop between the non-actuating and depressed actuating switch positions defining an angle in a range of approximately 25-55 degrees.
68. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the panel stop is provided on the lower hinge panel.
69. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the panel stop comprises a flange extending at an angle from the lower hinge panel. 


 70. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the keytop support means further comprises force adjustment means for controllably varying the selected panel arrangement to change an initial force resistance to depression of the keytop.
71. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the keytop support means further comprises an adjustable platform provided beneath the panel stop, the panel stop resting against the platform when the panels are in their expanded orientations, the platform being configured to be raised and lowered so that the panel stop engages the platform at different elevations to cause a change in the arrangement of the upper and lower hinge panels and thereby effectuate a change in an initial force resistance to depression of the keytop.
72. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the keytop and the keytop support means are an integral, unitary structure.
73. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the keytop and the keytop support means are formed of a single material.
74. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the keytop and the keytop support means are formed of two materials including a first material used in the web and a second material used in the upper and lower hinge panels.
75. The keyboard as defined in claim 74 wherein: the first material is a composite consisting essentially of polypropylene and a resilient substance; and the second material is a composite consisting essentially of polypropylene and a fibrous substance.
76. The keyboard as define in claim 65 wherein individual keytop support means has at least three hinge elements that are spaced about the keytop to prevent noticeable lateral movement of the keytop as the keytop moves between the elevated position and the depressed position. 


 77. A keyboard comprising: a) a plurality of electrical keyswitches arranged in a keyboard pattern at a plurality of keyswitch locations; b) a plurality of keytops arranged in the keyboard pattern at the keyswitch locations for receiving fingers of a keyboard operator; c) a plurality of individual keytop support means associated with respective keytops for (1) permitting the keytop to move in a substantially linear path between a non-actuating switch position and a depressed actuating switch position without noticeable lateral movement, and (2) biasing the respective keytop from the depressed actuating position to the non-actuating position; d) individual keytop support means including at least one hinge element coupled to a base element, the hinge element having (1) an upper hinge panel hinged to the keytop for pivotal movement about an upper pivot axis between a normally extended orientation when the keytop is in the non- actuating position and a contracted orientation when the keytop is in the depressed actuating position, (2) a lower hinge panel hinged to the base element for pivotal movement about a lower pivot axis in coordination with the pivotal movement of the upper hinge panel between the normally expanded orientation and the contracted orientation, and (3) a webbing interconnecting the upper hinge panel and the lower hinge panel enabling the upper and lower hinge panels to pivot about an intermediate pivot axis as the panels move between the normally expanded orientations and the contracted orientations while preventing lateral movement of the keytop; e) the upper and lower hinge panels being configured to fold outward as the keytop is depressed; and f) the keytop has an actuation means for actuating the associated keyswitch when the hinge element is moved to the contracted position.
78. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein: the keytop has an upper surface for receiving a finger of a keyboard operator and a lower surface; and the actuation means comprises at least one plunger projecting from the lower surface of the keytop. 



 79. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein: the keytop has an upper surface for receiving a finger of a keyboard operator and a lower surface; and the actuation means comprises at least one deflectable plunger projecting from the lower surface of the keytop, the plunger (1) actuating the keyswitch and (2) deflecting as the keytop is depressed to create a tactile overtravel feel to the keyboard operator.
80. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are aligned along a panel axis between the base element and the keytop, the panel axis being angled relative to the linear path followed by the keytop between the non-actuating and depressed actuating switch positions.
81. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein the upper and lower hinge panels are aligned along a panel axis between the base element and the keytop, the panel axis relative to the linear path followed by the keytop between the non-actuating and depressed actuating switch positions defining an angle in a range of approximately 25-55 degrees.
82. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein the keytop support means further includes a panel stop provided on the lower hinge panel for holding the upper and lower hinge panels in a selected arrangement when the panels are in their expanded orientations.
83. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein the keytop support means further includes a panel stop for holding the upper and lower hinge panels in a selected arrangement when the panels are in their expanded orientations, the panel stop comprising a flange extending inwardly at an angle from the lower hinge panel.
84. The keyboard as defined in claim 65 wherein the keytop support means further comprises: a panel stop for holding the upper and lower hinge panels in a selected arrangement when the panels are in their expanded orientations; and force adjustment means for controllably varying the selected panel arrangement to change an initial force resistance to depression of the keytop. 


 85. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein the keytop support means further comprises: a panel stop for holding the upper and lower hinge panels in a selected arrangement when the panels are in their expanded orientations; and an adjustable platform provided beneath the panel stop, the panel stop resting against the platform when the panels are in their expanded orientations, the platform being configured to be raised and lowered so that the panel stop engages the platform at different elevations to cause a change in the arrangement of the upper and lower hinge panels and thereby effectuate a change in an initial force resistance to depression of the keytop.
86. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein the keytop and the keytop support means are an integral, unitary structure.
87. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein the keytop and the keytop support means are formed of a single material.
88. The keyboard as defined in claim 77 wherein the keytop and the keytop support means are formed of two materials including a rigid material used in the upper and lower hinge panels and a resilient material used in the webbing.
89. A keyboard comprising: a) a plurality of electrical keyswitches arranged in a keyboard pattern at a plurality of keyswitch locations; b) a plurality of keys arranged in the keyboard pattern at the keyswitch locations, individual keys comprising a keytop for receiving a finger of a keyboard operator and keytop support means for supporting the keytop a distance above a respective keyswitch, the keytop support means (1) permitting the keytop to move in a substantially linear path between a non-actuating switch position and a depressed actuating switch position without noticeable lateral movement, and (2) biasing the respective keytop from the depressed actuating position to the non-actuating position; c) individual keytop support means including at least one hinge element having an upper hinge panel, a lower hinge panel, and a webbing for interconnecting the upper and lower hinge panels, the hinge element being 


foldable between an extended orientation when the keytop is in the non-actuating position and a contracted orientation when the keytop is in the depressed actuating position; and d) the keytop support means being formed of a composite material consisting essentially of a resilient substance, polypropylene, and a fibrous substance.
90. A keyboard as defined in claim 89 wherein the resilient substance is selected from a group consisting of rubber, elastomers, and a composite of rubber and polypropylene.
91. A keyboard as defined in claim 89 wherein the resilient substance is selected from a group consisting of carbon fibers and glass fibers.
92. A keyboard as defined in claim 89 wherein the composite material comprises approximately 50% of the resilient substance and approximately 50% of a blend of the polypropylene and fibrous substance.
93. A keyboard as defined in claim 89 wherein the composite material comprises approximately 50% of the resilient substance and approximately 50% of a blend of the polypropylene and fibrous substance, the blend having a fibrous content of approximately 40% milled fibers.
94. A keyboard as defined in claim 89 wherein: the composite material comprises approximately 50% of the resilient substance and approximately 50% of a blend of the polypropylene and fibrous substance; the resilient material is selected from a group consisting of rubber, elastomers, and a composite of rubber and polypropylene; and the fibrous material is selected from a group consisting of carbon fibers and glass fibers.
95. The keyboard as defined in claim 89 wherein the keytop and the keytop support means are an integral, unitary structure. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
