<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610583</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multizone relocation facility computer memory system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F946	G06F946	G06F1202	G06F1202	G06F1208	G06F1208	G06F1210	G06F1210	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	G06F12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A memory reconfiguration system now allows a guest's absolute 
storage space to be mapped to multiple discontiguous host 

absolute storage space. A multi-zone relocation facility is 
provided for relocating multiple zones of the memory of the 

computer system. A control program being executed in its data 
processing system to reconfigure storages that are assigned to 

guests when sufficient real addressing capability is not 
available to provide a range of holes in the host absolute 

addressing space. Memory can be reconfigured by a control 
program that enables allows main storage and expanded storage 

associated with a guest's real storage can be mapped to multiple 
discontiguous areas of host absolute spaces. When sufficient 

real addressing is not available in the host absolute addressing 

space it allows expansion of the host absolute storage space 
that maps a guest storage. The system can be used in scalar, 

parallel and massively parallel computer systems having plural 
logical processors (LPARs). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUVALSAINT KARL JEAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUM PETER HERMON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM MOON JU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUMM BERRY WATSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCAULEY DONALD WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCANLON JOHN FENTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUVALSAINT, KARL JEAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUM, PETER HERMON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM, MOON JU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUMM, BERRY WATSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCAULEY, DONALD WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCANLON, JOHN FENTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is related to computer systems and to a 
computer having a multi (dual) zone relocation facility capable 
of relocating multiple zones of the memory of the computer 
system, and particularly to a computer system method and 
apparatus allowing a control program being executed 
in its data processing system to reconfigure storages that are 
assigned to guests when sufficient real addressing capability is 
not available to provide a range of holes in the host absolute 
addressing space. In general, there have been prior developments for systems which 
preceded the present system, as described in European Patent 
Application EP 91 111 197.9 entitled "Method and Apparatus for 
Cross-Partition Control in a Partitioned Process Environment" or 
in EP-A-0 472 861 (IBM). For convenience we will define new terms as used in this 
application. Storage partitions are composed of plural (two or more) 
segments, with each segment being designated by the storage 
origin and the storage limit. In this application, only two 
segments are used. The DSR is defined as a function which allows the amount of main 
storage or expanded storage allocated to one or more partitions  
 
to be changed dynamically. The concept of a dynamic storage 
reconfiguration was first presented in the International 
Business Machines Corporation's processor complex ES/3090 (see 
the reference below). The IBM ES/3090 could perfrom a sort of Dynamic Storage 
Reconfiguration, as will be described. A publication about this 
machine was the Processor Resource/Systems Manager Planning 
Guide for the ES/3090 Processor Complex, IBM Publication No. 
GA22-7123-3. In the IBM ES/3090 Processor Complex was a PR/SM machine having 
an LPAR hypervisor. PR/SM refers to the machine hardware 
facility which allows the resources of a single physical system 
to be divided between distinct, predefined logical machines 
called "partitions." The separation and allocation of these 
physical resources is supported by the interpretive-execution 
facility of the machine and is performed by the hypervisor 
internal code called "LPAR". LPAR is a hypervisor or a 
virtual-machine monitor and in an overall system context can be 
referred to as the "host." Similarly, the individual partitions 
can be called "guest" machines. In a PR/SM environment, some amount of contiguous host storage 
is made available to each of the logical partitions being 
managed by LPAR. Guest absolute storage is mapped into host 
absolute storage, and this segmentation and allocation of 
st
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computer memory system for one or more data processing 
systems, comprising: 

an array of memory cells which may be addressed as zones of 
a physical memory as storage for a linked computer system 

having a host absolute addressing space which may be 
addressed as separate zones in physical memory; 

addressing means for accessing the memory cells from a 
functional unit for said computer system; 

said addressing means including means for relocation of 
zones of the host absolute addressing space into 

discontiguous subsets of a partition of memory for allowing 
a control program being executed in its data processing 

system to reconfigure storages that are assigned to guests 
when sufficient real addressing capability is not available 

to provide a range of holes in the host absolute addressing 
space. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein said 
memory is allocated into main storage and expanded storage 

associated with a guest's real storage, and wherein is 
provided a control program for reconfiguring of memory that 

allows main storage and expanded storage associated with a 
guest's real storage to be mapped to plural discontiguous 

host absolute spaces. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein 
memory of the system is allocated to host absolute 

addressing space, and wherein is provided a control program 
for reconfiguring of memory that allows storage 

reconfiguration when sufficient real addressing is not 
available in the host absolute addressing space to allow 

for expansion of the host absolute storage space that maps 
a guest storage. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein 
memory of the system is coupled to an I/O subsystem coupled 

to said computer system which operates with a hypervisor, 
and means are provided for the I/O subsystem to notify the 

hypervisor that a new memory partition zone parameters are 
in effect. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein the 
system allows a guest prefix area of memory to be mapped to 

the host absolute address. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein the 
system does not require the segment that is associated with 

the highest range of guest storage to be mapped to an host 
absolute address range that is higher than the segment that 

maps the lowest guest real address range. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein the 
system has a zone address checking means (FIG. 7) for 

checking zone relocation. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein the 
system has a zone address checking means for checking zone 

relocation, said zone address checking means including an 
EFDI adder as a checker, and registers pre-loaded with 

constants, and parallel 2 comparators and adder for one 
cycle resolution. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein 
memory of all partitions are initialized over a contiguous 

range of storage, and a control program has a multi-segment 
per zone partition mode enabling the control program, when 

it is called on, to perform a storage reconfiguration by 
defining a zone with discontiguous segments. 
A computer memory system according to claim 9 wherein 
memory of the system is accessed after the control program 

has reassigned storage. 
A computer memory system according to claim 10 wherein the 
multi-segment per zone partition form of a zone parameters 

list contains an origin/limit pair for each of the 
contiguous host absolute address ranges into which the 

partition is mapped as discontiguous areas of physical 
memory. 
A computer memory system according to claim 1 wherein the 
multi-zone mode allows zones to consist of plural 

discontiguous segments of the host absolute storage. 
A computer memory system according to claim 10 wherein the 
multi-segment per zone partition mode includes the mapping 

of a guest absolute address range onto plural discontiguous 
host absolute storage segments. 
A computer memory system according to claim 10 wherein the 
multi-segment per zone partition mode is activated when the 

multi-segment per zone partition mode is selected, and each 
time a storage access is attempted a boundary value (BV) is 

compared with the zone absolute address. 
A computer memory system according to claim 14 wherein the 
N-bit boundary value is defined as the zone absolute 

address that is generated by subtracting an N-bit main 
storage segment origin (MSO1) from an N-bit main storage 

segment limit (MSL1). 
A computer memory system according to claim 15 wherein if 
the zone absolute address is equal to or less than the 

boundary value, the N-bit main storage origin (MSO1) value 
is added to the zone absolute address to generate the main 

storage absolute address. 
A computer memory system according to claim 16 wherein if 
the zone absolute address is greater than the boundary 

value, N-bit main storage segment origin (MSO2) value is 
added to the absolute address, subtracting the boundary 

value plus 1. 
A computer memory system according to claim 17 wherein for 
expanded storage if the boundary value plus 1 value is 

greater than expanded storage segment limit (ESL2), that 
determines that the host main-storage location is not 

available and access to it is prevented by the 
zone-relocation facility. 
A computer system, comprising 
a plurality of functional units, a memory system coupled to 

the functional units having a memory array which may be 
configured into zones, an address translation facility for 

a virtual address and zone number coupled to one or more 
functional units of the system, said address translation 

facility having means for multizone translation a multizone 
address translation facility, and 

a storage controller for said memory system, means for 
allowing the physical system resources to b
e separated and 
allocated into logical partitions with a hypervisor in the 

overall computer system allowing individual partitions to 
function and be considered guest machines within a host 

system; 
and wherein said memory can be reconfigured by creating 

segments in a zone of memory to allow a guest's absolute 
storage space to be mapped to a plurality of discontiguous 

host absolute storage spaces. 
A computer system according to claim 19 wherein the 
physical memory system is accessed by one or more data 

processing systems as guests of a host system, and wherein 
 

said memory system has an array of memory cells which may 
be addressed as zones of a physical memory as storage for a 

linked computer system having a host absolute addressing 
space; 

addressing means for accessing the memory cells from a 
functional unit for said computer system; 

said addressing means including means for relocation of 
zones of the physical memory into subsets of a partition of 

memory for allowing a control program being executed in its 
data processing system to reconfigure storages that are 

assigned to guests when sufficient real addressing 
capability is not available to provide a range of holes in 

the host absolute addressing space. 
A computer system according to claim 20 wherein the 
physical memory system is accessed by one or more data 

processing systems as guests of a host system, and wherein 
said memory system has said memory allocated into main 

storage and expanded storage associated with a guest's real 
storage, and wherein is provided a control program for 

reconfiguring of memory that allows main storage and 
expanded storage associated with a guest's real storage can 

be mapped to plural discontiguous host absolute spaces. 
A computer system according to claim 20 wherein the 
physical memory system is accessed by one or more data 

processing systems as guests of a host system, and wherein 
said memory system has the system allocated to host 

absolute addressing space, and wherein is provided a 
control program for reconfiguring of memory that allows 

storage reconfiguration when sufficient real addressing is 
not available in the host absolute addressing space to 

allow for expansion of the host absolute storage space that 
maps a guest storage. 
A computer system according to claim 20 wherein memory of 
the system is coupled to an I/O subsystem coupled to said 

computer system which operates with a hypervisor, and means 
are provided for the I/O subsystem to notify the hypervisor 

that a new memory partition zone parameters are in effect. 
A computer system according to claim 20 wherein the system 
allows a guest prefix area of memory to be mapped to the 

host absolute address. 
A computer system according to claim 20 wherein the system 
does not require the segment that is associated with the 

highest range of guest storage to be mapped to an host 
absolute address range that is higher than the segment that 

maps the lowest guest real address range. 
A computer system according to claim 20 wherein the system 
has a zone address checking means for checking zone 

relocation. 
A computer system according to claim 20 wherein the system 
has a zone address checking means for checking zone 

relocation, said zone address checking means including an 
EFDI adder as a checker, and registers pre-loaded with 

constants, and parallel 2 comparators and adder for one 
cycle resolution. 
A process of reorganizing memory in a computer system, 
including a step of activating a multi-zone facility by a 

control program which provides the multi-zone facility 
dynamically for main memory store for a computer system 

which can operate with a plurality of logical processors 
which can be implemented by machines having parallel 

functional units (CPUs) acting for logical processors, 
wherein, the process includes a step in which the control 

program will implement a process which employs the 
following sub-steps:

 
stop dispatching any logical processors for the partition 

that absolute storage was being removed from in order to 
stop any new requests to storage; and 

issue, if necessary, a SET ZONE PARAMETER instruction to 
remove the storage from a partition; and 

wait for the I/O subsystem to notify LPAR that the new zone 
origin parameters are in effect; and 

issue a SET ZONE PARAMETER instruction to increase the 
receiving partitions storage limit. 
A data processing system operating within a host computer 
system having a plurality of processors and having a 

hypervisor permitting the data processing system to operate 
as a guest logical processor of the host computer system 

which has memory arrays assignable in addressable zones, 
comprising: 

mapping means for mapping a guest's real storage to plural 
discontiguous host absolute addresses; and 

a control program means for reconfiguring memory to allow 
storage reconfiguration when sufficient real addressing is 

not available in the host absolute addressing space to 
allow for expansion of the host absolute storage space that 

maps the guest's storage. 
A data processing system according to claim 29 in 
combination with an computer system I/O subsystem and means 

for notifying the hypervisor of the computer system that a 
new zone origin paramenters for the data processing system 

are in effect. 
A data processing system operating within a host computer 
system, comprising

 
a plurality of processors and coupled physical memories 

which can be addressed as memory arrays assignable in 
addressable zones, and; 

a hypervisor permitting the data processing system to 
operate as a guest logical processor of the host computer 

system which has been defined to allow memory arrays to be 
assignable in in addressable zones, channel translation 

means for accessing memory; 
said channel translation means providing a conversion of a 

guest absolute address to a host absolute address in order 
to acessess memory; and 

wherein the conversion of a guests absolute address employs 
a mapping of memory into plural discontiguous portions 

while permitting to a guest to consider the portions as 
contiguous zones. 
A data processing system operating within a host computer 
system according to claim 31 wherein the mapping of memory 

into plural discontiguous portions includes mapping means 
for mapping a guest's read storage to plural discontiguous 

host absolute addresses; and the system has a control 
program means for reconfiguring memory to allow storage 

reconfiguration when sufficient real addressing is not 
available in the host absolute addressing space to allow 

for expansion of the host absolute storage space that maps 
the guest's storage. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
