<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656513</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self regulating, non-return air inlet with acoustic roll, installation provided with such an air inlet
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24F1104	F24F11047	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24F	F24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24F11	F24F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a non-return self-regulating air inlet intended to be mounted in an opening (3) in a vertical wall (4) of a building (5) for the purpose of ventilating a room (6) into which this inlet emerges. According to the invention, the air baffle (deflector) (11) defines a longitudinal space (15) housing a cylinder (2) of longitudinal axis, this cylinder being free to move in the space (15) in all directions perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMPHOUX ANDRE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMPHOUX, ANDRE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMPHOUX ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMPHOUX, ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A self-adjusting, no-return air intake designed 
to be mounted in an opening (3) in a vertical wall (4) of 

a building (5) to ventilate a room (6) to which it leads, 
of a type which includes the following in operating 

position: 

two air vents (8, 9) separated transversally from 
each other and fit in such a way as to be interconnected 

via an air flow tunnel (10); 
an air baffle (11) designed to be rigidly 
connected, on one of its sides (12), to one of the two 

vents - the no-return vent (8) - and forming, on the 
other side (13) an air flow opening (14), the device 

being such that once mounted in the opening (3) the two 
vents (8 and 9) are located in two essentially vertical 

planes; 
 
   characterized in that the air baffle (11) defines a 

longitudinal space (15) which contains a longitudinal 
axis cylinder (2) which is free to move within said space 

(15) in all directions perpendicular to the longitudinal 
axis, of such weight and dimensions that when the air 

intake is mounted the cylinder is kept by gravity near 
the no-return vent (8) when there is no pressure 

difference between the outside of the building and the 
inside, the air flow moves the cylinder away from the no-return 

vent when the pressure inside the building is less 
than that outside, and the cylinder is moved against the 

no-return vent by the force of gravity and the higher 
internal pressure when the pressure inside the building 

is greater than the pressure outside. 
An air intake as specified in claim 1, 
characterized in that the transverse cross-sectional area  

 
of the longitudinal space (15) decreases from the side 

(12) to the air flow opening (14). 
An air intake as specified in claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that the air flow opening (14) is 

located at a higher level than the no-return vent (8) 
such that the surface (21) on which the cylinder in space 

(15) lies is inclined and increases in size from the no-return 
vent (8) to the air flow opening (14). 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 1 
to 3, characterized in that the longitudinal space (15) 

is formed by the side (12), by a first (17) and a second 
(18) longitudinal section forming the transverse profile 

of the longitudinal space (15), the lower part of the no-return 
vent (8), the air flow opening (14), and the side 

(13), and by two lateral cheeks (19) parallel to each 
other and separated transversally, connecting the two 

sections (17) and (18) and the side (12) together and 
forming the longitudinal limits of the space (15), the 

no-return vent (8) and the air flow opening (14). 
An air intake as specified in claim 4, 
characterized in that each of the sections (17) and (18) 

comprise respectively a functional longitudinal wall (20) 
and (21) which forms the transverse profile of the space 

(15) and a second longitudinal wall such that the 
sections (17) and (18) are tubular. 
An air intake as specified in claim 5, 
characterized in that the second longitudinal walls of 

sections (17) and (18) are such that the overall external 
shape of the air intake is a preferably rectangular 

parallelepiped, with sides (12) and (13) being opposed. 
An air intake as specified in claim 5 or 6, 
characterized in that the side (12) extends beyond the 

two lateral cheeks (19) to form two protrusions with  
 

means for connecting the air intake to the opening (3) in 
the building's wall (4). 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 5 
to 7, characterized in that the side (12) extends beyond 

the first (17) and the second (18) longitudinal sections 
to form two protrusions with means for connecting the air 

intake to the opening (3) in the building's wall (4). 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 1 
to 8, characterized in that the functional longitudinal 

wall (21) which forms the internal limit of the 
transverse profile of the space (15) increases in size 

from the no-return vent to the air flow opening (14) in 
an elliptical arc whose small axis is located in the 

plane forming the side (12), said elliptical arc also 
being extended on the side of the air flow opening (14) 

by a vertical longitudinal protrusion which forms the 
lower part of the air flow opening (14). 
An air intake as specified in claim 9, 
characterized in that said functional longitudinal wall 

(21) comprises, on the no-return vent side, a 
longitudinal inclined stop (50) which decreases in size 

from the lower edge of the no-return vent to the 
elliptical arc, such that when pressure inside and 

outside the building is equal, the cylinder (2) is near 
the no-return vent (8) while leaving room for air flow 

between its periphery and the upper edge of the no-return 
vent (8). 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 1 
to 10, characterized in that the functional longitudinal 

wall (20) which forms the upper part of the transverse 

profile of the space (15) comprises an initial part 
immediately adjacent to the side (12) and perpendicular 

to the latter extending more or less over a third of the 
profile extended by a profile segment whose overall shape  

 
is that of an airplane half-wing whose leading edge is 

immediately adjacent to the first part and trailing edge 
forms the upper part of the air flow opening (14). 
An air intake as specified in one of claims 3 
to 10, characterized in that the width of the no-return 

vent and of the air flow opening (14) is just less than 
the cylinder's diameter such that once inside the space 

(15), the cylinder cannot exit through the no-return vent 
or the flow opening (14). 
An air intake as specified in one of claims 9 
to 12, characterized in that the longitudinal protrusion 

which forms the lower part of the air flow opening (14) 
serves as a stop for the cylinder (2) such that when the 

cylinder (2) touches said protrusion and the elliptic 
arc, an air flow space remains between the cylinder and 

the upper part of the flow opening (14). 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 4 
to 13, characterized in that the first (17) and second 

(18) sections are made of a mouldable or extrudable 
material. 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 4 
to 14, characterized in that the first and second 

sections are made of a sound-dampening material. 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 4 
to 14, characterized in that the first (17) and second 

(18) tubular sections are filled with a sound-dampening 
material. 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 5 
to 16, characterized in that the functional longitudinal 

walls (20 and 21) are perforated in various areas to 
increase the sound dampening. 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 1 
to 17, characterized in that the cylinder is made of a 

sound-absorbing material.  
 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 1 
to 18, characterized in that it also contains a second 

elbow-shaped air baffle (16) designed to be rigidly 
connected by one of its ends (34) to the other of the two 

vents - or intake vent (9) - forming at its other end 
(35) an air flow space (36), such that when the air 

intake (1) is mounted in the opening (3) of wall (4) the 
air flow space (36) is positioned in a more or less 

horizontal plane located at a level lower than that of 
the intake vent (9). 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 1 
to 19, characterized in that it also comprises a sleeve 

linking the two vents (8, 9) and possibly the two baffles 
(11, 16). 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 18 
to 20, characterized in that the second elbow-shaped air 

baffle comprises a sound-dampening device. 
An air intake as specified in claim 21, 
characterized in that the sound-dampening device is a 

longitudinal strip of sound-dampening foam placed in the 
elbow of the second air baffle. 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 18 
to 22, characterized in that the second air baffle is 

made of a mouldable material. 
An air intake as specified in any of claims 18 
to 23, characterized in that the second air baffle is 

made of a sound-dampening material. 
A ventilation system for a building (5) 
comprising at least one air intake (1), characterized in 

that the air intake is as specified in any of claims 1 to 
24, with the air baffle (11) in which the cylinder is 

mounted being placed inside (I) the building (5) and in 
the ascending position, the desired direction of flow 

being from the exterior (E) to the interior (I).  
 
A system as specified in claim 25, 
characterized in that it is also combined with at least 

one air intake (1), at least one air duct (38) leading 
into a volume of the building (5) where air intake (1) 

leads. 
A system as specified in claim 26, 
characterized in that the duct (38) is combined with an 

air extractor (37) on the roof (40) of the building (5) 
connected with the duct (39) which leads to a room (6) of 

the building (5) via a vent (38). 
A system as specified in claim 27, 
characterized in that the vent (38) is equipped with at 

least one air intake (1), the intended direction of air 
flow being from the room (6) to the duct (39). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
