<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0824902</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Expandable stent
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F206	A61F202	A61F200	A61F202	A61F282	A61F282	A61F206	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An expandable tubular reinforcing member of the invention is
used for a body lumen. The reinforcing member is basically formed

of a plurality of rows of expandable joint members and a plurality
of rows of flexible elongated members. The joint members in one row

are arranged in a circular form and are spaced apart from each
other. The elongated members in one row are arranged in a circular

form, and each flexible elongated member extends diagonally to a
central axis of the reinforcing member and connects two of the joint

members situated in adjacent two rows. When a radial force is
applied from an inside of the reinforcing member, the elongated

members are bent relative to the joint members to have a larger
diameter.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an expandable endoprosthesis device,
generally called a stent, which is implanted into a patient's body
lumen, such as a blood vessel, to maintain patency thereof. The
stent is very useful in the treatment of atherosclerotic stenosis
in the blood vessels.The stent is, generally, a tubular shaped device which
functions to support a part of a blood vessel or another anatomical
lumen from the inside thereof, and is particularly suitable for
supporting and holding a dissected arterial lining which may
occlude a fluid passageway by collapse thereof. "Stent" here is
defined as a prosthetic member used for reinforcing the blood
vessel.Various methods have been used to deliver and implant stents.
In one of the methods frequently used for delivering a stent to a
desired interlumenal location, an expandable stent is mounted on an
expandable member, such as a balloon, provided on a distal end of
an intravascular catheter, and the catheter is advanced to have a
desired location within the patient's body lumen. Then, the balloon
on the catheter is inflated to expand the stent therearound into a
permanent expanded condition, and the balloon is deflated for
removing the catheter from the stent.Therefore, advantages of the method of strengthening the blood
vessel by the stent over the conventional vascular surgery include
obviating the surgical exposing, and incising, removing, replacing or 
bypassing a defective blood vessel required in the conventional
vascular surgery.The stents in the prior art can be categorized as a wire type
stent or a coil stent and a tube stent. Further details of prior
art stents can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 3,868,956 (Alfidi et al.);
U.S. Pat. No. 4,512,338 (Balko et al.); U.S. Pat. No. 4,553,545
(Masass et al.); U.S. Pat. No. 4,733,665 (Palmaz); U.S. Pat. No.
4,762,120 (Rosenbluth); U.S. Pat. No. 4,800,882 (Gianturco) ; U.S.
Pat. No. 4,856,516 (Hillstead); U.S. Pat. No. 4,886,062 (Wiktor) and
U.S. Pat. No. 5,421,955 (Lau et al.).When the stent is expanded as described above, it is important
to maintain the stent in the expanded condition so that the body
lumen expanded by the stent can be maintained open. The prior wire
type stent or the coil stent is made by simply bending a wire having
a flexibility so that the wire stent is easily expanded and shrunk.
Therefore, the wire type stent had difficulties in maintaining the
radially expanded condition for holding the body lumen open.On the other hand, when the stent is delivered into the
desirable site in the tortuous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An expandable tubular reinforcing member (1) used for a body lumen
comprising

   a plurality of rows of expandable joint members (2), each row having a predetermined
spacing from adjacent rows as measured parallel to a central longitudinal axis of the

reinforcing member, each row being formed of a plurality of spaced said joint
members arranged circularly around said axis with a first diameter (D1), and

   a plurality of rows of flexible elongated members (3, 4) each row being situated between adjacent two rows of the joint members and arranged
circularly around said axis, each said elongated member connecting two said joint

members (2) situated in adjacent said rows of joint members, 
characterised in that

   said elongated members (3, 4) in any one said row are all inclined in the same
direction relative to a line drawn on a surface of the reinforcing member parallel to said

axis so that when a radial force is applied from inside the reinforcing member
the elongated members are bent relative to the joint

members (2) thereby to allow the reinforcing member to adopt a second diameter
(D2) larger than the first diameter (D1).
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to claim 1 wherein the
direction in which said elongated members incline alternates from row to adjacent row.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to claim 1 or claim 2
further comprising two rows of end portions disposed parallel to the rows of the joint

members, each row of the end portions being connected to a row of the joint members
located at each longitudinal end of the reinforcing member and having a plurality of

struts situated parallel to the central axis and connected to the joint members and a
plurality of connecting po
rtions, each connecting portion connecting a pair of struts
situated adjacent to each other. 
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to claim 3 wherein each
connecting portion has a thickness less than that of each strut so that when the

reinforcing member is expanded, each connecting portion is expanded.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to claim 3 or claim 4
wherein each strut has a length shorter than a length of each elongated member so that

when the reinforcing member is expanded, the struts are equally bent at both ends
simultaneously.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any preceding claim
wherein said each joint member includes two side portions and one middle portion for

joining the two side portions, two elongated members in one row of the elongated
members being connected to one side portion of one joint member in one row of the

joint members and to respective side portions of two joint members in another row of
the joint members, respectively.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to claim 6 wherein said
middle portion is located at ends of the two side portions to have an open side in the

joint member, open sides in one row of the joint members being oriented in a same
direction and directed in an opposite direction relative to open sides in an adjacent

row of the joint members.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to claim 7 wherein said
elongated members have first and second elongated members alternately arranged to

each other in one row of the elongated members, each first elongated member being
connected to the side portion near the open side and each second elongated member

being connected to the side portion near the middle portion so that when the
reinforcing member is expanded, the first elongated members are bent first. 
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any preceding claim
wherein the elongated members are integrally formed with the joint members and the

end portions.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any preceding claim
wherein said each joint member has a C shape, and a thickness of each joint member

is less than that of each elongated member.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any preceding claim
wherein said reinforcing member is coated with a substance which prevents blood

coagulation.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any one of claims 1
to 10 wherein said reinforcing member is coated with a bio-absorbable material.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any preceding claim
wherein said reinforcing member is formed of a radioactive material.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any one of claims 1
to 12 wherein said reinforcing member is formed of stainless steel.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any one of claims 1
to 12 wherein said reinforcing member is formed of a NiTi alloy.
An expandable tubular reinforcing member according to any preceding claim
wherein the reinforcing member has a porous surface so that a drug can be retained on

the surface.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
