<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638163</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REMOTELY DEPLOYABLE PRESSURE SENSOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L1900	E21B4706	G01L1900	E21B4706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	E21B	G01L	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L19	E21B47	G01L19	E21B47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for measuring pressure, which apparatus comprises a pressure valve (3) for location at a point at which pressure is to be measured, a primary tube (1) containing a fluid for linking the pressure valve (3) to a control point where the pressure information is required, pressure control means (6) for changing the pressure of the fluid within the primary tube (1), volume measuring means for measuring changes in volume of the fluid within the primary tube (1) as the pressure is varied, and pressure measuring means (7) for measuring the pressure at some point within the fluid.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSOR DYNAMICS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SENSOR DYNAMICS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLUTH ERHARD LOTHAR EDGAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLUTH, ERHARD, LOTHAR, EDGAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In many instances, it is necessary to measure a physical 
parameter at some point in a harsh environment, often a considerable 
distance from where the information is needed. Such an example is 
the measurement of pressure at the bottom of an oil well which 
presents significant problems for the deployment of pressure 
sensors. There are three main problems associated with the deployment 
of sensors in harsh environments. Firstly, there are the practical 
difficulties in getting the sensor to the correct position in the first 
instance and then, possibly, retrieving it later. Secondly, either the 
sensor must have a means of storing information, or it must have a 
means of communicating between the sensor itself and the 
information processing system. Thirdly, the sensor must be robust 
enough, not only to take the rigours of deployment, but also be able to 
function successfully for significant periods of time under harsh 
conditions. These three aspects are of particular importance in the 
oil extraction industry. The measurement of pressure at the bottom 
of an oil well is important for the efficient extraction of the oil 
reserves. The industry takes two different approaches. In the one 
case, a measurement system is lowered down the production tube of 
the well to take and record measurements for a short period before 
being returned to the surface. Although convenient for use with 
existing wells and only requiring short term stability of calibration, 
this approach gives limited information and interferes with the 
production of oil. In the other case, a measurement system is 
permanently installed during the construction of the oil well. This 
has the advantage of giving continuous measurements without 
interfering with oil production but places very severe requirements 
on the measurement stability of the sensor and its ability to  
 
withstand the high pressures and temperatures in the well for many 
years. Should such a sensor fail, or doubts be cast upon its accuracy, 
then the current practice would be to abandon it since it would be too 
expensive to replace. The permanent installation of a measurement 
system at the bottom of the oil well also requires significant 
technical problems to be solved in transferring information via metal 
or optical fibre cables, or radio links, up to the surface. The present invention describes a pressure sensor which may be 
either temporarily or permanently deployed in a convenient fashion, 
using existing technology familiar to industries such as the oil

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for measuring pressure, which apparatus comprises 
pressure communicating means (3) for location at a point at which pressure is to be 

measured, a primary tube (1) containing a fluid for linking the pressure 
communicating means to a control point where the pressure information is required, 

sealing means for sealing the primary tube so as to form a closed system 
when the pressure communicating means is closed, characterised by 

pressure control means (6) for changing the pressure of the fluid 
within the primary tube, volume measuring means (8) for measuring 

changes in the volume of the fluid within the primary tube as the 
pressure of the fluid is varied, and pressure measuring means (7) for measuring the 

pressure of the fluid at some point within the 
fluid. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 in which the primary tube is 
narrow bore hydraulic tubing whose change in dimension with 

pressure is either small or well-known. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 in which the fluid in 
the primary tube is a hydraulic oil. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims in which 
the pressure control means is such as to permit the pressure to be 

changed from one value to another under an external control. 
Apparatus according to claim 4 in which the pressure control 
means is an arrangement in which a force acts on a piston (17) inside a 

cylinder containing the primary tube fluid. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims in which 
the pressure measuring means is a pressure dial gauge or a pressure transducer. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims in which 
the volume measuring means is an arrangement in which 

measurement is effected of the position of a piston in a cylinder 
where the piston is used to determine the pressure in the primary 

tube fluid.  
 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims in which 
the pressure control means, the volume measuring means and the 

pressure measuring means are all located together at the control 
point. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims and 
including temperature measuring means (14) for measuring the 

temperature along the length of the primary tube. 
Apparatus according to claim 9 in which the temperature 
measuring means is an optical fibre distributed temperature sensor, 

either outside or inside the primary tube. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims and 
including pressure sensing means of such a dimension and structure 

that it is placeable inside the primary tube, locating means for 
locating the pressure sensing means (15) at a desired point within the 

primary tube, and transmitter means for transmitting the pressure 
information from the pressure sensing means to the control point. 
Apparatus according to claim 11 and including means for 
removing the pressure sensing means. 
Apparatus according to claim 12 in which the transmitter 
means are optical fibres. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 11 to 13 in which the 
pressure sensing means is a passive optical fibre sensor. 
Apparatus according to claim 14 in which the pressure sensing 

means is a polarimetric interferometer optical fibre pressure and 
temperature sensor. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims and 
including a secondary tube which connects the furthest point at  

 
which a pressure sensor may be located in the primary tube to the 

control point, so that a return path for the fluid in the primary tube 
is provided. 
Apparatus according to claim 16 in which the pressure sensor 
is located by means of controlling the flow of fluid through the 

primary and secondary tubes. 
Apparatus according to claim 17 in which the means of 
controlling the flow of fluid through the primary and secondary tubes 

is a pump with the capability of reversible flow. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims and 
including additional pressure communicating means connected at different points 

along the primary tube, and means of distinguishing which pressure communicating means is in 
which state when the pressure is changed. 
Apparatus according to claim 19 in which one or more pressure 
sensors is located at each pressure communicating means so that it is not necessary 

to take into account the position of the pressure communicating means by computing a 
correction. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 19 and including 
additional pressure communicating means connected at the same point along the 

primary tube. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims in which 
the pressure communicating means is switched between the ACTIVE state and the 

ON/OFF state by separate means than the pressure in the primary 
tube. 
Apparatus according to claim 22 in which the pressure communicating means is 
switched between the ACTIVE state and the ON/OFF state using a 

slide or rotary valve, a separate hydraulic or electric line, and 
hydraulic or electric control means.  

 
Apparatus according to claim 22 and 23 in which there is no 
mechanical interface when the pressure communicating means is in the ACTIVE state. 
Apparatus according to claim 24 and including reservoir means (23) 
for supplying fluid that may be lost through the pressure communicating means. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims and 
including a reference pressure sensor for calibrating the apparatus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
