<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615472</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLEANING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B300	B08B300	B08B302	B08B302	F02B7704	F02B7704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	B08B	B08B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B3	B08B3	B08B3	B08B3	F02B77	F02B77	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The specification discloses a cleaning apparatus (2) for cleaning machine and engine parts comprising a trough (4) in which the cleaning is performed. A lid (6) is connected to the trough (4) and is movable between a closed position covering the trough and an opened position allowing access to the trough. A first cleaning fluid dispenser in the form of a manifold (8) is located within the apparatus (2). Also provided is a portable cleaning fluid dispensing gun (10) or brush (12) which is connectable to the apparatus (2). The lid (6) operatively cooperates with the manifold (8), gun (10) or brush (12) so that when the lid (6) is in the closed position, cleaning fluid is dispensed through the manifold (8) and when the lid (6) is in the opened position, cleaning fluid can be dispensed through the gun (10) or brush (12). A pump (14) is provided for pumping the cleaning fluid to the manifold (8), gun (10) or brush (12). A supply of the cleaning fluid is held within the tank (8) formed integrally with the apparatus (2). A ball valve (32) housed within the pump (14) selectively directs cleaning fluid to the manifold (8) or with the gun (10) and brush (12). The ball valve (32) is provided with a control arm (34), the manipulation of which changes the state of the ball valve. The control arm (34) is pivotably connected to one end of a lever (36). An opposite end of the lever (36) is pivotably connected by pivot pin (37) to arms (38 and 39). An end of the arm (38) distant from lever (36) is pivotably connected to an outside wall of the trough (4) in the vicinity of the lid (6). An end of arm (39) is pivotably connected to the lid (6). By this arrangement of levers, the opening or closing of the lid (6) changes the state of the ball valve (32).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBOWASH PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBOWASH PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GODDARD FENTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GODDARD, FENTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CLEANING APPARATUS FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a cleaning apparatus and, in particular, but not exclusively, to a cleaning apparatus for cleaning articles covered with an oil-based product.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThere has always been the need in industries such as for example, the automotive, oil and mining industries to clean mechanical parts covered with grease and grime. For example, when servicing or repairing an internal combustion engine, components such as nuts, bolts, washers, seals, bearings, engine blocks, crank shafts etc., must be thoroughly cleaned prior to reassembly in order to remove all oil, grease and foreign bodies. Foreign bodies such as grit or metal shavings can block cooling or lubrication ducts as well as increase engine wear. Various parts for example, brake shoes or pads and rubber seals must be free of grease or oil to ensure correct operation or prevent premature deterioration.A "solvent sink" is presently used to clean mechanical parts comprising a large sink and pump for pumping a petroleum based solvent from a separate drum to a dispensing hand piece. The article to be cleaned is held in or above the sink and solvent is pumped from the drum through the hand piece in order to clean the part. While the solvent sink is relatively effective in cleaning, it has a number of inherent deficiencies. It is particularly inefficient as it requires an operator to stand at the sink and manually clean even the smallest of parts. In addition, it is unable to effectively and efficiently clean parts which are too large to fit within the sink. For this reason, it is common to purchase a separate steam cleaning apparatus to clean the "larger" parts. Furthermore, the use of petroleum based solvents creates a fire hazard, is a health hazard to the operator by virtue of vapours given off by the solvent, and is environmentally damaging by virtue of either damaging the earth's ozone layer or contaminating water supplies. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to provide a cleaning apparatus that attempts to alleviate at least one of the above described deficiencies. According to the present invention there is provided a cleaning apparatus for cleaning articles, said apparatus comprising: a trough in which cleaning of said articles can be performed; a lid connected to said trough and movable between a closed position covering said trough and an opened position to allow access to said trough; a first cleaning fluid dispensing means located
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS :-
1. A cleaning apparatus for cleaning articles, said apparatus comprising: a trough in which cleaning of said articles can be performed; a lid connected to said trough and moveable between a closed position covering said trough and an opened position to allow access to said trough; a first cleaning fluid dispensing means located within said apparatus and a second portable cleaning fluid dispensing means; wherein said lid operatively cooperates with said first and second dispensing means in such a manner that when the lid is in the closed position, cleaning fluid can be dispensed through said first cleaning fluid dispensing means, and when the lid is in the opened position, cleaning fluid can be dispensed through said second portable cleaning fluid dispensing means.
2. A cleaning apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a receptacle for containing a volume of said cleaning fluid, said receptacle communicating with said pumping means.
3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said receptacle further communicates with said trough whereby said cleaning fluid can be recirculated through said apparatus.
4. An apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising a pumping means for pumping said cleaning fluid to said first and second cleaning fluid dispensing means, wherein said lid operatively cooperates with said pumping means in amanner such that when the lid is in the closed position, the pumping means can pump cleaning fluid to said first cleaning fluid dispensing means, and when the lid is in the opened position, the pumping means can pump cleaning fluid to the second portable cleaning fluid dispensing means. 


 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said pumping means includes a valve for selectively directing cleaning fluid to said first or second cleaning fluid dispensing means, wherein said valve is operated by moving said lid between said closed and opened positions.
6. An apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising electrical control means for operating said valve, said electrical control means including an associated switch, wherein said associated switch activates said electrical control means to cause said valve to direct cleaning fluid to said first cleaning fluid dispensing means when the lid is in the closed position, and to cause the valve to direct cleaning fluid to the second portable cleaning fluid dispensing means when the lid is in the opened position.
7. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said pumping means comprises a first pump in communication with said receptacle for pumping said cleaning fluid to said first cleaning fluid dispending means and a second pump in communication with said receptacle for pumping said cleaning fluid through said second portable cleaning fluid dispensing means, whereby, said lid when in said closed position enables said first pump to pump cleaning fluid through said first cleaning fluid dispensing means and said lid when in the opened position enables the second pump for pumping cleaning fluid through said second portable cleaning fluid dispensing means.
8. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a basket disposed within said trough for holding said articles, said basket adapted to allow cleaning fluid to flow therethrough.
9. An apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising means for rotating said basket to vary the position of an article contained with the basket relative to one of said cleaning fluid dispensing means. 


 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said means for rotating comprises a jet of said cleaning fluid, a rotatable support for supporting said basket, and a plurality of vanes connected to said support which can successively enter said jet of cleaning fluid to act as impellers to rotate said rotatable support and a basket support thereon.
11. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein each of said vanes is pivotably connected to said support whereby the action of centrifugal force on said vanes due to the rotation of said support causes said vanes to swing out of the path of said jet to thereby limit the speed of rotation of said support.
12. An article according to claim 8, further comprising a braking means for retarding the rotation of said basket when the lid is in the opened position.
13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said braking means comprises a brake block and an actuator connected to the brake block for moving said brake block into contact with said basket to retard the rotation of said basket.
14. An apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said brake block is arranged for wedging between said basket and an inside surface of said trough to thereby retard rotation of said basket.
15. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said actuator is in the form of a hand operable lever disposed within said trough.
16. An apparatus according to any one of claim 1, wherein said cleaning fluid is a combination of water and detergent.
17. An apparatus- according to claim 16, further comprising an automatic cleaning fluid recharge system, said system including a sensor communicating with said receptacle 


for sensing the volume of cleaning fluid in said receptacle; a container for holding a supply of detergent; a water supply means for supplying water to said receptacle, said water supply means including a valve for controlling the flow of water into said receptacle and which is operatively connected with said sensor; and a tube communicating between said water supply means and said container, wherein, when said sensor senses the volume of said cleaning fluid is less than a predetermined volume, said sensor operates said valve to admit water into said receptacle whereby the flow of water through said water supply means causes detergent to flow through said tube into the water supply means so as to mix with water flowing into the receptacle thereby providing automatic recharging of said cleaning fluid.
18. A cleaning apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said first cleaning fluid dispensing means comprises a manifold arranged in a closed loop.
19. A cleaning apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said manifold is configured to spray cleaning fluid from above, underneath and side of the basket.
20. A cleaning apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said manifold is further configured to produce two spray curtains of cleaning fluid each spray curtain including cleaning fluid emanating from above, underneath and to one side of the basket, whereby each article passes through each spray curtain during every revolution of said basket. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
