<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650102</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Submodular unit for use in a modular rotary developing apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1508	G03G1508	G03G1501	G03G1501	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
For image reproduction, a submodular unit including 
a developing roller (6) and a doctor blade (22) is adjustably mounted on 

a modular developing unit of a rotary developing apparatus (10). In 
general, the modular developing unit is rotatably positioned to 

juxtapose a photoreceptor drum (12). This juxtaposed position 
defines the developing position. The toner loaded on the 

developing roller in the developing position travels over a 
spacial gap between the developing roller surface and the 

photoreceptor drum surface. This crucial gap is necessary for 
successful image reproduction. However, this gap usually 

cannot be optimally maintained over extended time. The gap is 
also changed due vibration caused during shipment. In 

adjusting the gap, the submodular unit allows an independent 

and fine adjustment for each modular image developing unit. 
The submodular unit also allows an efficient assembly of the 

modular rotary developing unit. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RICOH KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RICOH COMPANY, LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSUGE KATSUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGIHARA KAZUYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSUGE, KATSUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGIHARA, KAZUYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a modular unit
for use in developing apparatus for image reproduction and, in
particular, relates to a submodular unit frame for encasing
only a developing roller and a doctor blade adjustably mounted
to a main modular unit frame in a rotary developing apparatus
for a copier, a facsimile, and the like.In general, image reproduction apparatus reproduce
images on image-carrying medium by transferring toner or
developer to the medium in relation to a given image. Such
transfer is typically achieved through the use of a developing
unit which places toner or developer on the image-carrying
medium via a photoreceptor drum. To accomplish image transfer,
the photoreceptor drum surface is first prepared by an
electrophotographic image process to selectively accept toner
in relation to the image. The developing unit then applies
toner onto the photoreceptor drum via a developing roller.
Toner representing the desired image on the photoreceptor drum
is transferred onto an image-carrying medium, such as paper.
Further processing of the paper, for example, the application
of heat, serves to permanently adhere the toner to the paper.In recent years, rotary developing apparatus having
multiple developing units have been proposed for color copiers,
color printers and other image-forming apparatus as disclosed,
for example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,782,360, 4,792,825, 
5,258,819, and Japanese Laid Open Publication 4-10070. In
general, multiple independent developing units are housed in
the rotary developing apparatus. Each of the multiple
developing units are positioned around a cylindrical housing of
the rotary developing apparatus and independently apply toner
of a different color to a photoreceptor drum. To apply toner,
only one independent developing unit is juxtaposed to the
photoreceptor drum at a given time. Thus, for example, if four
colors such as yellow, magenta, cyan and black are used, a
developing unit containing one of these colors is rotatably
positioned to juxtapose the photoreceptor drum to apply toner
of the particular color according to a desired image.Toner is selectively applied onto the photoreceptor
drum across a gap between the drum and developing roller.
Toner is uniformly applied to the developing roller in a
developing unit. The amount of toner on the developing roller
is regulated by a doctor blade. Toner is assisted onto the
photoreceptor drum surface by carriers. If the gap is not
maintained at a predetermined distance, optimal amounts of
toner will not be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A modular rotary developing device comprising a photoreceptor drum (12)
for developing an image on an image-carrying medium utilizing toner selectively

applied to the photoreceptor drum (12), said device including a main modular unit frame
(3) juxtaposed to the photoreceptor drum (12) and a plurality of developing units (4a-4d)

housed in said frame (3), each of said developing units (4a-4d) comprising:

a submodular unit frame (31) mounted to said main modular unit frame (3,
32); and
a developing roller (6) mounted on said submodular unit frame (31) for
applying the toner onto the photoreceptor drum (12), the position of said submodular

unit frame (31) relative to the main modular unit frame (3) being adjustable so as to
adjust a gap (40) between said developing roller (6) and said photoreceptor drum,

   
characterized
 in that a doctor blade (22) for regulating the amount of toner
on said developing roller (6) is mounted on the submodular unit free
 frame (31) whereby
the gap between the developing roller and the doctor blade is kept constant

independently of said adjustment.
The device according to claim 1, wherein said submodular unit frame (31)
further comprises: 


a pair of side walls (34a, 34b) for supporting said developing roller (6);
a backplate (35) connected to said side walls for supporting said doctor blade
(22);
an anchoring device (38) located on said side walls for rotatably mounting
one end of said side wall to the main modular unit frame (3 32), defining a rotating

axis; and
an adjustable device (36) located on said side walls for adjustably mounting
the other end of said side walls to the main modular unit frame, said ajustable

device limiting a range of rotation around said rotating axis and latching said side
walls at a selected angle.
The device according to claim 2, wherein said anchoring device (38) includes
a first threaded hole on the main modular unit frame and a second threaded hole on

said side wall and a screw secured to said first threaded hole and said second
threaded hole.
The device according to claim 3, wherein said adjustable device (38) includes
a third threaded hole on the main modular unit frame and an elongated hole on said

side wall and a screw secured to said second threaded hole but adjustably moving
within said elongated hole.
The device according to claim 4, wherein a long axis of said elongated hole
is angled with respect to a line connecting a center of said developing roller (6) and

another center of said photoreceptor drum (12).
The device according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of said
submodular unit frames (31) each having a corresponding developing roller, said

submodular units being each adjustably mounted on the main modular unit frame,
the main modular unit frame rotating around a predetermined axis, one of said

submodular units being juxtaposed to the photoreceptor drum (12) defining a 
developing position, said submodular unit at said developing position being

independently movable for an adjustment of a gap (40) between said developing
roller (6) at said developing position and the photoreceptor drum (12).
The device according to claim 6, wherein said submodular unit at said
developing position is adjustably rotated around another predetermined axis for said

adjustment of said gap.
The device according to claim 7, further comprising a set of gears (40, 42,
44, Fig. 7) for activating said developing roller, said developing roller being

independently moved around an axis of rotation of one of said gears, said gears thus
accommodating said adjustment of said gap by maintaining the same distance

between any two of said gears.
The device according to claim 6, where said gap (40) is adjusted so as to
substantially eliminate dropping of the toner through said gap.
The device according to claim 9, wherein said developing roller and the
photoreceptor drum rotate in opposite directions for further eliminating the dropping

of the toner.
A method of assembling a modular rotary developing apparatus according to
claims 1 to 10, wherein toner being transported to a developing roller via a

transportation mechanism, comprising the steps of:

a. placing the transportation mechanism in the main modular unit;
b. placing the development roller and the doctor blade in the submodular
unit;
c. placing the submodular unit assembled in said step b into the main
modular unit assembled in said step a; and 
d. placing the main modular unit assembled in said step c adjacent to the
photoreceptor drum.
A method of adjusting a submodular unit of a rotary developing apparatus
according to claims 1 to 10, comprising the steps of:


a. exposing the submodular unit in the main modular unit so as to allow
an operator to have access to the submodular unit;
b. loosening an adjustable screw on the submodular unit by which screw
the submodular unit is adjustably mounted on the main modular unit;
c. adjusting the gap between the developing roller and the photoreceptor
drum; and
d. tightening the adjustable screw to stabilize the submodular unit.
The method as recited in claim 12, wherein said step c is performed by
rotating one end of the submodular unit around a predetermined axis at the other

end of the submodular unit so as to adjust the gap at the other rotating end.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
