<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644982</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE EXHAUST CONTROL VALVE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01N320	F16K4110	F01N702	F16K1226	F01N320	F16K4100	F16K1226	F01N700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01N	F16K	F01N	F16K	F01N	F16K	F16K	F01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01N3	F16K41	F01N7	F16K1	F01N3	F16K41	F16K1	F01N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The valve shaft (24) passes through a journal bearing (28) in the wall of the valve body to an actuating lever attached to the shaft on the outside of the valve body. This journal bearing is sealed by an arrangement of several parts to prevent escape of exhaust gases. These parts include a bellows (44) and ceramic thrust washers (38, 40).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to exhaust systems of internal 
combustion engines, and particularly to an exhaust control valve for 
selectively controlling the exhaust gas flow, such as by diverting the 
exhaust gases for a limited period of time after cold engine starting so that 
they are caused to flow through a close-coupled catalyst before entering 
the main catalytic converter, thereby hastening the catalytic treatment of 
the exhaust gases at cold engine starting. The exhaust systems of today's automotive vehicles that are 
powered by internal combustion engines are typically equipped with 
catalytic converter systems. For maximum effectiveness, such catalytic 
converter systems must be heated to certain elevated temperatures. 
Since such heating typically comes from exhaust gases that pass through 
the catalytic converter, there exists an inherent time lag in the catalytic 
converter reaching maximum effectiveness upon cold engine starting. In order to accelerate the effectiveness of the catalytic converter 
system at cold engine starting, it has been proposed to employ a 
close-coupled catalyst through which the exhaust gases are initially 
passed until the main catalytic converter has warmed up. A typical 
configuration comprises the parallel combination of a close-coupled 
catalyst and an exhaust control valve between the engine exhaust 
manifold and the inlet of the main catalytic converter. The exhaust control 
valve is normally open, but is remotely operated closed at engine starting 
to cause the exhaust flow to pass through the close-coupled catalyst 
before it enters the main catalytic converter. Since the close-coupled 
catalyst is capable of becoming effective sooner than the main catalytic 
converter, the catalytic converter system is rendered capable of becoming 
effective sooner than if equipped with only the main catalytic converter. 
Once the main catalytic converter has been heated sufficiently to attain 
proper effectiveness, the exhaust control valve is remotely operated to  
 
revert to its normally open condition. The exhaust gas flow takes the 
now-favored least restrictive path through the exhaust control valve 
directly to the main catalytic converter, rather than passing through the 
close-coupled catalyst before entering the main catalytic converter. The exhaust control valve is exposed to a rather harsh 
environment, both thermally and chemically. Moreover, reliability 
requirements for the exhaust control valve are becoming more stringent. 
Accordingly, there is a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A remotely operated exhaust control valve (10) for 
selectively controlling the flow of exhaust gas from an internal combustion 

engine, wherein the valve comprises a valve body (18) having an inlet and 
outlet and containing between said inlet and said outlet a valve means 

(32) that is journaled for rotary motion on said body by means of a shaft 
(24) that extends through a bearing (28) in a wall (20) of said body 

between the inside and the outside of said body, said shaft having an 
outside portion (24c) that is coupled to an actuator (42, 66) via which the 

remote control of said valve is accomplished, characterized by means for 
preventing exhaust gas from escaping the inside of said body via said 

bearing which comprises: said bearing having surface to surface sealing 

with a hole (52) in said wall within which said bearing is mounted, said 
bearing comprising a hole through which said shaft passes, ceramic 

washers (38, 40) disposed on opposite axial faces of said bearing in 
surface to surface sealing with said bearing, one of said ceramic washers 

(40) having such surface to surface sealing with a face of said bearing that 
is toward the outside of said body, said shaft passing through said 

ceramic washers, a bellows (44) disposed on said shaft and having 
opposite axial ends, means closing one of said bellows' ends to said shaft, 

and the other of said bellows ends having surface to surface sealing with 
said one ceramic washer, said bellows being axially compressed such that 

it exerts forces urging said washers against said bearing and said other 
bellows' end against said one ceramic washer. 
An exhaust control valve set forth in claim 1 characterized 
further in that said other of said bellows ends fully axially overlaps said 

one ceramic washer and extends into a groove (86) in the face of said 
bearing that is toward the outside of said body to form a labyrinth type 

seal therewith. 
An exhaust control valve set forth in claim 1 characterized 
further in that said means closing one of said bellows' ends (44a) to said  

 
shaft comprises means (62, 42) axially sandwiching said one bellows' end 

against a shoulder (24e) of said shaft. 
An exhaust control valve set forth in claim 3 characterized 
further in that said means axially sandwiching said one bellows' end 

against a shoulder of said shaft comprises a head (62) that is formed 
integrally with said shaft (24). 
An exhaust control valve set forth in claim 4 characterized 
further in that an actuating lever (42) for rotating said shaft is disposed 

sandwiched between said head and said one bellows'end. 
An internal combustion engine exhaust system 
characterized by a remotely operated exhaust control valve according to 

the claims 1 to 5. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
