<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631793</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Splittable hemostatic valve and method of use with a splittable introducer sheath.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2506	A61M2506	A61M2508	A61M2508	A61M3902	A61M3906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M39	A61M39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A splittable hemostatic valve and introducer sheath 
assembly for introducing a lead or catheter therethrough 

and into a vessel of a patient. The assembly provides a 
relatively fluid-tight seal so that the assembly can remain 

in the vessel of a patient throughout an entire surgical 
operation with the advantage of devices being exchanged 

therethrough without bleeding, risk of air embolism, or 
repeated sheath insertion related trauma associated with 

such exchanges. The assembly includes a splittable 
introducer sheath and a splittable hemostatic valve coupled 

to the introducer sheath arranged and configured to permit 
introduction of a lead or catheter therethrough. To remove 

the hemostatic valve or introducer sheath from the 
implanted lead or catheter, means for permitting removal 

are provided for splitting apart or peeling away the 
hemostatic valve and the introducer sheath without the 

necessity of sliding either the valve or the sheath over 
the free end of the lead or catheter. The removal means 

for the hemostatic valve include a pair of diametrically 
opposed score lines extending along the length of the valve 

body. The removal means for the introducer sheath comprise 
a pair of longitudinal tabs along with a folded-back 

portion extending toward the distal end of the tubular 
sheath structure. The hemostatic valve assembly further 

comprises an annular elastic band for maintaining a slit 
membrane in a closed position, which is positioned 

proximate the proximal end of the valve body. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOK INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOK INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ULDALL PETER R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ULDALL, PETER R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to longitudinally 
splittable or peel-away introducer sheaths and, in 
particular, to a splittable or peel-away hemostatic valve 
for use with the introducer sheath and a method of 
catheterization with the splittable hemostatic valve and 
introducer sheath. Introducer sheaths that can be split apart or 
peeled away for removal from around a medical device in the 
body of a patient are commonly positioned in an artery of 
a patient for providing vascular access for medical devices 
such as guiding, angioplasty, or hemodialysis catheters and 
pacemaker leads. The Cook Peel-Away™ sheath, for example, 
is formed of a polytetrafluoroethylene material tube that 
is longitudinally split to provide a pair of pull tabs at 
the open, proximal end thereof. A problem with this or 
other commercially available, splittable introducer sheaths 
is that excessive bleeding can occur via the open, proximal 
end of the sheath. Rapid blood loss results in the need 
for constant clean-up on the part of medical personnel. 
More importantly, unnecessary or excessive bleeding 
increases the risk of complications for the patient. For  
 
example, continued bleeding increases the likelihood of 
embolism formation at the access site and clotting inside 
the sheath. As a result, the sheath is commonly removed 
and replaced with another sheath. The process of 
exchanging sheaths results in further patient discomfort 
and trauma to tissue at the access site. When tissue at 
the access site is injured during sheath exchange, vascular 
access must be gained at another anatomical site. 
Furthermore, exchanging sheaths and/or gaining access at 
another site prolongs the duration of a surgical procedure. One suggestion for limiting blood flow from the 
open, proximal end of a splittable introducer sheath is to 
manually pinch the sheath closed. A problem with this 
suggestion is that it is inconvenient to tie up one hand of 
the physician or other medical personnel throughout the 
procedure. Another problem with this suggestion is that 
the sheath is released when introducing another medical 
device into the proximal end of the sheath. As a result, 
blood flows from the sheath, and the aforementioned 
undesirable effects can occur despite efforts to hold the 
sheath closed. Another suggestion for limiting blood flow from the 
open, proximal end of a splittable introducer sheath is to 
at least partially occlude the sheath lumen with other 
medical devices inserted therethrough. The practice of 
introducing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An arrangement for forming a seal at the proximal end of an 
introducer sheath (12), said arrangement comprising a tubular assembly (16) for 

supporting or to be coupled to the introducer sheath and for permitting a lead or 
instrument (11,28,13) to be introduced through the sheath into a patient, 

characterized in that the tubular assembly has a structure which enables the assembly 
to be longitudinally split and to be laterally withdrawn with respect to the said 

instrument. 
An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the said structure 
enables the assembly to be split along first and second potential fracture lines 

(34,36), whereby the assembly can be split into two separate parts (17,18) capable of 
being removed laterally with respect to the longitudinal axis of the said instrument. 
An arrangement according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the introducer 
sheath is supported by the tubular assembly, and wherein the introducer sheath also 

has a structure which enables it to be longitudinally split and laterally withdrawn. 
An arrangement according to claim 3, wherein the said tubular 
assembly comprises a chamber (21) longitudinally extending therein, and wherein 

the introducer sheath is to be contained and sealed within the chamber. 
An arrangement according to claim 4, wherein a clamping 
arrangement (15) extends around or adjacent to the proximal end (20) of the tubular 

assembly to form the seal. 
An arrangement according to claim 5, wherein a slit (35) extends from 
the proximal end of the tubular assembly, through a membrane (22) into the 

proximal end of the said chamber, and wherein the distal end of the slit coincides 
with the said structure of the assembly. 
An arrangement according to any one preceding claim, wherein the 
said structure comprises one or more score lines (34,36) in the surface of the 

assembly and/or the introducer sheath. 
An arrangement according to claim 5, wherein the clamping 
 

arrangement comprises a peripheral groove (33) around the proximal end of the 
assembly, and a band (15) in the groove for exerting an inwardly directed force. 
An arrangement according to any preceding claim, wherein the 
assembly comprises first and second body sections (17,18) that are splittable apart, 

and wherein each section has a flange (38,40) extending therefrom to facilitate the 
splitting action. 
An arrangement according to claim 7, wherein the introducer sheath 
also comprises a pair of tabs (42,43) which enable the sheath to be split along the 

score lines after the assembly has been removed. 
An assembly for use with a lead or catheter, comprising an introducer 
sheath; a seal or valve coupled to said introducer sheath, said seal or valve and 

introducer sheath being arranged and configured to permit introduction of at least 
one lead or catheter therethrough; and 

   means for permitting removal of said seal or valve and introducer sheath 
from said lead or catheter disposed therethrough without requiring said introducer 

sheath and seal or valve to be removed from an end of said lead or catheter, 
   whereby said assembly may remain in a vein throughout an operation 

with the advantage of free lead exchange and easier lead manipulation without 
substantial bleeding, risk of air embolism, clotting or repeated sheath insertion 

related trauma from lead exchange. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
