<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625032</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED FLAVORED DENTAL CLEANING ARTICLE AND PROCESS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C1504	A61C1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C15	A61C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) having an open, porous brush portion (6) with matrix particles comprising flavor particles encapsulated in a water-soluble matrix bound to the surfaces of the brush portion by a water-insoluble, matrix particle encapsulating hard, flexible polymeric film which is preferably a urethane polymer. The brush portion can integrally be connected to a threader portion (4) and/or a floss portion (8), and the threader portion (4) and the brush portion (6) can be further stiffened by a second outer polymeric hard flexible film coating which can be free of flavor particles. The cleaning article (2) is made by impregnating an open, porous brush portion (6) of an interproximal dental cleaning article (2) with a coating solution comprising a coating material dissolved in a volatile solvent. The coating solution has dispersed therein matrix particles comprising flavor particles encapsulated in a water-soluble matrix, the matrix particles being substantially insoluble in the volatile solvent.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an improved
flavored article combining a dental brush with an
optional threader and dental floss for cleaning
the interproximal surfaces of teeth and to a
method for manufacturing the improved article.Tooth decay and dental disease can be
caused by bacterial action resulting from the
formation of plague about the teeth and/or the
entrapment of food particles between the teeth
and interstices therebetween. The removal of
plague and entrapped food particles reduces the
incidence of caries, gingivitis, and mouth odors
as well as generally improving oral hygiene.
Conventional brushing has been found to be
inadequate for removing all entrapped food
particles and plague. To supplement brushing,
dental flosses and tapes have been recommended.
The term "dental floss", as used herein, is
defined to include both dental flosses, dental
tapes and any similar article.To improve the effectiveness and
convenience of dental flosses, dental flosses
combining a thin "floss" portion and a thickened 
"brush" portion, together with a threader have been developed. The brush portion,
when drawn between tooth surfaces, has been found to provide an improved
cleaning action which removes materials left by the floss portion, when used alone.
The combination provides a substantially superior cleaning action. Such a device is
described in U.S. Patent 4,008,727, for example.Attractive and pleasant flavors and flavor odors have been provided
in dental products including dental flosses to impart a flavor to the flosses and
encourage their regular use. These have been applied in the form of flavoring oils
to the surface of floss or wax coating on the floss, or dispersed in wax coatings
applied to the floss. U.S. Patent 3,943,949 describes a plurality of filaments
impregnated with a water-insoluble wax with spray-dried flavor particles being
adhered to the surface of the wax coatings. U.S. Patent 4,033,365 describes a
plurality of filaments coated with a polymer, the coating containing spray-dried
flavor particles. The coating is specified to be one of four types of polymers, one
being a nylon type polymer. The spray-dried flavor particles are matrices of water-soluble
materials such as gums, starches, dextrins, and the like in which the
flavoring materials are dispersed. The flavor particles encapsulated in the water
soluble matrix are bound to the surface of the floss by the polymer. A wide variety
of flavoring and wax coating materials are disclosed in this patent.The flavored interproximal dental cleaning
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An interproximal dental cleaning article (2) having an open, porous
brush portion (6), characterized by a flavored coating thereon including matrix particles

comprising flavor particles encapsulated in a water-soluble matrix being bound to the
surfaces of the brush portion by a first water-insoluble, matrix particle encapsulating

hard, flexible urethane polymeric film, the coating being sufficiently thin so as not to
clog the open, porous brush portion.
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of claim 1, wherein
the open, porous brush portion (6) comprises a multiple filament portion of textured

yarn.
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of claim 1 or 2,
including a threader portion (4) which is integral with the brush portion (6).
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of claim 3, wherein
the threader portion (4) is stiffened by a second outer polymeric hard flexible film

coating which is free of flavor particles.
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of claim 4, wherein
the second outer flexible polymeric film coating comprises a urethane polymer.
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of any of the
preceding claims, wherein a floss portion (8) is integral with the brush portion (6).
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of any of the
preceding claims, wherein the matrix particles are flavor oils encapsulated in a matrix

comprising malto-dextrin.
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of claim 7, wherein
the matrix particles have been prepared by a process comprising drum-drying a matrix

solution containing flavoring oils.
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of claim 7, wherein
the matrix particles have been prepared by a process comprising extruding a matrix

solution containing flavoring oils.
A flavored interproximal dental cleaning article (2) of claim 7, wherein
the matrix particles have been prepared by a process comprising spray-drying a matrix 

solution containing flavoring oils.
A process for making an interproximal dental cleaning article having an
open, porous brush portion, characterized by the steps of:


a) coating said open, porous brush portion of said interproximal dental
cleaning article with a solution comprising a urethane coating-forming compound in a

volatile solvent, the coating solution having dispersed therein matrix particles
comprising flavor particles encapsulated in a water-soluble matrix, the matrix particles

being substantially insoluble in the volatile solvent; and
b) evaporating the solvent to harden the coating to substantial hardness
while retaining said open, porous brush portion, matrix particles comprising flavor

particles encapsulated in a water-soluble matrix being bound to the surfaces of the
brush portion by a first water-insoluble, matrix particle encapsulating hard, flexible

polymeric film.
A process of claim 11, wherein the particles have been prepared by a
process comprising drum-drying a matrix solution containing flavoring oils.
A process of claim 11, wherein the particles have been prepared by a
process comprising extruding a matrix solution containing flavoring oils.
A process of claim 11, wherein the particles have been prepared by a
process comprising spray-drying a matrix solution containing flavoring oils.
A process of any of claims 11-14, for making a flavored interproximal
dental cleaning article having an integral threader portion including the additional steps

of:

c) coating the threader portion of the product of step (b) with a second
coating solution comprising a polymer coating-forming compound in a volatile solvent;

and
d) evaporating the solvent to harden the coating to substantial hardness
to form an interproximal dental cleaning article wherein the brush portion is stiffened

by a second outer polymeric hard flexible film coating.
A process of claim 15, wherein the second coating solution and the
second outer coating do not contain flavoring particles.
A process of claim 15 or 16, wherein said second coating solution
comprises a urethane compound. 
A process of claim 17, wherein said urethane compound is a soluble
urethane prepolymer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
