<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631152</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radar system and components therefor for transmitting an electromagnetic signal underwater
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1388	G01S1304	G01S1310	G01S1360	G01S702	G01S1300	G01S1318	G01S702	G01S1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	G01S7	G01S13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An airborne radar system (10) includes a transmitter (12) 
for transmitting from a magnetic dipole antenna (20) a pulsed 

electromagnetic signal (122) having a frequency less than 500 Hz 
and a receiver (16) for receiving through a receiving antenna (18) 

a (scattered) reflected signal (128) provided from the pulsed 
electromagnetic signal (scattered) reflected from an anomaly (120) 

below the surface (114) of the water (116). A switch inhibits 
the receiver (16) from receiving a reflected signal (124) provided 

from the pulsed electromagnetic signal reflected from the surface 
(114) of the water (116) and a signal processor (22) controls 

interoperability of the transmitter (12), the receiver (16) and 
the switch. The anomaly beneath the surface (114) of water (116) 

may be a wake (120) of a moving vessel (118) (if and when this 
produces a conductivity anomaly), or a plume of oil (160). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYTHEON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYTHEON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROSSI MARIO D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROSSI, MARIO D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a radar system for detecting an
anomaly beneath the surface of water, comprising (a) means
for transmitting a pulse of an electromagnetic signal
toward the surface of the water; (b) antenna means for
receiving electromagnetic signals reflected from the
surface of the water and from an anomaly beneath the
surface of the water; and (c) means for utilizing received
electromagnetic signals reflected from the anomaly beneath
the surface of the water to determine the presence of the
anomaly. The invention also relates to a method of
operating such a system.As is known in the art, it is often desirable to detect
the presence of objects under the surface of the water.
Typically, conventional underwater detection systems
operate on acoustic principles. That is, acoustic energy
is transmitted in the water medium and echo return signals
are received and processed to determine the presence of
objects. However, acoustic signal propagation requires a
transmitting transducer and a receiving transducer be
disposed in the water medium. If an underwater detection
system is utilized from an aircraft (i.e. airplane,
helicopter, etc.), then the transmitting transducer and
the receiving transducer must be suspended from a cable or
a towline attached to the aircraft with the transmitting
transducer and the receiving transducer disposed below the
water's surface. Unfortunately, such an arrangement
reduces the mobility of the aircraft and the rate of
searching capability of the system. Thus, it is desirable
to not require transducers disposed in the water for an
underwater detection system utilized from an aircraft. United States Patents Nos 4434364 and 4867558 describe,
respectively, the detection of an underwater oil plume and
the wake of submarine by reflection of laser light.An alternative technique for detecting objects is
utilizing a radar system transmitting electromagnetic
signals. Electromagnetic signals propagate effectively in
air and couple suitably to sea water. United States
Patent No. 3 903 520, which issued to Arnold A. Shostak
on 2nd September 1975, describes a radar system of the kind
defined hereinbefore at the beginning which relies upon
the presence of a submarine bringing about changes in the
temperature and/or pressure of the contiguous sea water.
These changes affect the index of refraction of the water
and, where the changes are sonically produced, the
variation in the index of refraction is cyclic and results
in planes or layers where the index has maxima and minima.
This
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radar system for detecting an anomaly beneath the
surface of water, comprising:


(a) means (12,20) for transmitting a pulse of an
electromagnetic signal toward the surface of the water;
(b) antenna means (18) for receiving electromagnetic
signals reflected from the surface of the water and from

an anomaly beneath the surface of the water; and
(c) means (16,22, 26) for utilizing received
electromagnetic signals reflected from the anomaly beneath

the surface of the water to determine the presence of the
anomaly, characterised in that the said utilising means

(16,22,26) includes means (22,26) for determining the
delay between transmission of a pulse of the

electromagnetic signal and reception of the pulse after
reflection from the surface of the water and is adapted to

inhibit utilisation of received electromagnetic signals
during reception of electromagnetic signals reflected from

the surface of the water.
A radar system according to claim 1, characterised in
that the said utilising means includes means (22) for

controlling the transmitting means (12,20).
A radar system according to claim 2, characterised in
that the said utilising means includes a signal processor

means (22) for processing said reflected signals reflected
from the anomaly for detecting the presence of said

anomaly.
A radar system according to claim 3, characterised in
that the signal processor means (22) comprises means for

detecting a wake created by a vessel moving in the water. 
A radar system according to claim 3, characterised in
that the signal processing means (22) comprises means for

detecting a plume of oil disposed beneath the surface of
the water.
A radar system according to any preceding claim,
characterised in that the said utilising means includes

inertial navigation means (26) for measuring the height of
the radar system above the surface of the water.
A radar system according to any preceding claim,
characterised in that the transmitting means includes a

transmitting antenna (20) which is a magnetic dipole
antenna.
A radar system according to claim 7, characterised in
that the said transmitting means (12,20) is adapted to

transmit a pulse of an electromagnetic signal having a
frequency of 500Hz or less.
A method of operating a radar system for detecting an
anomaly beneath the surface of the water comprising the

steps of:

(a) transmitting a pulse of an electromagnetic
signal toward the surface of the water;
(b) receiving electromagnetic signals reflected
from the surface of the water and from an anomaly beneath

the surface of the water; and
(c) utilising the received electromagnetic signals
reflected from the anomaly beneath the surface of the

water to determine the presence of the anomaly,
characterised in that the said step of utilising the

received electromagnetic signals includes determining the
delay between transmission of a pulse of the

electromagnetic signal and reception of the pulse after
reflection from the surface of the water and inhibiting

utilisation of received electromagnetic signals during 
reception of electromagnetic signals reflected from the

surface of the water.
A method according to claim 9, characterised in that
the step of processing signals further comprises the step

of determining the anomaly is a wake created by a moving
vessel beneath the surface of the water.
A method according to claim 9, characterised in that
the step of processing signals further comprises the step

of determining the anomaly is a plume of oil disposed
beneath the surface of the water.
A method according to any one of claims 9 to 11,
characterised in that the said utilising step includes

measuring the height of the radar system above the surface
of the water by means of an inertial navigation unit (26).
A method according to any one of claims 9 to 12,
characterised in that the transmitted electromagnetic

signal is transmitted through a magnetic dipole antenna
(20).
A method according to claim 13, characterised in that
the transmitted electromagnetic signal has a carrier

frequency of 500Hz or less.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
