<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647352</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRANSPORT SYSTEM FOR WAFER PROCESSING LINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G4907	B65G4907	H01L2102	H01L2102	H01L2167	H01L21677	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G49	B65G49	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wafer processing system includes a plurality of evacuable housings connected in series to form a processing line, with a plurality of isolation valves to separately isolate the housings. A track extends through the connected housings. At least one wafer carrier is moveable on the track, through the housings and along the processing line. The wafer carrier holds wafers in vertical orientation and also includes a plurality of magnets aligned along its bottom. Outside the housings, a plurality of magnetic drive units are aligned parallel with the track, with one drive unit per housing. Each drive unit includes a motor driven conveyor with a plurality of magnets mounted thereon which imposes magnetic fields inside the housing to magnetically couple with the magnets mounted on the carrier. When the motor driven conveyor moves the imposed magnetic fields, the magnetic coupling causes the wafer carrier to move. A controller operatively connected to the isolation valves and the drive units coordinates movement of wafer carriers along the processing line according to a predetermined sequence while maintaining vacuum conditions in the housings.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS RESEARCH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATERIALS RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEYO DANIEL P O BOX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBISON RODNEY LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YASAR TUGRUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIELINSKI MARIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEYO, DANIEL P.O. BOX 376
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBISON, RODNEY, LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YASAR, TUGRUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIELINSKI, MARIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TRANSPORT SYSTEM FOR WAFER PROCESSING LINE Field of the InventionThis invention relates to a transport system for a wafer processing line. More particularly, this invention relates to a transport system which includes one or more linear magnetic drive units for translating a wafer carrier along a processing line. Background of the InventionSemiconductor wafer manufacture generally requires the performance of a plurality of processing steps according to a predetermined sequence under vacuum conditions. In one type of wafer processing system, evacuatable modules or housings connect serially, and each housing serves as the site for performing one of the processing steps, such as heating or sputter coating, or simply to initially isolate wafers from the outside environment. Wafer processing systems which utilize a plurality of serially-connected housings are commonly referred to as "in-line" processing systems. Generally, 

these "in-line" systems allow maximum wafer throughput per unit time.For in-line wafer processing systems where processes such as sputtering, vacuum evaporation, plasma etching are performed, it is necessary to move some parts such as substrates and shutters. Motion of these parts in vacuum is usually accomplished by using vacuum feedthroughs of various kinds. A feedthrough penetrates the walls of the vacuum system to provide a physical connection such as a shaft between the atmospheric side and the vacuum side. These feedthrough connections have seals to prevent leaks from the atmosphere into the vacuu .Usually a rotary feedthrough is used to transmit rotational motion into vacuum. Rotation is then converted to linear motion by means of mechanical components such as a ball screw, rack and pinion, worm gear, nuts, etc. which depend on friction to operate. In many applications the cleanliness of the vacuum process system is critical. Mechanical devises that depend upon frictional forces to provide linear motion generate particles and contamination. This makes these devices unsuitable for applications where extreme cleanliness and particulate free operation is required. It is an objective of this invention to transport wafers along a wafer processing line under vacuum conditions with a minimum risk of contamination form particulate. 

 It is another objective of this invention to maximize wafer throughput for an in-line processing system and to minimize wafer handling which presents a risk of contamination. This invention meets the above-stated objectives by utilizing magnetic coupling
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A transport system for wafer processing comprising: a plurality of housings connected in series to define a wafer processing line; a track extending through the housings along the processing line; a plurality of isolation valves, each isolation valve located between two adjacently situated housings and operable to open and close to permit and to prevent, respectively, access between adjacently situated housings along the track; a wafer carrier moveable along the track, the carrier adapted to hold a plurality of wafers; a plurality of magnets attached to the carrier and oriented along the length thereof and substantially parallel with the track; a plurality of magnetic drive units located outside of the housings and arranged substantially parallel with the track, each unit associated with one of the housings and including means for imposing at least one magnetic field within the respective housing to magnetically couple with the magnets of the carrier located therein, each unit being operable to move the imposed magnetic fields along the track to translate the carrier through the respective housing; and 


 a controller operatively connected to the isolation valves and the magnetic drive units to open and close the valves and move the imposed magnetic fields to translate the carrier along the wafer processing line according to a predetermined sequence. 

2. The transport system of claim 1 and further comprising: a plurality of said wafer carriers; and the controller adapted to synchronously open and close the isolation valves and move the imposed magnetic fields to sequentially translate the carriers along the track while maintaining vacuum conditions within the housings.
3. The transport system of claim 1 wherein the housings have a uniform dimension as measured along the track and the dimension of the carrier as measured along the track is less than said uniform dimension.
4. The transport system of claim 3 wherein each magnetic drive unit has a dimension along the track which is slightly less than said uniform dimension, the carrier dimension being sufficient to span between two drive units when passing through an open isolation valve located between adjacently situated housings associated with said two drive units. 

5. The transport system of claim 1 wherein each magnetic drive unit further comprises: a plurality of magnets mounted on an endless conveyor oriented parallel with the track, the conveyor dimension as measured along the track being less than the dimension of the respective housing as measured along the track, the conveyor operatively connected to the controller.
6. The transport system of claim 1 wherein the controller is programmable to permit selective variation of the predetermined sequence.
7. The transport system of claim 1 and further comprising: a plurality of vacuum pumps, each vacuum pump associated with one of the housings and adapted to maintain vacuum conditions therein, each vacuum pump being operatively connected to the controller; and a plurality of gate valves, each gate valve associated with a vacuum pump to isolate the pump from a respective housing, each gate valve operatively connected to the controller, whereby the controller maintains vacuum conditions in the housing during movement of wafers therethrough. 



8. The transfer system of claim 1 and further comprising: a plurality of wafer processing means, each wafer processing means associated with one of said housings and adapted to perform a wafer processing step upon the wafers held on a carrier when said carrier is located in the respective housing, each wafer processing means operatively connected to the controller.
9. The transport system of claim 8 wherein at least one of said wafer processing means performs a sputtering operation.
10. The transport system of claim 1 wherein the wafers are held on the carrier in vertical orientation.
11. The transport system of claim 10 and further comprising: wafer processing means associated with at least one of housings, the wafer processing means located on opposite sides of the track in said at least one housing and adapted to perform a wafer processing operation on surfaces of wafers facing outwardly from the track.
12. The transport system cf claim 11 wherein said wafer processing means performs a sputter coating operation. 


13. The transport system of claim 11 wherein the wafer carrier further comprises: at least one planar member rotatably mounted on the carrier and oriented vertically and parallel with the track, the at least one planar member having sides facing outwardly from the track in a substantially perpendicular direction, each said side adapted to hold a plurality of wafers in vertical orientation.
14. The transport system of claim 13 and further comprising: a carrier magnet mounted on the planar member; and a rotational magnetic drive unit located outside of at least one of the housings, the rotational drive unit adopted to impose and rotate at least one magnetic field within the housing, thereby to magnetically couple the at least one imposed magnetic field with the carrier magnet to rotate the at least one planar member on the carrier during wafer processing in the housing.
15. The transport system of claim 1 wherein the magnetic drive units are located below the track. 


16. A transport system for a sputter coating line comprising: a plurality of housings connected in series to define a wafer processing line, at least one of the housings including means for sputter coating; means for evacuating a selected number of said housings, each of said selected number of housings including a gate valve to isolate the respective housing from the evacuating means; a track extending through the housings; a plurality of isolation valves, with one said isolation valve located between every two adjacently situated housings and adapted to open and to close to permit and to prevent, respectively, access therebetween along the track; at least one wafer carrier translatable on the track along the processing line, the wafer carrier adapted to hold a plurality of wafers in vertical orientation; a plurality of magnets mounted along the length of the carrier and substantially parallel with the track; a plurality of magnetic drive units located substantially parallel with the track, each drive unit associated with one of the housings, each unit including means for imposing a plurality of magnetic fields within the respective housing and moving the imposed magnetic fields in a linear direction along the track, thereby to magnetically couple the imposed fields with the magnets 


mounted on the wafer carrier when located in the respective housing and to linearly move said wafer carrier along the track; and a controller operatively connected to the evacuating means, each of the gate valves, each of the isolation valves, each of the magnetic drive units and the sputter coating means to maintain vacuum conditions in the housings, to move the wafer carrier along the track and to sputter coat wafers mounted on the carriers according to a predetermined sequence. 

17. The transport system of claim 16 wherein each magnetic drive unit further comprises: an endless belt conveyor with a plurality of magnets mounted thereon; and a motor for driving the conveyor, said motor operatively connected to the controller.
18. The transport system of claim 16 wherein the wafer carrier further comprises: at least one planar member rotatably mounted on the carrier and oriented vertically and parallel with the track, the at least one planar member having sides facing outwardly from the track in a substantially perpendicular direction, each said side adapted to hold a plurality of wafers in vertical orientation. 

19. The transport system of claim 18 and further comprising: a carrier magnet mounted on the planar member; and a rotational magnetic drive unit located outside of at least one of the housings, the rotational drive unit adopted to impose and rotate at least one magnetic field within the housing, thereby to magnetically couple the at least one imposed magnetic field with the carrier magnet to rotate the at least one planar member of the carrier during wafer processsing in the housing.
20. A wafer processing module comprising: a housing connectable with other housings to form a wafer processing line; a track extending through the housing, the track adapted to guide a wafer carrier through the housing; wafer processing means mounted to the housing for processing a wafer supported on a rotatable pallet carried by the wafer carrier when the wafer carrier is positioned on the track within the housing; and a rotational magnetic drive unit located outside the housing and adapted to impose and rotate at least one magnetic field within the housing, thereby to 


rotate the pallet on the carrier during wafer processing in the housing.
21. The transport system of claim 20 and further comprising: means for moving the magnetic rotational drive unit toward and away from the housing to control the magnitude of the at least one magnetic field imposed in the housing.
22. The transport system of claim 20 and further comprising: means for rotating the pallet in a continuous manner.
23. The transport system of claim 20 and further comprising: means for rotating the pallet in an indexed manner. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
