<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648782</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITION CONTAINING HEMATOPOIESIS INHIBITOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K14435	C07K1447	C07K1452	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A composition containing a hematopoiesis 
inhibitor that inhibits CFU-E colony formation and 

comprising a substance present in the filtrate obtained 
by concentrating a dialyzate, obtained by 

dialyzing blood through a dialysis membrane having 
an albumin sieving coefficient of 0.01 or above, 

with a membrane having a fractionating molecular 
weight of 5,000 or less and then filtering the concentrate 

with a gel having a maximum fractionating 
molecular weight ranging from 0.2 to 1.5 million. 

The invention also relates to a method of treating 
blood characterized by removing an A
I
 component 
so as to satisfy the following relationship: 


A
I
/A
A
 ≧ 1/50 
 
 wherein A
I
 represents the height of 
the absorbance value of a composition containing 

a hematopoiesis inhibitor, as set forth in any of 
claims 1 through 5, at a wavelength of 280 nm in 

the gel filtration pattern of the solute in the dialyzate, 
and A
A
 represents the height of the maximum 
absorbance value in the gel filtration pattern. 

The invention further relates to a dialysis membrane 
characterised in that the following relationship 

holds: 

A
I
/A
A
 ≧ 1/50 
 
 wherein A
I
, represents 
the height of the absorbance value of a composition 

containing a hematopoiesis inhibitor, as set forth in any of claims 1 through 5, at a wavelength of 280 nm in the gel 
filtration pattern of the solute in the dialyzate, and A
A
 represents the height of the maximum absorbance value in the gel 
filtration pattern. In addition, the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition and an erythrocytosis remedy each 

containing the hematopoiesis inhibitor. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TORAY INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TORAY INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAOKA HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMADA TOMOKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATAOKA, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMADA, TOMOKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to hematopoietic 
inhibiting factor-containing compositions which inhibit colony 
formation of colony forming unit-erythroidan erythroid colony 
forming cell (hereinafter referred to as CFU-E). It is reported that the volume of packed red cells 
(hematocrit) in the majority of patients under therapeutic 
hemodialysis is 20 - 30 %, which shows an extreme anemic 
condition compared to the hematocrit of 40 - 50 % in a healthy 
subject. Meanwhile, erythropoietin, a hemopoietic stimulator 
has been developed and its massive administration, with the 
dosage amounting to 30 times the concentration in blood of a 
healthy subject, has been known to improve the anemia. What has 
been made clear recently is that though the massive 
administration of the erythropoietin improves anemia in many 
patients, some of the patients are left unimproved. Considering that the massive administration of the 
hemopoietic stimulating erythropoietin is required, and that 
there are still some patients whose anemic conditions are left 
unimproved even by such massive administration of 
erythropoietin, it can be deemed that a hematopoietic inhibiting 
substance might be stored in a hemodialysis patient to interfere 
the activity of the erythropoietin. Regarding the hematopoietic inhibiting substance, there 
is a report of Saito et al. (Clinical Chemistry, A.Saito et  
 
al.(1986) P1938), for example, wherein they have reported that a 
hematopoietic inhibiting factor had a molecular weight of 1,000 - 
10,000. If the hematopoietic inhibiting factor had such a 
molecular weight, the anemia of the hemodialysis patients should 
have been sufficiently improved by the dialysis utilizing a 
dialysis membrane used in the present therapeutic hemodialysis 
which could remove a medium molecular weight substance, however, 
actually their anemia has not been fully improved yet. The invention of this application is aimed at solving 
the above-described problems of the known art, accordingly, its 
object is to provide accurate hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing 
compositions which inhibit colony formation of CFU-E. The invention of this application relates to 
hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing compositions, which 
are obtained by separating a component having a molecular weight 
of 200,000 or more from a dialysate obtained by dialyzing blood 
with a dialysis membrane of a sieving coefficient of not less 
than 0.01. More specifically, it relates to hematopoietic 
inhibiting factor-containing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing compositions 
which can be obtained by separating a component having a 

molecular weight of 200,000 or more from a dialysate obtained by 
dialyzing blood with a dialysis membrane of albumin sieving 

coefficient of not less than 0.01. 
Hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing compositions 
which can be obtained on a macromolecular side by separating a 

dialysate obtained by dialyzing blood with a dialysis membrane 
of albumin sieving coefficient of not less than 0.01, using a 

gel having maximum molecular weight fractionation of not less 
than 200,000. 
Hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing compositions 
which inhibit colony formation of an erythroid colony forming 

cell and which can be obtained in the fraction eluting at 
exclusion limit by gel filtration using a gel having maximum 

molecular weight fractionation of not less than 200,000 and not 
more than 1,500,000, of a dialysate of blood which is obtained 

with a dialysis membrane having albumin sieving coefficient of 
not less than 0.01, followed by concentration with a membrane 

having molecular weight fractionation of not more than 5,000. 
Hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing compositions 
according to claims 1-3, wherein the albumin sieving coefficient 

of the dialysis membrane is not less than 0.02. 
Hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing compositions 
 

according to claims 1-3, wherein the albumin sieving coefficient 
of the dialysis membrane is not less than 0.03. 
Hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing compositions 
according to claims 1-5, wherein the hematopoietic inhibiting 

factor is water-soluble. 
A hematopoietic inhibiting factor according to claims 1-6, 
which is migrated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis 

containing sodium dodecyl sulfate to a position of a molecular 
weight of not less than 30,000 and not more than 100,000. 
A hematopoietic inhibiting factor as defined in claim 7, 
wherein a sequence of amino acids from the N-terminal to the 

19th is expressed as Ala-Val-Val-Tyr-Asp-Lys-Asp-Gly-Thr-Ser-Phe-Asp-Ile-Tyr-Gly 
-Lys-Val-Gln-Ala. 
A hematopoietic inhibiting factor as defined in claim 7, 
wherein a sequence of amino acids from the N-terminal to the 

10th is expressed as Ala-Ala-Lys-Glu-Val-Lys-Phe-Gly-Asn-Glu. 
A process of treating blood in which AI component is so 
removed as to satisfy 

AI/AA ≧ 1/50  
, wherein AI is the height of 

the absorbancy value of the hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing 
compositions according to claims 1 - 6 and AA is the 

height of the maximum absorbancy value in a gel filtration 
pattern of solutes of the dialysate expressed in terms of the 

absorbancy at 280 nm. 
A process of treating blood as defined in claim 10, 
 

wherein the AI/AA is such that 
AI/AA ≧ 1/30  

. 
A dialysis membrane which satisfies 
AI/AA ≧ 1/50  

, 
wherein AI is the height of the absorbancy value of the 

hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing compositions 
according to claims 1 - 6 and AA is the height of the maximum 

absorbancy value in a gel filtration pattern of solutes of the 
dialysate expressed in terms of the absorbancy at 280 nm. 
A process of separating hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing 
compositions wherein a component having a molecular 

weight of 200,000 or more is separated from a dialysate obtained 
by dialyzing blood with a dialysis membrane of albumin sieving 

coefficient of not less than 0.01. 
A process of separating hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing 
compositions, wherein a macromolecular side component 

is separated by separating a dialysate obtained by dialyzing 
blood with a dialysis membrane of albumin sieving coefficient of 

not less than 0.01, using a gel having maximum molecular weight 
fractionation of not less than 200,000. 
A process of separating hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing 
compositions which inhibit colony formation of colony 

forming unit-erythroid, by removing a component obtained in the 
fraction eluting at exclusion limit by gel filtration using a 

gel having maximum molecular weight fractionation of not less 
than 200,000 and not more than 1,500,000, of a dialysate of 

blood which is obtained with a dialysis membrane having albumin 
sieving coefficient of not less than 0.01, followed by 

 
concentration with a membrane having molecular weight 

fractionation of not more than 5,000. 
A process of separating hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing 
compositions according to claims 13-15, wherein the 

albumin sieving coefficient of the dialysis membrane is not less 
than 0.02. 
A process of separating hematopoietic inhibiting factor-containing 
compositions according to claims 13-15, wherein the 

albumin sieving coefficient of the dialysis membrane is not less 
than 0.03. 
A process of separating a hematopoietic inhibiting 
factor wherein a component which is migrated by polyacryl amide 

gel electrophoresis containing sodium dodecyl sulfate to a 
position of a molecular weight of not less than 30,000 and not 

more than 100,000 is separated from hematopoietic inhibiting 
factor-containing compositions of claims 1-6. 
Drug compositions containing the hematopoietic 
inhibiting factor of claims 7-9 as an active ingredient. 
A therapeutic agent for erythrocytosis containing the 
hematopoietic inhibiting factor of claims 7-9 as the active 

ingredient. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
