<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650563</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DUAL MASS FLYWHEEL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F15131	F16F15139	F16F15134	F16D350	F16F112	F16D362	F16F104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	F16F	F16D	F16F	F16D	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F15	F16F15	F16F15	F16D3	F16F1	F16D3	F16F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Dual mass flywheel (2) which forms part of the drive transmission between an engine crankshaft (4) and a clutch shaft (6) connectable to the latter and incorporates a first flywheel body (12) which is drivingly connected to the crankshaft, and a second flywheel body (14) which is rotatable relative to the first flywheel body (12) and is connected to it by springs (18) engaged between the flywheel bodies. These springs (18) are directed substantially radially with respect to the axis of the flywheel (2) and have their radially inner ends pivotally attached to the first flywheel body (12) and their radially outer ends pivotally attached to the second flywheel body (14). Between radially inner parts of the flywheel bodies (12, 14) there is a centrifugal clutch (40) which keeps the flywheel bodies locked together by friction at lower engine speeds and frictionally disengaged from one another at higher engine speeds. The second flywheel body (14), by means of its socket-like hub (26) via a rolling bearing (30), is mounted externally on the hub portion (22) of the first flywheel body (12).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCANIA CV AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCANIA CV AKTIEBOLAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORDKVIST JOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORDKVIST, JOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention refers to a dual mass flywheel of the kind indicated in the preamble to 
Claim 1. Such a flywheel is shown in US 4 856 636 where the two flywheel bodies 
also are connected via a friction device including radially directed spring 
elements. The friction device is designed to be disconnected at high rpms where 
centrifugal force exceeds the spring forces. Drive transmission from the second flywheel body to the clutch shaft takes place via a clutch 
carrier or clutch disc which is locked against rotation (but not against axial movement) on the 
clutch shaft and which has clutch linings (friction linings) which can be pressed against a 
face-ground surface on the second flywheel body by means of a pressure plate. Dual mass flywheels of this kind for passenger cars are known of prior art. They involve 
designs whereby the two flywheel bodies (centrifugal masses) are connected by tangentially 
directed springs. An example of such a known technique which may be referred to is DE 3 807 133. according 
to which the two coaxial portions of the flywheel are connected by tangentially directed coil 
springs. A further example which may be mentioned is DE 3 743 634, which describes a 
vibration damper disposed between a pair of flywheel masses which are connected 
respectively to the engine and the gearbox. The damper includes springs which are disposed 
and effective in a tangential direction. Disposing these springs thus tangentially is natural, since the springs are oriented to absorbing  
  
 
forces in their effective longitudinal directions. On heavy duty vehicles with engines usually 
dimensioned for producing ever greater torque while at the same time being run at ever slower 
rotation speeds, there is an increasing need for effective vibration damping. This involves ever 
increasing numbers of springs despite the limited space along the flywheel periphery. The disadvantages of the known designs thus include bulkiness and the fact that complicated 
technical solutions have to be resorted to for achieving desired spring characteristics. The object of the invention is to create a new improved type of dual mass flywheel whereby 
the aforesaid disadvantages can be avoided. The new dual mass flywheel will be particularly 
suitable for eliminating or at least minimising the problem of severe vibrations arising from 
low engine speed and high torque in engines both for heavy duty vehicles and for passenger 
cars. The aforesaid object is achieved according to the invention by the dual mass
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Dual mass flywheel (2) which forms part of the drive transmission between the crankshaft 
(4) of a vehicle's internal combustion engine and a clutch shaft (6) connectable to the 

crankshaft (4), which flywheel (2) comprises a first flywheel body (12) drivingly connected to 
the engine crankshaft (4), and a second flywheel body (14) which is arranged for rotation with 

respect to the first flywheel body (12) and is connected thereto by springs (18) provided for elastically damping relative rotational movement of 
the two flywheel bodies, the second flywheel body (14) being arranged for 

connection to the clutch shaft (6) by means of a friction clutch, and the 
springs (18) being directly mechanically engaged as compression springs between the flywheel 

bodies (12, 14), 
characterised in
 that the compression springs (18) are directed substantially radially with respect to the symmetry axis (9) of 
the flywheel (2). 
Dual mass flywheel according to claim 1, 
characterised in
 that the springs (18) engaged 
between the flywheel bodies (12, 14) have their radially inner ends pivotingly attached to the 

first flywheel body (12) and their radially outer ends pivotingly attached to the second 
flywheel body (14). 
Dual mass flywheel according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in
 that there is a centrifugal 
clutch (40) between the two flywheel bodies (12, 14) which serves to keep the flywheel 

bodies locked together by friction at lower engine speeds and to keep them frictionally 
disengaged from one another at higher engine speeds. 
Dual mass flywheel according to any one of the foregoing claims, 
characterised in
 that the 
springs (18) are cylindrical coil springs which are so accommodated between the flywheel 

bodies (12, 14) as to maintain a certain prestress in the springs (18) even when they are 
radially positioned between the flywheel bodies (12, 14), as when there is no torque 

transmission between the latter.  
 
Dual mass flywheel according to any of the foregoing claims, 
characterised in
 that the first 
flywheel body (12) comprises a hub portion (22) and a flywheel disc (24) which is firmly 

connected thereto and is perpendicular to the axis of the flywheel (2), and that the second 
flywheel body (14) has in its radially inner part a socket-like hub (26) which is mounted on 

the outside of the hub portion (22) of the first flywheel body and has attached to one end of it 
a flywheel disc (28) which is parallel to the flywheel disc (24) of the first flywheel body. 
Dual mass flywheel according to claim 5, 
characterised in
 that the two flywheel discs (24, 
28) delineate between them an annular space in which the radial springs (18) are 

accommodated starwise around the hub portion (22) and the hub (26). 
Dual mass flywheel according to any one of the foregoing claims, 
characterised in
 that the 
radial springs (18) are mutually identical and have at each of their ends anchoring devices (32, 

34) which are rotatably fixed in the respective flywheel discs (24, 28). 
Dual mass flywheel according to claim 5 or 6, 
characterised in
 that the socket-like hub (26) 
of the second flywheel body (14) is mounted externally on the hub portion (22) of the first 

flywheel body (12), preferably by means of a rolling bearing (30). 
Dual mass flywheel according to any one of claims 5-8, 
characterised
 in that the 
centrifugal clutch (40) comprises a circular groove (42), preferably of wedge-shaped cross-section, 

on the outside of the socket-like hub (26) of the second flywheel body (14), and a pair 
of arcuate brake shoe devices (44, 46) which engage in the groove and follow one another in 

the circumferential direction of the groove, and each brake shoe device has one end mounted 
for swivelling on a peg (48) fixed in the flywheel disc (24) of the first flywheel body (12), 

while their other end is spring-prestressed (50) towards the bearing peg (48) of the second 
brake shoe device. 
Dual mass flywheel according to claim 9, 
characterised in
 that a part (A) of the 
longitudinal extent of the brake shoe devices (44, 46) is provided on their side surfaces with 

friction linings capable of being pressed against the sidewalls of the groove (42). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
