<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658013</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Antenna switching diversity for a train radio communications system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B708	H04B708	H04B726	H04B726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A train radio communication system includes a
plurality of land communication equipments and a train

communication equipment. The land communication
equipments are arranged at predetermined intervals along

a railroad on which a train travels and designed to
output transmission signals having different

frequencies. The train communication equipment is
arranged in the train and designed to set a radio

channel between the train communication equipment and
one of the land communication equipments during travel

of the train. The train communication equipment
includes a plurality of antennas, an antenna switch, a

receiver, and an antenna controller. The antennas
respectively receive the transmission signals from the

land communication equipments. The antenna switch
selects one of the antennas. The receiver demodulates

an output from the antenna selected by the antenna
switch and outputs a reception signal. The antenna

controller includes a current position detecting section
for detecting a current traveling position of the train

and controls the antenna switch in accordance with a
current traveling position from the current position

detecting section.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI YASUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SASAKI, YASUTAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a train radio 
communication system of a diversity reception scheme 
and, more particularly, a train radio communication 
system for always holding the optimum communication 
quality in a train communication system. Fig. 7 shows a conventional train radio 
communication system. Various communicating schemes for a train 
radio communication system have been proposed and put 
into practice. Of these schemes, a space diversity 
reception scheme is highly evaluated. The basic 
arrangement of the space diversity reception scheme will 
be described below with reference to Fig. 7. Referring to Fig. 7, a large number of land 
communication equipments 31 are installed at given 
intervals along a railroad on which a train travels, and 
a train communication equipment 32 performs 
communication while sequentially switching the land 
communication equipments 31 with which the train 
communication equipment 32 communicates during travel. 
Figs. 7 shows a case wherein the train communication 
equipment 32 is communicating with one of the plurality  
 
of land communication equipments 31. The train 
communication equipment 32 comprises an antenna unit 321 
constituted by a plurality of antennas 321a to 321n, a 
reception unit 322 constituted by a plurality of 
receivers 322a to 322n, a channel monitor unit 323 
constituted by a plurality of channel monitors 323a to 
323n, a channel quality comparator 324 for specifying a 
reception route having the optimum quality by comparing 
output results from the channel monitors 323a to 323n of 
the channel monitor unit 323, and a receiver selection 
switch 325 for selecting one of reception outputs from 
the receivers 322a to 322n on the basis of the 
comparison result obtained by the channel quality 
comparator 324. The antennas 321a to 321n, the receivers 322a 
to 322n, and the channel monitors 323a to 323n are 
arranged in a one-to-one correspondence, and 
respectively constitute independent reception routes. 
That is, an RF signal modulated/transmitted by/from the 
land communication equipment 31 is sent to the receivers 
322a to 322n via the antennas 321a to 321n in the train 
communication equipment 32 to be demodulated and output 
as reception outputs. The channel monitors 323a to 323n 
evaluate the qualities of the reception outputs and 
output the respective qualities as numerical values. 
Although various quality evaluation methods are 
available in this case, a method based on received power  
 
level is often used for an analog
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A train radio communication system 
characterized by comprising a plurality of land 

communication equipments (11), arranged at predetermined 
intervals along a railroad on which a train travels, for 

outputting transmission signals having different 
frequencies, and a train communication equipment (12), 

arranged in the train, for setting a radio channel 
between said train communication equipment and one of 

said land communication equipments during travel of the 
train, 

   said train communication equipment including: 
   a plurality of antennas (121a - 121n) for 

respectively receiving the transmission signals from 
said land communication equipments; 

   an antenna switch (121m) for selecting one of 
said antennas; 

   a receiver (122a) for demodulating an output 
from said antenna selected by said antenna switch and 

outputting a reception signal; and 
   antenna control means (123, 223), including 

current position detecting means (123a, 123c, 123d, 
123e, 223a, 223c, 223d, 223e) for detecting a current 

traveling position of the train, for controlling said 
antenna switch in accordance with a current traveling 

position from said current position detecting means. 
A system according to claim 1, further 
comprising channel monitor means (122b) for monitoring 

quality of a reception signal from said receiver and 
outputting an antenna switching request when the quality 

of the reception signal becomes lower than a reference 
value, and wherein said antenna control means switches 

said antenna switch on the basis of land position 
information when an antenna switching request is 

generated by said channel monitor means. 
A system according to claim 1 or 2, further 
comprising a first memory (123h, 223h) for storing 

antenna switching information along the railroad on 
which the train travels, and wherein said antenna 

control means switches said antenna switching means in 
accordance with the antenna switching information stored 

in said first memory. 
A system according to claim 3, wherein said 
antenna control means comprises a second memory (123b) 

for storing propagation parameters corresponding to 
traveling positions of the train in advance and 

outputting a propagation parameter in accordance with a 
current traveling position from said current position 

detecting means, a correlation coefficient calculator 
(123f) for calculating correlation coefficients between 

one of said antennas, selected on the basis of the 
 

propagation parameter from said second memory and the 
current traveling position from said current position 

detecting means, and said remaining antennas, and an 
antenna switching information generator (123g) for 

causing said first memory to store an antenna number 
corresponding to a minimum correlation coefficient of 

the correlation coefficients from said correlation 
coefficient calculator as antenna switching information 

and for outputting the stored antenna number to said 
antenna switch. 
A system according to claim 3 or 4, wherein a 
switching pattern corresponding to current traveling 

positions of the train which are obtained by causing the 
train to travel on the railroad and executing spatial 

diversity reception is stored, as antenna switching 
information, in said first memory in advance, and said 

antenna control means comprises an antenna switching 
information generator (223g) for obtaining an antenna 

number corresponding to a current traveling position 
supplied from said current position detecting means from 

the switching pattern stored in said first memory and 
outputting the antenna number to said antenna switch. 
A system according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein a 
transmission signal from each of said land communication 

equipments includes land position information, and said 
 

current position detecting means comprises a reference 
position detector (123a, 223a) for detecting a reference 

position on the basis of land position information from 
each of said land communication equipments, a 

speedometer (123d, 223d) for measuring a speed of the 
train, and a distance calculator (123e, 223e) for 

calculating a traveling distance from a reference 
position detected by said reference position detector on 

the basis of an output from said speedometer, and 
detects a current traveling position on the basis of the 

reference position detected by said reference position 
detector and the traveling distance calculated by said 

distance calculator. 
A system according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said 
current position detecting means comprises a speedometer 

(223d) for detecting a speed of the train, and a 
distance calculator (223e) for detecting an entire 

traveling distance from a traveling start position of 
the train on the basis of an output from said 

speedometer, and detects a current traveling position on 
the basis of the total traveling distance calculated by 

said distance calculator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
