<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644792</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR SOLID PHASE REACTIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1502	B01D1502	B01D1508	B01D1508	B01J808	B01J810	B01J1900	B01J1900	C07K100	C07K104	C08F200	C08F200	C08F600	C08F600	C08G6900	C08G6910	C40B4004	C40B4006	C40B4010	C40B4012	C40B6014	C40B6014	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	C07K	C07K	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08G	C08G	C40B	C40B	C40B	C40B	C40B	C40B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D15	B01D15	B01D15	B01D15	B01J8	B01J8	B01J19	B01J19	C07K1	C07K1	C08F2	C08F2	C08F6	C08F6	C08G69	C08G69	C40B40	C40B40	C40B40	C40B40	C40B60	C40B60	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LARGE SCALE BIOLOGY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LARGE SCALE BIOLOGY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON N LEIGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON NORMAN G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, N., LEIGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, NORMAN, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLE OF THE INVENTIONSYSTEM FOR SOLID PHASE REACTIONSTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to a rotating processor system for performing solid phase reactions involving the use of solid phase particulate beds or phase separations to accomplish separations, purifica¬ tion, biopolymer synthesis or enzyme reactions, and in particular, a rotating system for performing reactions on a large scale or preparative level.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONA variety of separative, synthetic, and enzymatic or otherwise catalytic processes use beds of particu¬ late material with transport of reactants, reagents and products or eluants in solution through the bed. In addition, many reactions are known in which the products are separated by concentration in one of two or more phases. These processes include, among others, ion exchange chromatography, gel filtration, ion exclusion chromatography, affinity chromatography, separations based on hydrophobicity, purification based on hybridization, peptide synthesis, oligonucleotide synthesis, and polysaccharide synthesis including combinations of the last three. These processes may be carried out on a small scale for analytical purposes or process design, and are then often scaled up for preparative work. In nearly all examples the solid phase particulates are packed in a closed column with a porous frit on the lower end, an optional frit at the top, and with fluid-connections at both ends so that liquid can flow in either direction through the bed. To achieve efficiency and high resolution with solid 

 phase supports, all volume elements of all fluids should flow through paths of identical composition and nearly identical length, and all particles in the bed should be exposed to the same succession . of liquids under the same conditions.In all instances involving solid phase systems, some interaction occurs between the solutes run through the bed and the particles composing the bed. This interaction may be based on secondary forces (ionic, hydrophobic, or on immunochemical interactions, or base pairing) or primary valencies as when amino acids or nucleotides are added to a growing chain on the solid phase support, or when immobilized enzymes cleave substrates flowing through the bed, or when enzymes in solution react with substrates attached to the pack¬ ing. In addition, solvents or reagents of successively differing composition which dissociate adsorbed or otherwise attached bound molecular species, or which cleave off protective groups, or compounds including polymers
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A system for solid phase reactions comprising: rotor means for performing a solid phase reaction in the presence of a solid support matrix, said rotor means comprising a rotor body capable of rotating about a rotational axis and defining an inner chamber, said rotor body having a first central, axial fluid passage connecting the inner chamber to the outside of said rotor body and a second fluid passage opposite said first passage and having an opening to said inner chamber adjacent a radially-outward, inner wall surface of the rotor body; means coupled to said rotor means for intro¬ ducing selected fluids of sequentially differing densities to one of either said first or second passage and removing fluid from the other of said first or second passage.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said fluid intro¬ ducing and removing means is operable to introduce fluid of gradually increasing density into said rotor body through said second passage such that fluid phases of different density are formed in said chamber and move toward said rotational axis, forcing less dense fluid out said first passage.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein said fluid intro- ducing and removing means is operable to introduce fluid of gradually or step-wise decreasing density into said rotor body through said first passage such that fluid phases of different density are formed in said chamber and move radially outward, forcing denser fluid out said second passage. 


4. The system of claim 1, wherein the rotor body is operated with the axis horizontal, and the rotor body is rotated slowly or oscillated to suspend and agitate the particulate material while the rotor body is filled with a fluid causing one step in a synthetic reaction.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the rotor comprises an outer housing and an inner sealed liner cons- tructed of chemically inert material.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the inner chamber is removable, and is prepacked with a solid support matrix.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the solid support matrix, fluids, fluid introduction and removal means, composition of the rotor, and the operating microprocessor program are all designed for processing of solutes in a liquid stream based on immobilized enzymes.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for introducing selected fluids comprises a flat multi- port valve having a plurality of openings connected to reagent lines on a flat face of a first plate thereof, and a single opening connected to the rotor body on a flat face of a second plate there¬ of, wherein one face comprises an inert plastic and the other face is made of glass, quartz, sapphire, or ceramic material, said valve having motor means for programmed X-Y motion of one face relative to the other, such that the single opening may be aligned with any opposing one of said ports in any order without cross contamination. 


 9. The system of claim 8, wherein both plates have more than one opening.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein one of the plates is 5 rotated to bring the openings into alignment, and the other plate is translated radially, relative to the first, to produce alignment to give a valve which is both random-access and flow reversing.
10 11. The system of claim 8, wherein two flat multi-port valves are coupled to the rotor means, one imme¬ diately above the rotor means and the other immediately below the rotor means, so that when liquids of decreasing density are introduced 5 through the upper valve, or of increasing density through the lower valve, no density inversions occur in the lines.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the position of the 0 valve openings are readily visible to the operator through the plate which is transparent.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein one end of the rotor is transparent. 5
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the axis of rotation may be changed either during rotation or at rest.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the rotor core has 0 radially arranged vanes which are perpendicular to the axis of rotation.
16. The system of claim 1, further comprising a micro¬ processor to control rotor body speed and entry of 5 the fluids into the rotor body. 


17. A process for synthesizing a polymer selected from the group consisting of an oligonucleotide, a peptide, a polysaccharide and a heteropolymer com¬ prising two or more elements of an oligonucleotide, polypeptide, polysaccharide, intercalating agent, enzyme or cytoxic agent, said process comprising introducing two series of solutions into a rotating rotor body containing a solid support matrix having a seed monomer wherein one series of solutions of an increasing density is introduced at the rotor edge and the second series of solutions of a decreasing density is introduced at the rotor center for the addition of a monomer to said seed monomer, repeating the introduction of the two series until the desired polymer is obtained, and recovering the synthesized polymer.
18. A process for separating molecules by gel filtra¬ tion, ion exclusion, ion exchange or affinity including separations based on hybridization or base-pairing comprising introducing a series of solutions of different densities into a rotating rotor body containing a solid support matrix and recovering the separated molecules. 


AMENDED CLAIMS C received by the International Bureau on 28 January 1993 (28.01.93) original claims 2 and 3 deleted ; original claims 1 and 7 amended ; remaining claims unchanged (2 pages) ]
1. A system for solid phase reactions comprising: rotor means for performing a solid phase reaction in the presence of a solid support matrix, said rotor means comprising a rotor body capable of rotating about a rotational axis and defining an inner chamber, said rotor body having a first central, axial fluid passage connecting the inner chamber to the outside of said rotor body and a second fluid passage opposite said first passage and having an opening to said inner chamber adjacent a radially-outward, inner wall surface of the rotor body; a solid support; means for retaining said matrix in said rotor means; means coupled to said rotor means for intro¬ ducing selected fluids of sequentially differing densities to one of either said first or second passage and removing fluid from the other of said first or second passage; and means for ordering said fluids of sequentially differing densities to allow for either introduction of fluid of gradually or stepwise increasing density into said rotor body through said second passage such that fluid phases of different density are formed in said chamber and move toward said rotational axis, forcing less dense fluid out said first passage, or introduction of fluid of gradually or stepwise decreasing density into said rotor through said first passage such that fluid phases of different density are formed in said chamber and move radially outward, forcing denser fluid out said second passage. 


4. The system of claim 1, wherein the rotor body is operated with the axis horizontal, and the rotor body is rotated slowly or oscillated to suspend and agitate the particulate material while the rotor body is filled with a fluid causing one step in a synthetic reaction.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the rotor comprises an outer housing and an inner sealed liner cons- tructed of chemically inert material.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the inner chamber is removable, and is prepacked with a solid support matrix.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the solid support matrix, fluids, fluid introduction and removal means, and composition of the rotor, are all designed for processing of solutes in a liquid stream based on immobilized enzymes.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for introducing selected fluids comprises a flat multi- port valve having a plurality of openings connected to reagent lines on a flat face of a first plate thereof, and a single opening connected to the rotor body on a flat face of a second plate there¬ of, wherein one face comprises an inert plastic and the other face is made of glass, quartz, sapphire, or ceramic material, said valve having motor means for programmed X-Y motion of one face relative to the other, such that the single opening may be aligned with any opposing one of said ports in any order without cross contamination. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
