<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651302</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Interface for devices controlled by microcontrollers and/or microprocessors
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05B19042	G05B1904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05B	G05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05B19	G05B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An interface device for actuator devices (RA) 
controlled by microprocessors comprises a hold 

capacitor (C) which can maintain the control 
signals of the microprocessor such that the 

microprocessor can detect the current flowing 
through the actuator device (RA) using the same 

communication line (IN) used for sending the 
control signals by means of a feedback connection 

(R2). The interface device according to the 
invention thus permits the control and auto-diagnosis 

of the actuator devices (RA) whilst 
being very inexpensive. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNETI MARELLI SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNETI MARELLI S.p.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERRARI SILVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERRARI, SILVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general 
to interfaces for devices controlled by 
microprocessors and/or microcontrollers and more 
specifically it relates to interfaces of this type 
which can actuate diagnosis functions of the 
devices controlled. Recently, as is known, devices comprising 
microprocessors and/or microcontrollers for 
automatically controlling devices and apparatus of 
all types have become extremely widespread in all 
areas of technology. These microprocessors 
perform their functions by sending control signals 
to actuator devices, for example, power 
semiconductors or relays. It is clear that, for many applications, 
it is useful to be able to control the state and 
functionality of these actuator devices. In fact, 
in various fields, such as, for example, the 
motor-vehicle field, there are apparatus the 
functioning of which is important or even 
essential, for example, antilock braking systems 
for which the possibility of being able to 
diagnose possible breakdowns is extremely useful.  
 Normally, the interfaces used for 
connections between the microprocessors and the 
actuator devices have no diagnostic functions or 
are provided therewith by additional communication 
lines (I/O), that is, dedicated particularly to 
the diagnostic functions. This manner of 
performing the diagnosis is evidently expensive 
and, furthermore, increases complexity of the 
electronic system. EP-A-0 418 665 exemplifies that prior art. The object of the present invention is to 
provide an interface which enables all of the 
above problems to be overcome satisfactorily. According to the present invention, this 
object is achieved by virtue of an interface 
having the characteristics given in the claims 
following the present description. Further advantages and characteristics of 
the present invention will become clear from the 
following detailed description given with 
reference to the appended drawings, provided by 
way of non-limiting example, in which: 
Figure 1 is a schematic circuit diagram 
of an embodiment of an interface according to the 
present invention; and  
 Figures 2, 3 and 4 are schematic 
circuit diagrams of alternative embodiments of the 
interface according to the present invention. The specific embodiments described here 
refer to semiconductor actuator devices since they 
constitute the great majority of the actuator 
devices connected to microcontrollers and 
microprocessors and are generally used for 
controlling other electrical devices such as 
motors, relays, etc. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An interface device which can allow 
processing means to control actuator means (RA), 

by means of a communication line (IN); and 
comprising semiconductor means (T) driven by 

these processing means and which can control the 
passage of electric current through the actuator 

means (RA), characterized in that it further 
comprises: 


means for storing electric charge (C, 
C'), operationally connected to the communication 

line (IN) and to the semiconductor means (T), 
which can memorise and maintain a control signal 

sent by the processing means to the semiconductor 
means (T); 
detector means (R2), operationally 
connected to the communication line (IN) and to 

the actuator means (RA), which can allow these 
processing means to detect a signal indicating the 

passage of electric current through the actuator 
means (RA). 
A device according to Claim 1, in which 
the voltage of the semiconductor means (T) is 

controlled and the control signal is a voltage 
signal, characterized in that the charge storage 

means (C, C') are brought to the voltage of the  
 

control signal and maintain it for a time interval 
of predetermined duration in order to control the 

semiconductor means (T). 
A device according to Claim 2, 
characterized in that the charge storage means 

comprise a capacitance (C, C'). 
A device according to Claim 3, 
characterized in that the capacitance consists of 

a capacitance (C') input to the semiconductor 
means (T). 
A device according to Claim 4, 
characterized in that the capacitance (C') input 

to the semiconductor means (T) is a stray 
capacitance. 
A device according to Claim 3, 
characterized in that the charge storage means (C, 

C') comprise a capacitor (C). 
Device according to any one of Claims 4 
to 6, characterized in that the detector means 

comprise resistor means (R2) connecting the 
actuator means (RA) to the communication line 

(IN), such that the processing means detect a 
voltage at the actuator means (RA) by the resistor  

 
means (R2) and the communication line (IN) in the 

time intervals in which the semiconductor means 
(T) are controlled by the charge storage means (C, 

C'). 
A device according to Claim 7, 
characterized in that the resistor means comprise 

a resistor (R2). 
A device according to Claim 8, 
characterized in that a resistor (R1) is 

interposed between the communication line (IN) and 
the semiconductor means (T). 
A device according to Claim 8, 
characterized in that an uncoupling diode (D) is 

interposed between the communication line (IN) and 
the semiconductor means (T). 
A device according to any one of Claims 8 
to 10, characterized in that it comprises a 

resistor (R3) connected in parallel with the 
capacitor (C) in order to determine the duration 

of the time intervals. 
A device according to any one of the 
preceding claims, in which the semiconductor means 

comprise a transistor (T), characterized in that  
 

it further comprises a restrictor resistor 
connected in series with the transistor (T). 
A device according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that it 

comprises logic means (NOT) interposed between the 
communication line (IN) and the transistor (T). 
A device according to Claim 13, 
characterized in that the logic means comprise a 

logic gate (NOT). 
A device according to Claim 14, 
characterized in that the logic gate is an 

inverting logic gate (NOT). 
A process for controlling actuator means 
(RA) in a system comprising processing means and 

an interface device according to any one of Claims 
1 to 15, interposed between the processing means
 
and the actuator means (RA), characterized in that 

the processing means are configured to perform the 
following stages: 


sending a control signal to the 
interface device by means of the communication 

line (IN) in a first predetermined time period; 
and  

 
detecting the functioning of the 
actuator means (RA) by means of the communication 

line (IN) and the interface device in a second 
predetermined period of time. 
A process according to Claim 16, 
characterized in that the stage for detecting the 

functioning of the actuator means (RA) comprises 
the stage of detecting a voltage at the actuator 

means (RA) by the communication line (IN) and the 
interface device. 
A process according to Claim 17, 
characterized in that it further comprises the 

stage of controlling a passage of current through 
the actuator means (RA) according to a 

predetermined development. 
A process according to Claim 18, 
characterized in that the stage for controlling 

the passage of current through the actuator means 
(RA) comprises the stage of periodically detecting 

the voltage at the actuator means (RA), this 
voltage being indicative of the passage of 

current. 
A process according to Claim 19, 
characterized in that the passage of current  

 
through the actuator means (RA) is controlled by 

pulse width modulation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
