<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621493</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dipole moment detection and localization
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01V308	G01R3300	G01R3300	G01V308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01V	G01R	G01R	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01V3	G01R33	G01R33	G01V3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An array of magnetic sensors (11) and a digital signal processor (70-80) are 
used to break a target magnetic dipole field into its components, and a magnetic signature 

of the present magnetic field is created. Predicted target signatures are precomputed 
for multiple magnetic orientations of the dipole (13) at each of a plurality of range 

locations, expressed in terms of Anderson functions (75), which are a set of equations 
that decompose the magnetic field in each of the magnetic response locations (12), and 

are stored in a lookup table for reference. Input data measured by the sensors are processed 
and each sensor's magnetic value is predicted to process against background 

noise using the other sensors of the array. A long term time average (71, 72) consistent 
with the relative motion of the target is computed using bandpass filtering of the 

signals from the sensor array. The bandpass filtered data is used to update the predicted 
data so that anomalies and other non-target data is removed from the signals that are 

processed. The data are then expressed in terms of Anderson functions (74). The data 
are matched filtered (76), wherein it is correlated with the stored precomputed predicted 

target signatures. The correlation yields a set of values that is then thresholded (78) If 

a target is present at any of the locations, then the correlated normalized value computed 
as stated above will be higher than the chosen threshold. The target locations (79) that 

are above the threshold are then displayed on a monitor (81) showing the relative location 
and dipole orientation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREED BEN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EATON WILBUR W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BREED, BEN R.,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EATON, WILBUR W.,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to dipole moment detector and method
of dipole detection, and more particularly, to dipole moment detector and method that
provide for detection, localization and orientation of dipoles such as submarines and
ocean going vessels, and the like.Present magnetic anomaly detection systems employ proximity detection of a
magnetic dipole. Typical of this type of system is the well known airborne magnetic
anomaly detection system that is towed by a P3 aircraft, for example. In this system,
detection is performed using a single sensor to detect a change in the total local magnetic
field. The disadvantage of this approach is the limited amount data generated by the
system, in that it provides for no target direction, no target orientation, gross localization
and the system has relatively low processing gain. FR-A-2142181 describes a system for determining the
depth of a magnetic dipole, such as a submarine. A moving
magnetic sensor in an aircraft detects both the magnetic
field and the magnetic field gradient at each of a plurality
of positions so as to determine the horizontal component of
the magnetic dipole.In a paper by K. Mori entitled "Application of Weight
Functions to the Magnetic Localization of an Object" in IEEE
Transactions on Magnetics, Vol. 25, No. 3, May 1989, pp.
2726-2731, there are described methods of determining the
position of magnetized objects using an array of
magnetometers to measure, or calculate, components of the
sensed magnetic field.In a paper by P. Carelli and R. Leoni entitled
"Localization of Biological Sources with Arrays of
Superconducting Gradiometers" in J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 59(2),
15th January 1986, pp. 645-650, there is described apparatus
for detecting electric current dipoles using superconducting
quantum interference devices.EP-A-0531703 is concerned with the detection of current
dipoles occurring in the human body.DE-A-2552397 describes a system for distinguishing
between real and simulated objects by using one or more
magnetic probes and processing the output signals.In a paper by J.E. McFee and Y. Das entitled "Fast
Nonrecursive Method for Estimating Location and Dipole
Moment Components of a Static Magnetic Dipole" in IEEE
Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, Vol. GE-24,
No. 5, September 1996, pp. 663-673, there is described a
system for detecting, locating and evaluating a magnetic
dipole moment based on measurements of the magnetic field
components perpendicular to an arbitrary plane in which the
measurements are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of detecting and localizing a magnetic dipole
(13) using an array of spatially distributed magnetic

sensors (11), the method comprising the
steps of:


forming (35) an estimate of the magnetic field of the
array of sensors (11), assuming that there is a magnetic

dipole located at each of a plurality of selected locations
relative to the array, to provide for calculated estimate

values;
storing the estimate;
taking measurements of the magnetic field at each of the
sensors (11) in the presence of a magnetic dipole (13)

within the field;
removing the spatial and temporal variations (31,32,33)
present in the measured magnetic field caused by the

naturally occurring background using temporal and spatial
smoothing techniques;
correlating (36) the measured values with each of the
calculated estimate values for the array of sensors (11), by

multiplying the calculated estimate values with the measured
values and summing the results over the array of sensors

(11); and
if one of the resulting correlations has a significantly
larger value than the others and if it is greater than a

predetermined threshold (38), declaring a detection for the
location corresponding to the calculated values which

resulted in the larger correlation value.
A method as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said estimate
is a normalized estimate of the magnetic field to be sensed

using known magnetic dipole orientations located at each of
a plurality of preselected locations to provide an array of

estimated signals; and wherein said method further
comprises:


processing the stored estimated signals (35) to produce
a first set of Anderson function expansion coefficients 

representative of each of the estimate signals, and storing
the Anderson functions;
- measuring the magnetic field at each of the sensors in
the presence of the magnetic dipole (13) that is to be

detected to produce measured magnetic field signals; and
processing (34) the temporally and spatially smoothed
measured magnetic field signals to produce a second set of

Anderson function expansion coefficients representative of
each of the measured magnetic field signals;
said correlating step comprising correlating (36) the
first and second sets of Anderson function expansion

coefficients to produce a response function for the magnetic
dipole location;
said declaring step comprising identifying the location
(37,38,39) of the dipole (13) if one of the correlations has

a significantly larger value than the others, and if it is
greater than a predetermined threshold, and the location of

the dipole corresponds to the location represented by the
measured magnetic field signals that produced in the

significantly larger value.
Apparatus for detecting and localizing a magnetic dipole
(13) comprising:


an array of magnetic sensors (11);
processing means (70-80) coupled to the array of
magnetic sensors (11), for: storing an estimate of the

magnetic field signature to be detected by the array of
sensors (11) using a known set of magnetic dipole

orientations at each of a plurality of pre-selected
locations to provide an array of estimate signals;

processing magnetic field signals indicative of the magnetic
field measured at each of the sensors in the presence of the

magnetic dipole (13) that is to be detected; removing
spatial and temporal variations in the magnetic field

measured at each of the sensors by temporally and spatially
smoothing the measured magnetic field signals; processing 

the temporally and spatially smoothed magnetic field
signals; correlating said estimate signals and summing the

results over the array of sensors to produce a response
function for the magnetic dipole location; and identifying

the location of the dipole if one of the correlations has a
significantly larger value than the others, if it is greater

than a predetermined threshold, and if the location of the
dipole corresponds to the location represented by the

measured magnetic field signals that produced in the
significantly larger value; and
display means (81) for displaying the location of the
identified dipole (13).
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 3, arranged such that said
estimate signals are represented by a first set of Anderson

functions and that said processing means (70-80) is arranged
for so processing the temporally and spatially smoothed

magnetic field signals to produce a second set of Anderson
functions representative of each of the magnetic field

signals and for correlating the first and second sets of
Anderson functions.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
