<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pharmaceutical product and method for treatment.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3900	A61K3900	A61K3902	A61K3902	A61K3909	A61K3909	C12N978	C12N978	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K39	A61K39	A61K39	A61K39	A61K39	A61K39	C12N9	C12N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Use of a non-enzymatic urease antigen for the 
manufacture of a medicament for treating and/or 

preventing, in animals, including humans, infections, 
by Helicobacter pylori and comparable Helicobacter 

infections and its use. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAVEEN ERIC G
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAVEEN ROBERT F
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEVEEN HARRY H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEVEEN, ERIC G.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEVEEN, HARRY H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEVEEN, ROBERT F.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAVEEN ERIC G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAVEEN ROBERT F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVEEN HARRY H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAVEEN, ERIC G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAVEEN, ROBERT F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVEEN, HARRY H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a urease antigen 
and to use of a urease antigen for the manufacture of 
a medicament for treating and/or preventing, in 
animals, including humans, infections eg. by 
Helicobacter pylori and comparable Helicobacter 
infections. The invention also relates to such 
treatment and/or prevention of such infections. Knowledge of the role of Helicobacter pylor in 
causing infection eg. gastritis and peptic ulcer 
has developed in the last 5 years. The Australian discovery of Helicobacter was 
at first looked upon with extreme skepticism. (Marshall BOJ, Warren JR., 
Unidentified Curved Bacilli in the Stomach of Patients with Gastritis and 
Peptic Ulceration 
Lancet 1:1311-15, 1984). The confirmation of H. pylori in gastritis 
and gastric ulcers by others expelled doubts about the association of this 
organism with gastritis. Also, it was found that Koch's postulates could be 
fulfilled for H. pylori infections. Gastritis was induced in two human self 
experiments by the ingestion of live cultures of H. pylori. (Marshall BOJ, 
Armstrong AJ, dB et al Attempt to Fulfill Koch's Postulates for pyloric 
Campylobacter MED J AST 142:436-39; 1985; Morris A, Nichols 
G Ingestion of 
Campylobacter pyloridis Caused Gastritis and Raised Resting Gastric PH 
Am J 
Gastroent 82:192-99, 1987). In one of these cases, the gastritis progessed to 
chronicity and was present for years. The role which Helicobacter pylori plays 
in upper gastrointestinal lesions now has firm laboratory and clinical 
confirmation. Fortuitously, infection with Helicobacter pylori is easily confirmed 
since the corkscrew shaped organism is a prodigious producer of intracellular and 
extracellular urease. (Bride EC, Hadfield TL, Heat JR., et al, 
Campylobacter 
pyloridis Survival in a Hostile Environment, Am J Gastroent 81:855, 1986). 
Diagnosis can be established by identifying urease in the gastric juice or by  
 
ingestion of C¹⁴ labeled urea, H₂NC¹⁴ONH₂ and the immediate detection of C¹⁴O₂ 
in the expired air. Gastric urease immediately hydrolyzes the urea to NH₃ and 
H₂O, and the rapid absorption of ammonia accounts for the appearance of the 
labeled CO₂ in the expired air. (Novice HB, Gabby G, Leishman G, et al, 
Two 
Point Analysis 15 Minute C¹⁴-Urea Breath Test for Diagnosing Helicobacter 
pylori Infection, Digestion 50:16:21, 1991). Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) has been identified in 90% of patients with 
duodenal ulcers which are not caused by medication with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
agents. (NJ, Rows
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. Use of a non-enzymatic urease antigen for the 
manufacture of a medicament for treating and/or 

preventing, in animals, including humans, infections, 
by Helicobacter pylori and comparable Helicobacter 

infections. 
2. Use as claimed in claim 1, wherein the 
treatment comprises immunization. 
3. Use as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the 
non-enzymatic urease antigen is an acid urease of 

bacterial origin. 
4. Use as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the 
non-enzymatic urease antigen urease is a urease of 

plant origin. 
5. Use as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said non-enzymatic urease antigen has 

a urease inactivated by covalent bonding to increase a 
molecular weight thereof. 
6. Use as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said non-enzymatic urease antigen is a 

glutaraldehyde or formaldehyde inactivated acid 
urease. 
7. Use as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein jack bean urease is inactivated by 

covalent bonding to produce said non-enzymatic urease 
antigen wherein said non-enzymatic urease antigen has 

a mean molecular weight ranging up to 2,000,000 
Daltons, preferably in the range of 250,000 to 

2,000,000 Daltons. 
8. Use as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, 
wherein urease produced by a microorganism of the 

genus Lactobacillus is inactivated by covalent bonding 
to produce said non-enzymatic urease antigen wherein 

said non-enzymatic urease antigen has a mean molecular 
 

weight ranging up to 2,000,000 Daltons, preferably in 
the range of 250,000 to 2,000,000 Daltons. 
9. Use as claimed in claim 8, wherein said 
microorganism is one of Lactobacillus fermentum, 

Lactobacillus reuteri and Lactobacillus ruminis. 
10. Use as claimed in claim 8, wherein said 
microorganism is Lactobacillus fermentum TK 1214. 
11. Use as claimed in claim 8, wherein said 
microorganism is Bacillus TB-90. 
12. Use as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, 
wherein urease produced by a microorganism of the 

genus Streptcooccus is inactivated by covalent bonding 
to produce said non-enzymatic urease antigen wherein 

said non-enzymatic urease antigen has a mean molecular 
weight ranging up to 2,000,000 Daltons preferably in 

the range of 250,000 to 2,000,000 Daltons. 
13. Use as claimed in claim 12, wherein said 
microorganism is one of Streptococcus bovis, 

Streptococcus Reuteri and Stretpococcus salivarius. 
14. Use as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said non-enzymatic urease antigen 

induces mucosal or systemic immunity to infection by 
H. pylori in humans and comparable Helicobacter 

infections in animals and livestocks. 
15. Use as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said antigen is encapsulated. 
16. Use as claimed in claim 15, wherein said 
antigen is encapsulated in a peptic digestion 

resistant material. 
17. An oral vaccine comprising an antigen 
including one of a glutaraldehyde inactivated acid 

urease and a formaldehyde inactivated acid urease 
effective for the treatment of active Helicobacter 

pylori infections in humans or animals; and
 

   a peptic digestion resistant material for 
encapsulating said antigen. 
18. An oral vaccine comprising; 
   an antigen including one of a glutaraldehyde 

inactivated acid urease and a formaldehyde inactivated 
acid urease effective for inducing mucosal immunity 

or systemic immunity to infection by H. pylori in 
humans and comparable Helicobacter infections in 

animals and livestock; and 
   a peptic digestion resistant material for 

encapsulating said antigen. 
19. An oral vaccine comprising: 
   a non-enzymatic urease effective for inducing at 

least one of systemic immunity and mucosal immunity to 
infection by H.pylori in animals, including humans; 

and 
   a peptic digestion resistant composition for 

encapsulating quantities of said non-enzymatic acid 
urease of a size sufficient to permit absorption 

thereof in the gastrointestinal tract to effect 
immunity. 
20. An oral urease vaccine as claimed in claim 
17 or 18, wherein said non-enzymatic urease is 

selected from the group consisting of glutaraldehyde 
inactivated acid ureases, formaldehyde inactivated 

acid ureases, and inactivated acid ureases having a 
mean molecular weight ranging up to 2,000,000 Daltons, 

preferably in the range of 250,000 to 2,000,000 
Daltons. 
21. An oral vaccine comprising: 
   a non-enzymatic acid urease effective for 

treating active infections of H.pylori in animals, 
including humans; 

   said non-enzymatic acid urease having a molecular 
 

weight sufficient to permit recognition by M cells for 
the production of antibodies; and 

   a peptic digestion resistant composition for 
encapsulating quantities of said non-enzymatic acid 

urease of a size sufficient to permit absorption 
thereof in the gastrointestinal tract to render the H. 

pylori non-pathenogenic. 
22. An oral vaccine as claimed in claim 21, 
wherein said at least one non-enzymatic acid urease is 

selected from the group consisting of glutaraldehyde 
inactivated acid ureases, formaldehyde inactivated 

acid ureases, and inactivated acid ureases having a 
mean molecular weight ranging up to 2,000,000 Daltons, 

preferably in the range of 250,000 to 2,000,000 
Daltons. 
23. A composition of matter, which comprises, in 
combination: 

   a non-enzymatic acid urease antigen synthesized 
by bonding jack bean urease with glutaraldehyde, 

wherein said non-enzymatic acid urease antigen 
stimulates production of antiurease effective for 

rendering endogenous H.pylori non-pathenogenic; and 
   means for encapsulating said non-enzymatic urease 

antigen with a peptically resistant material. 
24. Use of an inactivated urease having a mean 
molecular weight ranging up to 2,000,000 Daltons, 

preferably in the range of 250,000 to 2,000,000 
Daltons for the manufacture of an oral vaccine for 

administering to an animal in a physiologically 
innocuous dosage form for treating
 and/or preventing 
in animals including humans, infections by H.pylori 

and comparable Helicobacter infections, 
   said inactivated urease being microencapsulated 

in a peptic digestion resistant composition in 
 

quantities of said non-enzymatic acid urease of a size 
sufficient to permit absorption thereof in the 

gastrointestinal tract to render the H.pylori non-pathenogenic. 
25. Use as claimed in claim 24, wherein said 
inactivated urease is selected from the group of non-enyzmatic 

ureases consisting of glutaraldehyde 
inactivated urease and formaldehyde inactivated 

urease. 
26. Use as claimed in claim 24 or 25, wherein 
said inactivated urease is inactivated jack bean 

urease. 
27. Use as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 
26, for orally treating bacterial ureases in humans, 

wherein 
   said urease enzyme is inactivated by inducing 

covalent bonding to increase a molecular weight of 
said acid urease; and is micro-encapsulated in 

digestion resistant material in quantities sufficient 
to permit absorption thereof in the gastrointestinal 

tract; and is administered in a physiologically 
innocuous dosage form, a therapeutically effective 

amount to stimulate production of antiurease 
antibodies. 
28. Use as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein a therapeutically effective amount of 

a suitable live or killed bacteria is orally 
administered containing one of active and inactivated 

intracellular urease. 
29. Use as claimed in claim 28 wherein said 
bacteria is Lactobacillus fermentum. 
30. Use as claimed in claim 29, wherein said 
bacteria is dead Lactobacillus fermentum. 
31. An oral vaccine containing a glutaraldehyde 
 

or formaldehyde inactivated acid ureases and or other 
ureases which induces mucosal immunity to infection by 

H. pylori in humans and comparable Helicobacter 
infections in animals and livestock. 
32. An oral vaccine containing a glutaraldehyde 
or formaldehyde inactivated acid ureases and or other 

ureases which induces systemic immunity to infection 
by H. pylori in humans and comparable Helicobacter 

infections in animals and livestock. 
33. An oral vaccine containing a glutaraldehyde 
or formaldehyde inactivated acid ureases and or other 

ureases for the treatment of active Helicobacter 
infections in humans or animals. 
34. Use of a material for the manufacture of a 
medicament for oral immunization to urease and 

inhibition of urea turnover in animals, said material 
comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a 

suitable bacteria which is one of killed and live 
wherein said bacteria contains one of active and 

inactivated intracellular urease. 
35. Use of a material for the manufacture of a 
medicament for immunization by oral administration, 

said material comprising a therapeutically effective 
amount of a urease vaccine including bacteria 

containing acid urease effective to produce immunity 
to urease for preventing infection with Helicobacter 

pylori in animals. 
36. Use as claimed in claim 34 or 35, wherein 
said bacteria is Lactobacillus. 
37. Use as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 
36, wherein said animals are humans. 
38. A preparation for oral administration for 
immunisation to urease and inhibition of urea turnover 

in animals, (including humans) comprising a 
 

therapeutically effective amount of a suitable 
bacteria which is one of live or dead, wherein the 

bacteria contains one of active and inactivated 
intracellular urease. 39. Use of a non-enzymatic 

urease antigen for treating and/or preventing, in 
animals (including humans), infections by Helicobacter 

pylori and comparable Helicobacter infections. 
40. Use of an inactivated urease having a mean 
molecular weight ranging up to 2,000,000 Daltons, 

preferably in the range 250,000 to 2,000,000 Daltons, 
for treating and/or preventing in animals (including 

humans) infections by Helicobacter pylori and 
comparable Helicobacter infections. 
41. Use of a material for oral immunization to 
urease and inhibition of urea turnover in animals, 

said material comprising a therapeutically effective 
amount of a suitable bacteria which is one of killed 

and live wherein said bacteria contains one of active 
and inactivated intracellular urease. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
