<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652703</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS FOR POSITIVE IMMUNOSELECTION OF STEM CELLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3512	A61K3512	A61K3528	A61K3528	C07K1618	C07K1628	C12N506	C12N506	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33569	G01N33569	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K35	A61K35	A61K35	A61K35	C07K16	C07K16	C12N5	C12N5	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to improved methods and kits for the positive immunoselection of target cells wherein the cells are immobilized to a solid matrix via an immune complex containing a soluble hapten and an anti-hapten antibody and are dissociable by hapten competition. The invention in particular relates to an improved positive immunoselection for purifying lympho-hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from heterogeneous cell compositions, and a novel immune reagent for effecting this purification.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KESSLER STEVEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KESSLER, STEVEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KESSLER STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KESSLER, STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "Methods for Positive Immunoselection of Stem Cells"The invention relates to i "proved methods for positive immunoselection of target cells from a . -lerogeneous cell composition. The invention also relates to immunological kit$ for effecting said immunoselection of cells. The invention also relates to improved methods for assaying the purity of the immunoselected cells using indicator cells, which may be autologous or heterologous, as well as methods for subjecting the recovered cells to further immunoselection procedures.The invention in particular relates to improved methods for the positive immunoselection of stem and progenitor cells, and a specific immunological reagent (monoclonal antibody) for effecting said positive immunoselection of stem and progenitor cells. The invention also relates to improved methods for assaying the purity of said immunopurified stem and progenitor cells using indicator cells (e.g., autologous) as well as methods for subjecting the immunoselected cells to further immunoselection. Finally, the invention relates to purified stem and progenitor cells resulting from these methods, and methods of using these purified stem cells diagnostically and therapeutically. 

 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe use of immunoselection for the specific recovery of desired moieties from heterogeneous compositions is conventional in the art. Essentially immunoselection techniques broadly embrace the isolation of a desired moiety from a heterogeneous composition on the basis of its specific reactivity with its immunological binding partner. Essentially, these techniques exploit the specific reactivity of the desired moiety contained in a heterogeneous system, e.g., a particular antigen, bacteria, virus, cell, hapten, antibody, etc. with its immunological counterpart, an immunological reagent which is generally an antibody, antibody-like molecule, or an antigen so as to effect the desired separation.Immunoselection techniques have in particular been utilized for the separation of desired cells from heterogeneous compositions comprising these cells. This application of immunoselection for the purification of specific cell types has been the focus of much recent research given the significant potential applications of purified cell compositions as diagnostics and therapeutics, as well as for biomedical research.For example, the selective recovery of specific highly purified cell types will better enable biological researchers to study the differentiation of these specific cell types, will
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 1. A method for immobilizing target cells to a solid phase matrix or support comprising the following steps: (i) reacting a heterogeneous composition of cells containing target cells with a primary immune reagent which is capable of specifically binding said target cells and which primary immune reagent is optionally conjugated to a soluble hapten to produce primary reagent-target cell complexes; (ii) reacting the complex containing 
*
 heterogeneous composition produced by step (i) with one or more secondary immune reagents, at least one which is capable of specifically binding to the primary reagent and wherein at least one of said secondary reagents is conjugated to a soluble hapten if the primary reagent has not been conjugated to soluble hapten so as to produce complexes of secondary reagents with first reagent-target cell complexes; and (iii) reacting the complex containing composition of step (ii) with a solid phase or matrix to which has been directly or indirectly bound an antibody capable of specifically binding to said soluble hapten and resulting in the immobilization of the immune complexes of step (ii) to the solid phase or matrix via an immune complex which comprises a hapten-anti-hapten antibody complex.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the primary immune reagent comprises an antibody or antibody fragment or chimeric antibody capable of binding to an antigen contained on the surface of the target cells.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the primary immune reagent is a monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof capable of binding to an antigen contained on the surface of the target cells.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the target cells comprise stem or progenitor cells. 


 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the target cells comprise human pluripotent lympho-hematopoietic progenitor and stem cells.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the primary immune reagent is the monoclonal antibody K6.1 produced by hybridoma cell line K6.1 and deposited under ATCC No. HB 11085.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the soluble hapten comprises biotin, fluorescein, digoxigenin, nitrophenol compounds, arsenilic acid, or any construction or derivatization of these molecules which affects or enhances their solubility or conjugation to the materials in clairφj 1.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the solid phase comprises paramagnetic beads or particles.
9. The immobilized target cell containing matrix or support produced by the method of claim 1.
10. The immobilized target cell containing matrix or support produced by the method of claim 5.
11. The immobilized target cell containing matrix or support produced by the method of claim 6.
12. A method for positive immunoselection of target cells contained in a solid phase matrix or support comprising the following steps: (i) reacting a heterogeneous composition of cells containing target cells with a primary immune reagent which is capable of specifically binding said target cells and which primary reagent is optionally conjugated to a soluble hapten to produce primary reagent-target cell complex; 


 (ii) reacting the complex containing heterogeneous composition produced by step (i) with one or more secondary immune reagents, at least one of which is capable of specifically binding the primary reagent and wherein at least one of said secondary reagents is conjugated to a soluble hapten if the primary reagent has not been conjugated to soluble hapten so as to produce complexes of the secondary reagents and the first reagent-target cell complexes; (iii) reacting the complex containing composition of step (ii) with a solid phase matrix or support to which has been directly or indirectly bound an antibody or antibody fragment capable of specifically binding to said soluble hapten and resulting in the immobilization of the immune complexes of step (ii) to the solid phase or matrix via an immune complex which comprises a hapten-anti-hapten antibody complex; (iv) separating the resultant target cell containing solid phase matrix or support from the heterogeneous cell composition; and (v) dissociating the immobilized target cells from the solid phase matrix or support via hapten competition by a method comprising contacting said solid phase matrix or support with a solution containing a molar excess of the soluble hapten.
13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the following step: (vi) recovering said dissociated cells.
14. The method of claim 12 wherein the primary immune reagent comprises an antibody or antibody fragment or chimeric antibody capable of binding to antigen contained on the surface of the target cells.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the primary immune reagent comprises a monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment or chimeric antibody capable of binding to an antigen contained on the surface of the target cells. 


 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the target cells comprise stem or progenitor cells.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the target cells comprise human or nonhuman primate pluripotent lympho-hematopoietic progenitor or stem cells.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the primary immune reagent comprises the monoclonal antibody K6.1 produced by hybridoma cell line K6.1 and deposited under ATTC No. HB 11085.
19. The method of claim 12 wherein the soluble hapten comprises biotin or a chemically derivatized biotin.
20. The method of claim 12 wherein the solid phase comprises paramagnetic beads or particles.
21. The immunoselected cells resulting from claim 12.
22. The immunoselected cells resulting from claim 13.
23. The method of claim 13 which further includes the following step: (vii) reacting the target cells of step (vi) with a labeled immune reagent which binds to a distinct antigenic epitope from the primary immune reagent.
24. The method of claim 12 which further comprises subjecting the recovered target cells of step (vi) to additional positive or negative immunoselections, wherein these immunoselections are effected simultaneously or sequentially. 


 25. A purified cell composition comprising purified human pluripotent lympho-hematopoietic stem cells which is virtually devoid of mature lymphoid and myeloid cells.
26. The composition of claim 25 which further comprises human lympho-hematopoietic progenitors, colony-forming cells and/or immature precursor cells.
27. A purified cell composition comprising cells capable of specifically binding to the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma K6.1 which composition is substantially devoid of cells which do not have a cell surface antigen capable of being bound by said monoclonal antibody.
28. The method for positive immunoselection of target cells of claim 13 which further comprises including in the heterogeneous cell composition used in step (i) autologous or heterologous indicator cells which are labelled with an immune reagent distinct from the primary immune reagent used with (i) and which does not comprise the soluble hapten; and quantifying after step (vi) the extent of elimination of said indicator cells.
29. A kit for positive immunoselection of target cells from a heterogeneous cell composition comprising: (a) a primary immune reagent which specifically binds to the target cells and may optionally be conjugated to a soluble hapten; (b) one or more secondary immune reagents at least one of which is capable of specifically binding the primary immune reagent and wherein at least one secondary immune reagent is conjugated to a soluble hapten if the primary immune reagent is not conjugated to a soluble hapten; 


 (c) a solid phase matrix or support to which is directly or indirectly bound an immune reagent capable of specifically binding to said soluble hapten; and (d) a solution comprising an amount of said soluble hapten which is sufficient to dissociate target cells bound to said solid phase matrix or support via an immune complex containing a hapten- anti-hapten antibody linkage.
30. The kit of claim 30 wherein the soluble hapten comprises biotin or fluorescein.
31. The kit of claim 30 wherein the solid phase matrix or support comprises magnetic beads or particles.
32. The kit of claim 30 wherein the solid phase matrix or pport is contained in a reservoir, a plastic culture flask, a chromatography column or an extracorporeal flow-through cartridge.
33. An improved method of BMT which comprises the infusion of healthy stem cells and progenitor cells to a recipient in need thereof wherein the improvement comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of the purified cell composition of claim 25.
34. The method of claim 34 wherein the recipient is autologous.
35. The method of claim 34 wherein the recipient is heterologous or allogeneic.
36. The method of claim 34 wherein the purified cell composition further includes tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL cells), 



lymphocyte activated killer cells (LAK cells), cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTLs), or CD4+ helper cells.
37. A monoclonal antibody K6.1 or a monoclonal antibody having the identifying characteristics thereof which is produced by hybridoma cell line K6.1 which has been deposited under ATCC No. HB 11085.
38. The hybridoma cell line K6.1 or cell lines having the identifying characteristics thereof which has been deposited under ATCC No. HB 11085.
39. A method of using the monoclonal antibody of claim 38 for the positive immunoselection of stem and progenitor cells from non- primate bone marrow or blood containing compositions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
