<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647383</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SINGLE CRYSTAL SILICON ARRAYED DEVICES FOR PROJECTION DISPLAYS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2700	G02B2700	G02F113	G02F113	G02F11335	G02F1136	G02F11362	G02F11368	G03B2100	G03B2100	G03B2120	G03B2120	G09G330	G09G330	G09G336	G09G336	H01L2102	H01L21336	H01L2170	H01L2177	H01L2184	H01L2712	H01L2712	H01L2715	H01L2715	H01L2966	H01L2978	H01L29786	H04N570	H04N570	H04N574	H04N574	H04N931	H04N931	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B27	G02B27	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G03B21	G03B21	G03B21	G03B21	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display panel is formed using a single crystal thin-film transistors that are transferred to substrates for display fabrication. Pixel arrays form light valves or switches that can be fabricated with control electronics in the thin-film material prior to transfer. The resulting circuit panel is then incorporated into a projection display system with a light emitting or liquid crystal material to provide the desired light valve.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOPIN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOPIN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALERNO JACK P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPITZER MARK B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAVRACKY PAUL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALERNO, JACK, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPITZER, MARK, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAVRACKY, PAUL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SINGLE CRYSTAL SILICON ARRAYED DEVICES FOR PROJECTION DISPLAYSBackground of the InventionFlat-panel displays are being developed which5 utilize liquid crystals or electroluminescent materials to produce high quality images. These displays are expected to supplant cathode ray tube (CRT) technology and provide a more highly defined television picture. The most promising route to large scale high quality10 liquid crystal displays (LCDs) , for example, is the active-matrix approach in which thin-film transistors (TFTs) are co-located with LCD pixels. The primary advantage of the active matrix approach using TFTs is the elimination of cross-talk between pixels, and the15 excellent grey scale that can be attained with TFT-compatible LCDs.Flat panel displays employing LCDs generally include five different layers: a white light source, a first polarizing filter that is mounted on one side of a20 circuit panel on which the TFTs are arrayed to form pixels, a filter plate containing at least three primary colors arranged into pixels, and finally a second polarizing filter. A volume between the circuit panel and the filter plate is filled with a liquid crystal25 material. This material will rotate the polarization of light when an electric field is applied across it between the circuit panel and a ground affixed to the filter plate. Thus, when a particular pixel of the display is turned on, the liquid crystal material rotates polarized30 light being transmitted through the material so that it will pass through the second polarizing filter.The primary approach to TFT formation over the large areas required for flat panel displays has involved the 

use of amorphous silicon which has previously been 

 developed for large-area photovoltaic devices. Although the TFT approach has proven to be feasible, the use of amorphous silicon compromises certain aspects of the panel performance. For example, amorphous silicon TFTs lack the frequency response needed for large area displays due to the low electron mobility inherent in amorphous material. Thus the use of amorphous silicon limits display speed, and is also unsuitable for the fast logic needed to drive the display. Owing to the limitations of amorphous silicon, other alternative materials include polycrystalline silicon, or laser recrystallized silicon. These materials are limited as they use silicon that is already on glass which generally restricts further circuit processing to low temperatures.Thus, a need exists for a method of forming high quality TFTs at each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A slide assembly for a display adapted for use with a slide projector having a projector body, a light source, an optical system and a chamber in which an image can be placed for projection onto an external viewing surface, the slide assembly comprising: a housing adapted to be positioned relative to the slide projector body; an active matrix slide movably mounted to the housing and having a storage position and an operating position, the slide being movable into the operating position such that the slide is positioned in the chamber for selectively transmitting light from the light source to the optical system for projection onto the external viewing surface.
2. The slide assembly of Claim 1 wherein the housing comprises an electronics unit for actuating the slide, the actuated slide selectively transmitting light to provide images.
3. The slide assembly of Claim 2 wherein the electronics unit is adapted to receive computer data, the electronics unit responsive to the computer data actuating the slide, the actuated slide selectively transmitting light to provide computer-based images. 


4. The slide assembly of Claim 2 wherein the electronics unit is adapted to receive video signals, the electronics unit responsive to the video signals actuating the slide, the actuated slide selectively transmitting received light to produce video-based images.
5. The slide assembly of Claim 1 wherein the active matrix slide is adapted to produce multi-color images.
6. The slide assembly of Claim 1 wherein the active matrix slide comprises a light valve matrix secured between a pair of optically transmissive layers.
7. The slide assembly of Claim 6 wherein the light valve matrix is secured to at least one of said optically transmissive layers with an adhesive.
8. The slide assembly of Claim 1 wherein the active matrix slide comprises a light valve matrix which comprises an array of transistors being formed in a semiconductor material, an array of electrodes with each electrode being electrically connected to at least one transistor and a light transmitting material through which received light from the light source is selectively transmitted.
9. The slide assembly of Claim 8 wherein the light transmitting material comprises liquid crystal. 


10. The slide assembly of Claim 8 wherein each light valve comprises at least one transistor, an electrode and the light transmitting material.
11. The slide assembly of Claim 8 wherein the active matrix slide further comprises a driver circuit electrically connected
"
 to the light valve matrix for actuating the light valves.
12. The slide assembly of Claim 8 wherein the semiconductor material comprises single crystal silicon.
13. A slide assembly for light display adapted for use with a slide projector having a projector body, a light source, an optical system and a chamber in which an image can be placed for projection onto an external viewing surface, the slide assembly comprising: an electronics unit; and an active matrix slide electrically connected to and actuated by the electronics unit, the slide being adapted to be positioned in the chamber for selectively transmitting light from the light source to provide images to the optical system for projection onto the external viewing surface. 


14. The slide assembly of Claim 13 wherein the electronics unit is adapted to receive computer data, the electronics unit responsive to the computer data actuating the slide, the actuated slide selectively transmitting light to provide computer-based images.
15. The slide assembly of Claim 13 wherein the electronics unit is adapted to receive video signals, the electronics unit responsive to the video signals actuating the slide, the actuated slide selectively transmitting received light to provide video-based images.
16. The slide assembly of Claim 13 wherein the active matrix slide is adapted to provide multi-color images.
17. The slide assembly of Claim 13 wherein the active matrix slide comprises a light valve matrix which comprises an array of transistors being formed in a semiconductor material, an array of electrodes with each electrode being electrically connected to at least one transistor and a light transmitting material through which received light from the light source is selectively transmitted.
18. The slide assembly of Claim 17 wherein the light transmitting material comprises liquid crystal. 


19. The slide assembly of Claim 17 wherein the active matrix slide further comprises a driver circuit electrically connected to the light valve matrix for actuating the light valves.
20. The slide assembly of Claim 19 wherein the semiconductor material comprises a thin film of single crystal silicon material.
21. A slide assembly adapted for use with a slide projector having a projector body, a light source, an optical system and a chamber in which an image can be placed for projection onto an external viewing surface, the slide assembly comprising: an electronics unit spaced from the projector body; and an active matrix slide adapted to be positioned in the chamber, the slide being in signal communication with and actuated by the electronics unit, the actuated slide selectively transmitting light images from the light source to provide images to the optical system for projection onto the external viewing surface.
22. The slide assembly of Claim 21 wherein the electronics unit and the slide each comprise an antenna for participation in signal communications.
23. The slide assembly of Claim 22 wherein the each antenna transmits and receives RF signals. 


24. The slide assembly of Claim 22 wherein the each antenna transmits and receives infrared signals.
25. The slide assembly of Claim 21 wherein the electronics unit comprises a transmitter and the slide comprises a receiver for participation in signal communications..
26. The slide assembly of Claim 21 wherein the active matrix slide comprises a light valve matrix which comprises an array of transistors being formed in a semiconductor material, an array of electrodes with each electrode being electrically connected to at least one transistor and a light transmitting material through which received light from the light source is selectively transmitted.
27. The slide assembly of Claim 26 wherein the active matrix slide further comprises a driver circuit electrically connected to the light valve matrix for actuating the light valves.
28. The slide assembly of Claim 26 wherein the semiconductor material comprises a thin film of single crystal silicon material.
29. A method of fabricating a slide assembly for use with a slide projector having a projector body, a light source, an optical system and a chamber in which an image can be placed for projection onto an external viewing surface, the method comprising: 


 forming a housing adapted to be positioned in the chamber of a slide projector, the housing being dimensioned to be rigidly disposed within the chamber between the light source and the optical system; and positioning an active matrix slide within the housing such that the slide is exposed to the light source, the slide comprising an array of transistors and an array of electrodes and a light transmitting material through which light from the light source can be selectively transmitted to form a light valve array, each light valve being actuatable by a transistor; and providing a driver circuit electrically connected to the light valve array for actuating the light valves such that light is transmitted through the actuated light valves to the optical system for projection onto the viewing surface.
30. The method of Claim 29 wherein the light transmitting material comprises liquid crystal.
31. The method of Claim 29 further comprising forming the array of transistors in a semiconductor material.
32. The method of Claim 31 wherein the semiconductor material comprises a thin film of single crystal silicon. 


33. The method of Claim 31 further comprising forming the driver circuit in the semiconductor material such that each transistor is electrically connected to and selectively driven by the driver circuit.
34. A method of fabricating a slide assembly adapted for use in a chamber of a .slide projector having a projector body, a light source, an optical system and said chamber in which an image is placed for projection onto an external viewing surface, the method comprising: providing an optically transmissive substrate; positioning an active matrix over the substrate, the active matrix comprising an array of transistors and an array of electrodes and a light transmitting material through which light from the light source can be selectively transmitted to form a light valve array, each light valve being actuatable by a transistor; providing an optically transmissive superstrate over the active matrix for passing light transmitted through actuated light valves; and forming a housing in which the substrate, the active matrix and the superstrate are positioned, the housing adapted to be positioned in the slide chamber of the slide projector, the housing dimensioned to be rigidly disposed within said chamber between the light source and the optical system such that light is transmitted through the actuated light valves to the optical system for projection onto the viewing surface. 



35. The method of Claim 37 further comprising forming the array of transistors in or on a thin film of single crystal silicon.
36. The method of Claim 40 further comprising forming a driver circuit in or on the silicon such that each transistor is electrically connected to and selectively driven by the driver circuit.
37. A light valve assembly for a display adapted for use in a slide projector, the assembly comprising: an electronics unit adapted to be positioned relative to the slide projector; a light valve module comprising a light valve array, each light valve of the array including a transistor, an electrode and a material through which light can be selectively transmitted, each light valve being actuatable by a transistor, the light valve array being electrically connected to and controlled by the electronics unit, the module adapted to be inserted into the slide projector such that the light valve array selectively transmits light via actuated light valves to provide projected images.
38. The light valve assembly of Claim 37 wherein the array of transistors are formed in or on a semiconductor material. 


39. The light valve assembly of Claim 38 further comprising a driver circuit formed in or on the semiconductor material and connected to the electronics unit such that each transistor is electrically connected to and selectively driven by the driver circuit.
40. The light valve assembly of Claim 38 wherein the semiconductor material comprises a thin film of single crystal silicon.
41. A slide assembly adapted for use with a slide projector having a projector body, a light source, an electrical input for powering the light source, an optical system and a chamber in which an image can be placed for projection onto an external viewing surface, the slide assembly comprising: an electronics unit spaced from the projector body, the electronics unit adapted to receive an electrical signal and an image signal, the electronics unit having processing circuitry for encoding the image signal and coupling the encoded image signal into the electrical signal to form an encoded electrical signal, the electronics unit providing the encoded electrical signal to the electrical input of the projector, the light source responsive to the encoded electrical signal transmitting light which includes the encoded image signal to the chamber; and 


 an active matrix slide adapted to be positioned in the chamber, the slide comprising an active matrix actuatable by the encoded image signal and a detector for detecting the encoded image signal to actuate the active matrix, the actuated active matrix selectively transmitting light from the light source to provide images to the optical system for projection onto the external viewing surface.
42. The slide assembly of Claim 41 wherein the active matrix comprises a light valve array, each light valve of the array including a transistor, an electrode and a material through which light can be selectively transmitted, each light valve being actuatable by the transistor.
43. The light valve assembly of Claim 42 wherein the array of transistors are formed in or on a semiconductor material.
44. The light valve assembly of Claim 42 further comprising a driver circuit electrically connected to the detector and each transistor, the driver circuit receiving the encoded image signal from the detector and selectively actuate light valves.
45. A slide assembly adapted for use with a slide projector having a projector body, a light source, an optical system and a chamber in which an image can be placed for projection onto an external viewing surface, the slide assembly comprising: 


 an electronics unit spaced from the projector body; and an active matrix slide adapted to be positioned in the chamber, the slide comprising a photovoltaic device positioned "to be exposed to light from the light source for providing power to the slide and an active matrix being in- signal communications with and actuated by the electronics unit, the actuated active matrix selectively transmitting light images from the light source to provide images to the optical system for projection onto the external viewing surface.
46. The slide assembly of Claim 45 wherein the active matrix comprises a light valve array, each light valve of the array including a transistor, an electrode and a material through which light can be selectively transmitted, each light valve being actuatable by the transistor.
47. The light valve assembly of Claim 46 wherein the array of transistors are formed in or on a semiconductor material.
48. The light valve assembly of Claim 47 further comprising a driver circuit formed in or on the semiconductor material and in communication with the electronics unit such that each transistor is electrically connected to and selectively driven by the driver circuit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
