<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628223</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POWER SUPPLY, IN PARTICULAR FOR ALARM SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J1300	H02J1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J13	H02J13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An alarm is provided in association with a ceiling rose. In order to provide the alarm with substantially continuous power while still allowing the light to be switched on/off the normal power supply lines are used together with a special light switch. Operation of the light switch produces a modification in the waveform of the AC power supplied to the ceiling rose. This modification is detected by a sensing circuit at the ceiling rose. The sensing unit controls the switching of the light. Preferably the AC power waveform is modified by creating an imbalance between the positive and negative half-cycles of the waveform. This imbalance may be compensated using a balancing circuit at the ceiling rose. By altering the polarity of the imbalance created in the AC waveform it is possible to signal to the sensing circuit that a further switchable unit, e.g. a ceiling fan, connected to the sensing circuit should be switched. If the alarm is a smoke alarm or the like then it is preferred to promote circulation of air within the casing of the unit, as well as to improve the draw of air into the casing, using a heating means and a special arrangement of air flow passages.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCANTRONIC LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCANTRONIC LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE ROBERT WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE, ROBERT WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an alarm, 
particularly but not solely to a smoke alarm, and to a 
switching arrangement which may be used in conjunction 
with units such as alarms. Smoke alarms are known for mounting to 
ceilings, these smoke alarms commonly being small, self-contained, 
battery-powered units. The batteries need to 
be replaced periodically to maintain the alarm in an 
operable condition. However, many deaths and injuries 
have been caused by fire where the smoke alarm has 
failed to operate owing to its battery having 
discharged. Smoke alarms are also rather unsightly items 
and many people prefer not to fit them rather than to 
have an alarm mounted to a ceiling e.g. in their living 
room. Intruder detection alarms similarly suffer 
from being considered unsightly and failing to operate 
when needed because of exhaustion of batteries. GB-A-2221074 provides a smoke alarm in which 
both of the above problems can be overcome. This is 
achieved by incorporating the smoke alarm into, or 
fitting it to, the ceiling rose of a pendant light. The 
alarm may be battery powered, but preferably it is 
powered from a mains supply which is fed to the ceiling 
rose. A disadvantage with this arrangement is that a 
permanent live supply has to be provided for the alarm 
in addition to the switched supply for the pendant 
light. Although in some newly-wired buildings a 
permanent live supply will be present in each ceiling 
rose, this is not the case in older buildings nor 
according to the most recent wiring regulations. In the 
latter cases only a switched live supply is provided to  
 
the ceiling rose and the supply of current is dependent 
upon the status of the associated light switch. In such 
systems it would be difficult to fit an alarm of the 
sort described in GB-A-2221074. We have now devised an arrangement which 
alleviates the above problem with the above mentioned 
smoke alarm. Swiss Patent Application CH-A-196446 describes 
a system by virtue of which remote devices in large 
permanent installations such as public street lighting 
networks, can be switched on and off by providing an 
imbalance between the two half-waves of the main AC 
supply. This is done using a valve connected in 
parallel with a resistor. In accordance with the invention there is 
provided a system for supplying switched and 
substantially continuous power, comprising an actuator 
and a sensing means, the actuator having one terminal 
for connection to an AC power supply and a second 
terminal for connection by a line
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for supplying switched and 
substantially continuous power, comprising an actuator 

and a sensing means, the actuator having one 
terminal for connection to an AC power supply and a 

second terminal (14) for connection by a line to the 
sensing means, the actuator being arranged in use to 

respond to operation of a switch (50,50') so as to produce 
an imbalance between the half-cycles of the waveform of 

the AC power passing to the sensing means and 
the sensing means being responsive to the balance 

between the waveform half-cycles to selectively connect 
or disconnect said line to one or more electrical 

outputs,
 
   characterised in that the actuator comprises 

one or more diode packs (60), the or each diode pack 
comprising a first and second string of diodes connected 

in parallel with one another and in opposite senses, 
each diode string T61,62,61',62') comprising one or more 

diodes and the voltage drop across the first diode 
string (61,61') being different from the voltage drop 

across the second diode string (62,62'), wherein 
operation of the switch (50,50') selectively connects said 

diode pack or packs (60) to the line to produce said 
imbalance. 
The system of claim 1, wherein the actuator is 
adapted selectively to produce two different 

modifications of the AC waveform whereby to signal 
different switching requirements to the sensing means. 
The system of claim 2, wherein the different 
modifications of the AC waveform are of different 

polarities.  
 
The system of claim 2 or 3, further comprising 
a bala
ncing circuit (93) at or downstream of the sensing 
means for restoring the balance between the positive and 

negative half cycles of the AC waveform. 
The system of claim 4, wherein the actuator is 
adapted to replace a light switch and the sensing means 

is adapted to selectively connect or disconnect said 
line to a light. 
The system of claim 5, wherein the one or more 
further electrical outputs include an output to supply 

an alarm device. 
The system of claim 6, wherein the alarm 
device is provided combined in a unit with a ceiling 

rose fitment. 
An actuator for use in a system for providing 
switched and substantially continuous power, the system 

comprising the actuator and a sensing means, 
the actuator having one terminal for connection to 

an AC power supply and a second terminal (14) for 
connection by a line to the sensing means, the actuator 

being arranged in response to operation of a switch (50,50') 
to produce an imbalance between the half-cycles of the 

waveform of the AC power supplied to said line whereby 
to signal to the sensing means that said line 

should be selectively connected to or disconnected from 
one or more electrical outputs,
 
   characterised in that the actuator comprises 

one or more diode packs (60), the or each diode pack 
comprising a first and a second string of diodes 

connected in parallel with one another and in opposite 
senses, each diode string (61,62,61',62') comprising one 

or more diodes and the voltage drop across the first  
 

diode string (61,61') being different from the voltage 
drop across the second diode string (62,62'), wherein 

operation of the switch (50,50') selectively connects said 
diode pack or packs (60) to the line to produce said 

imbalance. 
The actuator of claim 8, adapted selectively 
to produce two different modifications of the AC 

waveform whereby to signal different switching 
requirements to the sensing means. 
The actuator of claim 9, wherein the different 
modifications of the AC waveform are of different 

polarities. 
The actuator of any of claims 8 to 10, 
configured as a light switch. 
Sensing means for a system for 
supplying switched and substantially continuous power, 

the system comprising the sensing means and an actuator 
adapted in response to operation of a switch (50, 50') to 

produce an imbalance between the half-cycles of the 
waveform of AC power passing to the sensing means, the 

sensing means being responsive to the balance between 
half-cycles of said waveform to selectively connect or 

disconnect said line to one or more electrical outputs,
 
   characterised by further comprising a 

balancing circuit (93) for restoring the balance between 
the positive and negative half cycles of the AC 

waveform. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
