<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620553</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Storage media library.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1722	G11B1722	G11B1726	G11B1726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	G11B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A storage media library is provided wherein the library includes a 
plurality of carousels, one of the carousels being a primary carousel and 

the other carousels being sub-carousels. The sub-carousels have storage 
media receptacles, such as that used for storing optical or magnetic 

data. A support such as a framework, is provided. The primary carousel 
is mounted on the support for rotation about a central axis. The sub-carousels 

are rotatably mounted on the primary carousel, each sub-carousel 
having an axis of rotation which is coextensive with the central 

axis of the primary carousel. With this arrangement any one or a 
combination of the sub-carousels can be rotated with respect to the 

primary carousel into a location where a storage media receptacle can be 
accessed by one or more storage media pickers. The storage media pickers 

may be mounted on the support for movement along respective axes which 
are parallel to the central axis of the carousels. With this arrangement 

the storage media pickers can reach any storage media receptacle within 
the respective sub-carousels. Independent operation of the sub-carousels 

minimizes the amount of mass to be moved. However, if a sub-carousel 
should fail, the primary carousel can be rotated, as a back-up, to 

provide access to any one of the sub-carousels mounted thereon. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANG CHI HUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANG, CHI HUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a storage media library of the 
type which has a plurality of independently rotatable storage media 
carrying sub-carousels. The carousel type of data storage library has become very popular 
because it is compact. Further, its data retrieval device, such as a 
cartridge picker, need only operate along one axis instead of two axes. 
The carousel library is especially useful for recordable media 
cartridges, such as cartridges for optical disks or cartridges for 
magnetic tapes or disks. The typical carousel rotates about a central 
vertical axis and has a plurality of cartridge receptacles which are 
arranged in vertical columns. The most compact carousel employs four 
columns arranged 90° from one another about a common axis. This type of 
carousel takes up a minimum amount of floor space. If a large library is needed in a small space, the four column 
carousel can be used by increasing its height. However, when the height 
is increased, the carousel becomes less efficient because of its 
increased weight. The designer attempts to keep the carousel as light as 
possible. However, when the carousel is filled with recordable media 
cartridges the total mass becomes substantial. This total mass is moved 
every time a new location is accessed by a cartridge picker. The results 
are slower access time and wear and tear on the motor and drive train. An even greater problem of prior art carousel type data storage 
libraries is that when the motor and/or drive train fails the entire 
library is shut down. In the past there has been no provision for any 
backup operation of the library. A library could be shut down for 
literally days while waiting for proper servicing. This would be 
unacceptable to a user who relies upon the data in his library for the 
operation of his business. Accordingly the present invention provides a storage media library 
comprising a primary carousel rotatable about an axis and having mounted 
thereon a plurality of sub-carousels which are also rotatable about the  
 
axis both independently of each other and the primary carousel, each sub-carousel 
comprising a plurality of storage media receptacles. The present invention overcomes the problems associated with the 
prior art carousel type of data storage libraries by providing a unique 
arrangement of multi-carousels. One of the carousels is a primary 
carousel and the other carousels are sub-carousels. Each sub-carousel 
may be provided with a plurality of recordable media cartridge 
receptacles. An
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Storage media library comprising 
a primary carousel rotatable about an axis and having mounted thereon a 

plurality of sub-carousels which are also rotatable about the axis both 
independently of each other and the primary carousel, each sub-carousel 

comprising a plurality of storage media receptacles. 
Storage media library as claimed in claim 1, wherein the 
receptacles of each sub-carousel have outwardly located open ends with 

respect to the axis; and 
   the outward open ends of the receptacles of the sub-carousels are 

alignable for access in a plurality of access planes which are parallel 
to said axis. 
Storage media library as claimed in either of claims 1 or 2, 
wherein 

   the primary carousel comprises a cylinder which has an outer 
cylindrical surface, the longitudinal axis of the cylinder is co-linear 

with said axis; and 
   the sub-carousels are rotatably mounted on the outer cylindrical 

surface of the cylinder. 
Storage media library as claimed in claim 3, wherein the cylinder 
has an inner surface; and 

   each sub-carousel motor is mounted to the inner surface; 
   a ring gear mounted on each sub-carousel, each ring gear 

circumscribing the outside surface of the cylinder; 
   the cylinder having an opening opposite each respective ring gear; 

and 
   a spur gear connected to each respective sub-carousel motor and 

extending through a respective opening to engage a respective ring gear. 
Storage media library as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
   each sub-carousel has two pairs of columns of storage media 

receptacles; and 
   each pair of columns being aligned along mutually perpendicular 

axes. 
Storage media library as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein 
the number of sub-carousels and storage media pickers being equal. 
Storage media library as claimed in any preceding claim, further 
comprising means for selectively rotating any one of the sub-carousels 

with respect to the primary carousel. 
Storage media library as claimed in any preceding claim further 
comprising means for selectively rotating the primary carousel. 
Storage media library as claimed in either of claims 7 or 8, 
wherein the rotation means for the sub-carousels includes: 

   a plurality of sub-carousel motors, each sub-carousel motor being 
connected to a respective sub-carousel; and 

   each sub-carousel motor being mounted to the primary carousel. 
Storage media library as claimed in any preceding claim, including: 
   at least one cartridge picker for selectively removing and 

replacing cartridges with respect to any receptacle having an open end 
aligned in one of the access planes; and 

   power means connecting the cartridge picker to the support for 
aligning the cartridge picker with selected cartridge receptacles within 

the access plane. 
Storage media library as claimed in either of claims 2 or 3, 
comprising: 

   a plurality of storage media pickers for selectively removing and 
replacing storage media with respect to any receptacle having an open end 

alignable with a second of access planes. 
A method for managing a storage media library wherein the library 
has a primary carousel and a plurality of sub-carousels, the sub-carousels 

having storage media receptacles which are accessible by a 
storage media picker, the method comprising: 

   selectively rotating any one of the sub-carousels or the primary 
carousel about a common axis until a sub-carousel is in a desired 

position with respect to the picker; and
 

   moving the picker along a line which is parallel to said common 
axis for removing or inserting a storage medium with respect to a sub-carousel 

storage media receptacle. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
