<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627172</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Extender for foodstuff containing starch and a saccharide-based matrix
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L1325	A23L100	A23L1314	A23L1314	A23L1305	A23L122	A23L109	A23L10522	A23L109	A23L100	A23L10522	A23L1315	A23L122	A23L1325	A23L1305	A23L1315	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention includes food products and a 
food ingredient. Both starch and a matrix prepared by 

flash-flow processing are part of the present invention. 
They can be included in food products as separate 

ingredients or the starch can be a part of the matrix 
which is prepared by subjecting a carrier to flash-flow 

processing. Alternatively, starch can be added both as a 
part of the matrix and as a separate ingredient in the 

overall composition. Preferably the food product is 
protein based. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUISZ TECHNOLOGIES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUISZ TECHNOLOGIES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUISZ RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUISZ, RICHARD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to new method and
product for enhancing food products, and, in particular,
to the use of starch and starch-based ingredients.Food technology in recent years has focused on
providing high quality food products which are low in
calorie content and low in cost. To this end,
ingredients are constantly being sought for their
versatility and compatibility with major food products.Carbohydrates have always been a major component of
the human diet. Sugars, for example, have been used
extensively as a food ingredient. Materials containing
both simple sugars and polymers of saccharides have also
been used as ingredients in food products.Starch is a carbohydrate which is a homopolymer of 
glucopyranoside. It is a polysaccharide found in many
plant cells, and it consists of two (2) fractions:
amylose or α-amylose, a straight chain of 1, 4,
α-glucopyranose units, and amylopectin or β-amylose, a 1,
6, α-branched form. The length of amylose chains
averages between 500 and 2,000 glucose units, and is
found in amounts of up to about 32% in grains and
potatoes.The present inventor, Dr. Fuisz, has discovered that
processing sugars under flash-flow conditions alters the
structure and behavior of the products during use. The
processed sugars can be used for various purposes.In United States Patent No. 5,011,532, oleaginous
substances, such as vegetable oil, mineral oil, baby oil,
margarine, lanolin, cocoa butter and the like are
disclosed as characteristically lacking affinity for
water. The '532 patent explains how this characteristic
is altered by mixing the oleaginous substance with sugar
and subjecting the mixture to a type of flash-flow
processing in a cotton candy spinning machine or the
equivalent. As so modified, the products disperse in
water forming a colloidal or pseudo-colloidal dispersion.
Such modification enabled such widely disparate
procedures as: (a) incorporating shortening oil in a cake
mix containing flour but no egg to which water is added
to produce a batter; and (b) producing a confection or
medicated lozenge by dehydrating the dispersion and
allowing the melted residue to solidify. The disclosure
of the '532 patent is incorporated herein by reference.Other disclosures dealing with substances processed
with one or more sugars under flash-flow conditions will
be found in United States Patent Nos. 4,873,085;
4,997,586; 5,028,632 and 5,034,421. More recently, Dr. Fuisz has discovered unexpected
phenomena regarding maltodextrins. Maltodextrins contain
a mix of sugars and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A comestible matrix comprising a carrier combined with a starch and subjected to
flash-flow processing, characterized in that the amylose content of the starch is

not greater than 20%.
A matrix according to claim 1 characterized in that the starch is included in an

amount of not more than about 35% and optionally in that the starch is present in
an amount of not more than 25%.
A matrix according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that it farther
comprises an oleaginous substance combined with the carrier material prior to

being subjected to the flash-flow processing.
A matrix according to claim 3 characterized in that the oleaginous substance is
selected from the group consisting of animal fats, tallows, lards, fish oils,

crustacean oils, vegetable oils and mixtures thereof.
A matrix according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that it further
comprises oleoresin combined with the carrier material prior to being subjected to

flash-flow processing.
A matrix according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that it further
comprises spice combined with the carrier material prior to being subjected to

flash-flow processing.
A matrix according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that it further
comprises flavour oil combined with the carrier material prior to being subjected

to flash-flow processing.
A matrix according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that the starch
is a waxy starch having an amylose content of not greater than about 17%.
A matrix according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that the carrier
material is selected from the group consisting of saccharides, cellulosics and

mixtures thereof.
A matrix according to claim 9 characterized in that the carrier material is a
saccharide selected from the group consisting of sucrose, lactose, fructose,

dextrose, sorbitol, mannitol, maltose, polydextrose, and maltodextrins and
mixtures thereof, and optionally wherein the saccharide is deionized maltodextin.
A matrix according to claim 9 characterized in that the carrier material is
cellulosic selected from the group consisting of methyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose, 

hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, alkali-metal salts of
carboxymethylcellulose and mixtures thereof.
A matrix according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that it is in the
form of flakes which exhibit bactericidal effect in food.
A protein based food product comprising a source of protein and comprising the
matrix of any of claims 1 and 3 to 11.
A food product according to claim 13, characterized in that it further comprises
starch in addition to the starch in the matrix.
A food product according to claim 14, characterized in that the total starch
content of said product is not greater than 1% by weight.
A food product according to any of claims 13 to 15, characterized in that the
source of protein is ground beef or ground turkey and the matrix comprises

oleoresin combined with the carrier prior to flash-flow processing.
A food product according to claim 16, characterized in that the carrier is
maltodextrin and the matrix is in the form of flakes.
A food enhancing ingredient or a protein based food product which comprises a
source of protein, characterized in that it includes:


(a) a matrix formed by subjecting a carrier material to flash-flow processing and
(b) a starch having an amylose content of not greater than 20%.
An ingredient or a food product according to claim 18 characterized in that the
starch is included in an amount of not more than about 35% and optionally

wherein said starch is present in an amount of not more than 25%.
An ingredient or a food product according to claim 18 or 19 characterized in that
the matrix farther comprises an oleaginous substance combined with the carrier

material prior to being subjected to the flash-flow processing.
An ingredient or a food product according to claim 20 characterized in that the
oleaginous substance is selected from the group consisting of animal fats, tallows,

lards, fish oils, crustacean oils, vegetable oils and mixtures thereof.
An ingredient or a food product according to any of claims 18 to 21 characterized
in that the matrix farther comprises oleoresin combined with the carrier material

prior to being subjected to flash-flow processing. 
An ingredient or a food product according to any of claims 18 to 22 characterized
in that the matrix further comprises spice combined with the carrier material prior

to being subjected to flash-flow processing.
An ingredient or a food product according to any of claims 18 to 23 characterized
in that the matrix farther comprises flavour oil combined with the carrier material

prior to being subjected to flash-flow processing.
An ingredient or a food product according to any of claims 18 to 24 characterized
in that the starch is a waxy starch having an amylose content of not greater than

about 17%.
An ingredient or a food product according to any of claims 18 to 25 characterized
in that the carrier material is selected from the group consisting of saccharides,

cellulosics and mixtures thereof.
An ingredient or a food product according to claim 26 characterized in that the
carrier material is a saccharide selected from the group consisting of sucrose,

lactose, fructose, dextrose, sorbitol, mannitol, maltose, polydextrose, and
maltodextrins and mixtures thereof and optionally wherein the saccharide is

deionized maltodextrin.
An ingredient or a food product according to claim 26 characterized in that the
carrier material is cellulosic selected from the group consisting of methyl

cellulose, ethyl cellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, alkali-metal
salts of carboxymethylcellulose and mixtures thereof.
An ingredient or a food product according to claim 18 characterized in that the
matrix is in the form of flakes which exhibit bactericidal effect in food.
A food product according to claim 13 or 18, characterized in that the starch is
included in an amount less than about 1.0% by weight of the food product, and

optionally wherein the starch is included in an amount less than about 0.75 by
weight of the food product.
A food product according to any of claims 13 to 30, characterized in that the
source of protein is selected from the group consisting of animal meats, soy -

based products, vegetable-based products, fish products, crustacean products and
mixtures thereof.
A method of stabilizing a protein based food product against loss of gustatory
qualities during cooking characterized by the steps of


(a) forming a matrix by subjecting a carrier material to flash-flow processing and 
(b) combining starch having an amylose content of not greater than 20% with
such matrix prior to cooking.
A method according to claim 32 characterized by the additional step of adding

starch to the carrier material prior to flash-flow processing.
A method of stabilizing a protein based food product against loss of gustatory
qualities during cooking characterized by the steps of


(a) forming a matrix by subjecting a carrier material and starch having an
amylose content of not greater than 20% to flash-flow processing
(b) combining such matrix with a source of protein prior to cooking.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
