<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632652</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Single sensor color camera with user selectable image record resolution
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N979	H04N907	H04N907	H04N904	H04N5765	H04N904	H04N5765	H04N5335	H04N5335	H04N979	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N5	H04N9	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic camera is adapted for 
processing images of different resolution to provide a 

user selectable image record size. A buffer memory is 
provided for storing color image pixels from a sensor 

as baseband signals corresponding to at least one 
image. A timing controller responsive to a resolution 

mode switch controls the order in which color image 
pixels are selected for storage in both vertical and 

horizontal directions. The order selected by the 
resolution switch includes a full resolution mode, and 

at least one reduced resolution mode in which the color 
image pixels are subsampled such that each chrominance 

image pixel is selected to be spatially adjacent to a 
selected luminance image pixel. Additionally, the 

buffer memory can store a burst of low resolution 
images. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHMORI SEISHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARULSKI KENNETH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL RICHARD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHMORI, SEISHI.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARULSKI, KENNETH A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL, RICHARD M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of
electronic imaging and, in particular, to electronic
still imaging by means of an electronic still camera
having a single color sensor and semiconductor memory.It is known in the prior art to provide an
electronic camera with variable resolution modes by
which the memory capacity required for recording an
image can be changed as required, for example, to cope
with limited residual memory in the recording medium.U.S. Patent No. 5,018,017 is representative
of a camera utilizing such variability in resolution
modes. The problem in the prior art, as set forth in
this patent, is that provision of different resolution
modes complicates the compatibility of removable memory
used in electronic cameras. Whereas signal processing
may be simple in construction when data corresponding
to each picture element is simply recorded in the
removable memory, any change in the number of filter
elements or the arrangement of the color filter
accordingly changes the arrangement of data recorded in
the memory or the amount of data per image recorded in
the memory. This means that the recorded memory cannot
be interchangeably used with other camera systems
having different sensor arrangements. While this
problem is always a serious shortcoming, it becomes
even more serious, and complicated, when several
resolution modes are provided because each mode is
likely to be dependent upon the particular color filter
arrangement in use. U.S. Patent 5,018,017 solves this problem by
preprocessing the baseband image data from the sensor,
in this case to form luminance and color difference
signals, before providing any change in resolution.
This achieves a degree of uniformity, regardless of the
sensor being used. Four resolution modes are provided,
a full resolution mode and a lower resolution mode
obtained by subsampling the full resolution signal, and
two lesser resolution modes obtained by using
progressively lower quantization levels in compressing
the lower resolution image. In each case, the
progressively lowered resolutions are derived from a
color signal that is already preconverted into a
standardized form. These reduced resolution modes
offer more image storage for a given memory and open
the possibility of continuously photographing, and
recording, a series of images in memory that would, at
full resolution, only store one, or a few, images. As
noted in U.S. Patent No. 5,018,017, the upper limit of
the speed attained during such a burst mode is
restricted by the time required for writing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic camera adapted for processing
images of different resolution, said camera comprising:


an image sensor (28) for generating a baseband image
signal representative of color image pixels arranged in

vertical and horizontal directions as obtained from a
two-dimensional array of photosites covered by a pattern

of luminance and chrominance color filters that provide
corresponding luminance and chrominance image pixels;
a memory (62) having sufficient capacity for storing
the color image pixels as baseband signals corresponding

to at least one image, said memory operable according to
a timing signal that regulates the o
rder in which the
color image pixels are selected for storage in said

memory;
a resolution mode switch (88b) for selecting the
pixel resolution of the stored image by specifying the

order in which the color image pixels are selected for
storage in both vertical and horizontal directions, said

order including a full resolution mode in which all color
image pixels are stored and at least one reduced

resolution mode in which a fewer number of color image
pixels are stored; and
a timing controller (80, 82) responsive to the pixel
resolution selected by the resolution mode switch for

generating said timing signal and accordingly changing the
number of horizontal and vertical pixels that represent

the image, said timing signal effecting a subsampling of
the color image pixels for the reduced resolution mode.
A camera as claimed in claim 1 in which said
timing signal effects a subsampling of the color image

pixels for the reduced resolution mode such that each
chrominance pixel is selected to be spatially adjacent to

a selected luminance image pixel.
A camera as claimed in claim 1 in which said
timing signal effects a subsampling of the color image

pixels for the reduced resolution mode wherein (a) the
luminance image pixels are subsampled in a checkerboard-type 

arrangement and (b) the chrominance image pixels are
subsampled so as to be spatially adjacent to a luminance

image pixel.
A camera as claimed in claim 1 in which the
reduced resolution mode produces a fewer number of color

image pixels by averaging at least some of the color
image pixels before compression.
A camera as claimed in claim 4 in which the fewer
number of color image pixels produced in the reduced

resolution mode include a subsampled array of luminance
image pixels and averaged values of the chrominance image

pixels horizontally and vertically adjacent to at least
some of the subsampled luminance image pixels.
A camera as claimed in claim 4 in which the fewer
number of color image pixels produced in the reduced

resolution mode include averages of luminance image
pixels both horizontally and vertically adjacent to an

array of chrominance image pixels.
A camera as claimed in claim 4 in which the fewer
number of color image pixels produced in the reduced

resolution mode represent luminance and chrominance
values that are averaged over an array of positions that

are adjacent to an array of chrominance image pixels.
An electronic camera adapted for processing
images of different resolution, said camera comprising:


an image sensor (28) for generating a baseband image
signal representative of color image pixels arranged in

vertical and horizontal directions as obtained from a
two-dimensional array of photosites covered by a pattern

of luminance and chrominance color filters;
a buffer memory (62) having sufficient capacity for
storing the color image pixels as baseband signals

corresponding to at least one image;
an output memory (66), connected subsequent to the
buffer memory, for storing processed image signals

obtained from the buffer memory;
a resolution mode switch (88b) for selecting the
pixel resolution of the image by specifying the order in 

which the color image pixels are selected for storage in
both vertical and horizontal directions, said order

including a full resolution mode in which all color image
pixels are selected and at least one reduced resolution

mode in which a fewer number of color image pixels are
selected;
a controller (80, 82, 64) responsive to the pixel
resolution selected by the resolution mode switch for

accordingly changing the number of horizontal and
vertical pixels that represent the image, said controller

effecting a subsampling of the color image pixels for the
reduced resolution mode; and
means (64, 84) for storing the selected color image
pixels in said output memory, whereby said output memory

is able to store more images in said reduced resolution
mode than in said full resolution mode.
A camera as claimed in claim 8 in which said
buffer memory (62) is operable according to a timing

signal that regulates the order in which the color image
pixels are selected for storage in said buffer memory,

and said controller (80, 82) responsive to the selected
pixel resolution generates the timing signal and

accordingly effects the subsampling by selecting
appropriate pixels for storage in said buffer memory.
A camera as claimed in claim 8 wherein said
controller (80, 82) further enables a burst mode wherein

a multiplicity of subsampled images are stored in said
buffer memory (62), and wherein said storing means

subsequently transfers said subsampled images to said
output memory.
A camera as claimed in claim 8 wherein said
buffer memory (62) is operable to store all of the color

image pixels from said image sensor as baseband signals,
and wherein said controller (64) effectuates the

subsampling for the selected pixel resolution by
accordingly selecting appropriate pixels from said buffer

memory (62) for storage in said output memory (66). 
A camera as claimed in claim 11 wherein said
controller (64) further averages certain of the selected

pixels before storage in said output memory (66).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
