<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646483</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Flush-mounted panel assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60J112	B60J114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60J	B60J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60J1	B60J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flush-mounted articulated window assembly for 
use in a vehicle is adapted to be mounted in a window 

opening such that, when closed, it is generally flush 
with the exterior surface of the vehicle. The window 

assembly includes a transparent sheet with at least one 
window-mounting member (30) bonded by two separate 

adhesives to an inner surface of the sheet. The mounting 
member includes projections which space the mounting 

member from the inner sheet surface, and/or perforations 
which allow air and moisture to reach the space provided 

between the mounting member and the inner sheet surface. 
A first adhesive temporarily fixtures the mounting member 

to the sheet. A second adhesive permanently bonds the 
mounting member to the inner sheet surface. The bond 

created is sufficiently strong such that application of 
a load sufficient to cause a failure results in a failure 

other than in the adhesion of the adhesive to the 
mounting member and the panel. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DONNELLY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DONNELLY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REPP ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STALLMAN PAMELA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REPP, ROBERT S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STALLMAN, PAMELA M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to flush-mounted
window assemblies for, for example, vehicles and
more particularly, to flush-mounted vehicular window
assemblies which articulate about a hinge attached to one
side of the window in a manner to achieve long-term
reliability.In an effort to make automobiles more fuel-efficient,
automobile exterior designs are becoming more
streamlined. In pursuit of this automobile manufacturers
are requiring flush-mounted panel and window assemblies.
The goal is to locate the panel or window within the
vehicle such that the peripheral edge of the panel or
window assembly is recessed and the outer surface of the
panel is generally flush with any adjoining body panels.
In the case of fixed panels, a conventional technique
includes placing or running a bead of adhesive material
around the entire inside peripheral edge of the panel and
bonding it in the vehicle opening. While satisfactory
for stationary windows, this method creates problems with
movable windows, however, particularly those which
articulate about a hinge.Conventional articulated or hinged windows are
fixed to the vehicle by a mounting assembly which is
fastened by a stud passing through a hole drilled in the
panel. A low profile nut is then threaded onto the stud
extending through the panel to retain the panel thereon.
A major disadvantage is that a significant number of
glass panels are broken as a result of drilling the holes
through the panel. The panels are also broken during or
after mounting of the mounting hardware. To lessen the
incidence of broken glass panels, sophisticated
techniques have been adopted for drilling the holes, and
the mounting hardware has been adapted to reduce
breakage. However, the price of such panel assemblies is 
still considerably inflated. Moreover, the resulting
panel is not truly flush since the mounting hardware has
a positive relief with respect to the panel exterior
surface.Another attempt to reduce the exterior profile
of articulated window assemblies is disclosed in U.S.
Patent 4,396,221 which employs a channel extending around
the edge of the window pane, a flexible resilient portion
allowing pivotal movement of the window pane, and one of
several types of fasteners. Such fasteners include a
clip with a detent received in the seal and securing the
hinge and thus the assembly to a pinch weld flange.Another embodiment of the hinged window
assembly just described includes a substantially
rectilinear hinge member which includes a retaining end
bonded to the exterior or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A flush mounted hinged window panel assembly for a
vehicle adapted to be mounted in a window opening of the

vehicle and comprising a panel including a transparent
sheet having an inner surface (22) and an outer surface (20)

terminating in a peripheral edge defining a shape to fit
within the window opening such that the outer surface (20) of

the sheet is generally flush with the exterior surface of
the vehicle adjacent the opening; and

   at least one window mounting member (30) bonded to
said inner surface (22) of said sheet at a position spaced

inwardly from the peripheral edge for securing the sheet
in the window opening, the window mounting member having

a flange (34) attached to the inner surface (22) of the sheet;

   characterised in that said assembly includes an
adhesive (46) between said inner surface (22) of the sheet and

said flange (34) providing a bond between the flange of the
window mounting member and the inner surface (22) of the sheet

such that said sheet and window-mounting member are held
together in such a manner so as to withstand a straight

pull test of more than 68kg (150lb), said window panel
having an area greater than 1613 cm
2
 (250in
2
).
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 1, wherein the flange (34) includes a

plurality of perforations (40) extending therethrough.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 2, wherein the perforations (40) in the

flange of the mounting member include vanes (72) for
controlling a flow of the adhesive for bonding the

mounting member to the inner surface (22) of the sheet when
the mounting member is located with respect to the panel. 
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 1, further including an 
opaque coating
between the inner surface (22) of the sheet and the adhesive

bonding the mounting member to the panel.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 4, wherein said transparent sheet is

formed from glass, said assembly further including an
adhesion-promoting compound between the opaque coating

and the adhesive bonding the mounting member to the glass
sheet.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the adhesive

includes:

a first adhesive having a first cure/set time for
fixing the mounting member on the inner surface of the

sheet; and
a second adhesive adjacent the first adhesive and
having a second cure/set time greater than the first

cure/set time for bonding the mounting member to the
inner surface (22) of the sheet.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the mounting

member includes a second portion extending from the
flange to engage a fixed substrate.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 7, further including a

plurality of spacing means for spacing the flange (34) from
the inner surface of the sheet.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as 
defined in any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the mounting

member includes a latch mount having a flange bonded to
the inner surface (22) of the sheet with said same adhesive

bonding the mounting member to the panel, the latch mount
having an actuating portion extending therefrom to engage

a fixed substrate.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 9, wherein the latch mount further

includes a circular flange embossed to define a plurality
of standoffs for spacing the flange from the inner

surface (22) of the sheet.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 9 or 10, wherein the latch mount further

includes a plurality of holes lanced therein and spaced
generally equidistantly from each other to direct a flow

of adhesive between the flange and the inner surface (22) of
the sheet.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 11, further including an

adhesion-promoting compound between the mounting member
and the adhesive bonding the mounting member to the

panel.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 12, wherein the adhesive

includes an activated adhesive.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 11, wherein the adhesive is

selected from the group consisting essentially of:
moisture-activated adhesives, thermally-activated 

adhesives, chemically-activated adhesives, aerobically-cured
adhesives, anaerobically-cured adhesives, and

radiation-cured adhesives.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 1, wherein the bond of the mounting

member to the inner surface (22) of the sheet is sufficiently
strong to withstand said straight pull test of about 68kg

(150lb) at a rate greater than about 25 millimetres per
minute.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 13, wherein said pull test was performed

after soaking the panel assembly in 180°C water for at
least 100 hours.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 5, wherein the adhesion-promoting

compound includes at least one coupling agent selected
from the group Comprising a silane, titanium and

zirconium coupling agent.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 1, further including an adhesion-promoting

compound applied to at least one of said inner
surface (22) of said sheet and said window-mounting member.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 6, wherein said second

cure/set time of the second adhesive is greater than the first cure/set
time of said first adhesive.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 19, wherein said at least 

one mounting member includes at least one hinge member.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 20, wherein the hinge member includes:


a flange portion having a longitudinal axis and a
plurality of holes extending therethrough;
a spring member laterally offset and extending from
the flange portion; and
a mounting stud extending through the spring member
for attaching the hinge member to the vehicle.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 1, wherein said at least one mounting

member is articulated.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 22, wherein the flange of

the mounting member occupies approximately between 0.5
percent and 2.0 percent of a surface area of the

inner surface (22) of the sheet.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 22, wherein the articulated mounting

member has an aspect ratio approximately between 1 and
1000, for example 5 and 25 or more particularly 8 and 10.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in claim 10, wherein the standoffs have a

thickness within the range of 0.1 and 3.0 millimetres.
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 25, wherein the flange of

the at least one mounting member conforms to the inner
surface (22) of the sheet. 
A flush-mounted hinged window panel assembly as
defined in any of claims 1 to 26, wherein the flange of

said at least one mounting member has a thickness within
the range of 0.1 and 10.0 millimetre, for example 0.5 and

1.0 mm.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
