<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647883</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Developing procedure and machine to carry out the procedure.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03C529	G03C529	G03C7407	G03C7407	G03D300	G03D300	G03D306	G03D306	G03D1302	G03D1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03D	G03D	G03D	G03D	G03D	G03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03C5	G03C5	G03C7	G03C7	G03D3	G03D3	G03D3	G03D3	G03D13	G03D13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A developing procedure and a machine to carry 
out this procedure, based on a cylindrical tank (6) 

with a horizontal shaft (7), which, by means of a 
motor with a double turning direction, moves an 

carrier arm (9) that pulls a material-holder (10) 
with the material to be developed. The material-holder 

passes through the bottom or base of the tank, in 
which the developing liquid is placed, turning alternately 

in each direction. The developing liquid is 
extracted and the tank is filled with another liquid, 

until a specific developing process is completed. The 
unit is contemplated with a microprocessor control, 

thus forming a simple, portable machine at a low cost. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
F M CONTROL SL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
F.M. CONTROL, S.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMOS FELIPE GREGORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMOS FELIPE, GREGORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a developing procedure 
and a machine to perform this procedure, which is applicable 
to photographs and slides. Insofar as is known, there are developing machines 
on the market, for instance made by the German firm 
JOBO, which use a series of hollow cylindrical tanks, in 
whose interior the negatives to be developed are placed 
arranged in rolls. In successive operations, a developing 
liquid enters inside the tank in which the material 
to be developed has been arranged, and performs its function. 
Once that a liquid has finished its cycle, the tank 
is tilted over so that the liquid runs out and then returns 
to the previous position so as to receive a new 
liquid. The disadvantage of these machines is their 
great complexity and their physical size. Apart from 
this, the speed at which they work is relatively slow. Also known, through the Spanish patent P.8702521 
in favour of the applicant, is a processor which uses a 
special helicoidal tank made up of independent chambers. 
A material-holder arm, which includes a special element 
that receives the material to be developed, travels 
through the tanks. This arm and material-holder are the 
objects os Spanish patent application P. 9100780, also 
in favour of the applicant. Although this developing machine has improved 
features in relation to the earlier technique, it is a 
machine of a considerable price and quite bulky in size. One object of the invention is a procedure which 
speeds up the execution of the operations, all within a  
 
small space in the machine in question. In order to carry out these objectives, the invention 
claims a working method based on an arm which 
turns alternately in one direction or the other, with a 
material-holder being fitted to the end of this arm, and 
the material to be developed placed on board this material-holder. 
This material-holder, which is of the type 
described in the above-mentioned Spanish patent application 
P. 9100780, takes up a very small space and allows 
a considerable amount of material to be stored. The centre of the oscillating arm is in turn the 
centre of a tank in the shape of an upwardly concave circular 
segment below the said centre. This tank receives 
a certain amount of a specific developing liquid and, 
with the liquid in the said cavity, the arm is made to 
turn alternately in one direction and the other, so that 
during these movements the material to be developed is 
in contact with the developing liquid in question. After a time, the liquid in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1.- Developing procedure, of the type in which 
the material to be developed is housed in the interior 

of a tank, into which a liquid is introduced so that it 
can be immersed in it for a certain time, with the tank 

then being upturned for the liquid to run out after this 
certain time, followed by the tank being returned to 

its position and the introduction and later draining of 
a second liquid, so that the total developing of the material 

can be thus carried out in successive operations, 
which is characterized by the following stages: 


Arranging the material to be developed on the 
end of a material-holder (10) secured to the end of a 

carrier arm (9) which can rotate alternately in one direction 
and the other, with the material-holder having 

the appropriate guides. 
Feeding developing liquid into the bottom of 
the interior of a fixed tank (6) which is approximately 

cylindrical in shape and whose centre coincides with 
that of the shaft of the two-directional arm, with this 

shaft being horizontal (7) and the tank being kept at a 
suitable temperature. 
Making the material-holder (10) with the material 
turn alternately in one direction and the other, 

so that for a period of time the material passes through 

the liquid. 
Extracting or draining the liquid from the 
tank and feeding a new liquid into the bottom of the 

tank, making the material-holder and the material pass 
in alternate directions through this new liquid. 
Repeating the cycles of feeding a developing liquid 
into the tank, alternate rotating of the material-holder 

with the material to be developed through the developing 
liquid, and draining of this liquid, until the process 

is finished. 
Controlling the height of each developing liquid 
in the interior of the tank by means of a maximum-minimum 

probe. 
2.- Developing procedure, in accordance with claim 
1, characterized in that with the tank (6) being housed in 

the interior of a container or tank with water heated to 
a temperature as in a "bain marie" water bath, the different 

developing liquids are kept at the appropriate temperature. 
3.- Developing procedure, in accordance with claim 
1, characterized in that during the time that the different 

developing liquids are being fed into the interior of 
the tank or drained out of it, the shaft (7) and the carrier 

(9) arm remain static. 
4.- Developing procedure, in accordance with claim 
1, characterized in that the operation of the intake of 

water, its heating, the feeding and draining of developing 
liquids, the control of the level probe and the turning 

of the shaft with the carrier arm are all programmed by 
means of a microprocessor. 
5.- Developing machine, characterized in that a 
container is formed, of a rectangular prismatic shape, the 

bottom of whose interior receives water, with this container 
receiving an interior tank (6) which is housed on the 

walls of the container, in that this tank is cylindrical 
 

in shape with a horizontal axis (7), having an opening 
(3) at the top to allow access to the interior, in that 

a shaft (7) crosses through the centre of the tank and 
this shaft has a ring gear (20) operated by a pinion 

(14) protruding from a two-directional motor secured to 
the interior of the tank, with a longitudinal carrier 

arm secured to this shaft (9) and a material-holder (10) 
for the material to be developed secured to the said 

carrier arm, and with a cross support part being arranged 
in the interior of the tank, with holes through it 

to hold the flexible pipes that come from the storage 
tanks to feed the developing liquids into the bottom of 

the tank, with these liquids being moved by appropriate 
pumps, in that the water level (12) in the bottom of the 

container surrounds the bottom exterior part of the tank 
in which the developing liquids are received, with the 

level of these liquids being maintained and controlled 
by means of a probe housed in the tank and having a pump 

responsible for extracting or draining each developing 
liquid from the tank once it has been used. 
6.- Developing machine, in accordance with claim 
5, characterized because the tank (6) is designed based 

on two parallel plates (3', 3'') held in position against 
the longer walls of the container, with these plates 

being connected with an upwardly open cylindrically-shaped 
portion, as well as with the rotating shaft (7) of 

the carrier arm, the holed cross support part and other 
cross reinforcing parts. 
7.- Developing machine, in accordance with claim 
5, characterized in that the tank includes two interior 

 
cross arms (15) arranged below the position of the shaft 

and to both sides of it, which holdan arc-shaped plate, 
arranged above the cylindrical bottom or base of the 

tank, with this plate having a hole in which the level 
probe (14) is housed. 
8.- Developing machine, in accordance with claim 
5, characterized in that close to the upper opening in 

the tank, there ir a projection (11) in the form of an 
arc, of a certain width and with its theoretical centre 

coinciding with the shaft in the tank on which the material-holder 
for the material to be developed travels. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
