<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652763</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RAW EXTRACTS OF BLUE ALGAE, METHOD OF PREPARATION AND APPLICATIONS IN COSMETOLOGY AND DERMATOLOGY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3602	A61K3602	C12P100	A61K896	A61Q1700	A61Q1900	C12P100	A61Q1700	A61K897	A61Q1900	A61K3566	A61K3574	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C12P	A61K	A61Q	A61Q	C12P	A61Q	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K36	A61K36	C12P1	A61K8	A61Q17	A61Q19	C12P1	A61Q17	A61K8	A61Q19	A61K35	A61K35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Raw extracts of blue algae (cyanophyceae), methods of preparation and applications in cosmetology and dermatology are disclosed. Said raw extracts of blue algae contain at least one substance selected from the following porphin ring derivatives: chlorophylls, chlorophyllides, chlorophyllines, phaeophytines and phaeophorbides, and may be obtained from a blue algae of the genus (Plectonema) by decoction or maceration of said algae, lyophilised or fresh, at a temperature from 20  C to 60  C in a solvent selected from the group consisting of mineral oils, vegetable oils, synthetic substitutes of natural oils, slightly polar organic solvents, water and solvents miscible with water.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN PREVENTION ET DE LOISIRS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERALE DE PREVENTION ET DE LOISIRS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEAN DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEPIN DENISE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEAN, DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEPIN, DENISE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A cosmetic composition, characterized in that it
contains at least one raw extract of blue algae containing

at least one active substance chosen from the following
derivatives with a porphin nucleus: chlorophylls,

chlorophyllides, chlorophyllins, phaeophytins and phaeophorbides,
and may be obtained from a blue algae by

decoction or maceration of said algae, freeze-dried or
fresh, at a temperature between 20 and 60C, in a solvent

chosen from the group consisting of mineral oils, vegetable
oils, synthetic substitutes of natural oils, relatively

non polar organic solvents, water, and solvents which
are miscible with water.
A cosmetic composition according to Claim 1, characterized
in that said raw extract contains, in addition,

at least one carotenoid pigment chosen from β-carotene
and zeaxanthin.
A cosmetic composition according to Claim 1 or
Claim 2, characterized in that the blue algae is of the


Plectonema
 genus.
A cosmetic composition according to Claim 1, characterized
in that said raw extract undergoes filtration.
A cosmetic composition according to any one of
Claims 1 to 4, characterized in that said raw extract

may be obtained using vegetable and mineral oils chosen
from liquid paraffin, kernel oil, sunflower oil, sweet

almond oil, sesame oil and arachis oil and synthetic
substitutes of natural oil, chosen from isopropyl myristate,

decyl oleate and dibutyl adipate.
A cosmetic composition according to any one of
Claims 1 to 4, characterized in that said raw extract

may be obtained using a relatively non polar solvent
chosen from chloroform, methylene chloride, petroleum

ether or hexane.
A cosmetic composition according to Claim 6, 
characterized in that said raw extract may be obtained

by evaporating the relatively non polar solvent, after

said maceration, in order to obtain a dry extract the
colour of which depends on the solvent used.
A cosmetic composition according to any one of
Claims 1 to 4, characterized in that said raw extract

may be obtained using water combined with chloroform.
A cosmetic composition according to any one of
Claims 1 to 4, characterized in that said raw extract

may be obtained using solvents which are miscible with
water, chosen from ethanol, methanol and acetone.
A cosmetic composition according to Claim 9, characterized
in that, if said raw extract is capable of

being obtained by extraction with the aid of a solvent
which is miscible with water, the solvent may be advantageously

evaporated and the extract obtained taken up
in water.
A cosmetic composition according to any one of
Claims 1 to 10, characterized in that said raw extract

is in a concentration between 0.1 and 3% (by weight).
A raw extract of blue algae, of the type containing
at least one active substance chosen from the following

derivatives with a porphin nucleus: chlorophylls and
carotene, characterized in that it also contains at

least one of the following substances: chlorophyllides,
chlorophyllins, phaeophytins and phaeophorbides, and in

that it may be obtained from a blue algae by decoction
or maceration of said algae, freeze-dried or fresh, at a

temperature between 20 and 60C in a solvent chosen from
the group consisting of mineral oils, vegetable oils,

synthetic substitutes of natural oils, relatively non
polar organic solvents and water.
Raw extract of blue algae of the type containing at
least one active substance chosen from the following

derivatives with a porphin nucleus: chlorophylls and 
carotene, characterized in that it also contains at

least one of the following substances: chlorophylls,
chlorophyllides, chlorophyllins, phaeophytins and phaeophorbides,

and in that it may be obtained from a blue
algae of the 
Plectonema
 genus by decoction or maceration
of said algae, freeze-dried or fresh, at a temperature

between 20 and 60C in a solvent chosen from the group
consisting of mineral oils, vegetable oils, synthetic

substitutes of natural oils, relatively non polar organic
solvents, water, and solvents that are miscible with

water.
A raw extract of blue algae according to Claim 12
or Claim 13, characterized in that it also contains at

least one carotenoid pigment chosen from zeaxanthin.
A raw extract according to Claim 12 or Claim 13,
characterized in that it undergoes filtration.
A raw extract according to any one of Claims 12 to
15, characterized in that it may be obtained using

vegetable and mineral oils chosen from liquid paraffin,
kernel oil, sunflower oil, sweet almond oil, sesame oil

and arachis oil and synthetic substitutes of natural
oil, chosen from isopropyl myristate, decyl oleate and

dibutyl adipate.
A raw extract according to any one of Claims 12 to
15, characterized in that it may be obtained using a

relatively non polar solvent chosen from chloroform,
methylene chloride, petroleum ether or hexane.
A raw extract according to Claim 17, characterized
in that it may be obtained by evaporating the relatively

non polar solvent, after said maceration, in order to
obtain a dry extract the colour of which depends on the

solvent used.
A raw extract according to any one of Claims 12 to
15, characterized in that it may be obtained using water

combined with chloroform. 
A raw extract according to Claim 13, characterized
in that it may be obtained using solvents which are

miscible with water, chosen from ethanol, methanol and
acetone.
A raw extract according to Claim 20, characterized
in that, if it is capable of being obtained by extraction

with the aid of a solvent which is miscible with
water, the solvent may be advantageously evaporated and

the extract obtained taken up in water.
A method for the aesthetic treatment of Man for
protecting and restructuring the skin, comprising the

administration of an appropriate quantity of a raw
extract according to any one of Claims 12 to 21, optionally

combined with at least one acceptable vehicle.
A pharmaceutical composition, characterized in that
it comprises at least one raw extract according to any

one of Claims 12 to 21, optionally combined with other
active substances and/or at least one suitable excipient.
A composition according to Claim 23, characterized
in that said raw extract is in a concentration between

0.1 and 3% (by weight).
A pharmaceutical composition, useful as an agent
for protecting and restructuring the skin, characterized

in that it contains a raw extract according to any one
of Claims 12 to 21.
A process for the preparation of a raw extract
according to Claim 12, characterized in that it comprises

the following steps:

decoction or maceration of a blue algae, freeze-dried
or fresh, at a temperature between 20 and 60C, in

a solvent chosen from the group consisting of mineral oils,
vegetable oils, synthetic substitutes of natural oils,

relatively non polar organic solvents and water and, if
necessary, 
filtration of the extract obtained.
A process for the preparation of a raw extract
according to Claim 13, characterized in that it comprises

the following steps:

decoction or maceration of a blue algae, freeze-dried
or fresh, at a temperature between 20 and 60C, in

a solvent chosen from the group consisting of mineral oils,
vegetable oils, synthetic substitutes of natural oils,

relatively non polar organic solvents, water, and solvents
which are miscible with water and, if necessary,
filtration of the extract obtained.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
