<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651683</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INDEXABLE CUTTING INSERT FOR ROTARY CUTTING TOOLS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23C522	B23C516	B23C520	B23C510	B23C510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23C	B23C	B23C	B23C	B23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23C5	B23C5	B23C5	B23C5	B23C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This relates to a cutting insert (20) for use in a rotary cutting tool (1) having helically arranged teeth, comprising, a six sided block having two major parallel rhomboid-shaped plane surfaces (21, 22) constituting a seating face (22) and a clearance face (21) respectively, two opposed minor side surfaces constituting cutting faces (30) extending between the seating and clearance faces, each said cutting face forming an acute angle (A) with the clearance face and forming a cutting edge (32) along the intersection therewith, and two minor parallel plane (23, 24) end faces extending between the seating (22) and clearance faces (21) and the two cutting faces (30). Each cutting face (30) has a concave curvature centrally of its major dimension, and a convex curvature at each end of its major dimension to define a serpentine cutting face and cutting edge. When disposed along the helically arranged teeth of a rotary cutting tool, such as a milling cutter, the inserts form a cutting face, or a radial face, having a continuously variable positive radial rake angle, and a cutting edge of serpentine configuration which generally parallels the helical form of the teeth.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT MINICUT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL MINICUT INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINICOZZI ALFONSO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINICOZZI, ALFONSO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to cutting inserts for 
rotary cutting tools, and, more particularly, indexable 
cutting inserts for rotary cutting tools such as milling 
cutters having helically arranged teeth according to the 
precharacterising portion of claim 1. For illustrative purposes, this specification 
will describe the invention as it pertains to a conventional 
milling cutter, i.e., a milling cutter having a 
shank portion and a cutting portion of cylindrical 
configuration, the cutting portion containing a plurality 
of helically disposed gullets extending from the shank end 
of the cutting portion to the free end thereof, which 
gullets define a plurality of helically arranged teeth. In 
such a milling cutter, the cutting edges, which comprise 
the leading edges of the teeth defined by the gullets, lie 
on a substantially constant radius with respect to the 
longitudinal axis of the tool, throughout the length of the 
cutting portion. However, the invention may have application 
to other types of milling cutters, and other types of 
cutting tools which have helically arranged teeth and which 
utilize replaceable cutting inserts. In a conventional rotary cutting tool wherein the 
teeth and cutting edges are integral with the tool body, 
the cutting edges of the teeth may be sharpened, within 
defined limits. However, generally speaking when the 
cutting edges become worn or damaged beyond restoration, 
the entire tool must be discarded, and, as such tools 
conventionally comprise very expensive high performance 
cutting steels, the replacement of such tools entails 
considerable expense. Accordingly, replaceable cutting inserts are 
frequently mounted on tool bodies in such a manner that the 
inserts are readily replaceable, and are so disposed along 
the teeth of the cutting tool that they comprise the cutting 
edges of the teeth. In this way, the cutting tool may 
be composed of a lesser quality steel, and only the cutting 
inserts may be composed of hard wear resistant material,  
 
suitable for metal cutting applications, such as hardened 
tungsten carbide The cost of the tool itself may therefore be 
reduced and if the cutting edge, or portions of the cutting 
edge of the tool becomes subject to damage or excessive wear, 
it is only necessary to replace the Inserts, or some of the 
inserts, to restore the cutting edge. This can frequently be 
accomplished with relative simplicity in a few minutes. 
Indeed, in many cases the cutting inserts are indexable, in 
the sense that they comprise two or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cutting insert (20) for use in a rotary cutting 
tool (1) having helically arranged teeth comprising, a six 

sided block having two major parallel rhomboid-shaped plane 
surfaces (21,22) constituting a seating face (22) and a 

clearance face (21) respectively, two opposed minor side 
surfaces (30) constituting cutting faces (30) extending 

between said seating and clearance faces (21,22) each said 
cutting face (30) forming an acute angle (A) with said 

clearance face (22) and forming a cutting edge (32) along the 
intersection therewith, and two minor parallel plane end 

faces (24) extending between said seating and clearance faces 
(22,21) and said two cutting faces (30), characterized in 

that each said cutting face has a concave curvature centrally 
of its major dimension, and convex curvature at each end of 

its major dimension to define a serpentine cutting face and 
cutting face (30) and cutting edge (32). 
A cutting insert as defined in claim 1 wherein each 
cutting edge (32) is substantially identically configured. 
A cutting insert as defined in claim 2 wherein the 
radius (R) of said concave curvature is greater than the 

radius (r) of said convex curvature. 
A cutting insert as defined in claim 3 wherein the 
radius (R) of said concave curvature is approximately double 

the radius (r) of said convex curvature. 
A cutting insert as claimed in claim 3 wherein said 
seating and clearance faces (22,21) are chamfered (25,35) 

along the intersection with said end faces (24). 
A cutting insert as claimed in claim 5 wherein said 
clearance face (21) is relieved adjacent each cutting face to 

form a relatively narrow land surface (31) along each cutting  
 

edge (32). 
A cutting insert as defined in claim 6 including 
means for securing said cutting insert (20) to a rotary tool 

body. 
A cutting insert as defined in claim 7 wherein said 
means for connecting said insert (20) to a rotary cutting 

tool body comprises a through hole (28) perpendicular to said 
clearance and seating faces and disposed centrally thereof 

whereby said cutting insert may be indexed by rotation about 
the axis of the through hole. 
A cutting insert as defined in claim 6, wherein 
said acute angle (A) is about 20° the radius of said concave 

curvature (R) is about 50 mm and the radius of said convex 
curvature (r) is about 30 mm. 
A rotary cutting tool (1) comprising a cutting 
portion (3) having a longitudinal axis and a plurality of 

helically arranged teeth (5) separated by helical gullets (6) 
extending the length of said cutting portion (3), characterized 

in that the leading edge of each tooth (5) comprises a 
plurality of sockets containing cutting inserts (20) as 

defined in claim 1, said sockets being of complementary shape 
to said cutting inserts (20) and so disposed along each tooth 

that said cutting inserts are arranged along the leading edge 
of each tooth substantially the length thereof, with cutting 

edges (32) in operable relationship thereto and in substantially 
parallel relationship with the leading edge of said 

tooth. 
A rotary cutting tool as defined in claim 10 
wherein said cutting portion (3) is cylindrical and wherein 

the cutting edge along each tooth (5) formed by said inserts 
is of serpentine configuration and exhibits a continuously 

variable positive radial rake angle (B).  
 
A rotary cutting tool as defined in claim 11 
wherein the helix angle of said teeth (5) with respect to the 

longitudinal axis of said cutting portion (3) falls within 
the range 5 to 60°. 
A rotary cutting tool as defined in claim 12 
wherein said helix angle is 25°. 
A rotary cutting tool as defined in claim 11 
wherein inserts (20) on one tooth (5) are displaced axially 

with respect to the inserts (20) of the adjacent tooth (5) 
whereby a concave curvature of an insert (20) on one tooth 

(5) overlaps the convex curvatures of adjacent inserts (20) 
on an adjacent tooth (5) in a plane through said inserts (20) 

transverse to the longitudinal axis of said cutting portion 
(3). 
A rotary cutting tool as defined in claim 14 
wherein said inserts (20) are arranged along said teeth (5) 

in abutting relationship. 
A rotary cutting tool as defined in claim 14 
wherein said inserts (20) are arranged along said teeth (5) 

in regularly spaced relationship. 
A rotary cutting tool as defined in claim 15 or 16 
wherein the cutting edges along each tooth formed by said 

cutting inserts (20), is of serpentine configuration and 
exhibits a continuously variable positive radial rake angle. 
A rotary cutting tool as defined in claim 17 
wherein said cutting edges are interrupted between adjacent 

cutting inserts (20). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
