<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610213</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS UTILIZING STATIC IMBALANCE TO REDUCE VIBRATION CAUSED BY TIRE/WHEEL ASSEMBLIES AND TIRE/WHEEL ASSEMBLY MADE USING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N916	C12N916	C12Q168	C12Q168	G01M100	G01M120	G01M132	G01M138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N9	C12N9	C12Q1	C12Q1	G01M1	G01M1	G01M1	G01M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEEBE JAMES C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEEBE, JAMES, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE: METHOD AND APPARATUS UTILIZING STATICIMBALANCE TO REDUCE VIBRATION CAUSED BY TIRE/WHEEL ASSEMBLIES AND TIRE/WHEEL ASSEMBLY MADE USING SAMEField of the InventionThis invention relates to reducing vehicle vibration caused by tire/wheel assemblies. More particularly, this invention relates to an apparatus and method for producing a limited amount of net static imbalance in a tire/wheel assembly so as to reduce the tendency of the assembly to cause vibration in the plane perpendicular to its axis of rotation when in use. A further aspect of the invention relates to a tire/wheel assembly so produced. Background of the InventionTire/wheel assemblies can produce annoying vibration in the vehicles on which they are used. Complaints concerning such vibration are a costly source of warranty claims made against vehicle manu¬ facturers. Vibration caused by tire/wheel assemblies tends to be most objectionable at "highway" speeds, that is, speeds in the general range of speed limits 

 and customary vehicle speeds on major highways. A number of reasons have been postulated as contributing to this phenomenon.First, at speeds lower than highway speeds, tire/wheel induced vehicle vibration tends to be masked by vibrations induced by secondary roadways which are often rougher than highways. Also, at these lower speeds, the vehicle occupants tend to be pre¬ occupied with other sensory inputs, such as linear and angular vehicle acceleration and deceleration.Another possible reason relates to the structural dynamics of automobiles. Automobiles can exhibit a secondary resonance in the vertical direc¬ tion in the range of frequencies excited by once per revolution inputs of tires rotating at highway speeds. This secondary resonance and accompanying vertical vibration mode are attributable to the unsprung mass of the vehicle (tires, wheels, and the unsprung portion of the suspension and drive train) acting upon the "spring" represented by the radial spring rate of the tires. Human sensitivity to vibration also appears to be acute in this same frequency range.Two significant sources of tire/wheel assembly induced vibration in the plane perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the assembly are static imbalance and radial force variation. Sources of induced vibration induced by tire/wheel assemblies can 

 be broadly classified into two categories; those which vary as a function of the rotational speed of the assembly and those which are substantially independent of speed. Static imbalance induces vibration in both 5. the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A method for reducing the tendency of a tire/wheel assembly to cause vibration in a plane perpendicular to its axis of rotation, said assembly initially being characterized by a first vector correlated to radial force variation and a second vector correlated to static imbalance, said method comprising the step of: altering the mass of the assembly so as to produce therein an additional static imbalance which, when vectorially combined with said second vector, results in a net static imbalance oriented substan¬ tially opposing said first vector.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of selecting the magnitude of said net static imbalance as being substantially equal to the lesser of: (i) a predetermined maximum limit, and
(ii) the magnitude of static imbalance required to generate a centrifugal force whose magnitude substantially equals that of said first vector when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a designated speed. 


 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said desig¬ nated speed corresponds to a speed lying within a range of highway speeds expected to be encountered by said tire/wheel assembly when it is in use.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein said range of highway speeds extends from about 50 miles per hour to about 70 miles per hour.
5. The method of claim 3 wherein said desig¬ nated speed is about 60 miles per hour.
6. The method of claim 2 wherein said predeter¬ mined maximum limit corresponds to a static imbalance of a magnitude sufficient to give rise to a centri¬ fugal force of no more than about four pounds when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a speed as least as great as said designated speed.
7. The method of claim 2 wherein said first vector is correlated to the first order harmonic of said radial force variation. 

8. A tire/wheel assembly produced according to the process of: mounting a tire upon a wheel to form an assembly; determining a first vector correlated to radial force variation of the assembly; determining a second vector correlated to the static imbalance initially inherent in said assembly; and altering the mass of the assembly so as to produce therein an additional imbalance which, when vectorially combined with said second vector, results in a net static imbalance oriented substantially opposite said first vector, the magnitude of said net static imbalance being selected to substantially equal the lesser of:
(i) a predetermined maximum limit, and
(ii) the magnitude of static imbalance required to generate a centrifugal force whose magnitude substantially equals that of said first vector when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a designated speed.
9. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 8 wherein the step of determining said first vector comprises the step of testing said assembly on a uniformity machine. 


10. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 8 wherein the step of determining said first vector comprises the steps of: measuring a dimensional parameter of the wheel; measuring a radial force variation parameter of the tire; and determining said first vector as a function of said radial force variation parameter, said di en- sional parameter and a constant representing a spring rate of said tire.
11. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 8 wherein said designated speed corresponds to a speed lying within a range of highway speeds expected to be encountered by said tire/wheel assembly when it is in use.
12. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 11 wherein said range of highway speeds extends from about 50 miles per hour to about 70 miles per hour.
13. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 11 wherein said designated speed is about 60 miles per hour. 


 14. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 8 wherein said predetermined maximum limit corresponds to a static imbalance of a magnitude sufficient to give rise to a centrifugal force of no more than about four pounds when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a speed as least as great as said designated speed.
15. A tire/wheel assembly exhibiting reduced vibration in a plane perpendicular to its rotational axis, said assembly having a radial force variation parameter described by a first vector, said assembly comprising: a wheel rotatable about said axis; a tire mounted upon said wheel; and at least one weight mounted to at least one of said tire and said wheel, said weight being of such mass and so oriented as to produce in said assembly a net static imbalance oriented substantially opposing said first vector. 

16. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 15 wherein the magnitude of said net static imbalance is selected to substantially equal the lesser of:
(i) a predetermined maximum limit, and (ii) the magnitude of static imbalance required to generate a centrifugal force whose magnitude substantially equals that of said first vector when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a designated speed.
17. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 15 wherein said parameter comprises the first order harmonic of said radial force variation.
18. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 16 wherein said designated speed corresponds to a speed in the range of about 50 miles per hour to about 70 miles per hour and wherein said predetermined maximum limit corresponds to a static imbalance of a magnitude sufficient to give rise to a centrifugal force of no more than about four pounds when said assembly rotates at a speed as least as great as said designated speed. 

19. A method for reducing the tendency of a tire/wheel assembly to cause vibration in a plane perpendicular to its axis of rotation, said method comprising the steps of: determining a first vector correlated to at least one selected harmonic of radial force variation of said assembly; determining a second vector correlated to the static imbalance initially present in said asse - bly; determining a third vector from said first and second vectors, said third vector being correlated to an additional imbalance which, when combined with said static imbalance initially present in said assembly, produces a net static imbalance oriented , opposed to said first vector so as to generate a centrifugal force tending to cancel said first vector when said tire/wheel assembly rotates in use.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of limiting the magnitude of said net static imbalance to a predetermined maximum value. 

21. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of selecting the magnitude of said net static imbalance as being substantially equal to the lesser of: (i) a predetermined maximum limit, and
(ii) the magnitude of static imbalance required to generate a centrifugal force whose magnitude substantially equals that of said first vector when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a designated speed.
22. A method for reducing the tendency of a tire/wheel assembly to cause vibration in a plane perpendicular to its axis of rotation, said method comprising the steps of: determining a first vector correlated to a parameter describing radial force variation of the assembly; balancing the assembly so as to substan¬ tially null at least any static imbalance initially present therein; and altering the mass of the assembly so as to produce therein a net static imbalance oriented substantially opposing said first vector. 


23. The method of claim 22 further comprising the step of limiting the magnitude of said net static imbalance to a predetermined maximum value.
24. The method of claim 22 further comprising the step of selecting the magnitude of said net static imbalance as being substantially equal to the lesser of: (i) a predetermined maximum limit, and
(ii) the magnitude of static imbalance required to generate a centrifugal force whose magnitude substantially equals that of said first vector when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a designated speed. 

25. A tire/wheel assembly produced according to the process of: mounting a tire upon a wheel to form an assembly; determining a first vector correlated to a parameter describing radial force variation of the assembly; balancing the assembly so as to substan¬ tially null at least any static imbalance initially present therein; and altering the mass of the assembly so as to produce therein a net static imbalance oriented substantially opposing said first vector.
26. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 25 wherein the magnitude of said net static imbalance is limited to a predetermined maximum value.
27. The tire/wheel assembly of claim 25 wherein the magnitude of said net static imbalance is selected as being substantially equal to the lesser of:
(i) a predetermined maximum limit, and (ii) the magnitude of static imbalance required to generate a centrifugal force whose magnitude substantially equals that of said first vector when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a designated speed. 


 28. An apparatus for determining an additional static imbalance to be applied to a tire/wheel assembly so as to produce therein a net static imbalance which reduces the tendency of the assembly to cause vibration in the plane perpendicular to its axis of rotation when it is in use, said apparatus comprising: a first machine for generating a first signal representing a first vector, said first vector being correlated to at least one selected harmonic of radial force variation of the assembly; a second machine for generating a second signal representing a second vector, said second vector being correlated to an initial static imbalance of the assembly; and a computer operably coupled to said first and second machines for receiving said first and second signals respectively therefrom and for generat¬ ing based on said first and second signals, a third signal correlated to said additional imbalance to be applied to said assembly so as to produce said net static imbalance therein, such that said net static imbalance is oriented substantially opposing said first vector. 


 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said computer further operates to limit said net static imbalance to a predetermined maximum limit.
30. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said computer further operates to set the magnitude of said net static imbalance substantially equal to the lesser of: (i) a predetermined maximum limit, and
(ii) the magnitude of static imbalance required to generate a centrifugal force whose magnitude substantially equals that of said first vector when said tire/wheel assembly rotates at a designated speed.
31. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said first machine comprises a uniformity machine and said selected harmonic comprises the first order harmonic.
32. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising a display operably coupled to said computer for displaying the magnitude and angle of said third signal in humanly readable form. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
