<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620573</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Flux spreading thin film magnetic devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B531	G11B566	H01F1000	H01F1032	G11B566	G11B531	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	H01F	H01F	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	H01F10	H01F10	G11B5	G11B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
One aspect of the invention is a method of flux 
conduction comprising providing a structure with 

anisotropy not purely in the transverse in-plane 
direction such that flux spreading into the transverse 

in-plane direction can occur by rotation. Apparatus 
includes a thin film magnetic recording device having 

at least one pole with two magnetic layers (L
1
,L
2
) 
and capable 

of conducting signal flux, a first of the magnetic 
layers having domains oriented in a first direction, a 

second of said magnetic layers having domains oriented 
in a second distinct direction, the layers coupled to 

each other such that signal flux can flow therebetween. 
Method of making and various embodiments disclosed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUANTUM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUANTUM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALLARY MICHAEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALLARY, MICHAEL L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a divisional application of EP-0401983 which
corresponds to a continuation-in-part of the US application corresponding
to EP-0353911, assigned to the assignee of the present application.The present invention relates to rotational flux
conduction in thin film magnetic devices.Magnetic devices, such as thin film recording
heads, whether read, read/write, or write, are designed
to have particular magnetic orientations, or domains,
within the active regions of the device material. The
static state of each of these domains can be oriented
along a given axis, known as the easy axis (or axis of
anisotropy), as desired, by control of the
manufacturing process. Performance is critically
linked to domain formation, and, therefore, control can
be exerted over device performance by controlling
domain formation.Conduction of flux, such as in a thin film
recording head, is achieved by two mechanisms: domain
wall motion and domain rotation. Domain wall motion
results in flux being transmitted through a thin film
head along the walls of a domain, or domains, the flux
spreading out along the domain walls as the flux seeks 
to return to equilibrium. However, while domain wall
motion facilitates conduction of flux at low
frequencies, it is a poor vehicle for conduction of
flux at high frequencies. Furthermore, defects in the
material in a magnetic head can be the source of
Barkhausen noise during conduction of flux by wall
motion as the flux is perturbed by these defects. Such
noise can result in erroneous readings of recorded
data.A conventional prior art pole of a magnetic
recording head is shown in Fig. 1(a), where medium M
will be seen as inserting signal flux into a first
transversely oriented domain d1 of a series of
transversely oriented domains d1-dn. The rest state
flux of the domains is in the X-axis (transverse
direction), which leaves a rotational option of flowing
into the Y axis (longitudinal direction) or Z axis
(vertical direction) in reaction to the signal flux
from the medium. The Z-axis is out of plane and is a
high reluctance path. Hence the flux will rotate into
the Y-axis, as indicated by the rotated arrows of each
of domains d1-dn.In view of the foregoing, it will be understood
that conduction of flux by domain rotation may be
achieved by configuring a series of neighboring 
transverse domains axially aligned along parallel axes,
where signal flux impinged upon the first domain at a
given angle will cause the magnetization of that domain
to rotate from its static orientation by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magnetic device for conducting signal flux therethrough,
comprising:

   a plurality of magnetic layers (L1,L2) each of which includes
magnetic domains oriented in a transverse direction to a longitudinal axis

of said layers so that said layers support conduction of said signal flux by
rotation along a longitudinal axis of said layer, characterized in that:


said magnetic device includes an external bias source for biasing
said magnetic domains of a first one (L1) of said layers and said magnetic

domains of a second one (L2) of said layers in opposite directions (±)
with respect to said transverse direction so that said first one of said layers

conducts said signal flux by rotation in a first direction arranged obliquely
to said longitudinal axis, and said second one of said layers conducts said

signal flux by rotation in a second, different oblique direction with respect
to said longitudinal axis, and
said layers (L1,L2) are coupled to each other to allow said signal
flux to pass between said layers so that said signal flux conducts by

rotation through said device by following said first and second directions.
The device of claim 1 wherein said bias source includes a bias coil
disposed adjacently to at least one of said layers (L1,L2) for conducting

electrical current, said current causing said biasing of said magnetic
domains.
The device of claim 2 wherein said layers respectively comprise a
pair of poles of a thin film head that includes a write coil for causing said

head to write information on a magnetic medium (M), said write coil
serving as said bias coil.
The device of claim 2 wherein said layers respectively comprise a 
pair of poles of a thin film head that includes a read coil for causing said

head to read information from a magnetic medium, said read coil serving
as said bias coil.
The device of claim 1 wherein said bias source biases said magnetic
domains in said first one of said layers and said second one of said layers

in a plane of the device.
The device of claim 1 wherein said bias source comprises a
permanent magnet.
The device of claim 1 wherein said layers are coupled together to
allow flux conduction therebetween when said signal flux is absent.
The device of claim 1 wherein said first one of said layers and said
second one of said layers each comprises a plurality of magnetic layers.
The device of claim 1 constructed in a transformer, said first one
of said layers and said second one of said layers being arranged to provide

a laminated yoke of said transformer.
The device of claim 1 constructed as a magnetic field sensor, said
first one of said layers and said second one of said layers being arranged

to provide a laminated magnetic structure for detecting and conducting
flux applied to said sensor.
The device of claim 1 constructed as a bubble memory magnetic
field structure, said first one of said layers and said second one of said

layers being arranged to provide at least one laminated memory element
thereof. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said first one of said layers and said
second one of said layers are arranged to provide a laminated magnetic

memory element.
The device of claim 1 wherein said first one of said layers and said
second one of said layers are arranged to provide a laminated magnetic

shield.
The device of claim 1 further comprising at least one additional
magnetic layer (B) having magnetic domains oriented parallel to said

magnetic domains of said first one of said layers (A), said first one of said
layers (A) and said additional layer (B) being coupled together to allow

flux conduction between said magnetic domains of said layers when said
signal flux is absent.
The device of claim 1 further comprising at least two additional
magnetic layers, one of said additional layers (B) having magnetic domains

oriented parallel to said magnetic domains of said first one of said layers
(A) and being coupled to said first one of said layers to allow flux

conduction between said magnetic domains when said signal flux is absent,
and


a second of said additional layers (D) having magnetic domains
oriented parallel to said magnetic domains of said second one of said

layers (C) and being coupled to said second one of said layers to allow
flux conduction between said magnetic domains when said signal flux is

absent, and wherein said first one of said layers (A) and said second one
of said layers (C) are separated from each other to avoid flux conduction

between said magnetic domains of said first one of said layers and said
second one of said layers when said signal flux is absent.
The device of claim 1 wherein said first direction and said second
direction are oriented at opposite oblique angles with respect to a

longitudinal axis, whereby said first one of said layers and said second one
of said layers conduct said flux generally along said longitudinal axis

while allowing said flux to spread transversely to said longitudinal axis by
an amount defined by said oblique angles.
The device of claim 1 wherein said first one of said layers and said
second one of said layers form a pole.
The device of claim 17 further comprising a second pole coupled
to the first-
mentioned pole.
A method for making a magnetic device for conducting signal flux
therethrough, comprising the step of:

   providing a plurality of magnetic layers (L1,L2) each of which
includes magnetic domains oriented in a transverse direction to a

longitudinal axis of said layers so that said layers support conduction of
said signal flux by rotation along a longitudinal axis of said layer;

characterised in that said method further comprises the steps of:

biasing, by an external bias source, said magnetic domains of a first
one of said layers (L1) and said magnetic domains of a second one of said

layers (L2) in opposite directions (±) with respect to said transverse
direction so that said first one of said layers conducts said signal flux by

rotation in a first direction arranged obliquely to said longitudinal axis,
and said second one of said layers conducts said signal flux by rotation in

a second, different oblique direction with respect to said longitudinal axis;
and
coupling said layers to each other to allow said signal flux to pass
between said layers so that said signal flux conducts by rotation through 

said layers by following said first and second directions.
The method of claim 19 wherein said biasing step includes applying
electrical current through a bias coil disposed adjacent to at least one of

said layers.
The method of claim 20 wherein said layers respectively comprise
a pair of poles to a thin film head that includes a write coil for causing

said head to write information on a magnetic medium, said write coil
serving as said bias coil.
The method of claim 20 wherein said layers respectively comprise
a pair of poles to a thin film head that includes a read coil for causing said

head to read information from a magnetic medium, said read coil serving
as a bias coil.
The method of claim 19 further comprising coupling said layers
together to allow flux conduction therebetween when said signal flux is

absent.
The method of claim 19 wherein said biasing step includes applying
a magnetic field from a permanent magnet disposed adjacent to at least

one of said layers.
The method of claim 19 further comprising

providing at least one additional magnetic layer and configuring
said at least one additional layer with magnetic domains oriented parallel

to said magnetic domains of said first one of said layers, and
coupling said first one of said layers and said additional layer
together to allow flux conduction between said magnetic domains of said 

layers when said signal flux is absent.
The method of claim 19 further comprising providing at least two
additional magnetic layers, configuring a first one of said additional layers

with magnetic domains oriented parallel to said magnetic domains of said
first one of said layers, and coupling said first additional layer to said first

one of said layers to allow flux conduction between said magnetic domains
when said signal flux is absent,


configuring a second one of said additional layers with magnetic
domains oriented parallel to said magnetic domains of said second one of

said layers, and coupling said second additional layer to said second one
of said layers to allow flux conduction between said magnetic domains

when said signal flux is absent,
separating said first one of said layers and said second one of said
layers from each other to avoid flux conduction between said magnetic

domains of said first one of said layers and said second one of said layers
when said signal flux is absent.
The method of claim 19 wherein said first one of said layers and
said second one of said layers each comprises a plurality of magnetic

layers.
The method of claim 19 further comprising disposing said first one
of said layers upon a substrate by vacuum deposition.
The method of claim 28 further comprising depositing a gap layer
upon said first one of said layers.
The method of claim 29 further comprising providing said gap layer
with a thickness of between 30 and 200 nanometres. 
The method of claim 30 further comprising forming said second
one of said layers over said gap layer.
The method of claim 31 further comprising forming said second
one of said layers by dry deposition.
The method of claim 31 further comprising forming said second
one of said layers by plating.
The method of claim 29 wherein said gap layer includes ceramic
material.
The method of claim 19 further comprising annealing said first one
of said layers.
The method of claim 35 further comprising applying a magnetic
field during said annealing to orient said magnetic domains to conduct said

signal flux by rotation in said first direction.
The method of claim 19 further comprising disposing said first one
of said layers from a material having a crystal axis, said magnetic domains

of said first one of said layers being oriented along said crystal axis.
The method of claim 19 further comprising orienting said magnetic
domains by magnetostriction.
The method of claim 19 further comprising orienting said magnetic
domains by applying a magnetic field to said first one of said layers.
The method of claim 19 further comprising forming said first one 
of said layers from a plurality of laminated layers having magnetic

domains oriented in parallel.
The method of claim 19 further comprising configuring said
magnetic layers as a pole.
The method of claim 41 further comprising providing a second pole
coupled to the first-mentioned pole.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
