<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634133</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ambient air cooled light emitting instrument.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1273	A61B1273	A61B310	A61B310	A61C1900	A61C1900	F21S200	F21S200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61C	A61C	F21S	F21S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B1	A61B1	A61B3	A61B3	A61C19	A61C19	F21S2	F21S2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ambient air cooled high intensity light emitting instrument (10) in 
which the lamp (40) is contained in a heat sink (30) mounted within a 

housing (12). The housing contains a plurality of vent holes (17) which 
circumscribe the heat sink. As heat from the light is conducted along the 

heat sink when the instrument is in use, the heat emanates into the chamber 
surrounding the heat sink, and rises through the vent holes to the surrounding 

atmosphere, generating a thermal current which replaces the departing hot air 
with cooler air from the atmosphere. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREGG LAB INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREGG LABORATORIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERDERBER GREGORY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERDERBER, GREGORY R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to light emitting instruments 
and, in particular, to an improved ambient air cooled high intensity light 
emitting instrument. Many opportunities for visual inspection require prolonged 
continuous use of light in order to adequately illuminate the area to be 
inspected. Hand held medical and dental light sources which provide 
illumination for inspection or examination are well known and have been 
utilized for many years. Specific examples of such devices include 
ophthalmascopes, otoscopes, retinoscopes, and other similar instruments. In 
these hand held devices, the handle generally houses the light source. It is 
advantageous to mount the lamp within the instrument rather than in a 
remote location, requiring the use of additional transmission means such as 
fiber optics, to direct the light to the desired location. Although a remote light 
source is easy to cool, it usually results in a relatively inflexible fiber optic 
cable, significantly limiting the maneuverability of the instrument and 
increasing the overall cost of the instrument. Recently, high intensity light sources, such as halogen or krypton gas 
filled lamps have been developed to provide significantly more light for hand 
held dental and medical instruments. This increase in light intensity, often  
 
two to three times greater than that provided by ordinary vacuum lamps of 
the same size, greatly improves the performance of these instruments. In 
addition, vacuum lamps progressively deteriorate in both quantity and 
quality of light emission as the lamp ages due to tungsten particles which are 
deposited on the envelope of the lamp. A halogen lamp however, provides a 
reasonably consistent quantity and quality of light emission over its life, due 
in part to the extreme lamp skin temperature (250 - 300°C) which causes 
tungsten particles deposited on the envelope of the lamp to vaporize and 
redeposit on the tungsten filament. Unfortunately, this extreme heat generated by high intensity lamps can 
often lead to other problems for hand held instruments. Obviously, heat 
buildup within the handle will cause discomfort to the user of the 
instrument. This problem becomes exaggerated as the duty cycle for the 
instrument increases. Some dental or surgical procedures require a hand 
held instrument to be used continuously for extended periods of time, such as 
an hour or more. Other heat related problems inherent in these instruments 
include accelerated deterioration of the lamp and instrument
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1) A light emitting instrument, comprising: a housing; a member, located 
within said housing, containing a light source; means, located through said 

housing, for venting the interior of said housing to the external atmosphere 
surrounding said housing; whereby heat generated by said light source 

emanates from said member into the interior of said housing and is 
transferred to the external atmosphere through said venting means. 
2) The instrument of claim 1 whereby said member is thermodynamically 
isolated from the interior of said housing. 
3) The instrument of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said member comprises a 
heat sink. 
4) The instrument of claim 3, wherein said heat sink consists of a cylinder 
constructed from aluminum. 
5) The instrument of any one of the preceding claims wherein said light 
source comprises a high intensity light source. 
6) The instrument of claim 5, wherein said source is halogen lamp. 
7) The instrument of claim 2 or claim 3 wherein said member further 
contains a light transmission rod in close approximation to said light source 

for transmitting light from the instrument. 
8) The instrument of claim 7, wherein said light source contains a focal lens 
for directing light into said light transmission rod. 
9) The instrument of any one of the preceding claims wherein said housing 
is constructed from a low heat absorbing material. 
10) The instrument of any one of the preceding claims wherein said member 
is thermodynamically isolated from the interior of said housing using a seal 

constructed from heat resistant material. 
11) A hand held light emitting instrument, comprising; a housing, having a 
forward light emitting end and a rearward end; a hollow member, 

thermodynamically isolated from the interior of said housing, positioned 
within said housing from said forward end to said rearward end; a light 

source, located within said member; a light transmission rod, positioned 
within said member between said light source and said forward end; venting 

means through said housing for communicating the interior space within the 
housing with the atmosphere surrounding said housing; and means for 

activating said light source; such that when said light source is activated, light 
is transmitted from said light source through said light transmission rod and 

to said forward light emitting end of said housing, and heat generated by said 
light source emanates from said member and through said vent means into 

said surrounding atmosphere, whereby cooling the instrument. 
12) The instrument of claim 11, wherein said member is a heat sink and said 
light source is a high intensity lamp. 
13) The instrument of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein said member is 
thermodynamically isolated from the interior of said housing using an 

elastomeric seal between said member and said rearward end. 
14) The instrument of claim 12 or claim 13 wherein said member comprises a 
 

cylindrical heat sink composed of material having thermal conductivity 
properties. 
15) The instrument of any one of the preceding claims wherein said venting 
means comprises a plurality of apertures arranged along said housing. 
16) The instrument of any one of claims 12 to 15, wherein said member 
consists of a first section containing said light source coupled to a second 

section containing said light transmission rod. 
17) The instrument of claim 15, wherein said apertures are arranged in a 
plurality of rows extending from said forward end to said rearward end. 
18) The instrument of any one of claims 11 to 17, further comprising a light 
directing apparatus positioned at said forward end of said housing adjacent 

said light transmission rod. 
19) A light emitting instrument, comprising: a housing, having a forward 
light emitting end and a rearward end; a hollow tubular member, positioned 

within said housing from said forward end of said rearward end; a light 
source, located within said tubular member; and a plurality of apertures, 

located in said housing; whereby heat generated by said light source emanates 
from said tubular member into the space within said housing surrounding said 

tubular member and is removed through said apertures in said housing by 
thermal currents generated as the heat rises out through said apertures. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
