<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610092</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Display device and method of production.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C412	C23C412	H01J902	H01J902	H01J918	H01J918	H01J2902	H01J2902	H01J2946	H01J2946	H01J3112	H01J3112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C4	C23C4	H01J9	H01J9	H01J9	H01J9	H01J29	H01J29	H01J29	H01J29	H01J31	H01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image display device includes an electron beam 
generating unit (39), an electrode unit (22) comprised of 

a plurality of laminate electrodes having a plurality of 
openings for deflecting and converging the electron beams, 

and an image forming unit (17,18) for forming an image by 
making the electron beams collide against a phosphor in a 

vacuum vessel (15,17). The laminate electrodes are 
laminated together at their intermediate portions by means 

of adhesion spacers (23) and peripherally fixed 
mechanically by means of insulating spacers (24) via a 

fixing base unit (21). 
Each adhesion spacer (23) is composed of a spacer core (23a) having a 

spacer function and an adhesion frit (23b) having an adhesion function. 
Preferably an oxide ceramic 

insulating thin film (27 in Fig.3) is formed on at least one surface 
of a metal base plate (26 in Fig.3) of the insulating spacer (24) by 

a spray coating method and a crystal frit thin film (34 in Fig.7) is 
formed on the other surface of the metal base plate 

(32 in Fig.7 or Fig.8(b)). 
The thickness dl of the adhesion spacer (23) and the 

initial thickness d2 of the insulating spacer (24) are in a 
relation of d1 ≦ d2 (look at Fig.8(a)) and, on heating, excess 

softened 
frit (34 in Fig.8(b)) is squeezed out to ensure that the thickness of 

d1 and d2 are equal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIRATORI TETSUYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI SHIGEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIRATORI, TETSUYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, SHIGEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a display device 
for use in a color television receiver or the like display 
and a method of producing the same, and more in particular 
to a thin flat-shaped display device having a small size in 
depth employing a plurality of linear cathodes for 
generating electron beams in a cathode ray tube. As a display device for a color television image 
display or the like, a cathode ray tube type one has been 
mainly used. However, any conventional cathode ray tube 
has a large size in depth in comparison with its screen 
size, which makes it difficult to obtain a thin flat-shaped 
display device. As a thin flat-shaped display device, an 
EL (electro-luminescence) display device, a plasma display 
device, a liquid crystal display device, and the like have 
been recently developed and some of them have been put on 
a market. However, any of the display devices is 
insufficient in regard of performance such as brightness, 
contrast and color reproducibility in comparison with the 
cathode ray tube type one, and has not been implemented as 
a satisfactory display device.  Generally, in a technique for implementing a 
flat-shaped display device of a cathode ray tube type 
having a small size in depth, a plurality of electron beams 
emitted from a plurality of linear cathodes are deflected 
in the vertical and horizontal directions by means of 
electrodes to be projected to a phosphor screen which is 
divided into a plurality of segments in the vertical and 
horizontal directions for successively illuminating R, G, 
and B phosphor elements every segment. The following describes a conventional image 
display device of a cathode ray tube type with reference to 
Figs. 10 to 12. Fig. 10 shows a perspective view of an essential 
portion of a conventional image display device. The 
display device is mainly comprised of a rear vessel plate 
2 on which a back electrode 1 is disposed as indicated by 
dotted lines in the figure, a plurality of linear cathodes 
3 serving as an electron beam generating source, an 
electrode unit portion 4, and a phosphor plate 5 disposed 
on a faceplate 6 having a pan-shaped portion serving as a 
phosphor screen. The electrode unit portion 4 is composed of a 
plurality of electrode plates 4a, 4b, 4c, and 4d for 
controlling the movement of electron beams. Each electrode 
plate is formed with a plurality of circular or rectangular  
 
slit holes 7 arranged for allowing the electron beams to 
pass therethrough. The electrode plates are fixed to each 
other by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display device having a cathode ray tube comprising: 
   means (30) for generating electron beams in the 

cathode ray tube; 
   means (17, 18) for displaying an image by making the 

electron beams collide against a phosphor plate; and 
   an electrode unit (22) for deflecting and converging 

the electron beams generated by said electron beam 
generating means, which is comprised of a plurality of 

laminate electrodes (22a through 22f) fixed to each other 
by means of adhesion spacers (23) interposed between two 

adjacent electrodes at their intermediate portions in the 
cathode ray tube, each electrode having a plurality of 

openings formed therein for passing through the electron 
beams, said electrode unit being provided with insulating 

spacers (24) between each adjacent two electrodes at their 
peripheries, 

   characterised in that each insulating spacer (24) 
comprises an insulating film (27) formed on at least one 

surface of a metal plate (22, 26, 32). 
A display device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
insulating film (27) of the insulating spacer (24) is 

formed principally of oxide ceramic material having a 
thickness of several hundred micrometers. 
A display device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein 
said insulating spacer (24) comprises an oxide ceramic 

insulating film (33) formed on one surface of the metal 
 

plate and a crystal adhesion frit (34) formed on the other 
surface of the metal plate. 
A display device according to any one of the preceding 
claims, further comprising an electrode fixing base unit 

(21) to which the electrode unit of the laminate electrodes 
(22) is mechanically fixed, wherein said electrode fixing 

base unit is comprised of a metal plate (28) and an oxide 
ceramic insulating film (29) formed on one surface thereof 

facing said electrode unit. 
A method of producing a display device as defined in 
claim 4, comprising the steps of: 

   preparing an electrode unit portion by fixing a 
plurality of electrodes (22) to each other by means of 

adhesion spacers (23) in a kiln while oxide ceramic 
insulating spacers (24) are secured in the gaps between 

each adjacent electrode in the process of assembling the 
electrode unit portion; 

   preparing a front vessel portion by securing a 
phosphor plate (18) to the inner surface of a pan shaped 

portion of a face plate (17); 
   preparing a rear vessel portion having a plurality of 

fixing posts (20) provided at specified positions on the 
inner surface of a rear vessel plate (15) having a back 

electrode (16) provided thereon; 
   coupling a fixing base unit (21) having a ceramic 

insulating film (29) formed thereon to the fixing posts 
(20) to form a frame body which is provided with a 

plurality of linear cathodes (3) stretched therein by a 
 

cathode stretching means to thereby implement the rear 
vessel portion; 

   coupling the prepared rear vessel portion and the 
electrode unit portion together in such a manner that the 

electrode unit portion is disposed on the ceramic 
insulating film (29) of the fixing base unit; and, 

   fitting together the pan shaped front vessel portion 
(17) with the rear vessel portion (15) so that a high 

vacuum condition inside the fitted vessels is maintained by 
hermetically sealing of the peripheral portions thereof. 
A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein in the step 
of preparing the electrode unit portion, the ceramic 

insulating spacers (24) are secured to specified positions 
of the peripheries of the electrodes (22) in such a manner 

that a set screw (25) is transversely inserted through the 
periphery of all the electrodes (22a through 22f) passing 

through the insulating spacers (24) and the fixing base 
unit (21), so that the electrode unit portion (22) is 

coupled to the rear vessel portion via the fixing base unit 
(21) by means of the set screw (25). 
A method as claimed in claims 5 or 6, or a display 
device according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said 

oxide ceramic insulating film (27 or 29) is formed on the 
metal plate by a spray coating method. 
A method or device according to claim 7, wherein a 
crystal adhesion frit (34) is formed on the other surface 

of the metal plate (32) by a spray coating method. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein, in the 
process of fixing the electrode plates with the adhesion 

spacers (23) in a kiln, after the insulating spacers (24) 
are arranged in the gaps at the specified peripheral 

positions of the electrodes, then the crystal adhesion 
frit (34) of the insulating spacer (24) is melted in the 

procedure of increasing the temperature inside the kiln to 
thereby adjust the thickness of the insulating spacer (24) 

with respect to the thickness of the adhesion spacer (23) 
so that they are equal. 
A method according to claim 9, wherein the total pre-fixation 
thickness (d2) of the insulating spacer (24) is 

made slightly greater than to the thickness (d1) of the 
adhesion spacer (23). 
A method or device according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said oxide ceramic insulating 

film is formed on a metal film such as a nichrome film (53) 
after the metal film has been formed on the metal plate. 
A method or device according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the metal plate on which the 

insulating film is formed is part of an electrode (22). 
A method or device according to any one of claims 1 to 
11, wherein the insulating spacer (24) includes a metal 

base plate (26) made, for example, of an invar (Fe-Ni 
alloy) material. 
A method of implementing an electrode unit portion for 
use in a display device comprising the steps of:

 
   making insulating spacers each being made by forming 

an oxide ceramic insulating film on at least one surface of 

a metal plate by a spray coating method with a specified 
thickness; and 

   fixing a plurality of electrodes to each other by 
means of adhesion spacers in a kiln while said oxide 

ceramic insulating spacers are securely provided in the 
gaps between each adjacent electrodes in the process of 

assembling the electrode unit portion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
