<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650272</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
In-line two-stage erbium doped fiber amplifier system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S306	H01S306	H01S3067	H01S307	H01S3094	H01S3094	H01S310	H01S310	H01S317	H01S317	H04B1002	H04B1002	H04B1008	H04B1008	H04B1017	H04B1017	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is an in-line multi-stage 
erbium doped fiber amplifier system for use in fiber optic 

communication systems. The system comprises two cascaded 
erbium doped fiber amplifiers (12), (14) separated by an 

drop/add device (20) for filtering out the amplifier 
spontaneous emission noise and the existing telemetry 

channel and for adding a new telemetry channel before the 
second amplifier (14). The invention also provides a method 

for providing a telemetry signal to in-line erbium doped 
fiber amplifier sites without affecting the signal capacity 

of the system, and also provides a method for monitoring the 
performance of a link in an optical fiber communication 

system. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAHSOUN SAMIA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGEL JONATHAN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAHSOUN, SAMIA M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGEL, JONATHAN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to doped fiber amplifiers 
for in-line use in fiber optic communication systems. More 
particularly, the present invention pertains to a two-stage 
in-line erbium doped fiber amplifier (EDFA) system for 
adding and dropping telemetry signals from a fiber optic 
line. Most particularly, the present invention pertains to 
a two-stage in-line EDFA system containing a filter for 
removing an existing telemetry signal from a fiber optic 
communication line and a means for adding a new telemetry 
signal to a fiber optic communication line without affecting 
the data carrying capacity of the line. In addition, this 
invention pertains to a method of monitoring the performance 
of fiber optic communication systems and for locating faults 
within such systems. Commercially available regenerated fiber optic 
communication systems use a plurality of regenerators, which 
include receiver/transmitter pairs and accompanying 
electronic processing circuitry. The regenerators are 
positioned between links in an optical fiber line which, 
when combined, form a chain, and regenerate the signal 
carried on the optical fiber because the signal suffers 
attenuation as it travels down the chain. The receiver 
stage of a regenerator receives the optical data carried on 
the optical fiber whereupon the data is demultiplexed and 
converted to digital electronic signals for processing. The 
processing usually includes filtering out the noise in the 
signals and re-timing the signals. Once the signals are 
processed, they are multiplexed, amplified, converted back 
to optical data, and then re-transmitted by the transmitter 
stage of the regenerator. The newly transmitted data will 
travel along the next link until it reaches the next  
 
regenerator. In such systems, the electronic processing 
circuitry is also used to monitor the performance of the 
system by monitoring the converted optical signal as well as 
the receiver and transmitter stages of the regenerators. As optical signals travel between links in a fiber 
optic system, the signals suffer attenuation, partly as a 
result of inherent optical fiber characteristics such as 
bending losses, connection losses, etc. Thus, in optical 
regenerated systems, the distance between adjacent 
regenerators is limited so that the optical signals will be 
of sufficient strength to be processed upon reaching the 
next regenerator, whereupon the optical signals are again 
demultiplexed, converted to electric signals and cleaned up 
by removing noise. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A two-stage doped fiber amplifier system for 
use in optical fiber communication systems, comprising: 

   an optical fiber for carrying a signal 
comprising a first telemetry signal and a data signal; 

   a first doped fiber amplifier having an input 
and an output, said first amplifier being disposed in-line 

with said optical fiber for amplifying the signal; 
   a filter disposed at the output of said first 

amplifier for removing from the signal the first telemetry 
signal, whereby to pass through the data signal; 

   means for adding a second telemetry signal to 
the passed - through data signal for forming a second signal 

carried by said optical fiber; 
   a second doped fiber amplifier, having an 

input and an output, said second amplifier being disposed 
in-line with said optical fiber carrying the second signal 

for amplifying the second signal; and 
   means for supplying optical power to said 

first and second amplifiers. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said first and 
second doped fiber amplifiers are erbium doped fiber 

amplifiers. 
The system of claim 2, wherein said first and 
second amplifiers generate an inherent amplifier spontaneous 

emission noise signal having a noise peak occurring at a 
predetermined wavelength and wherein said first and second 

telemetry signals are modulated light wave signals, each 
having a wavelength proximate to said predetermined 

wavelength. 
The system of claim 3, wherein said filter 
filters out said predetermined wavelength so that said first 

 
telemetry signal and said spontaneous emission noise signal 

are removed from said data signal for allowing said first 
telemetry signal to be processed and for increasing a 

signal-to-noise ratio of said data signal. 
The system of claim 4, wherein said filter is 
configured for rejecting all wavelengths not used by said 

data signal. 
The system of claim 4, wherein said filter is 
a notch filter centered at said predetermined wavelength. 
The system of claim 2, wherein said adding 
means comprises a coupler disposed in-line with said optical 

fiber for adding said second telemetry signal to said data 
signal. 
The system of claim 2, wherein said adding 
means comprises a wave division multiplexer for adding said 

second telemetry signal to said data signal. 
The system of claim 2, wherein said adding 
means and said filter comprise a combination wave division 

multiplexer and de-multiplexer device for separating said 
first telemetry signal from said data signal and for adding 

said second telemetry signal to said data signal. 
The system of claim 2, wherein said means for 
supplying optical power comprises an optical power source 

for powering said first and second amplifiers. 
The system of claim 10, wherein said optical 
power source comprises a first optical power source for 

powering said first amplifier and a second optical power 
source for powering said second amplifier. 
The system of claim 11, wherein said first 
and second optical power sources further comprise first and 

second pump lasers. 
A method of providing a telemetry signal to 
in-line doped fiber amplifier sites in an optical fiber 

communication system without affecting the signal capacity 
of the system and for improving the signal-to-noise ratio of 

the system, comprising the steps of: 
   providing a first doped fiber amplifier in-line 

with an optical fiber carrying a first signal 
comprising a first telemetry signal and a data signal for 

amplifying said first signal; 
   filtering the amplified first signal so that 

said first telemetry signal is removed from said data 
signal; 

   adding a second telemetry signal to said data 
signal for forming a second signal; and 

   amplifying said second signal with a second 
doped fiber amplifier disposed in-line with said optical 

fiber. 
The method of claim 13, wherein said first 
and second doped fiber amplifiers comprise erbium doped 

fiber amplifiers. 
The method of claim 14, wherein said 
filtering step further comprises removing amplifier 

spontaneous emission noise generated by said first and 
second amplifiers from said optical fiber so that the 

signal-to-noise ratio of said data signal is improved. 
A method of monitoring the performance of a 
link in an optical fiber communication system, comprising 

the steps of:
 

   providing a first doped fiber amplifier 
operating in its saturated state, said first amplifier 

having an output, an input stage and an input stage gain, 
and disposed in-line with an optical fiber carrying a signal 

that is input to said first amplifier, said signal 
comprising a data signal and a telemetry signal having a 

carrier wavelength proximate a small gain peak wavelength of 
said first amplifier; 

   measuring, at the output of said first 
amplifier, amplifier spontaneous emission noise power at the 

carrier wavelength of the telemetry signal; and 
   determining an optical input power level of 

the signal input to the first amplifier using a predetermined 
relationship between the amplifier spontaneous 

emission noise power at the carrier wavelength and the gain 
of the input stage of said first amplifier. 
The method of claim 16, wherein said first 
doped fiber amplifier is an erbium doped fiber amplifier. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
