<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618452</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An average power detector circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2102	G01R1932	G01R1932	G01R2100	G01R1902	G01R1902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R21	G01R19	G01R19	G01R21	G01R19	G01R19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus is disclosed which accurately measures, over a wide 
ambient temperature range, the average power derived from an electrical signal. 

Furthermore, embodiments of the present invention can be fabricated with 
inexpensive, off-the-shelf components and can have excellent circuit characteristics 

at RF frequencies. These results are obtained in an illustrative embodiment of the 
present invention that comprises a first thermal detector (103), a second thermal 

detector (117), an error amplifier (107) and a summer (113). The first thermal 
detector provides a reference signal (105), which varies with the ambient 

temperature, to the error amplifier. The summer receives the signal to be measured 
(111) and the signal output from the error amplifier, and outputs to the second 

thermal detector a composite signal (115), which is indicative of the sum of the 
power derived from input signal and the output signal from the error amplifier. The 

second thermal detector receives the composite signal and outputs a feedback signal 
(119), which is indicative of power derived from the composite signal, to the error 

amplifier. The output signal, which is indicative of the power derived from the input 
signal, is the output of the error amplifier. The error amplifier advantageously 

subtracts the feedback signal from the reference signal, and advantageously outputs 
the amplified difference to the summer. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARDOZZA GREGG SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARDOZZA, GREGG SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus and methods for producing an output
signal that is indicative of the average power of an electric signal.It is often necessary to measure the average, in contrast to peak, power of
a given signal. Typically, this has been accomplished for alternating-current ("AC")
signals, especially at radio-frequencies, with a diode detector circuit. In a diode detector
circuit the signal whose power is to be measured is placed across a diode while the
diode is biased to be in its "square-law" region. As long as the oscillations from the
signal do not drive the diode out of the square-law region, the voltage across the diode
is indicative (e.g., proportional) of the power derived from the signal. When, however,
the signal to be measured is complex (i.e., has multiple sinusoidal components) the
respective sinusoidal components can constructively interfere, thus pushing the diode
out of the square-law region and rendering the circuit inaccurate. Furthermore, the
diode detector circuit has the disadvantage that the accuracy with which the circuit can
measure the power derived from the signal deteriorates with changes in the ambient
temperature.US-A-3486014 discloses an arrangement for producing a voltage which
is proportional to the product of two quantities represented by electrical signals. To this
end, a first current signal proportional to the sum of the voltage and first current of an
electrical signal, E(t) + I(t), is applied to a resistive heating element and a second
current signal proportional to the difference of the voltage and current of the electrical
signal, E(t) - I(t), is applied to a second resistive heating element. First and second
thermocouples associated with the first and second resistive heating elements,
respectively are connected in series opposing relationship so that the voltage
drops, e1 and e2, measured across these two thermocouples effectively subtract the voltages
across them, e1 - e2. If the constants for the two thermocouples can be made equal, the difference voltage

or in other words a voltage linearly proportional
to power. Additional circuitry is provided to compensate over a range of currents and
temperatures. According to one aspect of this invention there is provided apparatus as
claimed in claim 1.According to another aspect of this invention there is provided a method
as claimed in claim 6.Embodiments of the present invention are capable of measuring the
power derived from a signal, whether that signal is a direct-current ("DC") signal or an
a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for producing an output signal that is indicative of the
average power of an input signal for which the average power is to be measured, said

apparatus comprising:

(1) a first thermal detector (103) for providing a reference signal that is
indicative of the power derived from a benchmark signal and that is modulated by the

ambient temperature, said first thermal detector (103) comprising:

a) a first thermal radiator for receiving the benchmark signal and for
radiating a quantity of heat energy that is derived from said benchmark signal, and
b) a first thermal sensor (211) for receiving at least some of the energy
radiated by said first thermal radiator and for creating said modulated reference signal based on the

quantity of energy received from said first thermal radiator and on the ambient
temperature;
(2) a second thermal detector (117) for providing a feedback signal
indicative of the power derived from a composite signal produced from the input and

the output signals, and that is modulated by the ambient temperature, said second
thermal detector (117) comprising:


a) a second thermal radiator for receiving the composite signal and for
radiating a quantity of heat energy that is derived from said composite signal, and
(b) a second thermal sensor (215) for receiving at least some of the
energy radiated by said second thermal radiator and for creating said modulated feedback signal

based on the quantity of energy received from said second thermal radiator and on the
ambient temperature;
(3) first means (107) for producing said output signal, said output signal
being indicative of the difference between said reference signal and said feedback

signal; and
(4) second means (113) for producing said composite signal, said
composite sign
al being indicative of the sum of said output signal and said input signal.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first thermal radiator
comprises a first resistor, and said second thermal radiator comprises a second resistor.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first thermal sensor
(211) comprises a first thermistor, and said second thermal sensor (215) comprises a

second thermistor.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said output signal varies
proportionally with respect to the power produced by said input signal.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said output signal is the
amplified difference between said reference signal and said feedback signal.
A method for producing an output signal that is indicative of the
average power of an input signal for which the average power is to be measured, said method comprising the steps of:


(1) in a first thermal detector (103),

a) radiating, with a first thermal radiator, a quantity of heat energy that is
derived from a benchmark signal,
b) receiving with a first thermal sensor (211) at least some of the energy
radiated by said first thermal radiator, and
c) generating a reference signal that is modulated by the ambient
temperature and that is indicative of the amount of energy received from said first

thermal radiator;
(2) in a second thermal detector (117),

a) radiating, with a second thermal radiator, a quantity of heat energy that
is derived from a composite signal,
(b) receiving with a second thermal sensor (215) at least some of the
energy radiated by said second thermal radiator, and
c) producing a feedback signal that is modulated by the ambient
temperature and that is indicative of the amount of energy received from said second

thermal radiator;
(3) in an error detector (107), producing said output signal, said output
signal being indicative of the difference between said reference signal and said feedback

signal; and 
(4) in a summer (113), producing said composite signal, said composite
signal being indicative of the sum of said output signal and said input signal.
A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein a first resistor is used as said
first thermal radiator, and a second resistor is used as said second thermal radiator.
A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein a first thermistor is used as
said first thermal sensor (211), and a second thermistor is used as said second thermal

sensor (215).
A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein said output signal varies
proportionally with respect to the power produced by said input signal.
A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said output signal is the
amplified difference between said reference signal and said feedback signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
