<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621532</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Password verification system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F316	H04M338	G06F2100	H04M338	G06F316	G07C900	G07C900	G06F2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	H04M	G06F	H04M	G06F	G07C	G07C	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	H04M3	G06F21	H04M3	G06F3	G07C9	G07C9	G06F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Passwords are spoken by users (e.g.0001) and stored as speech models 
in a database (101 in 10). The database (10) also contains a plurality of reference 

voice (RV) speech models (in 100) based on speech inputs by various persons 
(1.2...1000); each RV speech model includes characters (0,1,2,...9,oh), digits, or 

phrases comprising user assigned passwords. Preferably, a group of the RV speech 
models are selected (RV1,20,350,591,1000) based upon a predetermined level of 

difference between same and a speech model (in 101) of the user's spoken password. 
In requesting access to the system, a user speaks the assigned password. The 

password entered by the user to obtain access is compared with user's own speech 
models (in 101) and with the selected RV speech models (in 100) to determine a 

measure of similarity. The validity of the password is determined based upon this 
measure of similarity. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RISSANEN EUGENE LEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RISSANEN, EUGENE LEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to spoken password verification apparatus,
and to methods for verifying a spoken password.Computer systems are increasingly being used in the work place to
prepare and store documents of a sensitive nature relating to business operations.
Due to the sensitive nature of business operations, it is often necessary that users of a
computer system and calling telephone parties accessing a computer system over the
telephone network be assigned unique passwords intended to enable access to the
computer system. The use of passwords function both to deny access to the
computer system to those that are not assigned passwords and to grant access to a
password holder.Some business computer systems are arranged to initially record and
store passwords assigned to users. In response to a prompt by the system for the
user's password, the user enters the password onto a keyboard and the system
compares the keyboard entered password with the stored passwords and enables the
user to access the system when the entered password matches the previously stored
password.In voice operated computer systems used both in business and with
computer systems coupled with the telephone network, user passwords are recorded
and stored as speech models (voice templates) in a password database of the system
for each user's account code (login identification). The word "model" as used herein
means any digitized form of a spoken word or composite form of a word repeated a
plurality of times. Typically, the computer system prompts the user to enter the
user's account code and then prompts the user to enter the assigned password by
speaking the password into audio input apparatus of the computer system. The
system responds to entry of the spoken password by assembling a speech model of
the entered password and comparing it with a previously recorded and stored user
password model to determine the validity of the user entered password. In the
comparison process the user entered password model is compared with each
previously recorded and stored password model. Typically, a score is assigned to
such comparison representing the similarity of the user entered password model with
the pre-recorded and stored password model. When there is a match of the user
entered password model with a previously recorded stored password model as 
determined by a score above a predetermined threshold. the system recognizes the user
spoken password as valid and grants the user access to the system.A voice password-control security system is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spoken password verification apparatus (1) comprising means
(10, 11) for storing a first speech model of a first entry of a password spoken by a user,

the apparatus being characterized by:

means (10,11) for storing a plurality of reference voice (RV) speech
models (100) based on speech inputs by persons, each RV speech model (100)

comprising said password;
means (11) for selecting at least one RV speech model based on a
predetermined difference of similarity between said first speech model and said one RV

speech model;
means (10) for storing a second speech model of a second entry of a
password spoken by a user;
means (11) for comparing said second speech model and said selected
one RV model to determine a measure of similarity; and
means (11) for determining the validity of said second entry of the
password based on said measure of similarity.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means (10, 11) for
storing RV speech models comprises a database (100) having files that each store an

RV speech model corresponding to a person having spoken at least said password.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means (10, 11) for
selecting said at least one RV speech model comprises means (11) for determining a

similarity score for each RV speech model by comparing said first speech model with
each of said RV speech models.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said means (11) for selecting
said at least one RV speech model comprises means (11) for ranking said RV speech

models based on said similarity scores. said selecting means (11) selecting said at least
one RV speech model based on a predetermined threshold ranking that corresponds to a

substantial difference of similarity scores of said first speech model and said at least one
RV speech model. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said means (11) for selecting
said at least one RV speech model comprises means (11, 10) for ranking said RV speech

models based on said similarity scores, said selecting means selecting said at least one
RV speech model based on a predetermined threshold ranking from a range of said RV

speech model rankings of 15-50 percentile where a 100 percentile ranking represents an
RV speech model with the most similarity to said first speech model.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein said range of said RV speech
model rankings consists of 20-40 percentile.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said determining means (11)
comprises means (11) for generating first and second similarity scores based on a

comparison of said second speech model with said first speech model and with said at
least one RV speech model, respectively, and means (11) for comparing the difference

between said first and second similarity scores, said determining means (11)

determining that the password corresponding to said second speech model is valid if
said difference between said first and second similarity scores exceeds a predetermined

threshold.
A method for verifying a spoken password comprising storing a first
speech model of a first entry of a password spoken by a user, the method being

characterized by:

storing a plurality of reference voice (RV) speech models (100) based on
speech inputs by persons, each RV speech model (100) comprising said password;
selecting at least one RV speech model based on a predetermined
difference of similarity between said first speech model and said one RV speech model;
storing a second speech model of a second entry of a password spoken
by a user;
comparing said second speech model and said selected one RV model to
determine a measure of similarity; and
determining the validity of said second entry of the password based on
said measure of similarity.
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the step of selecting said at
least one RV speech model comprises ranking said RV speech models based on said

similarity scores, said selecting step selecting said at least one RV speech model based
on a predetermined threshold ranking that corresponds to a substantial difference of

similarity scores of said first speech model and said at least one RV speech model.
A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said step of selecting said at
least one RV speech model comprises ranking said RV speech models based on said

similarity scores, said selecting step selecting said at least RV speech model based on a
predetermined threshold ranking from a range of said RV speech model rankings of 15-50

percentile, where a 100 percentile ranking represents an RV speech model with the
most similarity to said first speech model.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
