<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632993</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Breath collection devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B508	A61B5097	G01N122	G01N122	A61B508	G01N33497	G01N33483	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	G01N1	G01N1	A61B5	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A breath sampling device (20) has a body (22) defining 
an interior space (21) or bore with two open ends (24,33). The 

patient's breath is directed through the device from end 
to end, thereby continually purging the interior space. 

At a designated time during the breath, closure devices (50,52) 
are actuated to shut both ends, desirably in response to 

a single actuation movement, thereby capturing a breath 
sample at a predetermined time. The continual purging 

action assures that the captured breath sample truly 
represents the breath at the designated time during the 

exhalation cycle. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIAGNOSTICS 
&
 DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIAGNOSTICS 
&
 DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRONENBERG RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURNICK JANET GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRONENBERG, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MURNICK, JANET GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods and 
apparatus for capturing and retaining a sample of 
expired breath from a stream of expired breath. Breath testing has been used in medicine since 
ancient times. There have been considerable improvements in 
tests which can be applied to breath samples for 
diagnostic purposes. These improvements have prompted 
renewed efforts to develop breath sample collection 
devices and methods. A breath sample collection device 
must meet several conflicting requirements. To avoid 
the possible infection risks associated with reusable 
devices, the sample collection device should be 
disposable. Therefore, the device should be 
manufacturable at low cost. However, the device should 
provide for secure capture of a breath sample which 
truly represents the content of the breath stream at a 
particular time during exhalation. The air expelled by 
a patient during exhalation varies in composition. The 
first air expelled consists essentially of air disposed 
in the mouth, nose and upper respiratory tract. Air 
expelled at a later time during the same exhalation will 
consist essentially of air from the bronchi and lower 
respiratory tract, whereas the last air expelled will 
consist essentially of air from the alveolar or air 
sacks of the lungs themselves. It is desirable to 
capture a particular portion of the exhaled air to 
provide a test sample which truly represents one 
portion, and one portion only, of the breath. For 
example, in metabolic testing it is generally desirable 
to capture alveolar air, and to exclude other portions 
of the exhaled air. Thus, the sampling device should be 
capable of selectively capturing a desired portion of 
the breath stream without substantial contamination by 
other portions of the breath stream. The device must 
also provide for secure storage of the captured sample 
until the same can be transferred to an analytical  
 
instrument. The device should be simple to use, both in 
capturing the sample and in transferring the sample to 
an analytical instrument. All of these requirements, 
taken together, have posed considerable technical 
challenge heretofore. One device which has been proposed uses a 
plastic bag with attached mouthpiece into which the 
patient expels an expired breath stream. While the 
expired breath is still being expelled, a syringe is 
used to draw off a sample. Once the sample is 
collected, a stopcock on the syringe is closed and a 
needle is affixed to the end of the syringe. A portion 
of the sample is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device to segregate and retain a sample 
of expired breath from a stream of breath characterized 

by a body (22) defining an interior space or bore (21) having 
first and second ends and first and second openings 

(29, 33; 220, 222) adjacent said ends; a first closure 
member (50; 208) mounted to said body for movement from 

an open position wherein the first closure member does 
not fully occlude the first opening to a closed position 

wherein the first closure member occludes the first 
opening; and a second closure member (52; 210) mounted 

to said body for movement from an open position wherein 
the second closure member does not fully occlude the 

second opening to a closed position wherein the second 
closure member occludes the second opening, at least one 

of said body and said closure members being adapted to 
direct a stream of breath exhaled by a patient into said 

interior space by way of one said opening whereby a 
sample of expired breath may be captured in said bore by 

directing the stream of breath through the interior 
space while both said closure members are in their open 

positions and moving both closure members to their 
closed positions, said device further comprising 

latch means (44, 46) for latching said 
closure members (50, 52) in their closed positions upon 

movement of said closure members to said closed 
positions. 
A device as claimed in claim 1 further 
characterized in that both of said closure members 

(50, 52) are mounted to said body so that both closure 
members can be moved from their open positions to their 

closed positions responsive to a single actuation 
movement of one said closure member relative to the 

other said closure member. 
A device as claimed in claim 2 further 
characterized in that said closure members are mounted 

to said body on opposite sides thereof so that movement  
 

of said closure members towards one another will 
advance both closure members from their open positions 

to their closed positions. 
A device as claimed in claim 2 further 
characterized in that said closure members are rotatably 

mounted to said body so that rotation of one said 
closure member relative to the other said closure member 

in a preselected rotation direction will cause rotation 
of both said closure members relative to said body and 

move both closure members from their open positions to 
their closed positions. 
A device as claimed in claim 4 further 
characterized in that said body defines a pair of 

helical threads (34, 36) having parallel axes and said 
closure members have helical threads engaged with said 

helical threads of said body. 5 
A device as claimed in claim 5 further 
characterized in that said helical threads are coaxial 

with one another and of the same hand. 
A device as claimed in claim 1 further 
characterized by a puncturable septum (64) bounding said 

bore whereby a breath sample may be withdrawn from 
within said bore by puncturing said septum. 
A device as claimed in claim 7 further 
characterized in that said septum is carried on one of 

said closure members. 
A device as claimed in claim 1 further 
characterized in that each said closure member (50, 52) 

has a generally tubular cavity (53, 55) and an end wall 
(56) extending across said cavity, said body being 

telescopically received in said tubular cavities of said 
closure members, said end walls of said closure members 

being remote from said body when said closure members 
are in said open positions, said end walls of said 

closure members being adjacent said body when said 
closure members are in said closed positions. 
A device as claimed in claim 9 further 
characterized in that each said closure member has a  

 
resilient member (68, 69) mounted on its end wall, said 

resilient members sealingly engaging said body when said 
closure members are in said closed positions. 
A device as claimed in claim 10 further 
characterized in that said resilient member (68) on at 

least one said closure member includes a puncturable 
septum (64), said septum bounding said bore when such 

closure member is in its closed position, whereby a 
sample of breath captured in said bore may be withdrawn 

from said bore by puncturing said septum. 
A device to segregate and retain a sample 
of expired breath from a stream of breath comprising 

body means (22; 200; 300) for defining an interior space 
and first and second openings on opposite sides of said 

interior space; inlet means (50, 60; 204, 302) for 
admitting breath to said interior space through said 

first opening, whereby a stream of breath may be 
directed through said interior space and out of said 

interior space through said second opening; selectively operable valve means 

(50, 52; 208, 210; 310-318) for closing both of said 
openings to thereby interrupt said stream of breath and 

trap a sample of said stream in said interior space; and 
access means (64; 208; 300) for providing access to said 

interior space to permit withdrawal of said trapped 
sample. 
A device as claimed in claim 12, further 
characterized in that said valve means includes means 

for closing both of said openings in response to a 
single actuating movement. 
A device as claimed in claim 12, further 
characterized in that said valve means are initially 

arranged in an open condition such that both said 
openings are open, said valve means being selectively 

movable to a closed condition wherein both of said 
openings are closed. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 14 further 
characterized by latch means for retaining said valve 

means in said closed condition.  
 
A device as claimed in claim 12 further 
characterized in that said interior space has a pair of 

opposed ends and wherein said first and second openings 
are adjacent said opposed ends. 
A device as claimed in claim 16 further 
characterized in that said interior space is generally 

in the form of an elongated bore having a dimension 
between said ends along the length of the bore 

substantially greater than the dimensions of said bore 
transverse to the length. 
A device as claimed in claim 17 further 
characterized in that said bore is substantially 

straight. 
A method of capturing a sample of expired 
breath from a stream of breath of the type comprising 

the step of directing the stream of expired breath 
through an interior space in a sampling device, 

characterized in that said breath stream is passed into 
the space through a first opening on one side of the 

interior space and out of said interior space through a 
second opening on the opposite side of said interior 

space; and further characterized by the step of manually closing 
both of said openings to thereby interrupt said stream 

of breath and trap a sample of said stream in said 
interior space. 
A method as claimed in claim 19 further 
characterized in that said step of closing said openings 

is performed so that both of said openings are closed 
substantially simultaneously. 
A method as claimed in claim 19 or 20 further 
characterized by the steps of transporting said trapped 

sample in said sampling device and then withdrawing a 
portion of the sample from said sampling device. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
