<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657323</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Awning assembly with stowable support arms
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04H1534	B60P334	E04H1500	E04H1544	E04H1506	B60P332	E04F1000	E04F1006	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04H	B60P	E04H	E04H	E04H	B60P	E04F	E04F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04H15	B60P3	E04H15	E04H15	E04H15	B60P3	E04F10	E04F10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved awning (14) assembly for a recreational vehicle 
has the awning (14) rolled around a roller tube. A lead rail (16) is 

attached to an edge of the awning (14). Support arms (18) are stowed 
and latched in the lead rail (16) and pivot downwardly therefrom. 

A sliding and pivoting latch mechanism holds the lead rail in 
the retracted position. The support arms (18) are attached to feet 

on the vehicle with a spring latch mechanism. Spring loaded 

rafter arms (22) slide in a channel on the back of the lead rail (16) 
and are positioned to tension the awning. The awning provides 

a compact and attractive assembly in the stowed position and 
is easily erected by one person. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOMETIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DOMETIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKA GREGORY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALOTT DALE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKA, GREGORY J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALOTT, DALE G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the field of awnings
and specifically to a retractable and stowable support
assembly therefor.There are a number of known retractable assemblies that
support an awning to create a sheltered area. The awning is
usually supported in a generally horizontal position with a
slight slope to facilitate runoff of rainwater. Commonly, one
edge of the awning is attached to a wall. The opposite edge
is attached to a tube, rod, rail or other similar elongated
member, which is supported by two support arms. The support
arms rest on the ground or are mounted to a lower part of the
wall. Tension rafter arms are disposed between the wall and
the tube or rail to stretch the awning and hold it in
position. In this way, a convenient shelter is formed
adjacent the wall to protect people and objects beneath the
wall from rain and direct sun.Retractable awnings can be divided into two general
classes. Box type awnings have a stationary roller tube
mounted to the wall. The awning is rolled around the tube for
storage. The box comprises a stationary enclosure for the
awning, a cover of which is opened to permit access to the
awning which is unrolled to an extended position.
Alternatively, a movable cover is attached to the free end of 
the awning to complete the enclosure when the awning is
retracted. U.S. Patent No. 4,171,013 to Clark shows an
example of one such awning assembly.Shifting roll type awnings have a roller tube suspended
between the support arms. The tube is moved laterally to
unroll or roll the awning on the tube. One edge of the awning
is rigidly attached to the wall. It is less common, but still
possible, for this type of awning to be enclosed in a case in
its retracted position. U.S. Patent No. 4,658,877 to Quinn
shows an example of such an awning assembly. In both types
the roller tube may be spring balanced or spring biased to aid
rolling.A popular application for such awnings is on recreational
vehicles. The awning creates a convenient outdoor shelter
next to the vehicle. Simple and fast assembly and disassembly
of the awning are important, especially in vehicle
applications. Vehicle awnings also must be rugged and durable
because they are constantly exposed to the elements. Aside
from functioning efficiently, the awning should also be
aesthetically attractive in its installed and retracted
positions. A minimum amount of hardware should be exposed
during travel to provide a durable and attractive unit.The present invention
as defined by the features of claim 1
provides
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An awning assembly, comprising :

an elongated roller tube (40) extending generally
horizontally along a generally vertical wall (12) and

rotatably mounted on the wall ;
an awning (14) having a first edge attached to the
roller tube, said awning being rolled on the roller

tube (40) and adapted to be unrolled from the roller
tube to an extended position ;
a lead rail (16) attached to a second edge of the
awning ;
a pair of rafter arms (22) each being disposed
between the wall and the lead rail so as to hold the

lead rail a selected distance from the wall when the
awning is extended ; and
a pair of support arms (18a, 18b) pivotably
attached to the lead rail

by means of a pivot assembly
and adapted to support the

lead rail when the awning is extended and
permitting the support arms to pivot on two axes,

characterized in that said pivot assembly is
adapted to slide

laterally to a locked position engaging a lock socket
(158) on the wall so as to prevent lateral movement of

the lead rail.
An awning assembly according to claim 1,
wherein


the rafter arms (22) are extendable and biased
toward an extended position ; and further comprising a

slider (64) on an end of each rafter arm and disposed
in a slide channel (60) of the lead rail so as to slide

in the channel when the awning is extended or
retracted.
An awning assembly according to claim 2,

wherein the rafter arms (22) are mounted to the wall
(12) so as to be pivotable about generally vertical and

horizontal axes.
An awning assembly according to any one of
claims 1 to 3, wherein


the rafter arms are extendable and biased toward
and extended position ; and further comprising a slider

(64a) on an end of each rafter arm and disposed in a
slide channel (60a) on the wall (12) so as to slide in

the channel when the awning is extended or retracted.
An awning assembly according to claim 4,
wherein the rafter arms are mounted to the lead rail so

as to be pivotable about generally vertical and
horizontal axes.
An awning assembly according to any one of
claims 1 to 5, further comprising a stowage channel

(56) along a lower edge of the lead rail (16), the
support arms (18a, 18b) being pivotable so as to be

stowable in the stowage channel.
An awning assembly according to any one of
claims 1 to 6, wherein said pivot assembly comprises


a bearing socket (144) disposed on each end of
the lead rail, said bearing socket having a

longitudinal bore (150) therethrough ;
a side opening (156) through a part of a side of
said bore and opening generally downwardly through a

side of the bearing socket ;
a generally cylindrical lock bar (136) disposed in
the bore (150) and adapted to slide longitudinally in 

the bearing socket and to rotate about a longitudinal
axis ;
a pivot rod (134) pivotably attached to the lock
bar (136) and adapted to pivot on an axis generally

normal to the longitudinal axis of the lock bar, said
pivot rod extending through the side opening and

attached to the support arm ; and

said lock socket (158) being mounted on the wall and
adapted to receive the lock bar therein so as to

prevent lateral movement of the lead rail.
An awning assembly according to any one of
claims 1 to 7, wherein


a pair of feet (118) are disposed on the wall (12)
below the roller tube, each foot having a horizontal

pin (116) ; a slot (114) disposed in a lower end of
each support arm and adapted to receive the pin therein

so as to support the support arm on the foot ; a latch
bar (90) slidingly disposed in each support arm and

biased toward the lower end, said latch bar having a
projection (92) obstructing parts of the slot (114)

when the latch bar is in a lower position so as to
secure the pin (116) in the slot (114), said latch bar

(90) being movable to an upper position so as to permit
the pin to be removed from the slot.
An awning assembly according to claim 8,
wherein the slot is disposed at an angle relative to

the movement of the latch bar (90).
An awning assembly according to claim 8,
further comprising a spring (112) urging the latch bar

toward the lower position. 
An awning assembly according to claim 8,
further comprising a handle operatively connected to

the latch bar and adapted to move the latch bar to the
upper position.
An awning assembly according to claim 11,
wherein the handle is connected to the latch bar by a

rack and pinion assembly (96, 98).
An awning assembly according to claim 11,
further comprising a stowage channel (56) along a lower

edge of the lead rail (16), the support arms (18a, 18b)
being pivotable so as to be stowable in the stowage

channel (96), said stowage channel having a pair of
pockets (128), and each of said latch bars (90) having

a second projection (92) adapted to be received in one
of the pockets (128) when the latch bar is in its lower

position so as to secure the support arm in the
channel.
An awning assembly according to claim 13,
wherein the handle includes a knob (82) adapted to

receive an end of a pole (104) used to operate the
latch bar (90).
An awning assembly according to claim 8,
further comprising a base (120) disposed between each

foot (118) and the wall (12), the foot being removably
mounted in the base and said foot being adapted to

support the support arm on a surface below the lead
rail when removed from the base.
An awning assembly according to claim 15,
wherein the foot is slidingly received in the base. 
An awning assembly according to claim 16,
further comprising a retainer (122) on the base biased

so as to retain the foot in the base.
An awning assembly according to claim 6,
wherein the pivot assembly comprises :


a bearing socket (144) disposed on each end of the
lead rail, said bearing socket having a longitudinal

bore therethrough ;
a side opening (156) through a part of a side of
said bore and opening generally downwardly through a

side of the bearing socket ;
a generally cylindrical lock bar disposed in the
bore and adapted to slide longitudinally in the bearing

socket and rotate about a longitudinal axis ;
a pivot rod (134) attached to the lock bar (136)
and extending through the side opening and attached to

the support arm to permit pivoting of the support arm
about the longitudinal axis ; and

said lock socket (158) being mounted on the wall and
adapted to receive the lock bar therein so as to

prevent lateral movement of the lead rail.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
