<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612452</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR LINEARIZATION OF OPTIC MODULATORS USING A FEED-FORWARD PREDISTORTION CIRCUIT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B10152	H04B10155	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A feed-forward predistortion circuit to provide improved linear response in optic modulators. The circuit includes a non-linear element, an amplifier/delay means and a power combiner. The non-linear element generates a first signal sin(X), where (X) is the input signal. The amplifier/delay means generates a second signal 2(X). The first and second signals are combined in the power combiner to produce a modulating signal 2(X)-sin(X) which is fed to an optic modulator. The modulating signal 2(X)-sin(X) compensates for the transfer function of the optic modulator which has a transfer function sin(X), thereby producing a linear output.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optic modulators, and
more particularly to a feed-forward predistortion
circuit that provides improved linear response in
optic modulators.A trend in optical communication systems is to
integrate functions traditionally performed by
discrete optical components onto an integrated optic
("IO") device. These functions include polarizing,
filtering, modulating, etc. One such IO device,
having utility in the communications field, is
operative to modulate an optical signal. Such an IO
device is typically fabricated from a substrate of
lithium niobate, LiNbO3, or lithium tantalate, LiTaO3,
and has a waveguide formed on a major surface to
provide parallel optic pathways. Examples of such a
device, commonly referred to as an optic modulator,
include a Mach-Zehnder modulator and a Balanced-Bridge
interferometer.A Mach-Zehnder includes input and output Y-junctions,
parallel waveguide arms, and electro-optic
modulators. An input optic signal such as a laser 
beam is split at the input Y-junction in the waveguide
into two equal components. Each component travels in
a corresponding arm of the waveguide
before being recombined at the output Y-junction. To
modulate the optic signals in the Mach-Zehnder, one or
more electro-optic modulators comprising electrodes
are formed on the waveguide surface in the vicinity of
the arms. A time varying voltage, e.g., a radio
frequency ("RF") signal, applied to the electrodes
produces an electric field in the IO device substrate.The basic operating principle of all optic
modulators is the same. In accordance with the well-known
electro-optic effect, an electrical field
produced by an electrical input ("modulating") signal
effectively changes the relative indices of refraction
and thus changes the optic path lengths of the
waveguide arms. Modulation of an optic input signal
occurs since the relative phase of the optic signals
in the arms varies according to the instantaneous
amplitude of the time varying modulating signal
driving the electrodes. The varying phase results in
a varying amplitude of the intensity of the optic
signal at the output of the modulator.Since a modulator operates on light interference
principles, its transfer function is a sine curve,
i.e., sin(X). Consequently, a modulator generates
undesirable harmonics when driven by a modulating
signal such as an RF signal. When the modulator is
driven symmetrically about the optical half intensity
point of the sine curve, i.e., the approximately
linear region of the curve, fundamental and odd
harm
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A feed-forward predistortion circuit (10) for
linearization of a non-linear element (12) with transfer

function G(X), said predistortion circuit being
operative in response to an input signal (X),

characterised by:

means (20) to provide a first signal H(X) which is an
approximation of G(X);
means (22) to provide a second signal (A*X) which is
linearly proportional to (X); and
means (24,26) for combining said first and second signals
to provide a signal (A*X)-H(X), whereby the non-linear

element that receives said signal (A*X)-H(X) will
produce an approximate linear output signal (X).
The circuit of claim 1, wherein said first signal
has a Taylor series expansion which yields a first term

(X).
The circuit of claim 1 or 2, wherein said first
signal is sin(X).
The circuit of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said second
signal is 2(X).
A circuit for modulating an optical signal (10,12,34), said
circuit being operative in response to an input signal

(X), characterised by:

means (20) to provide a first signal having a waveform
sin(X);
means (22) to provide a second signal having a waveform
2(X);
means (24,26) for combining said first and second signals
to provide a modulating signal having a waveform 2(X)-sin(X);

and
means (12) for modulating the optical signal with said 
modulating signal, said means for modulating having a

transfer function sin(X), whereby the optical signal is
modulated to produce a linear output signal (X).
The circuit of claim 5, wherein said means for
modulating the optical signal with said modulating

signal comprises a Mach-Zehnder modulator.
The circuit of any preceding claim, wherein said
means to provide said first signal comprises an optical

modulator.
The circuit of claim 7, wherein said optical
modulator comprises a Mach-Zehnder modulator.
The circuit of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said
means to provide said first signal comprises an input

line having an input voltage (60), a positive reference
branch (62), a negative reference branch (64), and an output line (68)

having an output voltage, said positive reference branch
including at least one positive reference voltage (72) and at

least one diode (74), said negative reference branch
including at least one negative reference voltage (78) and at

least one diode (80), said positive and negative reference
branches being connected to a single node between said

input line and said output line, said diodes being
similarly biased and located between said single node

and said reference voltages whereby said output voltage
will follow said input voltage while said diodes do not

conduct and said diodes will bend said output voltage as
said diodes conduct so as to produce said first signal.
The circuit of any preceding claim, wherein said
means to provide said second signal comprise an

amplifier (46).
The circuit of any preceding claim, wherein said 
means for combining said first signal and said second

signal to provide said modulating signal comprises a
power combiner (24).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
