<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612283</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ALUMINUM WITH CONTROLLED OXIDATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B1508	B32B1508	B65D6538	B65D6542	B65D7710	B65D7720	B65D8126	B65D8126	C22C2100	C22C2100	C23C1400	C23C1400	C23C1420	C23C1420	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B32B	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	C22C	C22C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B15	B32B15	B65D65	B65D65	B65D77	B65D77	B65D81	B65D81	C22C21	C22C21	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	C23C14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An aluminum which includes dopant in an amount which is effective in providing controlled oxidation of the aluminum in the presence of oxygen, thereby preventing the formation of an oxidation-resistant aluminum oxide layer (96) on the aluminum. The aluminum can be incorporated in a flexible laminar sheet material, which, in turn, can be used as a packaging material (80).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIRAT ENTERPRISES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIRAT ENTERPRISES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUSTANOVICH JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUSTANOVICH, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ALUMINUM WITH CONTROLLED 0XIDATI0FIELD AND BACKGROUND OF TKΞ INVENTION The present invention relates to aluminum with controlled oxidation , doped aluminum foil , flexible laminar sheet material comprising doped aluminum , as well as articles of commerce characterized by being packaged with such doped foil , or with such flexible laminar sheet material .Aluminum metal is characterized by the ready formation in air of a durable surface oxide layer , which is . generally effective in preventing further oxidation of the surface . This characteristic of alumi num is generally accepted as an advantage in many applications .Moreover , aluminum foil , and supported aluminum film , are popular packaging materials due to their cheapness , non-toxic properties , ease of working and of forming laminates with polymeric films , attractive reflective metallic appearance and durability. Their durability is in turn due in part to innate mechanical strength , and in part due to the fact that the aluminum foil or film readily forms a degradation-resistant initial surface oxide layer, as mentioned above .Many articles and products of commerce are susceptible to oxidative degradation in storage , either by direct chemical action of oxygen or by bacterial processes in which the presence of oxygen is essential . 

 Methods have been developed for the protection of suc oxidation-susceptible articles or products from oxidative degradation, such as packaging in an inert atmosphere; hermetic sealing, e.g. with heavy or laminated polymeric films; including oxygen absorbents in the packaging or in the product; or including antioxidants, e.g. in foodstuffs or medical products.As mentioned above, the durable nature of aluminum foil or- film as a packaging material is at least in part due to the fact that it -undergoes εn initial oxidation reaction to produce a surface oxide layer which is resistant to degradation and. particularly to any further oxidation. It has surprisingly been found in accordance with the present invention, however, that there is a considerable advantage is sacrificing, at least to some extent, the durability of aluminum by making it controllably more susceptible to oxidation, so that it can prolong the shelf- life of oxidation-susceptible articles or products, by reacting with and therefore removing oxygen from the environment of such packaged commercial articles or products.Persons skilled in the- art will appreciate that aluminum foil or film packaging material in general has a much greater shelf-life than
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. Aluminum which comprises dopant in an amount effective to provide controlled oxidation of the aluminum in presence of oxygen and thereby to prevent formation of an oxidation-resistant aluminum oxide layer on the aluminum.
2. Aluminum according to claim 1, wherein said dopant comprises at least one metal selected from the group consisting of lithium, sodium, -potassium, rubidium, caesium, 
'
beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium and barium.
3• Aluminum in a form selected from foils and films, which comprises in at least an outer surface layer thereof, dopant in an amount effective to provide controlled damage of the aluminum surface oxide layer which forms on exposure of the aluminum 
■
surface to air.
4. Aluminum according to claim 3. wherein said dopant comprises at least one metal selected from the group consisting of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, caesium, beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium and barium.
5. A flexible laminar sheet material which comprises aluminum
'
 in a form selected from foils and films, as defined in claim 3
t
 and having a polymeric layer on one side thereof.
6. A flexible laminar sheet.material according to claim 5- wherein said polymeric layer is a breathable polymeric layer.
15 


7- A flexible laminar sheet material which comprises aluminum in a form selected from foils and films, as defined in claim 
ι
 and having a polymeric layer on each side thereof.
8. A flexible laminar sheet material according to claim 7t. wherein the polymeric layer on at least one side of the doped aluminum foil is a breathable polymeric layer.
9. A flexible laminar sheet material which comprises aliim-inum in a form selected from foils and films, as defined in claim 4, and having a polymeric layer on one side thereof.
10. A flexible laminar sheet material according to claim » wherein said polymeric layer is a breathable polymeric layer.
11. A flexible laminar sheet material which
"
 comprises aluminum in a form selected from foils and films, as defined in claim , and having a polymeric layer on each side thereof.
12. A flexible laminar sheet material according to claim 11, wherein the polymeric layer on at least one side, of the doped r-πuTirirmm
"
 foil is a breathable polymeric layer.
13- A flexible laminar sheet material which comprises polymeric film having on one side thereof at least one layer of doped aluminum, wherein said doped aluminum has been doped with a dopant comprising at least one metal selected from the group consisting of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, caesium, beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium and barium.
16
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


46
14. A flexible laminar sheet material according to claim 13, wherein said polymeric film has on one side thereof a single layer of doped aluminum.
15- A flexible laminar sheet material according to claim 13, wherein said polymeric film has on one side thereof at least two layers of aluminum and at least the layer of aluminum remote from said polymeric film is a doped aluminum layer.
16. A flexible laminar sheet material according to claim 15
1
 wherein said polymeric film has one one side thereof an undoped aluminum layer and superimposed on said undoped layer a doped aluminum layer.
17. A flexible laminar sheet material according to claim 13, which comprises additionally a breathable polymeric layer superimposed on the at least one doped aluminum layer, said breathable polymeric layer being the outermost layer remote from said polymeric film.
18. A packaged article of commerce which is characterized by at least one of the the following features (a) and (b) , namely: (a) at least part of the packaging comprises at least one material selected from doped aluminum foil and flexible laminar sheet material incorporating doped aluminum; (b) it contains internally, doped aluminum, said doped aluminum being aluminum doped with a dopant which comprises at least one metal selected from the group consisting of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, caesium, beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium and barium.
17 


19 - An article according to claim 18 which comprises a product selected from cometstibles and drugs for human use, wherein said dopant is restricted to non-toxic dopant metals
selected 
"
from said group .
18
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
