<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623933</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Content addressable memory system and method of operation.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C1500	G11C1500	G11C1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C15	G11C15	G11C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A content addressable memory system has a plurality of associated 
circuit sets (12). Each circuit set has a tag memory element, a latching 

circuit and a data memory element. Each tag memory element stores a 
received tag in a first mode of operation and compares a received data 

tag to a stored data tag in a second mode of operation. In the second 
mode of operation, the tag memory element couples a first voltage supply 

terminal to an associated node in response to the comparison. Each 
latching circuit latches the voltage level present on its associated node 

during a first phase of a control signal. Each data memory element 
stores a data word and outputs the data word responsive to the latched 

voltage level of the associated latching circuit. The latching circuit 
continues to latch the voltage level and the data memory element 

continues to output its data word for an entire clock cycle. Each 
latching circuit couples its associated node to a second voltage supply 

terminal during a first phase of the control signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUI PEI-CHUN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUI, PEI-CHUN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to digital memory systems, 
and more specifically to a content addressable memory. A content addressable memory system (hereafter simply a CAM system) 
is a memory system in which individual memory elements are not 
exclusively indexed by a unique address. Instead, a memory element in a 
CAM system may be addressed by a portion of the data within the memory 
element. The way in which a memory cell in a CAM system is addressed 
distinguishes a CAM system from a conventional random access memory (RAM) 
or a read only memory (ROM). A particular data word stored in a RAM cell or a ROM cell is 
accessed by supplying a unique address to the memory system associated 
with the desired memory element. In a CAM memory system, a "tag" is 
supplied to the memory system. The CAM memory system compares the tag to 
a subset of the data bits contained in each memory element. Generally, 
the portion of each memory element that contains this subset of memory 
bits is referred to as the CAM. Each CAM is associated with a 
conventional memory element containing other data bits. The CAM (or 
CAMs) that contains data bits logically equivalent to the input tag 
"matches" and asserts a logic signal referred to as a "matchline." The 
asserted matchline causes the CAM memory system to output the other data 
bits associated with the matching CAM. The other data bits are the 
desired data word. The number of matches depends upon the particular 
implementation of the CAM and its operation history. The number of 
matches may range from zero to the number of memory elements within the 
CAM memory system. CAM memory systems are often used as high speed memory caches in 
data processing applications. In a data processing application, each CAM 
contains data corresponding to a unique address of the other data bits 
associated with the CAM. During operation, the data processing system 
periodically requests data associated with a unique address. The data 
processing system first compares the unique address to the contents of 
each CAM. If any CAM matches the unique address, then the CAM memory 
system forwards the data associated with the matching CAM to the data 
processing system. If no CAM matches the input tag, then the data  
 
processing system forwards the unique address to a conventional, slower 
RAM system. The operation of CAM systems is known in the art. Generally, 
during a first phase of a clock signal each of a set of matchline nodes 
is precharged to a voltage level corresponding to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A content addressable memory system comprising: 
   a plurality of tag memory elements, each of the plurality of tag 

memory elements comprising: 
   a node; and 

   at least one content addressable memory cell coupled to the node, 
the content addressable memory cell storing a received data bit in 

a first mode of operation, the content addressable memory cell 
comparing a received data bit to a stored data bit and coupling a 

first voltage supply terminal to the node responsive to the 
comparison in a second mode of operation, the comparison during a 

second phase of a first control signal, the first control signal 

characterized by sequential first and second phases, 
   a plurality of latching circuits, each of the plurality of latching 

circuits coupled to a selected differing one of the nodes and to a 
terminal for receiving the first control signal, the latching circuit 

operable to latch the voltage level present on each of the plurality of 
nodes and operable to couple each of the nodes to a second voltage supply 

terminal during the first phase of the first control signal, each of the 
plurality of latching circuits generating a latched voltage; and 

   a plurality of data memory elements, each of the plurality of data 
memory elements coupled to a selected differing one of the plurality of 

latching circuits, each of the plurality of memory elements storing a 
data word and outputting the data word responsive to the latched voltage 

of the selected one of the plurality of latching circuits. 
A content addressable memory system as claimed in claim 1 wherein 
each of the plurality of latching circuits comprises: 

   a transistor comprising a first current electrode, a second current 
electrode and a control electrode, the first current electrode coupled to 

the second voltage supply terminal, the second current electrode coupled 
 

to the selected differing one of the nodes, the control electrode coupled 
to the first control signal; 

   a switch means comprising a first and a second terminal, the first 
terminal coupled to the node, the first and second terminals in a high 

impedance state responsive to the first phase of the first control 
signal, the first and second terminals electrically short-circuited 

responsive to the second phase of the first control signal; and 
   a latch coupled to the second terminal of the switch means. 
A content addressable memory system comprising: 
   tag means for storing a plurality of received tags and for 

comparing a received tag and the plurality of received tags, the tag 
means operable to generate a plurality of voltage levels in response to 

the comparison; 
   latching means coupled to the tag means, the latching means 

generating a plurality of latched voltage levels, the plurality of 
latched voltage levels logically equivalent to the plurality of voltage 

levels at a predetermined time; and 
   data memory means for storing a plurality of data words, each of 

the plurality of data words associated with a selected one of the 
plurality of received tags, the data memory means operable to output a 

selected one of the plurality of data words in response to the plurality 
of latched voltage levels. 
A content addressable memory system as claimed in claim 3 wherein 
the tag means further comprises precharge means for generating a 

plurality of predetermined voltage levels. 
A method of operating a content addressable memory system 
comprising the steps of: 

   during a first phase of a control signal comprising sequential 
first and second phases, latching a plurality of voltage levels, each of 

the plurality of voltage levels present on a differing selected one of a 
 

plurality of nodes and coupling a first voltage supply terminal to each 
one of the plurality of nodes; and 

   during the second phase of the control signal, comparing an input 
tag to a plurality of stored tags, each of the plurality of stored tags 

stored in a selected differing one of a plurality of tag memory elements, 
each of the plurality of memory tag elements associated with a selected 

differing one of the plurality of nodes, each of the plurality of memory 
tag elements coupling a second voltage supply terminal to the associated 

selected node responsive to the comparing. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the step of latching a 
plurality of voltage levels comprises the step of outputting a determined 

one of a plurality of stored data words, each of the plurality of stored 
data words stored in a determined differing one of a plurality of data 

memory elements, the selected one of the plurality of stored data words 
responsive to the comparing step. 
A method as claimed in claim 6 further comprising the step of 
storing a predetermined data bit in a selected one of the plurality of 

data memory elements or in a selected one of the plurality of tag memory 
elements during a subsequent first phase of the control signal, the 

selected one of the plurality of data memory elements or the selected one 
of the plurality of tag memory elements responsive to the comparing step. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 5 to 7 further comprising the 
step of storing a predetermined data bit in a selected one of a plurality 

of data memory elements or in a selected one of a plurality of tag memory 
elements during a subsequent first phase of the control signal, each of 

the plurality of data memory elements associated with a selected 
differing one of the plurality of tag memory elements, the selected one 

of the plurality of data memory elements or the selected one of the 
plurality of tag memory elements responsive to the comparing step. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
