<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611493</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS TO COMPENSATE FOR DISTORTION IN OPTICAL TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B602	G02B602	H01S306	H01S306	H01S307	H01S310	H01S310	H01S500	H01S5042	H04B1002	H04B1002	H04B1017	H04B1017	H04B1018	H04B1018	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S5	H01S5	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNCHRONOUS COMMUNICATION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNCHRONOUS COMMUNICATION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GYSEL HERMANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMACHANDRAN MANI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GYSEL HERMANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMACHANDRAN MANI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS TO COMPENSATE FOR DISTORTION IN OPTICAL TRANSMISSION SYSTEMSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention relates to a method and apparatus to compensate for distortion products in optical transmission systems in general and in particular to a method and apparatus to compensate for distortion products in an optical signal resulting from the interaction of a laser and an optical amplifier. Description of the Related ArtVarious techniques have been used to compensate for non-linear characteristics of optical sources, i.e. lasers and modulators, in an optical signal transmission system. One such technique is called predistortion linearization. Predistortion linearization comprises the use of a non-linear device which provides an output signal which is equal in amplitude but opposite in phase with the distortion products produced in the optical sources. For example, the use of predistortion linearization of a directly modulated distributed feedback (DFB) laser and a Mach-Zehnder external modulator in an AM video transmission system was reported in a paper presented by Richard B. Childs and Vincent A. 0'Byrne in the OPTICAL FIBER COMMUNICATION CONFERENCE, 1990 Technical Digest Series, Vol. 1, Conference Edition, January 1990. For the DFB laser the required predistortion circuit produced only composite second- order distortion (CSO) . This was implemented using the square law transfer function of a field effect transistor (FET) . The Mach-Zehnder modulator required a 

 predistortion circuit which generated composite triple beat (CTB), i.e. third-order, distortion products with negligible second-order distortion. This was implemented using a balanced arrangement of Schottky diodes with exponential transfer functions.The above-described predistortion linearization circuits and techniques reported by Childs et al were used to compensate for distortion products in DFB lasers and modulators in an AM optical transmission system. However, so far as is known, such techniques have not been used to compensate for gain distortion products in an optical signal in the output of an optical amplifier which are produced as a result of the interaction of a laser and the optical amplifier coupled thereto. Also, the prior known compensation circuits have been generally limited to providing expansion-type gain compensation.Expansion-type gain compensation is a compensation which compensates for a reduction in gain of the optical amplifier as a function of wavelength by increasing,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. An apparatus for compensating for either expansion-type or compression type gain distortion products resulting from the interaction of a laser having a modulating signal input terminal and an optical amplifier optically coupled thereto comprising: a power splitter having an input terminal for coupling said power splitter to a source of a laser modulation signal, a first output terminal and a second output terminal; a power combiner having a first input terminal, a second input terminal and an output terminal for coupling said power combiner to a modulation signal input of a laser; a delay circuit means having an input terminal coupled to said first output terminal of said power splitter and an output terminal coupled to said first input terminal of said power combiner; a field-effect transistor having a gate electrode and a first and second substrate electrode; a transformer having a primary winding and a secondary winding, each of said primary and said secondary windings having a first and a second terminal; means for coupling said gate electrode of said field-effect transistor to said second output terminal of said power splitter; means for coupling said first terminal of said primary winding of said transformer to said first electrode of said field-effect transistor and said second terminal of said primary winding of said transformer to a source of potential (V
cc
); means for coupling said first one of said terminals of said secondary winding of said transformer to said second input terminal of said power combiner to provide compensation for said expansion-type gain distortion products and said second one of said terminals of said 


secondary winding of said transformer to said second input terminal of said power combiner to provide compensation for said compression-type gain distortion products; means for coupling said input terminal of said power splitter to source of a signal for modulating said laser; and means for coupling said output terminal of said power combiner to said modulating signal input terminal of said laser.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said delay circuit means comprises means for providing a delay which is substantially equal to the propagation delay of a signal propagated through the circuit path comprising said field-effect transistor and said transformer.
3. An apparatus for compensating for distortion products having an amplitude and a phase in an optical signal resulting from the interaction of a laser being modulated by a modulation signal and an optical amplifier optically coupled thereto comprising: a linear signal path and a nonlinear signal path; means for applying said modulation signal to said linear and said nonlinear signal paths; means responsive to said modulation signal applied to said nonlinear signal path for providing an output signal which is equal in amplitude and opposite in phase to said distortion products in said optical signal; and means for combining said modulation signal applied to said linear signal path and said output signal from said nonlinear signal path for providing a compensated modulation signal.
4. An apparatus according to claim 3 comprising means for delaying said modulation signal applied to said 


 direct signal path by an amount equal to a delay of said modulation signal in said pre-distortion signal path.
5. An apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said output signal providing means comprises means for coupling a non-linear device in series with the primary winding of a transformer; and means for coupling a secondary winding of said transformer to said combining means.
6. An apparatus for compensating for distortion products in an optical signal resulting from the interaction of a laser and an optical amplifier coupled thereto comprising: means for splitting a modulation signal between a first signal path and a second signal path; means for changing the amplitude of said modulation signal in said second signal path by a predetermined amount relative to the amplitude of said distortion products in said optical signal so as to produce a modified modulation signal; and means for combining said modified modulation signal in said second signal path and said modulation signal in said first signal path so as to provide a pre-distorted modulation signal which when used to modulate said laser compensates for said distortion products in said optical signal.
7. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said means for changing the amplitude of said modulation signal in said second signal path comprises means for changing the amplitude of said modulation signal in said second signal path in a nonlinear fashion.
8. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said means for changing the amplitude of said modulation 


signal in said second signal path in a nonlinear fashion comprises means for providing a second order distortion in the amplitude of said modulation signal in said second signal path.
9. An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said means for providing a second order distortion in the amplitude of said modulation signal in said second signal path comprises a field-effect transistor means.
10. An apparatus according to claim 6 comprising means for changing the phase of said modified modulation signal in said second signal path.
11. An apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said means for changing the phase of said modified modulation signal in said second signal path comprises means for changing the phase of said modified modulation signal by 180 degrees relative to the phase of said distortion products in said optical signal.
12. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein means for changing the phase of said modified modulation signal by 180 degrees relative to the phase of said distortion products in said optical signal comprises a transformer means.
13. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said means for changing the amplitude of said modulation signal in said second signal path by a predetermined amount relative to the amplitude of said distortion products in said optical signal so as to produce said modified modulation signal comprises means for providing a second order distortion in the amplitude of said modulation signal in said second signal path and, further comprising; means for changing the phase of said 



 modulation signal by 180 degrees relative to the phase of said distortion products in said optical signal.
14. An apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said means for providing said second order distortion in the amplitude of said modulation signal in said second signal path and said means for changing the phase of said modulation signal by 180 degrees relative to the phase of said distortion products in said optical signal comprises a field-effect transistor means and a transformer means, respectively.
15. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said means for splitting said modulation signal between said first signal path and said second signal path comprises a power splitter.
16. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said means for combining said modified modulation signal in said second signal path and said modulation signal in said first signal path comprises a power combiner.
17. A method of constructing an apparatus for compensating for either expansion-type or compression- type gain distortion products resulting from the interaction of a laser having a modulating signal input terminal and an optical amplifier optically coupled thereto comprising: providing a power splitter having an input terminal for coupling said power splitter to a source of a laser modulation signal, a first output terminal and a second output terminal; providing a power combiner having a first input terminal, a second input terminal and an output terminal for coupling said power combiner to a modulation signal input of a laser; 


 providing a delay circuit means having an input terminal coupled to said first output terminal of said power splitter and an output terminal coupled to said first input terminal of said power combiner; providing a field-effect transistor having a gate electrode and a first and second substrate electrode; providing a transformer having a primary winding and a secondary winding, each of said primary and said secondary windings having a first and a second terminal; coupling said gate electrode of said field-effect transistor to said second output terminal of said power splitter; coupling said first terminal of said primary winding of said transformer to said first electrode of said field-effect transistor and said second terminal of said primary winding of said transformer to a source of potential (V
cc
); coupling said first one of said terminals of said secondary winding of said transformer to said second input terminal of said power combiner to provide compensation for said expansion-type gain distortion products and said second one of said terminals of said secondary winding of said transformer to said second input terminal of said power combiner to provide compensation for said compression-type gain distortion products; coupling said input terminal of said power splitter to source of a signal for modulating said laser; and coupling said output terminal of said power combiner to said modulating signal input terminal of said laser.
18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said step of providing said delay circuit means comprises the step of providing a delay which is substantially equal to the propagation delay of a signal propagated through the circuit path comprising said field-effect transistor and 


 said transformer.
19. An apparatus for compensating for both expansion-type and compression-type gain distortion products resulting from the interaction of a laser and an erbium-doped fiber optical amplifier (EDFA) comprising: a predetermined length of erbium-doped fiber (absorption fiber) having an absorption profile as a function of wavelength which is equal in magnitude and opposite in phase to the variation from the mean gain profile of the EDFA; and means for coupling said predetermined length of said erbium-doped absorption fiber between the optical output of said laser and the optical input of said optical amplifier.
20. An apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said predetermined length of said erbium-doped fiber comprises a length in meters approximately equal to the average variation of EDFA gain in dB from a mean value of said gain divided by the coefficient of absorption in dB/m of the erbium-doped absorption fiber.
21. An apparatus according to claim 19 comprising an optical filter coupled between said absorption fiber and said EDFA. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
