<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645912</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Communication network access method and system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1300	G06F1300	G06F2120	G06F2120	H04L932	H04L932	H04L936	H04L936	H04L1224	H04L1224	H04L2906	H04L2906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F13	G06F13	G06F21	G06F21	H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	H04L9	H04L12	H04L12	H04L29	H04L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A network management frame contains a clear text (unencrypted)
management command field and a security field. The management

frame is sent to a data communications network by an authorized
managing entity (manager) (13). The management frame is addressed to a

managing agent (agent) (14,15). The security field includes two sub fields. The
first sub field is a clear text time stamp. The second sub field includes

this same time stamp value concatenated with a checksum that is calculated
by the manager for the specific clear text management command

contained within the management frame. The concatenated
value is then encrypted under a secret cryptographic key that is shared

by the manager and the agent. The agent receives the management
frame, calculates a checksum of the clear text management command,

and appends this checksum to the clear text time stamp as contained
in the received management frame. This value is then encrypted using

the shared cryptographic code. If the result matches the second sub
field of the received management command, integrity of the received

management command is assured. Next, the clear text value of time
stamp contained within the received management command is checked

against a common clock within the agent. If the value of this time
stamp falls within a predetermined time window, the authenticity of

the received management command has been verified.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUGUSTINE KURT ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEELEY JAMES EDWARD SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STROLE NORMAN CLARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AUGUSTINE, KURT ERNEST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEELEY, JAMES EDWARD SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STROLE, NORMAN CLARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to the field of data communications networks 
and, more specifically, to means for determining the integrity and the 
authenticity of command frames, management frames, and the like, that 
are issued from a network node by an authorized managing entity or 
network manager. As computer systems become geographically distributed, availability 
of the computer network becomes a major concern to all network customers. 
For example, disruption of a single network device can cause 
a tremendous loss in productivity by the network's customers. Network 
devices, such as concentrators, bridges, routers, gateways and servers, 
are increasingly being managed from remote network stations via 
network command fields that are contained in network management 
frames. Authenticity of the origin of management frames and the integrity 
of the management frames themselves are critical to maintaining 
high availability of the network. One unauthorized network 
command has the potential to disrupt thousands of network users and 
cause an unacceptable degradation in network performance or, in the 
worst case, prevent access to some, or all, network services including, 
for example, server and host access. An unauthorized management 
frame can be issued accidentally or maliciously. Thus, in all cases, it 
is desirable to check the integrity and authenticity of the network command 
frames. The prior art describes various means for determining the integrity and 
authenticity of requests or commands that are issued from a network 
node by a network user.  The article entitled "Secure Communication Using Remote Procedure 
Calls, ACM Transactions On Computer Systems, Vol. 3, No. 1, February 
1985, pages 1-14, describes an end-to-end secure protocol. An 
authenticator is based upon the time at which the authenticator was 
formed. This is done in order to limit the lifetime of an authenticator 
to a few hours. The use of time stamping in a packet network is known. U.S. Patent 
4,894,823 is exemplary. U.S. Patent 5,113,499, incorporated herein by reference for the purpose 
of indicating the background of the invention and as illustrative of the 
state of the art, describes a telecommunications access management 
system having authorization, validation and password features. U.S. Patent 5,048,087, incorporated herein by reference for the purpose 
of indicating the background of the invention and as illustrative of the 
state of the art, describes end- to-end encryption for a packet based 
network and, more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a communication network, a method for managing the network 
comprising the steps of; 


A - issuing a management frame to said network, said management 
frame containing a network management command and a security 

field, said security field comprising two sub fields, one of which is a 
time stamp of recent origin, and the other of which is an encryption of 

a function that is based upon said time stamp and said management 
command, said function being encrypted using a cryptographic key, 
B - receiving said management frame from said network, 
C - reading said management command and said time stamp as 
contained in said received management frame, 
D - encrypting said function that is based upon said time stamp and 
said management command as contained in said received management 

frame using said cryptographic key, and 
E - determining if the result of encrypting step D corresponds to 
said second sub field in said received management frame. 
The method of claim 1 characterized in that: 

The management frame and the management command are 
respectively an action frame and an action command. 
The time stamp of steps A, C and D is taken when the 
action command is issued to the network. 
The function of step A based upon said time stamp and 
said action command is calculated as follows: 

the action command is picked and a checksum is 
calculated using a given checksum algorithm; 

then, said time stamp is concatenated to said checksum. 
The method of claim 1 or claim 2 including the step of:
 

   F - executing said management command when step E determines 
that the result of encrypting step D corresponds to said second sub 

field in said received management frame. 
The method of claim 3 including the step of; 
   G - determining if said time stamp in said received management 

frame is of recent origin, and 
   wherein step F executes said management command when step E 

determines that the result of encrypting step D corresponds to said 
second sub field in said received management frame, and step G determines 

that said time stamp in said received management frame is 
of recent origin. 
The method of claim 4 wherein said step F determines if said time 
stamp in said received management frame falls within a time window 

that is determined as a function of the time of execution of step B. 
The method of claim 5 wherein said management command is 
unencrypted, and wherein said time stamp is unencrypted. 
In an information transfer network having a plurality of stations that 
are operable to communicate with each other over said network, communication 

apparatus for the secure transmission of a data frame to 
said network by one station and the reception of said data frame from 

said network by a another station, said apparatus comprising; 
   a common clock and common encryption means at each of said 

stations, 
   first means at said one station operable to form said data frame as 

a first data field comprising information to be transmitted to said another 
station, a second data field comprising a common clock value at 

 
said one station at the time of said transmission, and a third data field 

comprising an encryption of a function that is dependent upon said first 
and second data fields, said encryption being performed using said 

common encryption means, 
   second means at said one station operable to transmit said formed 

data frame to said network, 
   third means at said another station operable to receive said data 

frame from said network, 
   fourth means at said another station operable to encrypt said first 

and second data fields of said received data frame using said common 
encryption means, and 

   fifth means at said another station operable to compare said encryption 
of said first and second fields of said received data frame to 

said third data field of said received data frame. 
The apparatus of claim 7 including; 
   sixth means at said another station responsive to said fifth means 

and operable to accept said received data frame when said encryption 
of said first and second fields of said received data frame corresponds 

to said third field of said received data frame. 
The apparatus of claim 8 including; 
   seventh means at said another station operable to compare said 

first data field of said received data frame with the value of said common 
clock at said another station at the time said received data frame 

is received from said network, and wherein 
   said sixth means at said another station is responsive to said fifth 

means and to said seventh means, and said sixth means operating to 
accept said received data frame when said encryption of said first and 

 
second fields of said received data frame corresponds to said third 

field of said received data frame, and when said comparison of said 
common clock at said another station at the time said received data 

frame is received from said network indicates that said data frame is 
of recent origin. 
The apparatus of claim 9 including; 
   eighth means responsive to said seventh means and operable to 

accept said received data frame only when said common clock at said 
another station at the time said received data frame is received from 

said network substantially corresponds to the first data field of said 
received data frame. 
The apparatus of claim 10 having a common checksum algorithm 
at each of said stations, and wherein said function that is dependent 

upon said first and second data fields comprises a checksum of a concatenation 
of said first and second data fields, said checksum being 

calculated using said common checksum algorithm. 
The apparatus of claim 11 including; 
   sixth means at said another station responsive to sa
id fifth means 
and operable to accept said received data frame when said encryption 

of said first and second fields of said received data frame corresponds 
to said third field of said received data frame. 
The apparatus of claim 12 including; 
   seventh means at said another station operable to compare said 

first data field of said received data frame with the value of said common 
clock at said another station at the time said received data frame 

is received from said network, and wherein 
   said sixth means at said another station is responsive to said fifth 

means and to said seventh means, and said sixth means operating to 
 

accept said received data frame when said encryption of said first and 
second fields of said received data frame corresponds to said third 

field of said received data frame, and when said comparison of said 
common clock at said another station at the time said received data 

frame is received from said network indicates that said data frame is 
of recent origin. 
The apparatus of claim 13 including; 
   eighth means responsive to said seventh means and operable to 

accept said received data frame only when said common clock at said 
another station at the time said received data frame is received from 

said network substantially corresponds to the first data field of said 
received data frame. 
For use in an information transfer network having a plurality of 
stations that communicate with one another over said network, said 

communication comprising the transmission of a data frame to said 
network by one station and the reception of said data frame from said 

network by a receiving station, a method for verifying a data frame 
characterized in that it comprises the steps of; 

   providing a common clock and common encryption means at each 
of said stations, 

   providing first means at said one station operable to form said data 
frame as a first data field comprising information to be transmitted to 

said receiving station, a second data field comprising said common 
clock value at said one station at the time of said transmission, and a 

third data field comprising an encryption of a function that is dependent 
upon said first and second data fields, said encryption being performed 

using said common encryption means, 
   providing second means at said one station operable to transmit 

said formed data frame to said network,
 

   providing third means at said receiving station operable to receive 
said formed data frame from said network, 

   providing fourth means at said receiving station operable to encrypt 
said first and second data fields of said received data frame using 

said common encryption means, and 
   providing fifth means at said receiving station operable to compare 

said encryption of said first and second fields of said received data 
frame to said third data field of said received data frame. 
The method of claim 15 including the step of; 
   providing sixth means at said receiving station responsive to said 

fifth means and operable to accept said received data frame when said 
encryption of said first and second fields of said received data frame 

is substantially identical to said third field of said received data frame. 
The method of claim 16 including the step of; 
   providing seventh means at said receiving station operable to 

compare said first data field of said received data frame with the value 
of said common clock at said receiving station at the time said received 

data frame is received from said network, and wherein said sixth 
means is responsive to said fifth means and to said seventh means and 

is operable to accept said received data frame when said encryption 
of said first and second fields of said received data frame is substantially 

identical to said third field of said received data frame, and when 
said first data field of said received data frame generally compares 

with the value of said common clock at said receiving station at the 
time said received data frame is received from said network. 
The method of claim 17 including the step of; 
   providing a common checksum algorithm at each of said stations, 

and wherein said function that is dependent upon said first and second 
 

data fields is a checksum of a concatenation of said first and second 
data fields, said checksum being calculated using said common 

checksum algorithm. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
