<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652522</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data output latch control circuit and process for semiconductor memory system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1200	G06F1200	G11C700	G11C722	G11C11401	G11C11401	G11C11407	G11C11407	G11C11409	G11C11409	H01L2170	H01L218242	H01L27108	H01L27108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F12	G06F12	G11C7	G11C7	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Control circuit and control processing for a memory system 
having a system data bus coupled to at least one data output 

latch. The control circuit and process generate a read command 
(RC) to enable the at least one data output latch to latch data 

from the system data bus in response to a read clock signal 
(RCLK). The read command (RC) occurs substantially 

simultaneous with the instant that a valid data state exists on 
the system data bus and is developed without directly 

monitoring the system data bus. Upon detecting the read clock 
signal (RCLK) a latch enable signal is generated. A valid data 

signal is next generated independent of the system data bus 
through the use of a dummy circuit having multiple dummy cells, 

dummy bitlines and a common dummy bus. The valid data signal 
can be generated either simultaneous with the instant of valid 

data development on the system data bus or can precede the 
instant of valid data development by a predetermined small 

interval of time predefined through the system architecture. 
The read command (RC) is generated upon occurrence of both the 

latch enable signal and the valid data signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TA TRANG KHANH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TA, TRANG KHANH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to semiconductor memory 
systems, and more particularly, to a control circuit and 
control process for a read access wherein a read command is 
timed to enable data output latches substantially simultaneous 
with development of valid data on the memory system data bus. Today's semiconductor memory systems employ multiple subarrays 
of memory storage units closely packed together. Each subarray 
is segmented into multiple rows or words, with each word 
containing multiple data storage cells. Each data storage cell 
accommodates a bit of data. Typically these multiple subarrays 
of memory storage units are coupled together by numerous common 
interconnections, including a common system data bus. During a 
read access, a system control circuit oversees selection of a 
particular data storage cell and transfer of that cell's data 
to the common system data bus for output from the memory 
system. Upon receipt of a read command (RC) from the control 
circuit, data to be output is latched from the system data bus 
into associated multiple data output latches. The read command (RC) is generated by the control circuit in 
response to an externally-generated read clock signal. Without 
added delay, the read command (RC) is generated long before 
data on the system data bus becomes valid. Since the system 
data bus is common to all subarrays, it has significant 
associated capacitance which in the case of a low state signal 
must be dissipated before the data signal can become valid. In 
such a case, the cross-coupled connections of the data output 
latches are unnecessarily exposed to the stored charge on the 
system data bus (rather than a valid low state signal) and 
possibly unnecessarily switched to the wrong data value. When 
valid data does appear on the system data bus (which in this  
 
example is assumed to be a low state), a wrongly switched latch 
would again have to change state. Such double switching 
undesirably increases noise and power dissipation within the 
memory system. Traditionally, the problem has been addressed 
by buffering the read command (RC) through a fixed delay which 
the circuit designer determines is sufficient to ensure that 
valid data has developed on the system data bus. Clearly, the 
fixed delay solution can unnecessarily lengthen the read access 
cycle. Thus, a need exists within the semiconductor memory technology 
for a control circuit and control process which generate a read 
command (RC) substantially simultaneous with development
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a memory system having a system data bus coupled to at 
least one data output latch, a control circuit for 

generating a read command to enable the at least one data 
output latch to latch valid data from the system data bus 

in response to a read clock signal, said control circuit 
comprising: 

detecting means for detecting the read clock signal and 
for generating in response thereto a latch enable signal; 

signaling means for generating a valid data signal 
representative of valid data occurring on the system data 

bus, said valid data signal being generated by said 
signaling means without direct monitoring of the system 

data bus; and 
control means coupled to the detecting means and the 

signaling means for providing the read command to the at 
least one data output latch upon occurrence of both the 

latch enable signal and the valid data signal. 
The memory system of claim 1 further having multiple 
memory subarrays. 
The control circuit of claim 1 or 2, wherein said 
detecting means comprises a clock signal edge detector and 

a flip flop latch, said clock signal edge detector being 
coupled to receive the read clock signal and provide a set 

signal upon detection of a transition in the read clock 
signal, said flip flop latch being coupled to receive said 

set signal at a set input and output in response thereto 
the latch enable signal. 
The control circuit according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said signaling means includes a dummy data 

bus associated with the system data bus, said dummy data 
bus providing independent of the system data bus the valid 

 
data signal representative of valid data occurring on the 

system data bus. 
The control circuit of claim 4, wherein the memory system 
includes a plurality of memory subarrays, each memory 

subarray having a plurality of words, each word comprising 
a plurality of memory cells, and wherein said control 

means further comprises a plurality of dummy cells, each 
dummy cell being integrated with a different word of the 

memory subarrays, each dummy cell being coupled to the 
dummy data bus by a dummy bitline, each dummy cell being 

structured to provide a predefined data signal to the 
dummy data bus upon a read access to its associated word, 

the predefined data signal resulting in said valid data 
signal on said dummy data bus. 
The control circuit of claim 5, wherein said dummy circuit 
of said control circuit comprises a dummy data bus 

associated with the system data bus, said dummy data bus 
providing independent of the system data bus the valid 

data signal representative of valid data occurring on the 
system data bus. 
The control circuit according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein said control means includes a first 

transistor switch means coupled to receive at a first 
transistor control input the latch enable signal and a 

second transistor switch means coupled to receive at a 
second transistor control input the valid data signal, 

said first transistor switch means and said second 
transistor switch means being serially connected such that 

both said first transistor switch means and said second 
transistor switch means must be active for said read 

command to be provided. 
The control circuit of claim 7, wherein said control means 
further includes an output node and wherein said first 

transistor switch means and said second transistor switch 
 

means are serially connected between said output node and 
a ground node. 
The control circuit of claim 8, wherein the read command 
comprises a high state signal and wherein said control 

means further includes means for driving the output node 
to a low state signal in the absence of either the latch 

enable signal or the valid data signal. 
The control circuit of claim 8, wherein said first 
transistor switch means comprises a first NFET and said 

second transistor switch means comprises a second NFET, 
said first NFET being gated by said latch enable signal 

and said second NFET being gated by said valid data 
signal. 
The control circuit of claim 10, wherein the valid data 
signal comprises a low state signal and wherein said 

control means further comprises a first inverter circuit 
coupled between the dummy data bus and a gate of the 

second NFET. 
The control circuit according to any one of the claims 8 - 
11, further comprising a second inverter circuit coupled 

between the output node and the first transistor switch 
means, wherein the read command comprises a high state 

signal whenever the first transistor switch means and the 
second transistor switch means are active. 
The control circuit according to any one of the above 
claims
, wherein said dummy circuit includes means for 
generating the valid data signal simultaneous in time with 

development of valid data on the system data bus. 
The control circuit according to anyone of the above 
claims, wherein said dummy circuit includes means for 

generating the valid data signal at a small predefined 
time interval prior to the instant of valid data signal 

development on the system data bus. 
The control circuit according to any one of the above 
claims, wherein the memory system comprises a random 

access memory system. 
In a memory system having a common system data bus coupled 
to at least one data output latch, a method for generating 

a read command to enable the at least one data output 
latch to latch valid data from the system data bus in 

response to a read clock signal, said method comprising 
the steps of: 


(a) detecting the read clock signal and generating in 
response thereto a latch enable signal; 
(b) generating without monitoring the system data bus a 
valid data signal representative of valid data 

occurring on the system data bus; and 
(c) providing the read command to the at least one data 
output latch upon occurrence of both the latch enable 

signal and the valid data signal. 
The method of claim 16, wherein said generating step (b) 
includes generating the valid data signal simultaneous in 

time with development of valid data on the system data 
bus. 
The method of claim 16, wherein said generating step (b) 
includes generating the valid data signal at a small 

predefined time interval prior to the instant of valid 
data development on the system data bus. 
A semiconductor memory system comprising: 
a plurality of memory subarrays, each memory subarray 

having a pluraity of words; 
a system data bus common to said plurality of memory 

subarrays; and
 

a control means coupled to the system data bus and having 
at least one data output latch, said at least one data 

output latch being connected to latch valid data from the 
system data bus in response to a read clock signal upon 

generation of a read command by the control means, said 
control means further comprising: 


i detecting means for detecting the read clock signal 
and for generating in response thereto a latch enable 

signal, 
ii signaling means for generating a valid data signal 
representative of valid data occurring on the system 

data bus, said valid signal being generated by said 
signaling means without direct monitoring of the 

system data bus, and 
iii control means coupled to the detecting means and the 
signaling means for providing the read command to the 

at least one data output latch upon occurrence of 
both the latch enable signal and the valid data 

signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
