<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632672</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for bandwidth reservation for different traffic classes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1256	H04L1256	H04L1264	H04L1264	H04L2906	H04L2906	H04L2908	H04L2908	H04L2910	H04L2910	H04Q1104	H04Q1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L29	H04L29	H04L29	H04L29	H04L29	H04L29	H04Q11	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method ensure transmission of data elements between 
computers at a preselected quality of service. A computer in a layered 

reference model communication network requests a preselected quality of 
service for selected transmissions. An existing session is employed 

whereby transmissions having a variety of preselected of service 
guarantees are multiplexed onto the existing session. Data elements 

having the preselected qualities of service are transferred from service 
channels of another such layer. In one embodiment a system and method 

are provided for use between layer N+1 and layer N, wherein elements 
from two or more service channels from N+1 are transferred to one or 

more service channels in layer N such that a preselected quality of 
service is provided for the elements being transferred. Elements from a 

service channel having a higher priority, deadline, or period are 
transferred from the layer N=1 service channel to the layer N service 

channel before elements from a service channel having a lower priority, 
deadline, or period. In yet another embodiment, the number of elements 

are constrained whereby no more than a fixed number of such elements 
will receive service in a layer N service channel at a given point in 

time. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUGHER MARK JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN HORN ISABEL BERDEEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUGHER MARK JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN HORN ISABEL BERDEEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to data processing systems and, more 
particularly, to such systems providing for multimedia connections or 
sessions. It has long been known to provide computer workstations 
interconnected by digital communication networks whereby users of the 
individual workstations may communicate with one another over the 
network, previously common, for example, by means of a typed note, data 
or program file transmitted to another user. More recently, users have 
increasingly requested desktop conferencing, remote presentations, and 
other multimedia applications between network users. However, such 
multimedia applications, having associated therewith data-intensive 
sound, voice, and video flows. This requires concomitant high bandwidth 
communication links between distributed computing systems with minimal 
communication delay, maximum throughput, and instantaneous burst 
communication capability. The requirements of such multimedia 
applications accordingly make scheduling appropriate resources to 
provide for necessary quality of service very difficult. Prior art has recognized that certain data in a network, such as 
that associated with multimedia, may require priority handling. Thus, 
for example, a "quality of service" (QOS) has been defined in the 
literature, hereinafter described in more detail. This seeks to 
describe various parameters which may be specified in an attempt to 
define certain minimum requirements which must be met for transmission 
of given data types over the network. See, for example, quality of 
service standards set forth in the Open System Interconnect Standard 
X.214 of the International Standards Organization interface and the 
quality of service standards defined in CCITTQ.931 (ISDN), Q.933 (frame 
relay), and Q.93B (B-ISDN ATM) drafts. As yet another example there is an architected priority mechanism  
 
in the IEEE 802.5 Token Ring. A station on the ring with a high 
priority frame to send may indicate this in an access control field of a 
passing frame. When a station sending the frame releases the token, it 
releases the token at the priority of the AC field, and eventually sets 
it back to its original priority as specified in an IEEE 802.5 medium 
access control protocol. The IEEE standard and implementations thereof 
merely specify a protocol for increasing and decreasing priority, but 
each station is unconstrained in its use of priority beyond this 
protocol. This in turn gives rise to a serious problem associated with the 
prior art. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for transmitting data elements between computers of a 
multilayered computer communication network at least at one 

predetermined assured quality of service, comprising: 
   generating a request at one of said computers for transmission of 

data elements; and 
   responsive to said request including specification of a 

predetermined quality of service for transmission, either refusing said 

quality of service if resources to provide said quality of service are 
not available or transmitting said data elements according to said 

quality of service wherein the transmission of said data elements 
includes transferring said data elements having said quality of service 

requirements through at least one service channel of a first layer of 
said network to at least one service channel of a second lower layer of 

said network which provides said predetermined quality of service. 
A method according to claim 1 including, responsive to said 
specified quality of service being provided by pre-existing data 

transmission session, multiplexing said data transmission at said 
quality of service on said pre-existing session. 
A method according to claim 2, wherein said data transmission is 
multiplexed with other data transmissions which either also have quality 

of service guarantees supported by said service channel of said second 
layer or have no predetermined quality of service. 
A method according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein said pre-existing 
session includes a preselected quality of service transmission, 

and wherein said method includes the further step of altering said 
quality of service for a next transmission within the session. 
A method according to any one of the preceding cliams, including 
establishing a data transmission session providing said at least one 

quality of service when said specified quality of service is not 
provided by any pre-existing data transmission sessions. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
said at least one service channel of said second layer is comprised of 

 
synchronous and asynchronous channels. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein 
said at least one channel of said first and second layers comprises 

multiple priority channels. 
A method according to claim 7, wherein said step of transferring 
said data elements includes transferring said data elements through a 

plurality of service channels each having a different priority 
associated therewith and receiving a plurality of subgroups of said data 

elements having corresponding different qualities of service and 
priorities associated therewith through corresponding ones of said 

channels. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
at least one service channel of said second layer is taken from the 

group comprising: 
   priority token-ring channels, B-ISDN ATM channels, Ethernet high 

and low priority channels, and synchronous/asynchronous FDDI channels. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a 
quality of service associated with each data transmission of a 

particular group of data elements is identified by identifying a 
priority, deadline, or period associated with said particular group of 

dat elements, or by determining burst and throughput quality of service 
parameters. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the 
multilayer network includes at least an N+1 layer and an N layer for 

assured transmission of data elements, including the steps of: 
   establishing two or more service channels in said N+1 layer; 

   establishing one or more service channels in said N layer; and 
transferring said data elements from said two or more channels in said 

N+1 layer to said one or more channels in said N layer at said 
predetermined quality of service. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein selected groups of said 
data elements from said two or more channels have a higher and a lower 

priority, deadline, or period respectively; and
 

   wherein said selected groups having said higher priority are 
transferred from said N+1 layer through said two or more channels to 

said one or more channels of said N layer before said selected groups 
having said lower priority are transferred. 
A method according to claim 12 including: 
   preselecting a fixed number of data elements to be received in 

said one or more channels at said lower priority in said transfer from 
said N+1 layer to said N layer; 

   servicing up to said fixed number of data elements in said one or 
more service channels in said N layer at said lower priority; and 

   discontinuing said transfer of said data elements at said lower 
priority when said fixed number of data elements per unit of time is 

reached. 
Apparatus for use in transmitting data elements between computers 
of a multilayered computer communication network at least at one 

predetermined assured quality of service, comprising: 
   means for generating a request at one of said computers for 

transmission of data elements; and 
   means responsive to said request including specification of a 

predetermined quality of service for transmission, for transmitting said 
data elements according to said quality of service wherein the means for 

transmitting said data elements includes means for transferring said 
data elements having said quality of service requirement through at 

least one service channel of a first layer of said network to at least 
one service channel of a second lower layer of said network which 

provides said predetermined quality of service. 
Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said multilayered network 
is an open systems interconnection network. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
