<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629973</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Output apparatus and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G524	H04N1417	B41J2485	G06T900	B41J2485	G06T1120	H04N1417	G09G524	G06K1502	G06T1120	G06T900	G06K1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	H04N	B41J	G06T	B41J	G06T	H04N	G09G	G06K	G06T	G06T	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G5	H04N1	B41J2	G06T9	B41J2	G06T11	H04N1	G09G5	G06K15	G06T11	G06T9	G06K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Data is converted by a prediction function. 
The converted data is run length compressed and the 

resultant compressed font data is stored into an ROM. 
When outputting, the Compressive data is sent to a run 

length expander. The run length expander produces bits 
of fonts and sequentially stores into an RAM. The 

stored data is sent to a reverse prediction function 
processor and a font pattern is formed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMADA MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ONIZUKA YASUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMADA, MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ONIZUKA, YASUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to output apparatus and
method for outputting a character by using a run-length
compressed font. The invention also relates to output
apparatus and method having reduction of output data.
(1) Hitherto, in a recording apparatus, image data
such as font data or the like is stored into a
recording section (ROM) in the recording apparatus and
a character bit pattern corresponding to input data is
accessed by the recording section and is developed as
print data and is printed. In recent years, as for the
image data such as font data or the like, print data of
a higher resolution is required in order to raise a
character quality. That is, the number of dots
constructing one character of the font data increases
in proportion to the resolution, the font which is
formed by a matrix of (48 dots x 48 dots) needs 288
bytes (2306 bits) per font. In case of Japanese fonts,
now assuming that about 7000 characters exist in one
type style, a capacity of the ROM of the memory section
of about two Mbytes is necessary. Hitherto, a method
of compressing image data and storing into the
recording apparatus is used to reduce the ROM capacity.
For example, there is a run length compression. (2) Hitherto, in the recording apparatus, in case of
printing with a width wider than a width of paper in
the printing using the paper having a predetermined
width, or in case of printing a continuous sheet in
accordance with the size of cut paper, such a printing
is realized by a form reduction. Specifically
speaking, in the case where the image data
corresponding to two pages of the continuous sheet
having the size of 380 x 280 mm (15 inches x 11 inches) is printed
on a paper of the A4 size which is long in the vertical
direction, the form is reduced into 1/2. In the case
where the image data corresponding to one page of the
continuous sheet of the size of 380 x 280 mm (15 inches x 11 inches)
is printed on a paper of the A4 size which is long in
the lateral direction, the form is reduced into 2/3.
In the case where the image data corresponding to one
page of a paper of the B4 size which is long in the
lateral direction is printed onto a paper of the A4
size which is long in the lateral direction, the form
is reduced into 4/5. In the case where the image data
corresponding to one page of a paper of the B4 size
which is long in the vertical direction is printed onto
a paper of the A4 size which is long in the vertical
direction, the form is reduced into 7/8. In this
manner, even in case of the recording apparatus which
i
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An output apparatus comprising:

memory means (102) for storing image data previously
obtained by changing a target pixel to a white pixel if

a pattern comprising the target pixel and at least one
pixel adjacent to the target pixel is coincident with a

predetermined pattern and if the target pixel is a black
pixel, such that image data is converted into image data

having an increased number of white pixels and by
compressing the converted image data by a run-length

method;
expansion means (104, Fig. 2) for expanding the
compressed image data read from said memory means by the

run-length method; and
reproduction means (108, Fig. 8) for reproducing

image data on the basis of the image data expanded by
said expansion means by changing a target pixel to a

black pixel if a pattern comprising the target pixel and
a pixel adjacent to the target pixel is not coincident

with a predetermined pattern and if the target pixel is
a white pixel,

characterised by means (200) inputting words of the
compressed image data in parallel to said expansion

means, means (202) for converting the input image data
into serial data, means (205-211) for detecting the

operand, data section and identifier of the serial data,
means (212,213) for developing the operand, data section 

and identifier and converting the developed data into
parallel data, and means (216) for outputting resulting

data in parallel, and
said reproduction means (108) inputting the image
data expanded by said expansion means in parallel,

reproducing the image data on the basis of the input
image data, and comprising means for outputting the

reproduced image data in parallel.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
reproduction means (108) reproduces the image data on the

basis of the image data expanded by said expansion means
by changing a target pixel to a white pixel if the

pattern comprising the target pixel and a pixel adjacent
to the target pixel is coincident with the predetermined

pattern and if the target pixel is a black pixel.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein image data is converted into image data having

an increased number of white pixels and by compressing
the converted image data by the run-length method.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein the predetermined pattern comprises a pattern

which appears as the target pixel with a high probability
with respect to a combination of adjacent pixels. 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein said output means comprises at least one of a

printer and a display device.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
further comprising DMA means (220) for executing a DMA

transfer of the words of image data when said expansion
means expands the image data.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein said expansion means (104) includes deriving

means for deriving the number of words of white pixels
on the basis of the number of white pixels and outputs

data indicating that white pixels are included for the
derived number of words.
An apparatus according to any preceding claim,
wherein the image data comprises character font data.
An output method using a memory (102) for storing
image data previously obtained by changing a target pixel

to a white pixel if a pattern comprising the target pixel
and at least one pixel adjacent to the target pixel is

coincident with a predetermined pattern and if the target
pixel is a black pixel, such that image data is converted

into image data having an increased number of white
pixels and by compressing the converted image data by a 

run-length method, said output method comprising the
steps of:


expanding the compressed image data read from the
memory by the run-length method; and
reproducing image data on the basis of the image
data expanded in said expanding step by changing a target

pixel to a black pixel if a pattern comprising the target
pixel and a pixel adjacent to the target pixel is not

coincident with a predetermined pattern and if the target
pixel is a white pixel;

characterised by inputting words of the compressed
image data in parallel to be expanded in said expanding

step, converting the input image data into serial data,
detecting the operand, data section and identifier of the

serial data; developing the operand, data section and
identifier and converting the developed data into

parallel data, and outputting the resulting data in
parallel, and

wherein said reproduction step inputs the image data
expanded in said expansion step in parallel, reproduces

the image data on the basis of the input image data, and
outputs the reproduced image data in parallel.
A method according to claim 9, wherein said
reproduction step reproduces the image data on the basis

of the image data expanded in said expansion step by
changing a target pixel to a white pixel if the pattern 

comprising the target pixel and a pixel adjacent to the
target pixel is coincident with the predetermined pattern

and if the target pixel is a black pixel.
A method according to any of claims 9 and 10,
wherein image data is converted into image data having

an increased number of white pixels and by compressing
the converted image data by the run-length method.
A method according to any of claims 9 to 11, wherein
the predetermined pattern comprises a pattern which

appears as the target pixel with a high probability with
respect to a combination of adjacent pixels.
A method according to any of claims 9 to 12, wherein
said outputting is performed by at least one of a printer

and a display device.
A method according to any of claims 9 to 13, further
comprising the step of executing a DMA transfer of the

words of image data when said expansion step expands the
image data.
A method according to any of claims 9 to 14, wherein
said expansion step includes deriving the number of words

of white pixels on the basis of the number of white
pixels and outputting data indicating that white pixels 

are included for the derived number of words.
A method according to any of claims 9 to 15, wherein
the image data comprises character font data.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
