<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649013</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for analyzing particles deposited on a substrate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N1502	G01N1502	G01N2147	G01N2147	G01N3326	G01N3328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N15	G01N15	G01N21	G01N21	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for analyzing particles collected from a fluid and deposited 
on a substrate along a given direction, the apparatus including holding structure 

for supporting the substrate; a radiation source for directing radiation toward the 
particles on the substrate; and a radiation detector for receiving radiation incident 

upon the particles on the substrate and for providing an output based on the 
concentration of the particles, the radiation detector being cooperative with the 

radiation source to output substantially continuous profile data indicative of the 
concentration of said particles along the given direction. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAN GILL CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAN-GILL CHEMICAL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEIKY-ZELINA MARGARET ANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEIKY-ZELINA, MARGARET ANN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally, as is indicated, to a system for 
analyzing particles deposited on a substrate. More particularly, the present 
invention relates to a system for evaluating the condition of a machine based on 
an analysis of such particles. Wear particle analysis is known. Wear particle analysis is a machine 
condition monitoring program for lubricated equipment. By examining the 
particles contained in the lubricant, wear related failures can be identified at an 
early stage. Wear particle analysis is conducted typically in two stages. The 
first stage involves monitoring and trending wear particles in the lubricant to 
detect abnormal wear. The second stage involves further analysis to identify, for 
example, the wear mechanisms causing particle formation, the sources of the 
particles, and hence the wearing components. In order to monitor and trend wear particles in a lubricant, a sample of the 
particulate is typically taken from the lubricant. For example, U.S. Patent No. 
4,047,814 to Westcott describes a method and apparatus for segregating 
particulate matter from a fluid. The particle-containing fluid such as the machine 
lubricant is flowed along a path over a collecting substrate in the presence of a 
magnetic or electric field having an intense gradient. The result is a stripe 
pattern of deposited material on the substrate, with particle size varying 
gradually from one end of the stripe pattern to the other. A collecting substrate 
having such a deposit is commonly referred to as a "ferrogram". The entire 
disclosure of U.S. Patent No. 4,047,814 is incorporated herein by reference. In the past, the deposit pattern formed on the substrate has been studied 
under a microscope by a laboratory technician. The laboratory technician 
visually compares the distribution and concentration of the particulate deposited 
on the substrate with previous samples to evaluate trending and the like. When 
abnormal wear is detected based on a changing distribution, concentration, etc.,  
 
in the sample, the laboratory technician then studies the sample further in an 
attempt to diagnose the cause of the abnormal wear. Unfortunately, there are several drawbacks associated with such prior art 
practices for analyzing wear particles. For example, visually studying a sample 
under a microscope is very time consuming for the technician and results in 
substantial labor costs. Moreover, the repeated study of samples under a 
microscope can lead to eye strain, fatigue, and other health
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for analyzing particles collected from a fluid and 
deposited on a substrate along a given direction, said apparatus comprising: 

   holding means for supporting said substrate; 
   radiation source means for directing radiation toward the particles on said 

substrate; and 
   radiation detector means for receiving radiation incident upon the particles 

on said substrate and for providing an output based on the concentration of said 
particles, said radiation detector means being cooperative with said radiation 

source means to output substantially continuous profile data indicative of the 
concentration of said particles along said given direction. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said fluid comprises fluid from a 
machine and said particles comprise wear particles. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, further comprising output means for 
providing a display of said profile data. 
The apparatus of claim 1, 2, or 3, further comprising computer means for 
comparing said profile data with reference data according to a predefined criteria, 

and output means for outputting information as a function of said comparison. 
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said fluid comprises fluid from a 
machine, said particles comprise wear particles, and said output information 

relates to a condition of said machine. 
The apparatus of claim 4 or 5, wherein said computer means is an expert 
system. 
An apparatus for analyzing wear particles collected from a fluid from 
a machine and deposited on a substrate along a given direction, said apparatus 

comprising: 
   holding means for supporting said substrate;

 
   radiation source means for directing radiation toward the particles on said 

substrate; 
   radiation detector means for receiving radiation incident upon the particles 

on said substrate and for providing an output based on the concentration of said 
particles, said radiation detector means being cooperative with said radiation 

source means to output data indicative of the concentration of said particles 
along said given direction; and 

   computer means configured as an expert system including a knowledge 
base for analyzing said data and providing information relating to the condition of 

said machine. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said knowledge base includes 
historical data relating to said machine. 
The apparatus of claim 7 or 8, wherein said knowledge base includes 
information specific to the type of said machine. 
The apparatus of claim 7, 8, or 9, wherein said knowledge base includes 

information relating to at least one of metallurgical and compositional content. 
The apparatus of any of claims 7 to 10, further 
comprising output means for providing a display of said 

ouput data. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein 
said radiation source means comprises a light source. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein 
said radiation detector means comprises a photodiode array. 
A method for analyzing particles collected from a fluid and deposited 
on a substrate along a given direction, said method comprising the steps of: 

   irradiating the particles on said substrate with a source of radiation; 
   receiving radiation incident upon the particles on said substrate and 

providing an output signal based on the concentration of said particles; 
   combining said irradiating and receiving steps whereby said output signal 

provides substantially continuous profile data indicative of the concentration of 
said particles along said given direction. 
The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of analyzing 
said profile data using a computer configured as an expert system. 
The method of claim 14 or 15, wherein said 
radiation comprises light. 
The method of claim 14, 15, or 16, wherein said 
fluid is from a machine and said expert system includes a 

knowledge base comprising historical data relating to said 
machine. 
The method of any of claims 14 to 17, wherein said 
fluid is from a machine and said expert system includes a 

knowledge base comprising data specific to the particular 
type of said machine. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
