<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624993</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Distributed multi-outlet paging
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W8402	H04W8402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W84	H04W84	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A distribution network (108) receives simplex 
communications or pages from any number of user 

interface nodes (UINs) (202) and distributes the pages 
to one or more paging outlets provided by page 

termination nodes (PTNs) (110) and delivery systems 
(102). The UINs (202) perform the bulk of the 

processing related to the distributed system of the 
present invention. Originator services (1000) are 

provided through UINs (202). Through originator 
services (1000) callers may place pages or inquire about 

previously placed pages. In placing pages, page 
originators can specify options (1102-1104) related to 

the delivery of pages. Subscriber updating services 
(1100) are also provided through UINs (202). The 

updating services (1100) allow a subscriber to alter 
(802-812) the services provided by the distribution 

network (108). Security procedures are implemented to 
insure that only authorized persons can alter the 

specification of services provided by the distribution 
network (108). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUM DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDBERG STEVEN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VATT GREGORY B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAUM, DAVID M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDBERG, STEVEN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VATT, GREGORY B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to
communication systems. More specifically, the present
invention relates to paging systems which offer multiple
page delivery options.Paging relates to simplex messaging services. In
other words, simplex calls, hereinafter referred to as
pages, are made to specified subscribers of the service.
When a subscriber unit, such as a pager, receives a
page, the subscriber is alerted. The pages may carry
messages, or they may simply communicate the fact that
the subscriber is being paged. Generally speaking, the
service is considered a simplex service because
communication travels in one direction only, from the
page originator to the subscriber.Many paging systems are in current use. Typical
paging services use RF communications to deliver pages
to pagers. Hence, pagers need not be anchored to a
particular location and may be carried with subscribers.
Since pagers only receive communication, they do not
require transmitters or signal transmission
capabilities. As a result, pagers are typically small,
low-power, light weight, readily portable, and
inexpensive units.Conventional paging systems experience a problem
related to range limitations. A paging system works
only when its pagers reside within the area that can be
reached by the system's transmitters. When subscribers
travel outside this area, their pagers cannot receive 
calls. Another aspect of this problem is a limitation on
paging capacity. As an area of coverage increases to
better serve subscriber needs, the population of pagers
likewise increases. As the population of pagers increases,
the number of data communications increase. Thus, as the
coverage area increases a point of diminishing returns can
be reached. The number of data communications can become
so great that an unacceptable delay in the delivery of
calls is experienced. Moreover, conventional paging
systems typically deliver pages only to those pagers that
are specifically designed to be compatible with the paging
system's RF communication parameters. Thus, economies of
scale resulting from combining the capacities of
independent paging systems are difficult to achieve.Accordingly, a need exists for a superstructure which
accepts pages from page originators and then routes the
pages to appropriate independent paging sub-systems for
delivery of the pages.US-A-4313035 discloses a system for re-directing
telephone calls in a public switched telephone network. A
single centralised database stores the telephone number at
which a subscriber is located.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of operating a user interface node (202) in
accordance with a distributed multi-outlet paging system

comprising the steps of:

receiving at said user interface node (202),a subscriber ID
identifying a subscriber to whom a page is to be sent, and a page

message;
requesting, through a communication network (208), a
subscriber profile (212, 214) from a subscriber information

manager node (206) associated with a paging distribution network,
said subscriber profile identifying at least one activated paging

delivery system (102) specified by said subscriber of a plurality
of paging delivery systems (102), each paging delivery system

being associated with a geographic region;
receiving the subscriber profile at said user
interface node (202);
identifying at said user information node (202), a page
termination node (110) that is associated with the at least one

activated paging delivery system (102);
sending said page message from said user interface node
(102) through said communication network to said page termination

node (110), the page termination node formatting said page

message for delivery through the activated paging delivery system
(102), and sending said formatted page message to the activated

paging delivery system (102) for potential receipt by said
subscriber.
The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein in the
requesting step, the subscriber profile further identifies

a list of activated independent paging delivery systems
(102), and wherein in the sending step, the page

termination node formats the page message for delivery to
each activated independent paging delivery systems on the

list.
The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the
requesting step and the receiving the subscriber profile

step are performed over a high-priority dedicated
communication link (216) through the communication network

(208) between the user interface node (202) and the
subscriber information manager node (206), and

   wherein the user interface nodes and the subscriber
information manager nodes comprise computers. 
A method as claimed in Claim 3 additionally
comprising the steps of:


receiving at the user information node (202) a
communication from the subscriber requesting the

modification of the subscriber profile, the request
identifying at least one other activated paging delivery

system (102) of the plurality of paging delivery systems;
and
sending an update command to said subscriber
information manager node (206), said update command

instructing said subscriber information manager node (206)
to alter said subscriber profile to include the other

activated paging delivery system.
A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the user
interface node (202) receives an initiation communication

through a page-origination channel (204), and wherein

   said method additionally comprises the step of
obtaining a page sequence number from said subscriber

profile record; and

   feeding a confirmation value back into said page-origination
channel (204), said confirmation value being

responsive to said page sequence number. 
A distributed multi-outlet paging system comprising:

a plurality of user interface nodes (202) for receiving a
subscriber ID identifying a subscriber to whom a page is to be

sent, and a page message, and
a plurality of subscriber information manager nodes (206)
coupled to the user interface nodes (202) through a

communications network (208), each subscriber information manager
node (206) being associated with a paging distribution network,

the subscriber information manager nodes (202) receiving requests
through the communication network (208) from the associated user

interface node (202) for a subscriber profile (212, 214), and
providing the subscriber profile to the requesting user interface

node (202), said subscriber profile identifying at least one
activated paging delivery system (102) of a plurality of paging

delivery systems (102), the activated paging delivery system
being specified by said subscriber, each paging delivery system

being associated with a geographic region,

   wherein upon receipt of the subscriber profile, the user
information node (202) identifies a page termination node (110)

associated with the activated paging delivery system (102) and
sends the page message to the identified page termination node

(110), and

   wherein the identified page termination node (110) formats
the page message for delivery through the activated paging

delivery system (102) and sends the formatted page message to the
activated paging delivery system (102) for potential receipt by

said subscriber. 
The paging system as claimed in claim 6 wherein in
the subscriber information manager node (206), the

subscriber profile further identifies a list of activated
independent paging delivery systems (102), and wherein the

page termination node formats the page message for delivery
to each activated independent paging delivery systems on

the list.
The paging system as claimed in claim 7 further
comprising a high-priority dedicated communication link

(216) through the communication network (208) between the
user interface node (202) and the subscriber information

manager node (206), and wherein the subscriber profile is
requested by the user information node over the high-priority

dedicated communication link (216), and wherein
the subscriber information manager node (206) send the

requested subscriber profile to the user interface node
(202) over the high-priority dedicated communication link

(216), and

   wherein the user interface nodes and the subscriber
information manager nodes comprise computers. 
The paging system as claimed in claim 8 wherein

   the user information node (202) receives a
communication from the subscriber requesting the

modification of the subscriber profile, the request
identifying at least one other activated paging delivery

system (102) of the plurality of paging delivery systems;
and

   the user information node (202) sends an update
command to said subscriber information manager node (206),

said update command instructing said subscriber information
manager node (206) to alter said subscriber profile to

include the other activated paging delivery system.
The paging system as claimed in claim 9 wherein
the user interface node (202) receives an initiation

communication through a page-origination channel (204), and

wherein

   a page sequence number is obtained by the user
interface node (202) from said subscriber profile record;

and

   the user interface node (202) feeds a confirmation
value back into said page-origination channel (204), said

confirmation value being responsive to said page sequence
number.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
