<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636113</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR INCREASING STRENGTH OF STRUCTURAL CERAMIC MATERIALS BY FORMING CERAMIC COATING ON SURFACE AND PRODUCT FORMED THEREBY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B4145	C04B4145	C04B4152	C04B4181	C04B4181	C04B4187	C04B4187	C04B4189	C04B4189	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is disclosed for increasing the strength of and repairing surface defects in a structural ceramic material which comprises coating the structural ceramic material with a tractable preceramic coating material capable of pyrolyzing to form a ceramic coating and heating the coated structural ceramic material to a temperature sufficiently high to permit pyrolysis of the preceramic polymer for a period of time sufficient to form a ceramic coating on the surface of the structural ceramic material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANFORD RES INST INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SRI INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLUM YIGAL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDERMOTT GREGORY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLUM, YIGAL, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDERMOTT, GREGORY, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR INCREASING STRENGTH OF STRUCTURALCERAMIC MATERIALS BY FORMING CERAMIC COATING ONSURFACE AND PRODUCT FORMED THEREBYField of the Invention The invention relates to the strengthening of structural ceramic materials by forming a polymer-derived ceramic coating on the surface of the structural ceramic material. The invention additionally relates to a process for improving the strength of and repairing surface defects in structural ceramic materials by coating them with a polymer-derived preceramic layer and then converting the preceramic layer to a ceramic coating. More particularly, the invention relates to a process for strengthening structural silicon nitride and alumina materials by coating them with a polymer-derived preceramic layer and then converting the preceramic layer to a ceramic coating. In addition to strengthening structural ceramic materials and repairing surface defects, the invention can replace elaborate and costly fine machining of ceramic materials.Background of the InventionThe use of manufactured structural ceramic products is compromised by the great reduction in strength of the structural material due to surface and near-surface defects induced by processing and machining operations or inherent in the material itself.Attempts to preserve the integrity of manufactured products, for example, glass materials, have been made by coating the product with various materials. Yoshida et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,370,385 describes coating a glass vessel with an organopolysiloxane composition to provide a scuf -masking coating over the glass.Wieczorrek et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,409,266, provides a shatterproof coating on glass by applying to the glass surface a silane adhesion promoter and a two-component system which reacts to form a polyurethane binder.Kurita et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,656,221, conceals graze marks on a glass bottle by coating the glass with a composition formed from polydiorganosiloxane components and a surfactant. The coating is applied to the glass surface as an emulsion and allowed to air dry. In general, the formation of ceramic coatings on substrates through the pyrolysis of preceramic polymer coatings is known. For example, Gaul, in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,395,460 and 4,404,153, forms a silicon carbide coating on a substrate by coating the substrate with a polysilazane polymer and then heating the coated substrate in an inert atmosphere or in a vacuum to an elevated temperature of at least 750°C. 

 Seyferth et al., U.S. Patent Nos.4,482,669; 4,720,532; 4,705,837;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT TS CLAIMED TS:
1. A method for improving the strength of and repairing surface defects in a structural ceramic material which comprises: a) forming a tractable ceramic precursor coating solution by dissolving in an organic solvent or in water an inorganic or organometallic compound or an inorganic or organometallic polymeric preceramic coating material to provide a liquid preceramic coating solution:
1 ) capable of convertng by heat treatment after solvent evaporation to a ceramic coating selected from the group consisting of nitrides, carbides, oxides, silicides, and borides;
2) capable of providing a ceramic yield of at least 50 wt.%;
3) being a solid or having a viscosity, after application to the structural ceramic material and removal of solvent, of at least 1 poise; and 4) capable of wetting and adhering to the structural ceramic material to form a uniform coating on the surface of the structural ceramic material; b) coating said structural ceramic material with said preceramic liquid coating solution; c) heating said coated structural ceramic material in a gaseous environment selected from the class consisting of an inert atmosphere, a nitrogen-containing atmosphere, a hydrogen atmosphere, an oxygen atmosphere, and a dry- or wet-air atmosphere, or mixtures of the aforementioned atmospheres, to a pyrolysis temperature at least capable of converting said preceramic liquid coating solution to a ceramic coating; and d) maintaining said coated structural ceramic material at said pyrolysis temperature for a period of time sufficient to form the ceramic coating and remove those portions of said coating material which do not participate in forming said ceramic coating.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of coating said structural ceramic material with said preceramic liquid coating solution further comprises coating said structural ceramic material with an amount of said preceramic liquid coating solution sufficient to form a ceramic coating, after said pyrolysis step, having a thickness of from about 0.01 to about 10.0 microns.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein said thickness is from about 0.05 to about 5.0 microns. 


 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said preceramic liquid coating solution is comprised of an organic based polymeric preceramic liquid coating solution.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein said preceramic liquid coating solution is comprised of an inorganic based polymeric preceramic liquid coating solution.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein said inorganic compound is comprised of an inorganic salt.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein said inorganic salt is comprised of a metal hydridophosphate salt
8. . The method of claim I wherein said tractable ceramic precursor coating solution is comprised of an organometallic polymeric preceramic liquid coating solution.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein said organometallic polymeric preceramic liquid coating solution is comprised of a solution of an organometallic compound capable of crosslinking or decomposition prior to evaporation.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the concentration of said liquid preceramic coating solution is between 0.1 and 100 wt.%.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the concentration of said liquid preceramic coating solution is between 5 and 30 wt.%.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein the ceramic yield is at least 70 wt.%.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the ceramic yield is at least 85 wt. % .
14. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of coating said structural ceramic material with said preceramic liquid coating solution is repeated at least one additional time.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein said step of coating said structural ceramic material with said polymeric preceramic liquid coating solution is repeated 2 to 5 times.
16. The method of claim 1 wherein said gaseous environment comprises a hydrogen atmosphere .
17. The method of claim 1 wherein said gaseous environment comprises an oxygen atmosphere. 


 18. The method of claim 1 wherein said pyrolysis step further comprises heating said coated structural ceramic material at a rate of from about 30°C per hour up to a rate of about 3300°C per hour up to at least said pyrolysis temperature.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein said pyrolysis step comprises heating said coated structural ceramic material at a rate of from 100
β
C per hour to about 600°C per hour.
20. The method of claim 1 wherein said pyrolysis step further comprises heating said coated structural ceramic material up to said pyrolysis temperature by inserting said coated structural ceramic material into a pyrolysis zone already preheated to said pyrolysis temperature.
21. The method of claim 1 wherein said maintaining step further comprises maintaining said coated structural ceramic material at said pyrolysis temperature for a period of time of at least about 10 minutes.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein said maintaining step further comprises maintaining said coated structural ceramic material at said pyrolysis temperature for a period of time of at least about 60 minutes.
23. The method of claim 1 including the further step of cooling said coated structural ceramic material from said pyrolysis temperature down to a temperature of about 200
*
C at a rate not exceeding about 60°C per minute.
24. The method of claim 1 including the further step of cooling said coated structural ceramic material from said pyrolysis temperature down to a temperature of about 200°C at a rate not exceeding about 30
β
C per minute.
25. The method of claim 1 including the further step of cooling said coated structural ceramic material from said pyrolysis temperature down to a temperature of about
200
β
C at a rate not exceeding about 10
β
C per minute.
26. The method of claim 1 wherein said structural ceramic material is silicon nitride.
27. The method of claim 1 wherein said structural ceramic material is A-2O3.
28. The method of claim 1 further comprising pretreating said structural ceramic material with acid prior to coating with said preceramic liquid coating solution. 


 29. The method of claim 28 wherein said acid is comprised of HF.
30. The method of claim 1 further comprising pretreating said structural ceramic material with tettachlorosilane prior to coating with said preceramic liquid coating solution.
31. A structural ceramic material coated with a layer of ceramic material to increase the strength of said structural ceramic material and formed by coating said structural ceramic material and heating said coated structural ceramic material at a temperature sufficient to form said ceramic coating on said structural ceramic material.
32. The ceramic coated structural ceramic material of claim 31 wherein said ceramic-coated structural ceramic material comprises silicon nitride coated with ceramic.
33. The method of claim 1 wherein said gaseous environment comprises an inert atmosphere.
34. The method of claim 1 wherein said gaseous environment comprises a nitrogen-containing atmosphere.
35. The method of claim 33 wherein said inert atmosphere is comprised of Ar.
36. The method of claim 34 wherein said nitrogen-containing atmosphere is comprised of N .
37. The method of claim 34 wherein said nitrogen-containing atmosphere is comprised of NH3. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
