<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625472</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Adhesive sheet separator
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H358	B65H332	B65H332	B65H346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H3	B65H3	B65H3	B65H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sheet separating device for removing an uppermost 
sheet (96) of an adhesive pad (14) containing a plurality of 

such sheets includes a housing (18); a support plate (12) for 
holding the pad, resiliently biased in an upward direction. A 

sheet separator mechanism is movable in forward and rearward 
directions, includes a frame (20), a pick wheel (50) mounted 

for rotation within the frame, and a knife blade (24) having 
a closed periphery opening (26) therein defined in part by at 

least one entry projection (48, 48'), wherein the pick wheel 
is located ahead of the at least one entry projection of the 

knife blade in the forward direction (22) such that, in use, 
the pick wheel lifts an edge (98) of the uppermost sheet (96) 

extending transverse to the forward direction, and the at 
least one entry projection of the knife blade then moves 

between the uppermost sheet and a next underlying sheet as 
the uppermost sheet passes through the closed periphery 

opening. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOORE BUSINESS FORMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOORE BUSINESS FORMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAIR JAMES C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAIR, JAMES C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a device for quickly and 
reliably separating an uppermost sheet of a stack of 
sheets in a pad, wherein each sheet in the stack is 
secured to the next underlying sheet by a pair of low 
tack, repositionable adhesive strips. Note pads comprising a stack of sheets adhesively 
secured along one edge are by now well known, and include 
the Note Stix® brand pads manufactured and sold by the 
assignee of this invention. The self-stick adhesive 
strips applied to the underside of the sheets in such pads 
permits one sheet to be peeled from the next, and the 
separated sheet may then be re-adhered to another 
surface. This adhesive is also well known, and is often 
referred to as "low tack" or "repositionable" adhesive. 
As will be appreciated, the advent of such node pads has 
given rise to a variety of pad constructions for use in 
many fields. One relatively new application relates to a 
label pad in which individual label sheets are provided 
with low tack or repositionable adhesive along two 
opposite edges of each label sheet within the pad. This 
type of pad is used, for example, by product manufacturers 
who remove the labels, one at a time, from the pad and 
then adhere them to finished products (for example, 
prefabricated window assemblies) prior to shipment. A 
problem exists in that it is often difficult to locate an 
edge (or portion of an edge) of the label sheet which will 
most easily permit removal of the sheet from the pad. If, 
for example, one were to attempt to peel the label from 
the pad along one of the two edges extending perpendicular 
to the opposite adhesive edges, the label sheet will often 
tear. Moreover, upon peeling the label sheet from the  
 
pad, edge curling often occurs. Because of the low tack 
nature of the adhesive, the one or more curled edges tend to 
override the sticking power of the adhesive so that the label 
edges curl away from the product to which the label is 
ultimately adhered. In a case of severe curling, the label 
sheet may completely separate from the product. It is the principal object of this invention to 
provide a simple mechanical device which will quickly and 
reliably separate an uppermost label sheet from a pad of such 
sheets, without tearing and without incurring curled edges. 
In other words, the label sheet as separated from the stack 
in accordance with this invention remains in a substantially 
flat condition so that it may be reliably adhered to a 
product or other "end use" surface. US-A-4637600 describes a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of separating a sheet of a pad (14) of 
sheets which comprises initially separating a transverse edge 

(98) of a foremost sheet (96) of the pad from the remainder 
of the pad and then moving a blade means in a first direction 

transverse to the transverse edge (98) through the pad to 
separate the foremost sheet from the remainder of the pad,
 
   characterised in that the pad (14) has each sheet 

adhered to an underlying sheet by a pair of laterally spaced 
substantially parallel strips of light tack adhesive located 

along opposite side edges of the sheet, and the foremost 
sheet is the top sheet of the pad, the first direction is 

parallel to said strips of light tack adhesive, the 
transverse edge (98) is separated by lifting upwardly a 

central portion of the transverse edge (98) under which the 
blade means is inserted, initially at the lifted central 

portion of the transverse edge and thereafter through the 
adhesive side edges. 
A device (10) for separating a sheet of pad (14) of 
sheets comprising separating means (50) for initially 

separating a transverse edge (98) of a foremost sheet (96) of 
the pad from the reminder of the pad; 


blade means (24) for insertion between said foremost 
sheet and the remainder of the pad; 
said blade means being mounted for movement in a 
first direction (22) transverse to the transverse edge (98) 

through the pad to thereby separate the foremost sheet from 
the underlying sheet;
 
   characterised in that the separating means is a 

lifting means (50) arranged to lift upwardly a central 
portion of the transverse edge (98), and the blade means (24) 

has an entry projection (48, 48') shaped and arranged to 
initially enter the pad under the central lifted portion of 

the edge (98) of the top sheet (96) of the pad and side 
portions (42, 44, 42', 44') extending from the entry 

projection to positively separate the edges of the top sheet 
from the remainder of the pad. 
The device of claim 2 characterised in that said 
lifting means comprises a pick wheel (50). 
The device of claim 2 or claim 3 characterised in 
that said blade means (24) comprises a relatively thin plate 

having a closed periphery opening (26) formed therein through 
which the uppermost sheet passes during movement of the blade 

means. 
The device of claim 4 characterised in that said 

closed periphery opening includes a portion for receiving 
said lifting means. 
The device of claim 5 characterised in that it 
comprises: 


a housing (18); 
a support plate (16) for holding said pad (14);
 
   wherein: said pick wheel (50) and said blade means 

(24) are included in a sheet separator mechanism movable in 
forward, namely said first direction, and rearward 

directions; the support plate is resiliently 
biased in an upward direction; 
the sheet separator mechanism includes a frame (20); 
the pick wheel (50) mounted for rotation within said 
frame, and is located ahead of said at least one entry 

projection of said blade means (24) in the forward direction 
(22) such that, in use, said pick wheel lifts said transverse 

edge (98) and said at least one entry projection of said 
blade means (24) then moves between said uppermost sheet (96) 

and a next underlying sheet as said uppermost sheet passes 
through said closed periphery opening (26). 
The device of claim 4, 5 or 6 characterised in that 
said plate projection or projections are located 

substantially midway along the trailing edge (42, 44, 42', 
44') of said opening, which edge substantially tapers 

rearwardly from the projection or projections towards the 
outer edges (38, 40) of the opening. 
The device of claim 3 or claim 6 or any claim 
dependent thereon characterised by drive means for moving the 

blade means forwards and backwards, the drive means including  
 

a pair of drive wheels (80, 82) and a gear train (88 to 94) 
interposed between said drive wheels and said pick wheel, 

said drive train arranged to cause said pick wheel to rotate 
in a direction opposite that of said drive wheels. 
The device of any of claims 1 to 8 characterised in 
that said lifting means/pick wheel (50) is movable between a 

first operative position and a second non-operative position. 
The device of claim 9 wherein said pick wheel is 
mounted on a first shaft (52) which is fixed to an elongated 

lever (56) pivotally mounted at one end for movement between 
the operative position to engage the uppermost sheet, and the 

inoperative position when the pick wheel is positioned above 
said uppermost sheet. 
The device of claim 10 characterised in that a trip 
release arm (72) is engageable with an opposite end of said 

lever (56) to hold said pick wheel in said operative position 
until said pick wheel lifts said edge (98) of said sheet, and 

disengageable with said opposite end of said lever to allow 
said pick wheel to move to said inoperative position. 
The device of claim 10 or claim 11 characterised by 
guide wheels (58 to 62) located ahead of said pick wheel in 

said forward direction (22), said guide wheels mounted on a 
second shaft (58), said lever (56) pivotally mounted at said 

one end to said second shaft. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
