<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617543</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Imaging and recording apparatus and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N5225	H04N5907	H04N121	H04N100	H04N100	H04N5907	H04N5225	H04N121	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N5	H04N5	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An imaging and recording apparatus for 
electrically recording an optical image of a subject as 

an image information signal which facilitates memory 
access from an external device and prevents image 

information from being changed. Upon manipulation of a 
recording trigger switch (5), an image outputted from a 

camera signal processing circuit (17) at that time is 
written into a semiconductor memory (12), then subjected 

to data compression in a data compression circuit (21), 
and stored in a semiconductor memory (13). It is now 

assumed that an external device not illustrated is 
connected to a connector (14) and this external device 

orders taking in the image of the semiconductor memory 
(13). If at this time the semiconductor memory (13) is 

writing an image, a state detection circuit (23) detects 
the fact and inhibits the external device from taking in 

the image. Furthermore, while the external device is 
taking in the image of the semiconductor memory (13), 

the state detection circuit (23) detects this fact. 
Even if the recording trigger switch (5) is manipulated, 

an AND gate (6) turns off in response to an output of 
the state detection circuit and inhibits image writing 

into the semiconductor memory (13). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an imaging
and recording apparatus and method for electrically recording
optical images of a subject as image information
signals, and in particular to an imaging and recording
apparatus and method having enhanced manipulation performance when
the apparatus is connected to a peripheral device and
the image information signals are exchanged between the
apparatus and the device.As conventional apparatuses of this kind,
there are so-called electronic cameras. Examples of the
electronic cameras include a digital still camera
described in Sasaki et al., "Picture coding for digital
still camera", Journal of The Institute of Television
Engineers of Japan, Vol. 46, No. 3, (1992), pp. 300-307
(hereafter referred to as conventional technique
reference 1) and a camera of DS-100 type described in a
catalog "FUJIX DIGITAL STILL CAMERA SYSTEM" published by
Fuji Photo Film Co. Ltd. in September 1991 (hereafter
referred to as conventional technique reference 2).
Another electronic still camera is described in FR-A-2 672 176.In electronic cameras described in the
conventional technique references 1 and 2, image
information signals derived by using an imaging device
are digitized (quantized) and recorded in a card having 
a semiconductor memory thereon (hereafter referred to as
memory card) as shown, for example, in Fig. 1 of the
conventional technique reference 1.In the conventional technique references 1 and
2, image information signals are thus handled as digital
signals. Therefore, connection to peripheral devices
such as personal computers originally handling only
digital signals is easy (because signals can be
transmitted and received as digital signals without the
intervention of analog-digital converters and the like).
Furthermore, the image quality degradation is not caused
by the transmission line. Thus, the performance of
connection with other systems is shown to be good.In the conventional technique reference 1,
concrete examples regarding the connection with
peripheral devices are not described. However, it is
considered that a memory card is used as an intermediate
medium. In the conventional technique reference 2, an
example of use of such a memory card is disclosed. That
is to say, a memory card is first mounted on an
electronic camera to record image information signals.
Thereafter, this memory card is detached from the
electronic camera and mounted on a peripheral device
separate from the electronic camera. The image
information signals recorded on the memory card are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An imaging and recording apparatus comprising:

imaging means (1) for effecting photoelectric conversion on an optical
image and generating an electric two-dimensional image information

signal;
a memory (13) for storing said two-dimensional image information signal;
operation start ordering means (5) for ordering operation start;
control means (2, 7) responsive to an operation start order given from said
operation start ordering means (5) to store, in said memory (13), a two-dimensional

image information signal corresponding to one sheet of
picture generated in said imaging means (1) by an internal access to said

memory (13);
an I/O port (14) for outputting and inputting said two-dimensional image
information signal to/from an external device (25);
changeover means (11, 15) for selecting either said internal access to said
memory (13) or an external access to said memory (13) in response to an

order by the external device (25);
state detection means (23) for detecting a first state or second state, said
first state representing said internal access being in an execution state or a

ready state, said second state representing said external access being in an
execution state or a ready state; and
inhibition means (6) responsive to a detection of said second state, to
inhibit said changeover means (11, 15) from changing over to said internal 

access, or responsive to detection of said first state, to inhibit said
changeover means from changing over to said external access.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
memory (13) has a plurality of memory areas each for storing at least said

two-dimensional image information signal corresponding to one sheet of
picture, and wherein said inhibition means (6) inhibits said changeover

means (11, 15) from changing over to said internal access to all areas of
said memory (13) when said state detection means (23) detects said second

state, or inhibits said changeover means (11, 15) from changing over to
said external access to all areas of said memory (13) when said state

detection means (23) detects said first state.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
memory (13) has a plurality of memory areas each for storing at least said

two-dimensional image information signal corresponding to one sheet of
picture, said plurality of memory areas allowing separate execution of

access and even when one of a plurality of said memory areas is in said
second state, other memory areas are capable of writing or reading a two-dimensional

image information signal in response to an operation start
order (5) as further internal access.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said
memory (13) includes a plurality of memory areas each for storing at least

said two-dimensional image information signal corresponding to one sheet
of picture, said plurality of memory areas allowing separate execution of

access and even when one of a plurality of said memory areas is in said
first state, other memory areas are capable of writing or reading a two-dimensional 

image information signal in response to the direction of said
external device as a further external access.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding
claims further comprising


a further memory (12) which stores said electric signal;
a compressor (21) which generates compressed image data from said
electric signal stored in said memory (12);
said memory (13) is storing said compressed image data;
a decompressor (22) which generates an electric signal from said
compressed image data stored in said memory (13).
An imaging and recording apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the start
ordering means (5) is a trigger switch for triggering an internal write access

to said memory (13) during imaging mode, and the start ordering means is a
progressive selection switch for triggering an internal read access to said

memory (13) to progress a reproducing image on a monitor during a
reproduction mode.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to claim 6 wherein when a
compressed image data exchange between said memory (13) and said

external device (25) is not being executed, said control means (2, 7)
controls starting of writing operation of said memory (13) based on an

operation of said recording trigger switch, and controls starting of reading
operation of said memory (13) based on an operation of said progressive

selection switch when said external device is coupled with the imaging and
recording apparatus via said I/O port (14). 
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one the preceding claims
further comprising an apparatus armor having a polyhedron, terminals of

said I/O port (14) being exposed on a side surface of said apparatus armor
facing toward a direction different from an incidence direction of said

optical image.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding
claims wherein a detection output signal in said second state can be

outputted from said I/O port (14).
An imaging and recording apparatus according of one of the preceding
claims wherein said operation start ordering means (5) comprises a switch

having an open/close manipulation portion on said imaging and recording
apparatus (46).
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding
claims, further comprising signal processing means (18, 19, 20) for

deriving a composite video signal from the stored digital image
information and wherein the internal access is a read access or a write

access.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding
claims, wherein said inhibition means (6) ceases to inhibit said external or

internal access to said memory (13) after completion of the internal or
external access, respectively. 
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding
claims, wherein said external or internal access to said memory (13) is

started after completion of the internal or external access, respectively.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding
claims, wherein said internal access is a write access.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding
claims 1 to 14, wherein said external access is a write access.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding
claims 1 to 13 and 15, wherein said internal access is a read access.
An imaging and recording apparatus according to one of the preceding

claims 1 to 14 and 16, wherein said external access is a read access.
Method for controlling an imaging and recording apparatus comprising:

effecting photoelectric conversion on an optical image and generating an
electric two-dimensional image information signal;
storing said two-dimensional image information signal corresponding to
one sheet of picture in a memory (13) ) by an internal access to said

memory (13) in response to an operation start order given from an
operation start ordering means (5);
outputting and/or inputting said two-dimensional image information signal
to/from an external device (25); 

selecting either said internal access to said memory (13) or an external
access to said memory (13) in response to an order by the external device

(25) through changeover means (11, 15);
detecting a first state or second state, said first state representing said
internal access being in an execution state or a ready state, said second

state representing said external access being in an execution state or a
ready state; and
inhibiting said changeover means (11, 15) from changing over to said
internal access in response to a detection of said second state, or inhibiting

said changeover means from changing over to said external access in
response to detection of said first state.
Method according to claim 18 characterized in that said changeover means
(11, 15) is inhibited from changing over to an internal access to all areas of

said memory (13) when said state detection means (23) detects said second
state, or said changeover means (11, 15) is inhibited from changing over to

an external access to all areas of said memory (13) when said state
detection means (23) detects said first state.
Method according to claim 18, characterized in that a separate execution of
access is executed in a plurality of memory areas and even when one of a

plurality of said memory areas is in said second state, other memory areas
are writing or reading a two-dimensional image information signal in

response to an operation start order (5) as further internal access.
Method according to claim 18, characterized in that a separate execution of
access is executed in a plurality of memory areas and even when one of a

plurality of memory areas is in said first state, other memory areas are 
reading or writing a two-dimensional image information signal in response

to a direction of said external device as further external access.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 21 further
comprising


storing said electric signal in a further memory (12);
generating compressed image data from said electric signal stored in said
memory (12);
storing said compressed image data in said memory (13);
generating an electric signal from said compressed image data stored in
said memory (13) by means of a decompressor (22).
A method according to claim 22 characterized in that the start ordering
means (5) is a trigger switch for triggering an internal write access to said

memory (13) during imaging mode, and the start ordering means is a
progressive selection switch for triggering an internal read access to said

memory (13) to progress a reproducing image on a monitor during
reproduction mode.
A method according to claim 23 further comprising, when a compressed
image data exchange between said memory (13) and said external device

(25) is not being executed, starting of writing operation of said memory
(13) based on an operation of said recording trigger switch, and starting of

reading operation of said memory (13) based on an operation of said
progressive selection switch when said external device is coupled with the

imaging and recording apparatus via said I/O port (14). 
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 24, further
comprising deriving a composite video signal from the stored digital image

information.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 25, characterized
by ceasing inhibition of said external or internal access to said memory

(13) after completion of the internal or external access, respectively.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 26, characterized
by starting said external or internal access to said memory (13) after

completion of the internal or external access, respectively.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 27, characterized in
inhibiting external read access when internal access is a write access.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 27, characterized in
inhibiting external write access when internal access is a write access.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 27, characterized in
inhibiting internal write access when external access is a read access.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 27, characterized in
inhibiting internal write access when external access is a write access.
Method according to one of the preceeding claims 18 to 27, characterized
in inhibiting external read access when internal access is a read access. 
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 27, characterized in
inhibiting external write access when internal access is a read access.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 27, characterized in
inhibiting internal read access when external access is a read access.
Method according to one of the preceding claims 18 to 27, characterized in
inhibiting internal read access when external access is a write access.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
