<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623073</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-COLOR, SINGLE-PLATE PRINTING PRESS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41F700	B41F702	B41F710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41F	B41F	B41F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41F7	B41F7	B41F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A printing unit system produces multi-color printing employing a single plate cylinder (11) of a first diameter and a pair of blanket cylinders (20, 21) of a second diameter one half that of the plate cylinder. The blanket cylinders impact associated impression cylinders (25, 26), also of the second diameter, at the paper path and, in one embodiment, the two impression cylinders mate with a transfer cylinder (31). By using blanket and impression cylinders having portions with different diameter, multi-color, superimposed images are printed, two colors at a time. The images for the various colors are produced on a single film under computer control (70) for creation of plates for mounting on the plate cylinder and are not adjustable with respect to one another.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIEKER PAUL T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIEKER PAUL T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIEKER PAUL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIEKER PAUL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTI-COLOR, SINGLE-PLATE PRINTING PRESSFIELD OP THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a printing press and, more particularly, to such a press for printing multi-color prints from a single printing plate.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONPrior art printing presses employ several cylinders which cooperate with one another to produce printed copy. Specifically, a "plate" cylinder is used to mount the information to be printed. A "blanket" cylinder rotates about an axis parallel to the plate cylinder axis such that the surface of the blanket cylinder contacts the surface of the plate cylinder in a manner to transfer the image from the plate cylinder. The transferred image is the inverse of the image on the plate cylinder as is well understood.A third cylinder, the "impression" cylinder, similarly rotates about a third axis parallel to the axis of the blanket cylinder in a manner so that the surfaces of the blanket and impression cylinders contact one another. The image on the impression cylinder is again inverted to the original image for imprinting the final image on a medium (a sheet of paper) moving between the blanket and impression cylinders.Such an arrangement becomes more complicated when more than one color is necessary 

for the final copy. Traditionally, a complete such system is necessary for each color needed. Moreover, a separate ink supply tower is necessary along with control means for ensuring that the different color images are properly superimposed on one another.There are known processes in which multi-color prints can be made using a single plate cylinder. One such press arrangement is described in United States patent No. 3,233,541 issued February 8, 1966 to O.D. Johnson. The Johnson press employs a single plate cylinder on the surface of which a plurality of plates are mounted. The plates are mounted in a sequence so that a sequence of images is transferred to a blanket cylinder for retransfer to an impression cylinder. If the plates are inked with different color inks, a succession of (inverted) color images is formed on the surface of the blanket cylinder. Such images would be transferred in succession to an impression cylinder (actually to sheets of paper moving between the blanket and impression cylinders) but if is not obvious as to how such images would be superimposed to make a multi-color print.Instead the Johnson press is used in a manner such that one color is applied to an entire image and a second color is applied on top of the first color area to only a portion of the entire
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. ^-A printing unit, said unit comprising a single plate cylinder of a first diameter and first and second blanket cylinders of a second diameter equal to one half of said first diameter, said plate cylinder including means for connecting to the surface thereof a plate including a sequence of first, second, third, and fourth images each of said images being in fixed position with respect to one another and occupying one quarter of the circumference of said plate cylinder, each of said blanket cylinders having a recessed surface over half its circumference, said press including means for rotating synchronously said plate cylinder and said blanket cylinders about respective axes such that said first blanket cylinder contacts said plate cylinder only at the position of said first and third image and said second blanket cylinder contacts said plate cylinder only at the positions of said second and fourth images.
2. A printing unit as set forth in claim 1 also including first and second impression cylinders juxtaposed with said first and second blanket cylinders and having a paper path therebetween, said impression cylinders also having said second diameter.
3. A printing unit as set forth in claim 1 including first, second, third and fourth inking means and means for applying ink from said 


inking means to respective ones of said four images controllably.
4. A printing unit as set forth in claim 2 including first, second, third, and fourth inking means and means for applying ink from said inking means to respective ones of said four images controllably.
5. A printing unit as set forth in claim 2 also including a transfer cylinder, said transfer cylinder being juxtaposed with said first and second impression cylinders and also having said second diameter.
6. A printing unit as set forth in claim 4 wherein said first and third inking means includes ink with TACK values of a relatively high and a relatively low value respectively such that superimposed first and third images comprising first and second layers of ink from said first and third inking means respectively can be transferred simultaneously from said first blanket cylinder to said associated first impression cylinder.
7. A printing unit as set forth in claim 6 wherein said second and fourth inking means includes ink with TACK value of a relatively high and a relatively low value respectively such that superimposed second and fourth images comprising first and second layers of ink from said second and fourth inking means respectively can be transferred simultaneously from said second 


blanket cylinder to said associated second impression cylinder.
8. A printing unit as set forth in claim 7 wherein said plate comprises silicon.
9. A printing unit, said unit including a single plate cylinder having a circumference, said circumference having first, second, third and fourth image areas defined sequentially thereabout, said unit also including first and second blanket cylinders, each of said blanket cylinders having defined thereon an image contact area, said blanket cylinders being positioned and operated such that the image contact area of said first blanket cylinder contacts only said first and third image areas of said plate cylinder and said image contact area of said second blanket cylinder contacts only said second and fourth image areas of said plate cylinder.
10. A printing unit as set forth in claim 9 wherein said plate cylinder has a diameter 2D and each of said blanket cylinders has a diameter D.
11. A printing unit as set forth in claim 9 wherein said plate cylinder has a circumference 4C and each of said blanket cylinders has a circumference 2C and an image contact area C.
12. A printing unit as set forth in 


claim 11 also including an impression cylinder, said cylinder having a circumference of 4C and having a paper contact area C, said impression cylinder being operative such that said paper contact area contacts said image contact areas of said blanket cylinders sequentially.
13. A printing unit as set forth in claim 11 also including first and second impression cylinders, each of said impression cylinders having a circumference 2C and being operative to contact said first and second blanket cylinders controllably at said respective contact areas.
14. A printing unit as set forth in claim 13 also including a transfer cylinder having a circumference 2C and being operative to contact both of said first and second impression cylinders simultaneously.
15. A printing unit as set forth in claim 9, said unit including a single plate for attachment to the circumference of said plate cylinder, said plate having formed thereon, first, second, third, and fourth images in fixed positions corresponding to said first, second, third, and fourth image areas.
16. A method of making a multi-image film for attachment to the circumference of the plate cylinder of the unit of claim 9, said method comprising the steps of attaching said film to a 


rotatable drum, rotating said drum about an axis under computer control, directing a laser beam at said film, said computer being operative to turn said beam on and off controllably as said drum rotates, and moving said laser beam along said drum along a path parallel to said axis under the control of said computer for providing in said film a sequence of perfectly placed images for said image areas of said plate cylinder.
17. A method as set forth in claim 16 for forming first, second, third and fourth images in said film for said first, second, third, and fourth image areas of said plate cylinder. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
