<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610343</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INORGANIC FOUNDRY BINDER SYSTEMS AND THEIR USES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22C116	B22C118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22C	B22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22C1	B22C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASHLAND OIL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASHLAND OIL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUDENHOEFER RUTH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGER HEIMO J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YUNOVICH YUILY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUDENHOEFER RUTH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANGER HEIMO J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YUNOVICH YUILY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INORGANIC FOUNDRY BINDER SYSTEMS AND THEIR USESTECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to inorganic no-bake foundry binder systems and their uses. The binder 5 systems comprise as separate Part A and Part B<-. components: (A) an aqueous solution of specified phosphoric acids, and (B) a mixture comprising (1) an iron oxide selected from the group consisting of (a) ferrous oxide, (b) ferroferric oxide, and (c) mixtures 10 thereof and (2) magnesium oxide. The binder systems are used to prepare foundry mixes which are used to prepare foundry molds and cores. The foundry molds and cores are used to cast metals.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION15 There is considerable interest in developing an inorganic foundry binder which has the performance characteristics of commercial organic foundry binders. Organic foundry binders, particularly those based upon polyurethane chemistry, have been used in the casting20 industry for several decades in both the no-bake and cold-box processes. This is because they produce foundry molds and cores with acceptable tensile strengths that shakeout of castings with relative ease. The castings prepared with these foundry molds25 and cores have a good surface finish with only minor defects.Currently, the effects of organic foundry binders on the environment and health are under study. Consequently, there is an interest in considering30 alternative binders in case these studies are negative. Inorganic foundry binders are of particular interest because they are not subject to some of the concerns associated with organic foundry binders.Various compositions of inorganic foundry binders35 are known. See for example U.S. Patent 3,930,872 

 which describes an inorganic foundry binder comprising boronated aluminum phosphate and an oxygen-containing alkaline earth metal in specified amounts. Although these binders produce molds and cores that have adequate strength and shakeout easily from metal casting prepared with them, the binders are not very flovable and do not mix well with the aggregate. Furthermore, molds and cores prepared with these binders do not exhibit adequate humidity resistance. As another example of an inorganic foundry binder, see U.S. Patent 4,111,705 which describes an inorganic no-bake foundry binder comprising orthophosphoric acid, a ferrous oxide containing • material, and a water-soluble alkali metal or ammonium salt of certain carboxylic acids. Another patent, U.S. Patent 4,430,441, describes a no-bake inorganic foundry binder comprising from 95-99
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS We claim:
1. An inorganic foundry binder system comprising as separate Part A and Part B components:
A. an aqueous solution of a phosphoric acid selected from the group consisting of orthophosphoric acid, pyrophosphoric acid, trimetaphosphoric acid, tetrametaphosphoric acid, polyphosphoric acid, and mixtures thereof; and
B. a mixture comprising:
(1) an iron oxide selected from the group consisting of:
(a) ferrous oxide,
(b) ferroferric oxide, and (c) mixtures thereof and
(2) magnesium oxide.
2. The binder system of claim 1 wherein the phosphoric acid of the Part A component is orthophosphoric acid.
3. The binder system of claim 2 wherein the magnesium oxide of the Part B component is a refractory form of magnesium oxide.
4. The binder system of claim 3 wherein the magnesium oxide is dead-burned magnesite.
5. The binder system of claim 4 wherein the weight ratio of the Part A component to Part B component is from 5:1 to 1:1. 


 6. The binder system of claim 5 wherein the weight ratio of iron oxide to magnesium oxide in the Part B . component is from 1:1 to 1:4.
<
. 7. The binder system of claim 6 wherein the aqueous
5 solution of orthophosphoric acid is from 50 weight percent to 70 weight percent of orthophosphoric acid, said weight based upon the total weight of the acid and water in the aqueous solution.
8. The binder system of claim 7 wherein the weight 10 ratio of the Part A component to Part B component is from 3:1 to 2:1.
9. The binder system of claim 8 wherein the aqueous solution of orthophosphoric acid is from 55 weight percent to 65 weight percent of orthophosphoric acid,
15 said weight based upon the total weight of the acid and water in the aqueous solution.
10. The binder system of claim 9 wherein Part A of the binder system further contains polyvinyl alcohol in an amount of from 1 to 6 weight percent based upon
20 the total weight of the Part A component.
11. The binder system of claim 10 wherein Part B of the binder system further contains a chromite in an amount effective to improve the abrasion resistance of the foundry mix prepared with the binder system.
25 12. The binder system of claim 11 wherein chromite is chromite flour in amount of 1 to 3 weight percent based upon the weight of the aggregate. 


 13. An inorganic foundry binder comprising in admixture:
A. an aqueous solution of a phosphoric acid selected from the group consisting of orthophosphoric acid, pyrophosphoric acid, trimetaphosphoric acid, tetrametaphosphoric acid, polyphosphoric acid, and mixtures thereof; and
B. a mixture comprising:
(1) an iron oxide selected from the group consisting of:
(a) ferrous oxide,
(b) ferroferric oxide, and
(c) mixtures thereof and
(2) magnesium oxide.
14. The binder of claim 13 wherein the phosphoric acid of the Part A component is orthophosphoric acid.
15. The binder system of claim 14 wherein the magnesium oxide of the Part B component is a refractory form of magnesium oxide.
16. The binder of claim 15 wherein the magnesium oxide is dead-burned magnesite.
18. The binder of claim 17 wherein the weight ratio of iron oxide to magnesium oxide in the Part B component is from 1:1 to 1:4.
19. The binder of claim 18 wherein the aqueous solution of orthophosphoric acid is from 50 weight percent to 70 weight percent of orthophosphoric acid, said weight based upon the total weight of acid and water in the aqueous solution. 


 20. The binder of claim 19 wherein the weight ratio of the Part A component to Part B component is from 3:1 to 2:1.
21. The binder of claim 20 wherein the aqueous solution of orthophosphoric acid is from 55 weight percent to 65 weight percent of orthophosphoric acid, said weight based upon the total weight of acid and water in the aqueous solution.
22. The binder of claim 21 wherein Part A of the binder system further contains polyvinyl alcohol in an amount of from 2 to 6 weight percent based upon the total weight of the Part A component.
23. The binder of claim 22 wherein Part B of the binder system further contains chromite in an amount effective to improve the abrasion resistance of the foundry mix prepared with the binder system.
24. The binder of claim 23 wherein the chromite is chromite flour in amount of 1 to 3 weight percent based upon the weight of the aggregate.
25. A foundry mix comprising in admixture:
(a) a foundry aggregate; and
(b) an effective amount of a foundry binder system comprising:
(1) an aqueous solution of a phosphoric acid selected from the group consisting of orthophosphoric acid, pyrophosphoric acid, trimetaphosphoric acid, tetrametaphosphoric acid. 


 polyphosphoric acid, and mixtures thereof; and
(2) a mixture comprising:
(a) an iron oxide selected from the group consisting of:
(i) ferrous oxide,
(ii) ferroferric oxide, and
(iii) mixtures thereof; and
(b) magnesium oxide.
26. The mix of claim 25 wherein the phosphoric acid of the Part A component is orthophosphoric acid.
27. The mix of claim 26 wherein the magnesium oxide of the Part B component is a refractory form of magnesium oxide.
28. The mix of claim 27 wherein the weight ratio of the Part A component to Part B component is from 5:1 to 1:1.
29. The mix of claim 28 wherein the magnesium oxide is dead-burned magnesite.
30. The mix of claim 29 wherein the weight ratio of iron oxide to magnesium oxide in the Part B component is from 1:1 to 1:4.
31. The mix of claim 30 wherein the aqueous solution of orthophosphoric acid is from 50 weight percent to 70 weight percent of orthophosphoric acid, said weight based upon the total weight of acid and water in the aqueous solution. 


 32. The mix of claim 31 wherein the weight ratio of the Part A component to Part B component is from 3:1 to 2:1.
33. The mix of claim 32 wherein the weight ratio of binder to aggregate is from 3:100 to 10:100.
34. The mix of claim 33 wherein the aqueous solution of orthophosphoric acid is from 55 weight percent to 65 weight percent of orthophosphoric acid, said weight based upon the total weight of acid and water in the aqueous solution.
35. The mix of claim 34 wherein Part A of the binder system further contains polyvinyl alcohol in an amount of from 1 to 6 weight percent based upon the total weight of the Part A component.
36. The mix of claim 35 wherein Part B of the binder system further contains chromite in an amount effective to improve the abrasion resistance of the foundry mix prepared with the binder system.
37. The mix of claim 36 wherein the chromite is chromite flour in amount of 1 to 3 weight percent based upon the weight of the aggregate.
38. A no-bake process for preparing a foundry shape comprising:
(A) mixing a foundry aggregate with an effective bonding amount of up to about 10% by weight, based upon the weight of the aggregate, of a binder composition comprising: 


 (1) an aqueous solution of a phosphoric acid selected from the group consisting of orthophosphoric acid, pyrophosphoric acid, trimetaphosphoric acid, tetrametaphosphoric acid, polyphosphoric acid, and mixtures thereof; and
(2) a mixture comprising:
(a) an iron oxide selected from the group consisting of: (i) ferrous oxide,
(ii) ferroferric oxide, and (iii) mixtures thereof; and
(b) magnesium oxide;
(B) introducing the foundry mix obtained from step (A) into a pattern;
(C) allowing the foundry mix to harden in the pattern until it becomes self-supporting; and
(D) thereafter removing the shaped foundry mix of step (C) from the pattern and allowing it to further cure, thereby obtaining a hard, solid, cured foundry shape.
39. The process of claim 38 wherein the phosphoric acid of the Part A component is orthophosphoric acid.
40. The process of claim 39 wherein the magnesium oxide of the Part B component is a refractory form of magnesium oxide.
41. The process of claim 40 wherein the magnesium oxide is dead-burned magnesite. 


 42. The mix of claim 41 wherein the weight ratio of the Part A component to Part B component is from 5:1 to 1:1.
43. The process of claim 42 wherein the weight ratio of iron oxide to magnesium oxide in the Part B component is from 1:1 to 1:4.
44. The process of claim 43 wherein the aqueous solution of orthophosphoric acid is from 50 weight percent to 70 weight percent of orthophosphoric acid, said weight based upon the total weight of the acid and water in the aqueous solution.
45. The process of claim 44 wherein the weight ratio of the Part A component to Part B component is from 3:1 to 2:1.
46. The process of claim 45 wherein the weight ratio of binder to aggregate is from 3:100 to 10:100.
47. The process of claim 46 wherein the aqueous solution of orthophosphoric acid is from 55 weight percent to 65 weight percent of orthophosphoric acid, said weight based upon the total weight of the acid and water in the aqueous solution.
48. The process of claim 47 wherein Part A of the binder system further contains polyvinyl alcohol in an amount of from 1 to 6 weight percent based upon the total weight of the Part A component.
49. The process of claim 48 wherein Part B of the binder system further contains chromite in an amount effective to improve the abrasion resistance of the 


 foundry molds and cores prepared with the binder system.
50. The process of claim 49 wherein the chromite is chromite flour in amount of 1 to 3 weight percent based upon the weight of the aggregate.
51. A foundry shape prepared in accordance with claim 44.
52. A foundry shape prepared in accordance with claim 48.
53. A foundry shape prepared in accordance with claim 50.
54. A process for preparing a metal casting comprising:
(a) fabricating a shape in accordance with claim 44;
(b) pouring said low melting metal into and around said shape;
(c) allowing said low melting metal to cool and solidify; and . (d) then separating the molded article.
55. A process for preparing a metal casting comprising:
(a) fabricating a shape in accordance with claim 48; (b) pouring said low melting metal into and around said shape;
(c) allowing said low melting metal to cool and solidify; and
(d) then separating the molded article. 


56. A process for preparing a metal casting comprising:
(a) fabricating a shape in accordance with claim 50; (b) pouring said low melting metal into and around said shape;
(c) allowing said low melting metal to cool and solidify; and
(d) then separating the molded article. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
