<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615842</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for stencil printing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41F1520	B41L1300	B41F1508	B41L1318	B41F1514	B41F1508	B41L1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41F	B41L	B41F	B41L	B41F	B41F	B41L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41F15	B41L13	B41F15	B41L13	B41F15	B41F15	B41L13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Provided is a method and device for stencil 
printing which can readily achieve a stencil printing 

of a prescribed even density even when the surface area 
of the printing surface is great, and which can ensure 

a multi color printing to be made without mixing of 
colors even when a large number of copies are to be 

printed. Printing ink having a sufficient consistency 
to retain its shape is deposited on a stencil master 

plate (S) as ink lumps (B), and a stencil master plate (S) is 
placed in a pressure chamber (17) with its surface 

carrying the ink lumps (B) facing the diaphragm (15), the 
pressure chamber (17) having a wall portion formed by a 

diaphragm (15) which is at least either flexible or 
elastic. The pressure chamber (17) is then depressurized 

so that the diaphragm (15) conforms to the ink lumps (B) 
and wraps itself onto the ink lumps (B), and the stencil 

master plate (S) in turn comes into close contact with 
the printing paper (P) by being pressed by the diaphragm 

(15) to thereby achieve a stencil printing on a sheet of 
printing paper through pressurization of the ink lumps 

(B) on the stencil master plate (S). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RISO KAGAKU CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RISO KAGAKU CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASEGAWA TAKANORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HASEGAWA, TAKANORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a stencil 
printing device, and in particular to a pressure type 
stencil printing device. As a well known pressure type stencil printing 
device, there is known the one which comprises a 
pressure plate having an edge hinged to a base, a 
printing paper supporting table made of elastic 
material such as a foamed elastomer and placed on the 
base, and a stencil master plate mounting portion 
provided on the surface of the pressure plate opposing 
the printing paper supporting table. Such a stencil 
printing device is disclosed, for instance in Japanese 
utility model laid open publication No. 62-196567. According to such a pressure type stencil printing 
device, a stencil printing is made by pivotally 
pressing down the pressure plate by a hand so that the 
stencil master plate mounted on the pressure plate may 
be pressed onto the printing paper placed on the 
printing paper supporting table. According to a known suction type textile printing 
device for placing a screen serving as a stencil on 
textile and dying the textile by depositing dye thereon 
in a prescribed pattern, the textile is placed on a 
porous support or a mesh plate having a number of holes 
provided therein, and with a stencil screen placed over 
the textile, suction is applied to the porous support 
or the mesh plate so that the suction is applied, via 
the textile on the porous support or the mesh plate, to 
the surface of the stencil screen facing the textile, 
and the dye deposited on the stencil screen is drawn 
into the textile through the openings of the stencil 
screen. Such suction type textile printing devices are  
 
disclosed, for instance, in Japanese patent 
publications (kokoku) Nos. 37-3944, 38-5199 and 44-13797 
(US Patent No. 3,221,648). To achieve a stencil printing at a prescribed 
density with a pressure type stencil printing device, a 
prescribed printing pressure is required, and the 
required pressure becomes greater as the printing 
surface area becomes larger. On the other hand, according to such a stencil 
printing device, the printing pressure effective in 
pressing the stencil master plate onto the printing 
paper placed on the printing paper supporting table is 
produced by pressing down the pressure plate with a 
hand for pivoting the same, and is therefore quite 
limited in magnitude. Also, to achieve a stencil printing of a uniform 
density, it is necessary to apply an even printing 
pressure over the entire printing surface. However, 
according to such a conventional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for stencil printing, comprising the 
steps of: 


preparing printing ink having a sufficient 
consistency to retain its shape; 
depositing said printing ink as ink lumps on a 
stencil master plate; 
placing said stencil master plate in a pressure 
chamber having a wall portion defined by a diaphragm 

which is at least either flexible or elastic, with a 
surface of said stencil master plate on which said ink 

lumps are deposited facing said diaphragm; and 
depressurizing said pressure chamber to cause said 
diaphragm to come into close contact with said ink 

lumps deposited on said stencil master plate and said 
stencil master plate to come into close contact with a 

printing surface; 
 
   whereby a stencil printing is made on said 

printing surface by applying a pressure onto said ink 
lumps deposited on said stencil master plate by way of 

said diaphragm. 
A method for stencil printing according to claim 
1, further comprising the step of removing said stencil 

master plate from said printing surface upon completion 
of said stencil printing by restoring said pressure 

chamber to atmospheric pressure or introducing a 
positive pressure into said pressure chamber. 
A method for stencil printing according to claim 
1, wherein said stencil master plate consists of an 

assembly comprising a sheet which is impervious to said 
printing ink and adapted to be perforated to an image 

to be printed, and a sheet of porous support material,  
 

said ink lumps being deposited on a surface of said 
porous support material sheet. 
A method for stencil printing according to claim 
3, wherein said assembly further comprises an ink cover 

sheet which may be selectively placed over said porous 
support material sheet after said ink lumps are 

deposited on said porous support material sheet. 
A device for stencil printing, comprising: 

a casing having a wall portion consisting of a 
diaphragm which is at least either flexible or elastic 

and defining a pressure chamber therein; 
depressurizing means for depressurizing said 
pressure chamber; and 
a printing paper supporting table placed inside 
said pressure chamber opposite to said diaphragm and 

having an elasticity. 
A device for stencil printing according to claim 
5, further comprising stencil master plate supporting 

means for supporting a stencil master plate in said 
pressure chamber between said diaphragm and said 

printing paper supporting table. 
A device for stencil printing according to claim 
6, wherein said stencil master plate supporting means 

is urged away from a printing surface by biasing 
means. 
A device for stencil printing according to claim 
6, wherein said stencil master plate supporting means 

is mounted on said diaphragm.  
 
A device for stencil printing according to claim 
5, further comprising pressurizing means for 

pressurizing said pressure chamber. 
A device for stencil printing, comprising: 

a casing having a pair of mutually opposing wall 
portions each consisting of a diaphragm which is at 

least either flexible or elastic and defining a 
pressure chamber therein; and 
depressurizing means for depressurizing said 
pressure chamber. 
A device for stencil printing according to claim 
10, further comprising stencil master plate supporting 

means for supporting a stencil master plate in said 
pressure chamber opposite to said diaphragms. 
A device for stencil printing according to claim 
11, wherein said stencil master plate supporting means 

is provided for each of said diaphragms so that two 
sides of printing paper can be simultaneously stencil 

printed by being placed between said two stencil master 
plate supporting means. 
A device for stencil printing according to claim 
10, further comprising pressurizing means for 

pressurizing said pressure chamber. 
A device for stencil printing, comprising: 

a frame having a pair of mutually opposing 
openings; 
a diaphragm extending across one of said openings 
of said frame, said diaphragm being at least either 

flexible or elastic, and a pressure chamber being 
defined between said diaphragm and a printing surface  

 
by placing the other of said openings onto said 

printing surface; 
stencil master plate supporting means for 
supporting a stencil master plate in said pressure 

chamber opposite to said diaphragm; and 
depressurizing means for depressurizing said 
pressure chamber; 
 
   whereby a desired stencil printing may be made by 

placing said printing surface over the other of said 
openings, and depressurizing said pressure chamber 

defined between said diaphragm and said printing 
surface with said depressurizing means with a stencil 

master plate supported by said stencil master plate 
supporting means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
