<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614603</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements in and relating to grass cutting machines
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01D3463	A01D43077	A01D3463	A01D4300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01D	A01D	A01D	A01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01D34	A01D43	A01D34	A01D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a grass cutting machine which 
comprises a chassis, a cutting member, a power source, a 

drive line for drivingly connecting the power source and 
the cutting member, means for creating a stream (16,304) of pressure 

air, a grass collection device (100,316), means for removably 
supporting the collection device on the machine, the 

collection device comprising a receptacle (318) for receiving cut 
grass, the receptacle having at least one inlet (15,315) for entry 

of cut grass entrained in a stream of air from said source 
and including a base wall (10), an upper wall (11) and one or more 

side walls (12), a part of at least one of the base and side 
walls including an air permeable region to retain cut grass 

in the receptacle and to permit the said stream of air to 
be drawn by said source through cut grass retained in the 

receptacle and through each air permeable region thereby 
serving, in use, to filter the air stream and compact the 

cut grass in the receptacle. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROLUX OUTDOOR PROD LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROLUX OUTDOOR PRODUCTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN KEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN, KEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to grass cutting machines and particularly to means for effectively
collecting cut grass produced by such machines. Grass cutting machines can be divided
into two major categories, namely, those in which grass is cut using a multi-bladed
cylindrical cutter with its axis of symmetry mounted for rotation about a substantially
horizontal axis - the so called cylinder mower - and those in which a cutting member is
mounted for rotation about a vertical axis and cutting is performed in a substantially
horizontal plane - the so called hover mower which may also be supported on wheels
and/or rollers in which case they are referred to as wheeled/rotary mowers. A form of
combined mower has been proposed in which a mower having a cylindrical cutter is at
least partially supported on a cushion of air. Such a combined mower is described in our
prior US Patent No. 4, 738, 086.
Our prior European Patent 0204573 corresponds to US 4738086, and discloses a
lawnmower having a cylinder type cutter blade arrangement, but which is supported not
by wheels, but by cushion of pressurized air. An air pump is disposed at the very rear of
the lawnmower, which draws air from a grass box which is located above the deck or
chassis of the mower. The grass box includes a forwardly sloping, air-permeable filter
through which the air pump draws air from the grass box. The air pump then supplies air
under pressure beneath the chassis in order to generate the cushion of air. The cylindrical
cutter blades cut the grass, and throw the grass cuttings into the grass box, the passage of
which is enhanced by the flow of air into the receptacle past the cutter blades.Conventionally, grass cut by cylinder mowers is thrown into a grass box by virtue of a
force applied to the cuttings due to rotation of the cylindrical cutter. In the case of rotary
mowers, cut grass may be forced into a grass collector directly by action of the rotating
cutting member which may or may not be formed with auxiliary fins for forming an air
stream during cutting. Alternatively, or in addition, the air stream may be produced by
an impeller. In either case cut grass is entrained in the stream of air and transported into
a grassbox. The position of cut grass in a grass collector fitted to any of the above types of mower is
effected quantitatively, that is, by the effect of the forces transporting the cut grass and,
as these forces diminish, the weight of the grass cuttings per se causes deposition thereof
in the grass box.It is an aim of the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An air supported grass cutting machine which, in use, is supported solely by
pressure air, the machine comprising a chassis (14), a cutting member (19), a power

source (17), a drive line (18) for drivingly connecting the power source (17) and the
cutting member (19), air impelling means (16) for creating a stream of air, a grass

collection device including a receptacle for receiving cut grass, and means for
removably supporting the receptacle on the chassis (14), the receptacle having an inlet

(15) for entry of cut grass entrained in the said stream of air being led towards said air
impelling means (16), and including a base wall (10), an upper wall (11) and one or

more side walls (12), a part of at least the base wall (10) including an air-permeable
region through which the said stream of air is drawn by the air impelling means (16) to

retain cut grass in the receptacle and to permit the said stream of air to be drawn
through cut grass retained in the receptacle and through the air-permeable region

thereby serving, in use, to filter the said stream of air and compact the cut grass in the
receptacle, the receptacle being mounted on the chassis (14), and the air-permeable

region being disposed relative to the centre of gravity of the
machine so that the said stream of air leading to the air impelling means (16) passes

through the air-permeable region in such a
manner that cut grass retained in the receptacle is collected substantially in the region

of the centre of the gravity of the machine.
A machine according to claim 1, wherein the power source (17) drives the
cutting member (19) and the air impelling means (16) indirectly through a belt (18),

thereby permitting the collection device to be mounted generally above the air
impelling means (16).
A machine according to claim 1 or 2, wherein at least one side wall (12)
includes an air permeable region. 
A machine according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the base wall (10)
including an air permeable region constitutes a supporting member for the cut grass

retained in the receptacle and wherein the supporting member is disposed in spatial
relationship relative to the said air impelling means (16) to form an air chamber (13)

therebetween.
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the cutting
member (19) is a cutting blade mounted for rotation in a substantially horizontal plane

within a cutting chamber.
A machine according to claim 5, wherein the air impelling means (16) is an
impeller mounted for coaxial rotation with the cutting blade (19).
A machine according to claim 6, wherein the drive line is an output shaft from
the power source (17) with the impeller (16) and the cutting blade (19) mounted for

coaxial rotation with the output shaft.
A machine according to any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein the inlet (15) for entry
of cut grass is disposed externally of the cutting chamber.
A machine according to any one of claims 5 to 7, including a duct connecting
the inlet (15) for entry of cut grass and the cutting chamber.
A machine according to any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein the inlet (15) for
entry of cut grass is disposed externally of the chassis (14).
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims, including a duct
extending into the receptacle from the inlet (15). 
A machine according to claim 1, wherein the receptacle is supported within an
outer casing.
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the base wall
(10) and each side wall (12) is air permeable.
A machine according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the collection
device further includes an outer housing within which the receptacle is removably

mounted with at least the base wall (10) disposed in spaced relationship with the
collection device, the said spatial relationship affording communication between the

interior of the receptacle and the air impelling means (16) via the air permeable region.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
