<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634872</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Processing digital video data
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N754	H04N5926	H04N5781	H04N736	H04N752	H04N726	H04N750	H04N585	H04N5926	H04N750	H04N736	H04N726	H04N5781	H04N584	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N7	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital video signal transmitter allows a high quality and smooth 
dynamic image to be reproduced on the receiving side even with a transmission 

medium having a low transmission rate. 
Background plane 

data representing a still image of a background video image and one or 
more motion plane data representing still images of respective objects 

moving on the background image are separated from the input digital 
video signal. The separated background plane data and each motion 

plane data are stored individually in memories (23BG and 23A1 to 23An). 
Change data of the still images stored as the motion plane data is 

detected based on the input digital video signal and outputs of the 
memories (23BG and 23A1 to 23An) and is compressed and coded by a 

coding means (26). Still image data of the plurality of plane data of 
the memories (23BG and 23A1 to 23An) and the change information from 

the coding means (26) are transmitted. 
In a second embodiment, typical image data compared with the motion 
plane data. Instead of transmitting the motion plane data, the 

difference between typical image data and the motion plane data together 
with an indication of the typical image data are transmitted. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDO TETSUJIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONDO, TETSUJIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to processing digital video data. More 
particularly, the invention relates to: apparatus for coding digital 
video data; and to transmitters and receivers for digital video 
signals, which are desirably capable of operating at a low bit rate. Digital video data of a dynamic image contains a very large 
amount of information and the transmission bit rate becomes very high 
if it is transmitted as it is. Due to that, conventionally data is 
compressed taking an advantage that generally an image is information 
of time and space when it is transmitted using a low rate transmission 
medium whose transmission bit rate is limited in a same manner as 
digital video data is recorded or reproduced using a magnetic tape or 
magneto-optic disk. The compression and transmission of digital video signal have 
been conventionally carried out for example by taking a difference 
between frames of digital video data and by data compressing the 
difference using DCT (discrete cosine transform). Further, considering 
that there are less motions in video, data is transmitted culling out 
its amount in a TV conference by transmitting data of only single side 
field, not transmitting full frames.  
 Although the image may become fine by victimizing time 
data and by assuring space data by reducing a number of 
fields to be transmitted, not transmitting the single side 
fields, the motion may become awkward. However, because a quality of the dynamic image is lost 
if the motion is awkward, a method of transmitting a full 
frame by compressing image data per one frame as much as 
possible to be able to reproduce a full motion as a dynamic 
image is being considered. As described above, the conventional method for 
transmitting digital video signal is devised so that the 
transmission rate is lowered by compressing video data in the 
time direction or spatial direction. However, if the transmission bit rate is to be lowered 
just by compressing data, i.e. by compressing in the time 
direction for example, a motion of the dynamic image becomes 
awkward and an unnatural video is brought about. Further, if 
data is compressed in the spatial direction, the spatial 
resolution is degraded that much, degrading the reproduced 
video. That is, because the conventional method lowers the bit 
rate just by compressing data, it victimizes either or both 
data in the time direction and spatial direction, disallowing 
to obtain a satisfactory reproduced video.  
 DE-A-4 138 517 discloses a video coding method in which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for transmitting digital video data comprising a sequence 
of images, the apparatus comprising: 


background plane data generating means (45,54,55) for generating 
background plane data representing a background image of input digital 

video data based on preceding images of the digital video data; 
discriminating means (49) for determining whether or not part of the 
video data within each image represents a moving object; 
motion plane data generating means (61,62) for generating at least 
one of motion plane data representing a respective motion object image of 

the digital video data in response to the discriminating means (49) 
determining that a corresponding part of the video data represents a moving 

object; 
background plane memory means (23BG) for storing the background 
plane data; 
motion plane memory means (23A1-23An) for storing the motion 
plane data; 
detecting means (31) for detecting motion plane change information 
between images of the digital video data in the temporal direction; and 
transmitting means for transmitting the background plane data and the 
motion plane data stored in the background plane memory means and the 

motion plane memory means, and the motion plane changing information. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the background plane data 
represents a still image for the background image of the digital video data 

and the at least one of the motion object plane data represents a still image 
for the motion object image of the digital video data. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said plane data  
 

generating means generates the background plane data and the at least one 
of motion plane data by detecting motion between the several images in the 

temporal direction. 
Apparatus according to claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3, comprising first 
encoding means (26) for encoding the motion plane changing information 

and generating the encoded change information of the motion plane 
changing information. 
Apparatus according to claim 4, comprising second encoding means 
(26) for encoding the background plane data and the motion plane data and 

generating the encoded background plane data and the compressed motion 
plane data. 
Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said second encoding means 
encodes the background plane data and the motion plane data at a 

compression efficiency lower than that of said first encoding means. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said 
background plane memory means stores the background plane data having 

a wider range of image than that of one image of digital video data. 
Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said transmitting means 
transmits the background plane data having a wider range of image as the 

background plane and a position information indicating a position on the 
background plane data having a wider range of image. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein: 

said detecting means (31) detects a background change information 
representing a change between the background images in a temporal 

direction in accordance with the background plane data stored in the 
background plane memory means and an inputted image of the digital video  

 
data, and 
said apparatus further comprises:
 
   controlling means (3) for controlling renewing background plane data 

stored in said background plane memory means in accordance with the 
background change information so that said background plane memory 

means stores background plane data having a wider range of image than 
that of one image of the digital video data. 
Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said controlling means 
recreates the background change information in accordance with the 

renewed background plane data. 
Apparatus according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein said transmitting 
means transmits the renewed background plane data as background plane 

data as well as position information indicating a position on the background 
plane data having a wider range of image. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein: 

said detecting means (31) detects a background change information 
representing a change between the background images in a temporal 

direction in accordance with a motion of the motion object in the digital 
video data, and 
said apparatus further comprises:
 
   controlling means (3) for controlling renewing background plane data 

stored in said background plane memory means in accordance with the 
background change information. 
Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said controlling means 
recreates the background change information in accordance with the 

renewed background plane data. 
Apparatus according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein said  
 

transmitting means transmits the renewed background plane data as 
background plane data. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein said 
controlling means adds data indicating before and behind relation information 

representing before and behind relation in depth direction to the plane data. 
In combination with transmitting apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 15, apparatus for receiving the transmitted data and reproducing 

the digital video data comprising a sequence of images, the apparatus 
comprising: 


receiving means (81) for receiving background plane data representing 
a background image of the digital video data, at least one of motion plane 

data representing a motion object image of the digital image data and a 

motion plane changing information representing a motion change between 
several successive images of the motion object of the digital image data in 

the temporal direction; 
background plane memory means (83BG) and motion plane memory 
means (83A1-83An) for storing the background plane data and the motion 

plane data respectively; and 
reproducing means (85) for reproducing the digital image data in 
accordance with the background plane data, the motion plane data and the 

motion changing information. 
Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the background plane data 
represents a still image for the background image of the digital video data 

and the at least one of the motion plane data represents a still image for the 
motion object image of the digital video data. 
Apparatus according to claim 16 or claim 17, wherein: 

the motion plane changing information is encoded changing 
information;  

 
the apparatus further comprising:
 
   first decoding means (84) for decoding the encoded changing 

information and generating the motion plane changing information. 
Apparatus according to claim 18, wherein: 

the background plane data and the motion plane data are encoded 
background plane data and encoded motion plane data respectively; 
the apparatus further comprising:
 
   second decoding means (84) for decoding the encoded background 

plane data and the encoded motion plane data and generating the 
background plane data and the motion plane data. 
Apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the encoded background 
plane data and the encoded motion plane data are encoded at a compression 

efficiency lower than that of the encoded motion plane changing 
information. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 20, wherein the 
background plane data is one having a wider range of image than that of one 

image of the digital video data. 
Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein: 

the transmitted data includes position information indicating a position 
on the background plane data having a wider range of image; and 
said reproducing means reproduces the digital video data in 
accordance with the position changing information. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 22, wherein: 

the transmitted data includes before and behind relation information 
indicating a before and behind relation in the depth direction to the plane 

data, and 
said reproducing means reproduces the digital video signal in  
 

accordance with the before and behind relation information. 
A method of transmitting digital video data comprising a sequence of 
images, the method comprising: 


generating background plane data representing a background image 
of input digital video data based on preceding images of the digital video 

data; 
determining whether or not part of the video data within each image 
represents a moving object; 
generating at least one of motion plane data representing a respective 
motion object image of the digital video data in response to a determination 

that a corresponding part of the video data represents a moving object; 
storing the background plane data and the motion plane data in 
background plane memory means and motion plane memory means, 

respectively; 
detecting motion plane change information between images of the 
digital video data in the temporal direction; and 
transmitting the background plane data and the motion plane data 
stored in the background plane memory means and the motion plane 

memory means, and the motion plane changing information. 
A method according to claim 24, wherein the background plane data 
represents a still image for the background image of the digital video data 

and the at least one of the motion object plane data represents a still image 
for the motion object image of the digital video data. 
A method according to claim 24 or claim 25, wherein said plane data 
generating step generates the background plane data and the at least one of 

motion plane data by detecting motion between the several images in the 
temporal direction. 
A method according to claim 24, claim 25 or claim 26, including  
 

encoding the motion plane changing information and generating the encoded 
change information of the motion plane changing information. 
A method according to claim 27, including encoding the background 
plane data and the motion plane data and generating the encoded 

background plane data and the compressed motion plane data. 
A method according to claim 28, wherein the background plane data 
and the motion plane data are encoded at a compression efficiency lower 

than that of the first encoding step. 
A method according to any one of the claims 24 to 29, wherein the 
background plane data is stored having a wider range of image than that of 

one image of digital video data. 
A method according to claim 30, wherein the background plane data 
is transmitted having a wider range of image as the background plane and 

a position information indicating a position on the background plane data 
having a wider range of image. 
A method according to any one of claims 24 to 31, wherein: 

a background change information is detected representing a change 
between the background images in a temporal direction in accordance with 

the stored background plane data and an inputted image of the digital video 
data; and 
renewing stored background plane data is controlled in accordance 
with the background change information so that background plane data is 

stored having a wider range of image than that of one image of the digital 
video data. 
A method according to claim 32, wherein the background change 
information is recreated in accordance with the renewed background plane  

 
data. 
A method according to claim 32 or claim 33, wherein the renewed 
background plane data is transmitted as background plane data as well as 

position information indicating a position on the background plane data 
having a wider range of image. 
A method according to any one of claims 24 to 31, wherein: 

a background change information is detected representing a change 
between the background images in a temporal direction in accordance with 

a motion of the motion object in the digital video data; and 
renewing stored background plane data is controlled in accordance 
with the background change information. 
A method according to claim 35, wherein the background change 
information is recreated in accordance with the renewed background plane 

data. 
A method according to claim 35 or claim 36, wherein the renewed 
background plane data is transmitted as background plane data. 
A method according to any one of claims 32 to 37, wherein data is 
added indicating before and behind relation information representing before 

and behind relation in depth direction to the plane data. 
In combination with a transmitting method according to any one of 
claims 24 to 38, a method of receiving the transmitted data and reproducing 

digital video data comprising a sequence of images, the method comprising: 

receiving background plane data representing a background image of 
the digital video data, at least one of motion plane data representing a 

motion object image of the digital image data and a motion plane changing 
information representing a motion change between several successive  

 
images of the motion object of the digital image data in the temporal 

direction; 
storing the background plane data and the motion plane data in 
background plane memory means and motion plane memory means, 

respectively; and 
reproducing the digital image data in accordance with the background 
plane data, the motion plane data and the motion changing information. 
A method according to claim 39, wherein the background plane data 
represents a still image for the background image of the digital video data 

and the at least one of the motion plane data represents a still image for the 
motion object image of the digital video data. 
A method according to claim 39 or claim 40, wherein: 

the motion plane changing information is encoded changing 
information; and 
the encoded changing information is decoded and the motion plane 
changing information is generated. 
A method according to claim 41, wherein: 

the background plane data and the motion plane data are encoded 
background plane data and encoded motion plane data respectively; and 
the encoded background plane data and the encoded motion plane 
data are decoded and the background plane data and the motion plane data 

are generated. 
A method according to claim 42, wherein the encoded background 
plane data and the encoded motion plane data are encoded at a compression 

efficiency lower than that of the encoded motion plane changing 
information. 
A method according to any one of claims 39 to 43, wherein the  
 

background plane data is one having a wider range of image than that of one 
image of the digital video data. 
A method according to claim 44, wherein: 

the transmitted data includes position information indicating a position 
on the background plane data having a wider range of image; and 
the digital video data is reproduced in accordance with the position 
changing information. 
A method according to any one of claims 39 to 45, wherein: 

the transmitted data includes before and behind relation information 
indicating a before and behind relation in the depth direction to the plane 

data; and 
the digital video signal is reproduced in accordance with the before 
and behind relation information. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
