<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612983</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for detecting the position of fluid-fluid interfaces.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C25C700	C25C706	F27D2100	F27D2100	G01F2322	G01F2322	G01F2324	G01F2324	G01N2518	G01N2518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C25C	C25C	F27D	F27D	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C25C7	C25C7	F27D21	F27D21	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	G01N25	G01N25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Precise information is obtainable concerning the 
position of a fluid-fluid interface (28, 33), such as between 

a gas and a liquid or between liquids. Such information is 
important for the control and automation of molten metal 

refining processes. Specifically, in an electrolytic process 
for removing magnesium from molten aluminum, knowledge of the 

vertical position of an interface (33) between the electrolyte 
and the magnesium and an interface (28) between the 

electrolyte and the aluminum facilitates the automatic removal 
of the purified metals when drained or drawn from the furnace. 

Heat energy is conducted through a thermocouple-heater 
assembly 34 to a thermocouple (38) located at its tip (36). 

The equilibrium temperature at the thermocouple junction is 
dependent upon the heat loss through tip (36). When the tip 

comes in contact with a fluid of different thermal conductivity, 
as between molten matter (29) and electrolyte (30), 

the equilibrium temperature at tip (36) and, thus, of the 
thermocouple junction will change. This change in temperature 

is used to determine the level of the liquid-liquid interface 
between molten matter (29) and electrolyte (30). This 

information is used to determine when the drawing of further 
molten material from the furnace is to be terminated, so that 

aluminum purified in the refining process and previously drawn 
through an outlet (26) will not be contaminated. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GABELICH STEPHEN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GABELICH, STEPHEN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and 
apparatus for detecting the position of fluid-fluid 
interfaces, e.g., between liquid-liquid and gas-liquid 
interfaces, and, more particularly, to the effecting of such 
a method and apparatus by use of thermal detection means. The 
present invention is suitable for use in the refining of 
molten metals with specific application to the removal of 
magnesium from scrap aluminum. Although the impetus for conceiving the present 
invention is to provide process control in molten metal 
technologies, specifically, in a process for refining scrap 
aluminum, it is to be understood that the present invention 
is as applicable to any need for detecting the position of 
fluid-fluid interfaces by thermal detection means. The removal of magnesium from scrap aluminum has 
been discussed in several publications, of which the following 
two are of particular interest to the present invention, viz., 
"Electrolytic Removal of Magnesium from Scrap Aluminum" 
JOURNAL OF METALS, Vol. 36, No. 7, July, 1984 pp. 141-43, and 
"Electrolytic Demagging of Secondary Aluminum in a Prototype 
Furnace" AFS Transactions, Vol. 94, pp. 385-390 (1986). The 
following excerpt from the latter article well states the 
reasons and background for recovering aluminum from scrap. "The amount of aluminum in an automobile has 
steadily increased from an average of 40 kg in 1976 to an 
average of 60 kg in 1982 due to efforts to achieve higher fuel 
efficiency by lowering the overall weight of the vehicle. 
Therefore, for a constant supply of aluminum at minimum cost, 
casting producers may consider increasing the use of high  
 
magnesium scrap, with large potential savings over the 
purchase of primary aluminum. However, to conform with 
specifications, the production of casting alloys such as 319 
from high magnesium aluminum scrap would require the removal 
of magnesium in excess of 0.1 wt.%. A chlorination process 
is most widely used by secondary smelters for demagging 
casting alloys. In this process, magnesium is selectively 
oxidized by chlorine and removed from molten aluminum in the 
form of a magnesium chloride dross. While the process is 
reasonably efficient at high magnesium content, it may create 
unacceptable environmental conditions in the plant. In 
addition, magnesium is being lost in the form of MgCl₂ dross, 
which being hygroscopic may pose disposal problems. "Recognizing the need for an efficient and 
pollution-free demagging process, we have been developing the 
electrochemical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for detecting the position of an 
interface between fluids respectively having different heat 

transfer characteristics, comprising the step of: 
sensing differences in the heat transfer 

characteristics of the fluids at the interface. 
A method according to claim 1 in which said 
sensing step comprises the steps of heating a heat sensing 

device to a temperature which is greater than those of the 
fluids, and detecting changes in the temperature of the heat 

sensing device as a measure of the rate of heat flow into the 
respective fluids. 
A method according to claim 2 in which said 
sensing step comprises the step of utilizing a thermocouple 

as the heat sensing device. 
A method according to claim 3 in which said 
sensing step comprises the steps of positioning the thermocouple 

in the fluids and moving the thermocouple and the 
interface with respect to one another to move the thermocouple 

through the interface. 
A method according to claim 4 in which said 
moving step comprises the step of changing the position of the 

interface with respect to the thermocouple by removal of at 
least one of the fluids. 
In an electrochemical process for extracting 
magnesium from scrap aluminum in which the scrap aluminum in 

molten form is coupled to an anode and an electrolyte is 
coupled to a cathode, and in which a top layer of molten 

magnesium and a bottom layer of molten aluminum, situated 
between an intermediate layer of the electrolyte, are formed 

from the scrap aluminum, wherein the improvement comprises a 
method for monitoring the level of any of the layers at their 

interfaces, comprising the step of sensing a difference in 
heat transfer of the molten materials on either side of the 

interface being monitored. 
A method according to claim 6 in which said 
sensing step comprises the steps of placing a heat sensing 

device above and below the interface being monitored and 
perceiving any temperature difference in the heat sensing 

device. 
A method according to claim 7 further 
comprising the step of heating the heat sensing device to a 

temperature which is greater than those of the molten 
materials to ensure transfer of heat from the heat sensing 

device into the respective molten materials. 
A method according to claim 8 further 
comprising the step of moving the interface with respect to 

the heat sensing device. 
Apparatus for detecting the position of an 
interface between fluids respectively having different heat 

transfer characteristics, comprising a sensor for sensing a 
change in the heat transfer between said sensor and the fluids 

at the interfaces. 
Apparatus according to claim 10 in which said 
sensor comprises a thermocouple placed at the interface and 

means coupled thereto for perceiving any change in the 
thermocouple temperature. 
Apparatus according to claim 11 in which said 
thermocouple junction is heated to a temperature which is 

higher than those of the fluids. 
Apparatus according to claim 12 further 
comprising means for changing the position of the interface 

with respect to the thermocouple. 
Apparatus according to claim 11 further 
comprising a temperature display coupled to said thermocouple. 
Apparatus according to claim 12 further 
comprising a heater coil surrounding said thermocouple for 

heating thereof. 
Apparatus according to claim 15 further 
comprising means for spacing said heater coil from said 

thermocouple. 
Apparatus according to claim 15 in which said 
spacing means comprises means encapsulating both said heater 

coil and said thermocouple. 
Apparatus according to claim 15 further 
comprising a tube supporting said thermocouple and coaxially 

positioned within said heater coil, and in which said spacing 
means comprises means encapsulating said heater coil and said 

thermocouple, and annular space means separating said heater 
coil from said tube. 
Apparatus according to claim 10 in which said 
sensor comprises a pair of oppositely pointing thermocouple 

junctions placed at the interface and means coupled thereto 
for perceiving any change in the temperatures of said 

thermocouple junctions. 
Apparatus according to claim 10 in which said 
sensor comprises a pair of spaced apart thermocouple junctions 

placed on either side of the interface and means coupled 
thereto for perceiving any change in the temperatures of said 

thermocouple junctions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
