<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627732</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Thin film transducer with reduced flying height.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B531	G11B531	G11B539	G11B539	G11B548	G11B548	G11B560	G11B560	G11B2121	G11B2121	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B21	G11B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magnetic disk recording system with a combination 
transducer/slider having reduced effective flying height as 

measured between the transducer gap and the surface of the 
recording medium. The slider has a leading end, a trailing 

end and an air bearing surface extending therebetween. The 
trailing end is provided with a surface contour which forms a 

boundary with the air bearing surface near the pole tip region 
of the transducer. Consequently, the effective flying height 

of the pole tip region is nearly equal to the flying height of 
the boundary. The contoured surface can be an angled plane, a 

transverse notch or a thin overcoat layer with a small angled 
band. The magnetic transducers may either have flat bottom 

poles or a bottom pole with a recessed central region. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNEX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNEX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIN FONG-JEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHU SHENGBO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIN, FONG-JEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHU, SHENGBO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to slider/transducer 
assemblies which are used in data recording devices. More 
particularly, this invention relates to magnetic 
transducer/slider assemblies of the type found in rotating 
disk drives using magnetic media. Magnetic disk drives using rotating disk media have 
long been known and used in the computer field for the storage 
and retrieval of information. Such drives typically include a 
mechanism for rotating the disk, a magnetic transducer and an 
air bearing slider supporting the transducer, a head arm for 
supporting the air bearing slider with the magnetic transducer 
closely adjacent the recording surface of the magnetic 
recording medium, and a device for supporting the head arm and 
for moving the head arm relative to the recording surface of 
the magnetic recording medium to ensure correct radial 
positioning of the transducer over the medium. The air 
bearing slider is typically formed from a suitable material in 
the shape of a body having a leading end, a trailing end and 
one or more rails extending between the leading end and the 
trailing end. The underside of each rail forms the air 
bearing surface which supports the slider in a flying attitude 
above the surface of the magnetic medium when the medium is 
rotating underneath the slider body. The magnetic transducer is typically located 
adjacent the trailing end of the slider body, typically on the 
trailing surface of the body as shown in U.S. Patent No. 
4,894,740 issued January 16, 1990 for "MAGNETIC HEAD AIR 
BEARING SLIDER". Alternatively, the magnetic transducer is 
formed on the rear surface of the slider body using 
photolithographic techniques and batch processing on a 
substrate composed of the slider body material. Currently, 
this batch processing version is favored in the industry since  
 
it is more economical and capable of producing transducers 
with the small dimensions required on a reliable basis. Regardless of whether a discrete transducer/slider 
assembly or a batch processed transducer/slider is employed, 
in both cases the exposed surface of the transducer is 
typically coated with a relatively thick protective layer 
prior to finishing and installation in the head arm support 
mechanism. In batch processed transducer/slider assemblies, 
this protective layer is termed the "overcoat" layer and is 
usually composed of silicon dioxide, A1203, silicon nitride or 
some other suitable material. This overcoat layer is 
initially formed to a larger thickness than that desired in 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A slider/transducer assembly comprising a 
slider body and a transducer, said slider body having a 

leading end, a trailing end, and an air bearing surface 
located intermediate the leading end and the trailing end, the 

trailing end having a contoured surface portion forming a 
boundary with the air bearing surface, said transducer having 

a transducing region located adjacent the trailing end, said 
boundary being located closely adjacent the transducing 

region. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said contoured 
surface portion comprises a substantially planar surface 

portion extending from the boundary at an angle with respect 
to said air bearing surface. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said contoured 
surface portion comprises a notch extending rearwardly of said 

boundary. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said contoured 
surface portion comprises a thin overcoat layer formed over 

said transducer, said contoured surface portion including a 
substantially planar angled sub-portion extending rearwardly 

of said boundary at an angle with respect to said air bearing 
surface. 
The invention of claim 1 wherein said 
transducer comprises a magnetic transducer including a top 

pole having a main body portion with an upper surface and a 
bottom pole, each pole having a pole tip, said pole tips 

defining a pole tip region spaced from the upper surface of 
said top pole main body portion;
 and wherein said boundary 
lies between said upper surface and said pole tip region. 
The invention of claim 5 wherein said bottom 
pole has a bottom surface spaced from said pole tip region. 
A transducer/slider assembly comprising a 
slider body and a magnetic transducer, said slider body having 

a leading end, a trailing end, and an air bearing surface 
located intermediate the leading end and the trailing end, 

said magnetic transducer including top and bottom poles each 
having a pole tip, said pole tips defining a pole tip region 

terminating at a portion of said air bearing surface adjacent 
the trailing end of said slider body, said top pole having a 

main body region with a top surface portion spaced from said 
pole tip region, said trailing end of said slider body having 

an angled surface forming a boundary with said air bearing 
surface, said boundary lying in a region between said top 

surface portion and said pole tip region. 
The invention of claim 7 wherein said bottom 
pole has a main body region with a bottom surface portion 

spaced from said pole tip region. 
A transducer/slider assembly comprising a 
slider body and a magnetic transducer, said slider body having 

a leading end, a trailing end and an air bearing surface 
located intermediate the leading end and the trailing end, 

said magnetic transducer including top and bottom poles each 
having a pole tip, said pole tips defining a pole tip region 

terminating at a portion of said air bearing surface adjacent 
the trailing end of said slider body, said top pole having a 

main body region with a top surface portion spaced from said 
pole tip region, said trailing end of said slider including a 

contoured surface forming a boundary with said air bearing 
surface, said boundary lying in a region between said top 

surface portion and said pole tip region. 
The invention of claim 9 wherein said contoured 
surface includes a thin overcoat layer overlying said top 

pole; and wherein that portion of said thin overcoat layer 
covering the top pole tip includes an angled portion 

terminating at said boundary. 
The invention of claim 9 wherein said bottom 
pole has a main body region with a bottom surface portion 

spaced from said pole tip region. 
A transducer/slider assembly comprising a 
slider body and a magnetic transducer, said slider body having 

a leading end, a trailing end, and an air bearing surface 
located intermediate the leading end and the trailing end, 

said magnetic transducer including top and bottom poles each 
having a pole tip, said pole tips defining a pole tip region 

terminating at a portion of said air bearing surface adjacent 
the trailing end of said slider body, said top pole having a 

main body region with a top surface portion spaced from said 
pole tip region, said trailing end of said slider body 

comprising an end surface and a notch extending from said end 
surface to said boundary, said boundary lying in a region 

between said top surface portion and said pole tip region. 
The invention of claim 12 wherein said bottom 
pole has a main body region with a bottom surface portion 

spaced from said pole tip region. 
A magnetic disk recording system comprising: 
   a magnetic recording medium having a recording 

surface; 
   a slider/transducer assembly comprising a 

slider body and a transducer; 
   head arm means for supporting said 

slider/transducer assembly with said transducer closely 
adjacent the recording surface of the said magnetic recording 

medium: 
   accessing means for supporting said head arm means 

and for moving said head arm means relative to the recording 
surface of said magnetic recording medium, 

   said slider body having a leading end, a trailing 
end, and an air bearing surface located intermediate the 

leading end and the trailing end, the trailing end having a 
 

contoured surface portion forming a boundary with the air 
bearing surface, 

   said transducer having a transducing region located 
adjacent the trailing end, said boundary being located closely 

adjacent the transducing region. 
The invention of claim 14 wherein said 
contoured surface portion comprises a substantially planar 

surface portion extending from the boundary at an angle with 
respect to said air bearing surface. 
The invention of claim 14 wherein said 
contoured surface portion comprises a notch extending 

rearwardly of said boundary. 
The invention of claim 14 wherein said 
contoured surface portion comprises a thin overcoat layer 

formed over said transducer, said contoured surface portion 
including a substantially planar angled sub-portion extending 

rearwardly of said boundary at an angle with respect to said 
air bearing surface. 
The invention of claim 14 wherein said 
transducer comprises a magnetic transducer including a top 

pole having a main body portion with an upper surface and a 
bottom pole, each pole having a pole tip, said pole tips 

defining a pole tip region spaced from the upper surface of 
said top pole main body portion; and wherein said boundary 

lies between said upper surface and said pole tip region. 
The invention of claim 18 wherein said bottom 
pole has a bottom surface spaced from said pole tip region. 
A transducer assembly for a recording device 
wherein the edge of the transducer assembly which in use 

of the assembly is closest to the recording surface is 
profiled so as to enable the height of the transducer 

assembly above the recording surface to be reduced. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
