<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625713</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for tracking multiple regional objects.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1372	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for tracking objects is disclosed. First a region 
containing the objects is scanned to generate a multiplicity 

of sequential images or data sets of the region. A 
plurality of points in each of the images or data sets 

corresponds to a respective plurality of the objects. Next, 
respective figures of merit are determined for assigning 

the points to the tracks. Next, a k-dimensional cost function 
is defined which sums the figures of merit for combinations 

of assignments from the images or data sets. Next, 
the complexity of the cost function is reduced by 

Lagrangian Relaxation by permitting a point to be assigned 
to more than one track and adding a penalty factor to the 

cost function when a point is assigned to more than one 
track. The reducing step is iteratively repeated and the 

resultant penalized cost function is solved. Next, an auxiliary 
function at a (k-1)-dimension is defined as a function 

of lower order penalty factors and a solution at the 
dimension at which the penalized cost function was solved 

directly. Next, a gradient of the auxiliary function is 
determined, a step is made in the direction of the gradient 

to identify a peak region of the auxiliary function and 
penalty factors at the peak region are determined. The 

penalty factors at the peak region are used to determine 
track assignments for the points in the images or data 

sets. Then one or more of the following actions are taken 
based on the track assignments: sending a warning to aircraft 

or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, 
controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking 

evasive action, working on one of the objects. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARKER THOMAS NORMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSICHETTI JOSEPH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POORE AUBREY BONNER JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIJAVEC NENAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARKER, THOMAS NORMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSICHETTI, JOSEPH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POORE, AUBREY BONNER, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIJAVEC, NENAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to computerized techniques 
for processing data obtained from radar to track multiple 
discrete objects. There are many situations where the courses of multiple 
objects in a region must be tracked. Typically, radar is 
used to scan the region and generate discrete images or 
"snapshots" based on sets of returns. In some types of 
tracking systems, all the returns from any one object are 
represented in an image as a single point unrelated to the 
shape or size of the objects. "Tracking" is the process of 
identifying a sequence of points from a respective sequence 
of the images that represents the motion of an object. The 
tracking problem is difficult when there are multiple 
closely spaced objects because the objects can change their 
speed and direction rapidly and move into and out of the 
line of sight for other objects. The problem is 
exacerbated because each set of returns may result from 
noise as well as echoes from the actual objects. The 
returns resulting from the noise are also called false positives. 
Likewise, the radar will not detect all echoes 
from the actual objects and this phenomena is called a 
false negative or 'missed detect' error. For tracking airborne 
objects, a large distance between the radar and the 
objects diminishes the signal to noise ratio so the number 
of false positives and false negatives can be high. For 
robotic applications the power of the radar is low and as a 
result, the signal to noise ratio can also be low and the 
number of false positives and false negatives high. In view of the proximity of the objects to one another, 
varied motion of the objects and false positives and false  
 
negatives, multiple sequential images should be analyzed 
collectively to obtain enough information to properly 
assign the points to the proper tracks. Naturally, the 
larger the number of images that are analyzed, the greater 
the amount of information that must be processed. While identifying the track of an object, a kinematic model 
describing the object's location, velocity and acceleration 
is generated. That model provides the means by which the 
object's future motion can be predicted. Based upon that 
prediction, appropriate action can be initiated. For 
example, the military may need to track multiple enemy aircraft 
or missiles in a region to predict their objective, 
plan responses and intercept them. Also, commercial air 
traffic control may need to track multiple commercial aircraft 
around an airport to predict their future
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for tracking objects, said method comprising 
the steps of: 

repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of 
moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential 

images or data sets of said region, a plurality of 
points in each of said images or data sets corresponding 

to a respective plurality of said objects; 

determining respective figures of merit for assigning 
said points to said tracks; 

defining a k-dimensional cost function which sums the 
figures of merit for combinations of assignments from 

the images or data sets; 
reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting 

a point to be assigned to more than one track and 
adding a penalty factor to the cost function when a 

point is assigned to more than one track; 
iteratively repeating the reducing step and directly 

solving a resultant penalized cost function; 
defining an auxiliary function at a (k-1)-dimension as 

a function of lower order penalty factors and a solution 
at said dimension at which said penalized cost 

function was solved directly; 
determining a gradient of said auxiliary function, 

stepping in the direction of said gradient to identify 
a peak region of said auxiliary function and determining 

penalty factors at said peak region; 
using said penalty factors at said peak region to 

assign the points to corresponding tracks;
 

taking one or more of the following actions based on 
the track assignments: 

   sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea 
facility, 

   controlling air traffic, 
   controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile 

equipment, 
   taking evasive action, 

   working on one of the objects. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 
further comprising the following steps which are performed 

before the step of defining said auxiliary function: 
defining a preliminary auxiliary function at a dimension 

equal or one greater than the dimension at which 
said penalized cost function is solved directly, said 

preliminary auxiliary function being a function of 
lower order penalty values and a solution at said 

dimension at which said penalized cost function was 
solved directly; 

determining a gradient of said preliminary auxiliary 
function, stepping in the direction of said gradient to 

identify a peak region of said preliminary auxiliary 
function and determining penalty factors at said peak 

region; and 
iteratively repeating said defining step and said gradient 

determining, stepping and penalty factor determining 
steps to define auxiliary functions at 

 
successively higher dimensions until the auxiliary 

function at the (k-1) dimension is determined. 
A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein each of the 
auxiliary functions equals a solution to the auxiliary 

function at the next lower dimension plus a solution to 
a 2-dimensional penalized cost function. 
A method as set forth in claim 3 wherein 
the first said preliminary auxiliary function is 

defined at the dimension at which said penalized cost 
function is solved directly. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the figure of 
merit determining step is performed by: 

extrapolating tracks for said objects; and 
determining the figures of merit based on distances 

from each of said points to the extrapolated tracks. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the scanning 
step is performed by radar. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein each reducing 
step is performed by Lagrangian Relaxation. 
A method as set forth in claim 3 wherein the 
penalized cost function is solved directly at the 

second dimension and further comprising the steps of: 
determining at the second dimension a function equal to 

minimizing of said penalized cost function and other 
penalized cost functions at the second dimension; 

determining a gradient of said function and stepping in 
the direction of said function to identify penalty 

 
factors corresponding to a peak region of said function; 

and 
using said penalty factors corresponding to the peak 

region of said function to define the preliminary auxiliary 
functions at a third dimension. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising 
the steps of: 

extrapolating said tracks corresponding to said assignments; 
taking said one or more of said actions based on said 

extrapolations. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising 
the step of solving said auxiliary function and wherein 

the gradient is determined at the solution of said auxiliary 
function. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said gradient 
is based on a plurality of subgradients. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the cost 
determining, defining, reducing, generating, gradient 

determining, stepping, penalty factor determining, and 
using steps are performed by a computer. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the stepping 
step is performed by selecting an initial step size, 

determining a solution to the auxiliary function one 
step size in the direction of said gradient from a 

starting point on said auxiliary function, comparing 
said solution to a solution at said starting point and 

if said solution at said one step size is larger than 
the solution at said starting point, increasing said 

 
step size and repeating the solution determining and 

comparing steps using said increased step size. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising 
the following steps performed after the reducing step: 

identifying a subset of said points which are likely 
assigned to a subset of said tracks based on the 

respective figures of merit; and 
removing said points from consideration in the respective 

penalized cost function; and wherein 
the subsequent reducing steps are performed without 

considering said subset of points; and further comprising 
the step of: 

separately assigning said subset of points to tracks of 
said subset of tracks. 
Method for tracking objects, said method comprising 
the steps of: 

repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of 
moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential 

images or data sets of said region, a plurality of 
points in each of said images or data sets corresponding 

to a respective plurality of said objects; 
determining respective figures of merit for assigning 

said points to said tracks; 
defining a k-dimensional cost function which sums the 

figures of merit for combinations of assignments from 
the images or data sets; 

reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting 
a point to be assigned to more than one track and 

 
adding a penalty factor to the cost function when a 

point is assigned to more than one track; 
after the reducing step, identifying a subset of said 

points which should be assigned to a subset of said 
tracks based on the respective figures of merit; 

removing said points from consideration in the respective 
penalized cost function; 

separately assigning said subset of points to tracks of 
said subset of tracks. 

taking one or more of the following actions based on 
tracks corresponding to the assignments; 

   sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea 
facility, 

   controlling air traffic, 
   controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile 

equipment, 
   taking evasive action, 

   working as one of the objects. 
A method as set forth in claim 15 further comprising 
the steps of: 

repeating the reducing, identifying, removing and separately 
assigning steps using a penalized cost function 

which excludes said subset of points. 
System for tracking objects, said system comprising:
 

means for repeatedly scanning a region containing a 
plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity 

of sequential images or data sets of said 
region, a plurality of points
 in each of said images or 
data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of 

said objects; 
means for determining respective figures of merit for 

assigning said points to said tracks; 
means for defining a k-dimensional cost function which 

sums the figures of merit for combinations of assignments 
from the images or data sets; 

means for reducing complexity of the cost function by 
permitting a point to be assigned to more than one 

track and adding a penalty factor to the cost function 
when a point is assigned to more than one track; 

means for iteratively repeating the reducing step and 
directly solving a resultant penalized cost function; 

means for defining an auxiliary function at a 
(k-1)-dimension as a function of lower order penalty 

factors and a solution at said dimension at which said 
penalized cost function was solved directly; 

means for determining a gradient of said auxiliary 
function, stepping in the direction of said gradient to 

identify a peak region of said auxiliary function and 
determining penalty factors at said peak region; 

means for using said penalty factors at said peak 
region to assign the points to corresponding tracks; 

means for taking one or more of the following actions 
based on the track assignments;

 
   sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea 

facility, 
   controlling air traffic, 

   controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile 
equipment, 

   taking evasive action, 
   working on one of the objects. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
