<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654932</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sheet feeding from a selectable one of media supplies into a transport path
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N100	H04N100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus automatically switches from one web 
media type to another, using a single drive roller (36) to 

access and drive one of two web media supply cassettes (16) 
mounted within an imaging system. A gear motor (45) and 

eccentric shaft (46) position and load the drive roller (36) 
against either of two driven rollers (32, 34). The media is 

nipped between the drive roller (36) and one of the driven 
rollers (34) and is advanced by the drive roller (36) into the 

imaging system as needed. To switch media supply cassettes, 
the media is cut beyond the drive roller. The media is then 

drawn back into the supply cassette (16) to free the media 
path (24) for the alternate media to advance from the other of 

the two media supply cassettes. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOZLOWSKY EDWARD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYONS JOSEPH R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOZLOWSKY, EDWARD P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LYONS, JOSEPH R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is intended to answer a long-felt need in the
field of image recording. More specifically, the invention
allows for selection of a media type, whether it be paper, film,
or plate, or a different size media of the same type. Two media
supply cassettes are mounted within an internal drum recorder,
or the like. Selection of the media can be programmed to be
automatic, or can be input by a user's command.Apparatuses capable of selecting from among plural media are e.g.
disclosed in US-A-4 868 674, US-A-4 980 717, and DE-A-4 022 883.A general object of the invention is to select media from one of
two supply cassettes that are mounted within an imaging system,
by an alternative arrangement compared to the prior art.It is a further general object of the invention to prevent waste of
unexposed media.The invention is as defined in the appended claims. Generally, the invention
involves an apparatus for selecting one of two media supply cassettes to
feed media into a media path comprises input means for inputting
a command designating a selected supply cassette and positioning
means for automatically positioning a drive roller into a
position corresponding to the command. The drive roller contacts
a driven roller adjacent to the selected supply cassette and
pinches a leading edge of media therebetween that extends out
from the selected supply cassette into a feed path of the
selected supply cassette. The apparatus also includes driving
means for driving the drive roller to feed the media out from
the selected supply cassette through the feed path and into the
media path.A feature of the invention is a rewinding mechanism provided on
the media supply cassettes.A corresponding method for selecting media from one of two media supply
cassettes to feed the media into a media path comprises
inputting a command to designate a selected supply cassette and
automatically positioning a drive roller into a position
corresponding to the command. The drive roller contacts a driven 
roller adjacent to the selected supply cassette, and pinches a
leading edge of media therebetween that extends out from the
selected supply cassette into a feed path of the selected supply
cassette. The next step is driving the drive roller to feed the
media out from the selected supply cassette through the feed
path and into the media path.The features and objects of the invention will become apparent
in the following description when taken with the accompanying
drawings, in which:
Figure 1is a side view of an input media
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for selecting media from one of two media supply
cassettes to feed the media into a media path, comprising

the subsequent steps of:

a. inputting a command to designate one of the two
media supply cassettes as a selected supply

cassette (16);
b. automatically positioning a movable drive roller
(36) to be in driving contact with one of two driven

rollers (34; 32) respectively mounted adjacent the
two media supply cassettes, the drive roller (36)

and the driven rollers (34; 32) being arranged in
parallel, said positioning of the drive roller (36)

taking place in response to said inputting of the
command, to pinch between the drive roller and the

one of the two driven rollers adjacent to the
selected supply cassette a leading edge of media

extending out from the selected supply cassette (16)
into a feed path (20; 18) of the selected supply

cassette; and,
c. driving the drive roller (36), thereby rotating said
one of two driven rollers (34; 32) and feeding the

media out from the selected supply cassette (16)
through the feed path (20) and into the media path

(24).
The method according to claim 1 further comprising the
additional subsequent steps of: 


d. cutting the media on an output side of the media path, beyond the drive
roller (36); and,
e. driving the drive roller (36) in reverse and simultaneously
rewinding the selected supply cassette, thereby

returning the length of media in the media path (24)
to the selected supply cassette (16) such that the

leading edge (44) of the media extends into the
feed path (20) past the driven roller (34), only.
The method according to claim 1 wherein automatically
positioning the drive roller includes the steps of:


b1. rotating an eccentric shaft (46);
b2. translating rotational movement of the eccentric
shaft (46) into pivotal motion of the drive roller

(36); and,
b3. generating firm contact between the drive roller
(36) and the driven roller (34; 32) by further

rotating the eccentric shaft (46) to effectively
pinch the leading edge of media.
The method according to claim 3 wherein in step b3 the
further rotation of the eccentric shaft (46) causes a

spring (56) to be compressed, the spring force in turn
generating a pressing force acting between the drive

roller (36) and the driven roller (34; 32).
An apparatus for selecting one of two media supply cassettes
to feed media into a media path, comprising:


a. input means for inputting a command designating a
selected supply cassette; 
b. positioning means for automatically positioning a
movable drive roller (36) to be in driving contact

with one of two driven rollers (34; 32) respectively
mounted adjacent the two media supply cassettes

(16), the drive roller (36) and the driven rollers
(34; 32) being arranged in parallel, said positioning

of the drive roller (36) taking place in
response to said inputting of the command, to pinch

between the drive roller (36) and the one of the two
driven rollers (34; 32) adjacent to the selected

supply cassette (16) a leading edge of media extending
out from the selected supply cassette (16) into

a feed path (20) of the selected supply cassette;
and,
c. driving means (39, 40, 41) for driving the drive
roller (36), thereby rotating said one of two driven

rollers (34; 32) and feeding the media out from the
selected supply cassette (16) through the feed path

(20) and into the media path (24).
The apparatus according to claim 5 further comprising:

d. cutting means for cutting the media on an output
side of the media path beyond the drive roller (36);
e. rewind means (72, 74) for rewinding the selected
supply cassette thereby returning the length of

media in the media path (24) to the selected supply
cassette (16) such that the media extends out

from the selected supply cassette into the feed path
(20) past the driven roller (34), only.
The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said rewind
means (72, 74) includes a rewind gear (74) mounted on the

selected supply cassette (16) and a rewind motor (72) in 
driving contact with said rewind gear.
The apparatus according to any of claims 5, 6 or 7
wherein said positioning means includes:


b1. rotating means (45) for rotating an eccentric shaft
(46);
b2. translating means (38, 48, 50) for translating
rotational movement of the eccentric shaft (46) into

pivotal motion of the drive roller (36); and,
b3. pressure generating means (45, 54, 56) for generating
firm contact between the drive roller (36) and

the driven roller (34; 32) acting upon further rotation
of the eccentric shaft (46) to effectively

pinch the leading edge of media.
The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the pressure
generating means comprises a spring (56) which is

compressed when the eccentric shaft (46) is further
rotated, the spring being positioned in a manner that the

spring force is translated into a pressing force acting
between the drive roller (36) and the driven roller (34;

32).
An apparatus for selecting one of two media supply cassettes
to feed media into a media path, comprising:


a. a housing (14);
b. a first media path (18) and a second media path
(20);
c. a first driven roller (32) and a second driven
roller (34) mounted for rotation within said housing

(14), adjacent to said first media path (18) and 
said second media path (20), respectively;
d. a drive roller (36) movably mounted to said housing
(14) between said first driven roller (32) and said

second driven roller (20) such that said first media
path (18) is between said first driven roller (32)

and said drive roller (36), and said second media
path (20) is between said second driven roller (34)

and said drive roller (36), said drive roller (36)
being movable between two positions such that in a

first position said drive roller (36) is in rolling
contact only with said first driven roller (32) and

in a second position said drive roller (36) is in
rolling contact only with said second driven roller

(34); and,
e. positioning means (45, 46) for positioning said
drive roller (36) between said first position and

said second position.
The apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising:

a. a drive gear (41) fixed to said drive roller (36) so
as to be movable therewith and so as to rotationally

drive said drive roller (36);
b. a first driven gear (42) fixed to said first driven
roller (32), said first driven gear (42) being fully

engaged with said drive gear (41) when said drive
roller (36) is in said first position and at least

partially engaged with said drive gear (41) when
said drive roller (36) is in said second position;

and,
c. a second driven gear (43) fixed to said second
driven roller (34), said second driven gear (43)

being fully engaged with said drive gear (41) when 
said drive roller (36) is in said second position

and at least partially engaged with said drive gear
(41) when said drive roller (36) is in said first

position.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
