<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614233</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIN-TYPE LIGHT RECEIVING DEVICE, MANUFACTURE OF THE PIN-TYPE LIGHT RECEIVING DEVICE AND OPTOELECTRONIC INTEGRATED CIRCUIT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27144	H01L27144	H01L31102	H01L31105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In an optoelectronic integrated circuit, a pin-type light 
receiving device (10a) and an electronic circuit device 

(20) are electrically connected to each other and 
monolithically integrated on a semiconductor substrate (1). 

In the pin-type light receiving device, an n-type 
semiconductor layer (11), an i-type semiconductor layer 

(12a), and a p-type semiconductor layer (13c) are 
sequentially formed on the semiconductor substrate (1) and 

sequentially formed into mesa shapes. The first mesa is 
constituted by the p-type semiconductor layer (13c), and 

the second mesa is constituted by the i-type semiconductor 
layer (12a). The boundary surface between the first and 

second mesas is formed to match the junction surface 
between the p-type semiconductor layer (13c) and the i-type 

semiconductor layer (12a). The diameter of the first mesa 
is formed smaller than that of the second mesa. With this 

structure, a depletion layer extending from the p-type 
semiconductor layer (13c) upon application of a reverse 

bias voltage stays within the i-type semiconductor layer 
(12a) and does not reach the surfaces of the first and 

second mesas to be exposed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANA HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANA, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a pin-type light 
receiving device used in optical fiber communication or 
the like, and an optoelectronic integrated circuit in 
which the pin-type light receiving device and an 
electronic circuit device are monolithically integrated. In optical fiber communication or the like, a pin-PD 
(Photo Diode) is generally used as a light receiving 
device, especially a light receiving device 
monolithically integrated together with an electronic 
circuit device such as an FET (Field Effect Transistor) 
in a optoelectronic integrated circuit. This pin-PD is 
mainly formed into a mesa shape from a viewpoint of easy 
integration or isolation between devices. In a conventional pin-PD, for example, an n-type 
semiconductor layer, an i-type semiconductor layer, and a 
p-type semiconductor layer are sequentially formed on a 
semiconductor substrate consisting of InP having 
semi-isulation properties, each semiconductor layer is 
formed into a mesa shape, and the surface thereof is  
 
protected by an insulating layer. Prior arts about such a mesa type pin-PD are 
described in detail in, e.g., "Inst. Phys. Conf., ser. 
no. 96, chap. 8, Int. Symp. GaAs and Related Compounds, 
pp. 571-574, 1988", "IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., vol. 2, 
no. 7, pp. 505-506, 1990", and "Electron. Lett., vol. 26, 
no. 5, pp. 305-307, 1990". In the above conventional mesa type pin-PD, upon 
application of a reverse bias voltage, a depletion layer 
extending from the p-type semiconductor layer is exposed 
to the surface of the mesa mainly constituted by the 
i-type semiconductor layer. More specifically, the 
depletion layer reaches the interface between the side 
surface of the i-type semiconductor layer and the 
insulating layer for protecting the surface of the i-type 
semiconductor layer. For this reason, in accordance with 
the interface state, a dark current is generated to flow 
along the surface of the mesa from the p-type 
semiconductor layer to the i-type semiconductor layer. 
Therefore, a large amount of dark current is generated. In addition, in such an optoelectronic integrated 
circuit in which a pin-PD and an electronic circuit 
device are integrated, when the dark current is 
generated, noise is increased to degrade the receiving 
sensitivity. The present invention has been made in consideration 
of the above problems and has as its object to provide a 
pin-type light receiving device which reduces a dark 
current to improve device characteristics, a manufacture 
of the pin-type light receiving
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pin-type light receiving device comprising: 
   a semiconductor substrate (1); 

   an n-type semiconductor layer (11) formed on said 
semiconductor substrate (1) and doped with an n-type 

impurity; 
   an n-type ohmic electrode layer (14) formed on said 

n-type semiconductor layer (11) and having an ohmic-contact 
property; 

   a mesa portion constituted by an i-typed 
semiconductor layer (12a) not intentionally doped with an 

impurity and a p-type semiconductor layer (13c) doped with 
a p-type impurity formed sequentially on said n-type 

semiconductor layer (11) and formed into a mesa shape; and 
   a p-type ohmic electrode layer (15a, 15b) formed on 

said p-type semiconductor layer and having an ohmic-contact 
property, 

   wherein a circumferential border portion of said p-type 
semiconductor layer (13c) of said mesa portion is 

removed to a depth matching substantially a junction 
surface between said p-type semiconductor layer (13c) and 

said i-type semiconductor layer (12a). 
The device according to claim 1, 
wherein said depth matching substantially said junction 

surface is set to restrain a dark current flowing along the 
surface of said mesa portion from said p-type semiconductor 

layer (13c) to said i-type semiconductor layer (12a). 
The device according to claim 1 or 2, 
further comprising an etching stop semiconductor layer 

(13b) formed in contact with said junction surface and 
having an etching selectivity different from that of said 

p-type semiconductor layer (13a, 13c). 
The device according to claim 3, 
wherein said etching stop semiconductor layer (13b) further 

has an etching selectivity different from that of said i-type 
semiconductor layer (12a). 
The device according to any of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said i-type semiconductor layer (12a) consists of 

GaInAs. 
The device according to claim 3, 
wherein said p-type semiconductor layer (13c) consists of 

GaInAs or GaInAsP, and said etching stop semiconductor 
layer (13b) consists of GaInAsP having an energy band gap 

wider than that of GaInAs or GaInAsP constituting said p-type 
semiconductor layer (13c), or InP. 
A method for manufacturing of a pin-type light 
receiving device according to any of claims 1 to 6, 

comprising: 
   a first step forming sequentially an n-type 

semiconductor layer (11) doped with an n-type impurity, an 
i-type semiconductor layer (12a) not intentionally doped 

with an impurity, an etching stop semiconductor layer (13a) 
and a p-type semiconductor layer (13c) doped with a p-type 

impurity on a semiconductor substrate; 
   a second step removing a circumferential border 

portion of said p-type semiconductor layer (13c) to a depth 
to expose said etching stop semiconductor layer (13a) to 

form a first mesa constituted by said p-type semiconductor 
layer (13c); 

   a third step removing sequentially a circumferential 
 

border portion of both said etching stop semiconductor 
layer (13a) and said i-type semiconductor layer (12a) to 

arrange said first mesa on a center portion of said etching 
stop semiconductor layer (12a); and 

   a fourth step forming an n-type ohmic electrode layer 
(14) having an ohmic contact property on said n-type 

semiconductor layer (11) and forming a p-type ohmic 
electrode layer (15a, 15c) having an ohmic contact property 

on said p-type semiconductor layer (13c). 
An optoelectronic integrated circuit comprising: 
   a pin-type light receiving device (10a; 10b; 10c) 

according to any of the claims 1 to 6; and 
   an electronic circuit device (20) electrically 

connected to said pin-type light receiving device (10a; 
10b; 10c) and monolithically formed on said semiconductor 

substrate (1), 
   wherein said pin-type light receiving device (10a; 

10b; 10c) and said electronic circuit device (20) are 
integrated. 
The circuit according to claim 8, 
wherein said electronic circuit device (20) is a field 

effect transistor. 
The circuit according to claim 8, 
wherein said electronic circuit device (20) is a bipolar 

transistor. 
A method of manufacturing the optoelectronic 
integrated circuit of claim 8, 9 or 10, 

wherein said pin-type light receiving device (10a, 10b, 
10c) and said electronic circuit device are formed 

simultaneously including steps according to claim 7. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
