<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647123</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INSTRUMENT FOR LAPAROSCOPIC HYSTERECTOMY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1702	A61B1728	A61B1702	A61B1742	A61B1742	A61B1728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an instrument set for laparoscopic vaginal hysterectomy which comprises a uterine rotator (55) comprising a rod with a uterine end (56) for insertion into the uterus and a control end, and with at least one wing (57, 58) movable in and out of the uterine end which in a folded-out position makes contact with the inner wall of the uterus and which is connected via coupling means to a control member located at the control end, wherein the rod (69) is preferably provided with two wings, and more preferably the rod (69) is provided with a hinge (63, 64), and with optionally at least one artery forceps provided with a handle and mutually reciprocating jaws.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an instrument for
laparoscopic vaginal hysterectomy, including laparoscope-assisted
sub-total and total hysterectomy comprising a uterine rotator.Hysterectomy is one of the surgical operations most
frequently performed on women. On average the uterus is
removed in one in three women.Abdominal hysterectomy is generally performed in
particular when the uterine volume is large, when extensive
pelvic adhesions are present or expected, and when other
pathology such as ovarian cysts, extensive endometriosis or
cancer are present.Vaginal hysterectomy has the advantage relative to
abdominal hysterectomy of a lower post-operative morbidity
and the absence of abdominal scars.Endoscopic surgery has been employed more and more in
recent years due to technical developments in the area of
video-endoscopy and in the area of lasers as bloodless,
precision cutting instruments in addition to persufflation
techniques, such as described in EP-A-0 350 499.Laparoscopic hysterectomy has already been described by
Reich et al., J. Gynaecol. Surg., 1989, 5, p. 213-216.EP-A-464 463 which is used as basis for the preamble of claim 1,
discloses an instrument for manipulating an organ.A frequently occurring problem, especially with a
larger uterus, is that during the operation the uterus
rotates spontaneously whereby the operation becomes more
difficult. Problems can occur particularly at the most
crucial moment of the operation, when the uterine artery is
ligated. Moreover it can be necessary in the case of a
myomatous uterus to rotate the uterus in order to expose the
broad ligament and the uterine artery. In order to facilitate laparoscopic vaginal
hysterectomy, to shorten the operation time and to increase
the percentage of successful operative procedures the present
invention provides an instrument for
laparoscopic vaginal hysterectomy according to the invention
as defined in claim 1 which comprises a uterine rotator
comprising a rod with a uterine end for insertion into the
uterus and a control end.Fixing and controlled rotation of the uterus is further
improved if more preferably the rod is provided with two
wings which in that case are preferably movable diametrically
relative to each other in and out of the uterine end of the
rod.In order to provide a uterine rotator combining good
fixing and controlled rotation of the uterus with a
construction which can be prepared well in pre-operative
instrument treatments such as sterilization and the like,
each wing preferably comprises two wing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Instrument for laparoscopic vaginal
hysterectomy which comprises a uterine rotator (2)

comprising:

a rod (3) with a uterine end (4) for
insertion into the uterus and a control end (5), and with

at least one foldable wing (6, 7) movable in and out of said uterine
end which in a folded-out position makes contact with the

inner wall of the uterus and which is connected via
coupling means (12) to a control member (55) located at

the control end (5) for resting and/or rotating the
uterus, wherein the foldable wing (6, 7) is joined to the uterine

end by means of hinges, characterized in that the axis
of the hinges of the foldable wing (6, 7) lies in the plane of the foldable

wing and is positioned transverse to the length of the
wing (6, 7) and in that the side of the foldable wing facing the

inner wall of the uterus is rounded such that the foldable wing
does not cause damage to the uterus.
Instrument according to claim 1, wherein the
rod (3) is provided with two foldable wings (6, 7).
Instrument according to claim 2, wherein the foldable
wings (6, 7) are movable outward from the rod (3)

diametrically in relation to each other.
Instrument according to claims 1-3, wherein
a foldable wing (6, 7) comprises two wing portions (8,9) connected

for mutual rotation, whereof a first wing portion (8) is
rotatably connected to a rod tip and whereof the second

wing portion (9) is connected to the coupling means (12).
Instrument according to claim 4, wherein in
folded-in position the second wing portions (61, 62) are

enclosed by the first wing portions (59, 60).
Instrument according to claim 4 or 5,
wherein in folded-out position an angle smaller than 180° 

and greater than 90° is enclosed between both adjoining
second wing portions (61, 62).
Instrument according to claim 1-6, wherein
in a folded-in position the foldable wing (61, 62) lies enveloped

within a rod.
Instrument according to claim 7, wherein the
rod (65) is provided with a recess for receiving a

folded-in foldable wing.
Instrument according to claims 1-8, wherein
in folded-in position the uterine end has a sectionally

round shape.
Instrument according to claims 1-9, wherein
the coupling means (12) comprise a coupling element such

as a slide strip or a threaded strip received in the
hollow rod (3).
Instrument according to claims 1-10,
wherein the rod is a curved rod.
Instrument according to claims 1-11,
wherein the uterine end is connected via at least one

hinge to the control end.
Instrument according to claim 12, wherein
the hinge is located at a distance from the tip of the

uterine end such that the pivot point lies at the height
of the cervix of the uterus.
Instrument according to claim 12 or 13,
wherein the pivoting movement takes place immediately

forward of the foldable wing or the foldable wings and the coupling means.
Instrument according to claims 1-14,
wherein the uterine end is rotatably connected to the

control end via the rotation means.
Instrument according to claims 1-14,
wherein the uterine end is connected to the control end

via two hinges moving transversely of each other.
Instrument according to claims 1-16,
wherein the uterine rotator is provided with a fornix

presentor guided on the rod.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
