<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618823</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TERMINATION OF VENTRICULAR ARRHYTHMIAS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N108	A61N108	A61N139	A61N139	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDTRONIC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERG GARY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEUMAN ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON DAVID K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSING MARTIN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERG, GARY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEUMAN, ROBERT, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, DAVID, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSING, MARTIN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODANDAPPARATUSFORTERMINATIONOFVENTRICULARARRHYTHMIASBackground of the InventionThis invention relates to implantable stimulators 5 generally and more particularly to implantable cardioverters and defibrillators.Over the past 20 years, there has been substantial work toward developing a practical, implantable defibrillator. However, several significant problems still remain. Early 10 conceptions of implantable defibrillators, such as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. RE 27,652 by Mirowski et al., envision a system employing a ventricular endocardial electrode and a plate electrode, mounted directly to the heart, subcutaneously, or applied to the skin. However, it was 15 recognized early on that a totally transvenous system would be desirable in order to simplify the use of implantable defibrillators. One such system is suggested in U.S. Patent'- No. 3,942,536 by Mi.rowski et al., whi.ch di.scloses a transvenous lead having electrodes intended for location in20 the right ventricular apex and superior vena cava. Such systems were eventually tested in human beings with some success. However, currently available commercial versions of implantable defibrillators generally employ epicardial patch electrodes alone or in conjunction with transvenous25 electrodes.While systems employing epicardial patch electrodes are workable, a thoracotomy is required in order to apply the epicardial electrode or electrodes. It is generally believed that it would be highly desirable to produce an implantable30 defibrillator which would entirely avoid the necessity of a thoracotomy, and there has been substantial work directed* toward such systems, as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,727,877 issued to Kallok and U.S. Patent No. 4,708,145 issued to■*• Tacker et al. Both Tacker et al. and the Kallok patents 

 disclose the use of a transvenous, two-electrode lead in combination with a subcutaneous patch electrode.U.S. Patent No. 4,392,407 issued to Williams et al. and co-pending, commonly assigned applications 284,957 by Mehra and 284,955 by Bardy, both, filed December 15, 1988 disclose multiple electrode systems employing subcutaneous patch electrodes, coronary sinus/great vein electrodes, and ventricular endocardial electrodes. These electrode systems and other multiple electrode systems employing endocardial electrodes alone or in conjunction with subcutaneous electrodes appear to hold significant promise.Where there are electrical conductors there is the possibility of electrical malfunction. In the context of pacing leads,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In conjunction with the above disclosure, we claim:
1. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator, comprising: means for detecting the presence of a tachyarrhythmia; pulse generator for delivering a cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to detection of a tachyarrhythmia by said detection means; electrode means for delivering said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen to a heart, said electrode means comprising a plurality of electrodes, said electrodes defining a plurality of pulse pathways between ones of said electrodes; means for selecting which of said defibrillation pathways to be employed during the delivery of said defibrillation or cardioversion pulse regimen; means for measuring the impedance of each said selected pathways during delivery of said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen; means for comparing each said measured impedance associated with delivery of said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen with a reference impedance for each said selected pathway to determine whether said measured impedance differs by more than a predetermined amount from said previously measured impedance; means for determining whether said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen was effective to terminate said detected tachyarrhythmia; and means responsive to said comparing means and to said determining means for rendering any said selected pathway for which said measured impedance differs by more than said predetermined amount from said reference impedance unavailable for delivery of future cardioversion or defibrillation regimens, provided that said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen is determined to be ineffective in terminate said detected tachyarrhythmia. 



 2. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1 wherein said means for selecting further comprising means for selecting a defibrillation or cardioversion pulse regimen for subsequent use which does not employ said unavailable pathway.
3. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising memory means for storing said measured impedances and wherein said reference impedance comprises an impedance measurement stored in said memory means.
4. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising means for incrementing the amplitude of a subsequent cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to said determining means determining that a previous cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen was ineffective to terminate said detected tachyarrhythmia.
5. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising means for adjusting the amplitude of a subsequent cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to the measurement of the impedances of said selected pathways during delivery of said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen.
6. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator, comprising: means for detecting the presence of a tachyarrhythmia; pulse generator for delivering a cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to detection of a tachyarrhythmia by said detection means; electrode means for delivering said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen to a heart, said electrode means 


comprising a plurality of electrodes, said electrodes defining a plurality of pulse pathways between ones of said electrodes; means for defining a first cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen and for selecting a set of said electrodes and a set of said defibrillation pathways to be employed during the delivery of a said first cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen; means for measuring the impedance of each said selected pathways during delivery of said first cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen; means for comparing each said measured impedance associated with delivery of said first cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen with a reference impedance for each said selected pathway to determine whether said measured impedance differs by more than a predetermined amount from said reference impedance; and wherein said selecting means is means responsive to said comparing means to define a second cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen employing all of said set of electrodes selected to deliver said first cardioversion or defibrillation regimen and which does not employ any said selected pathway for which said measured impedance differs by more than said predetermined amount from said reference impedance.
7. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 6 wherein said selecting means further comprises; means for determining whether said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen was effective to terminate said detected tachyarrhythmia; and means responsive to said comparing means and to said determining means for rendering any said selected pathway for which said measured impedance differs by more than said predetermined amount from said references impedance 


 unavailable for delivery of future cardioversion or defibrillation regimens when that said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen is determined to be ineffective to terminate said detected tachyarrhythmia.
8. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 6 or claim 7 further comprising memory means for storing said measured impedances and wherein said reference impedance comprises an impedance measurement stored in said memory means.
9. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 7 further comprising means for incrementing the amplitude of a subsequent cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to said determining means determining that a previous cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen was ineffective to terminate said detected tachyarrhythmia.
10. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 6 or claim 7 further comprising means for adjusting the amplitude of a subsequent cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to the measurement of the impedances of said selected pathways during delivery of said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen.
11. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator, comprising: means for detecting the presence of a tachyarrhythmia; pulse generator means for delivering a cardioversion or defibrillation pulse in response to detection of a tachyarrhythmia by said detection means; electrode means for delivering said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse to a heart, said electrode means comprising a plurality of electrodes; 


 means for measuring the impedance between said electrodes during delivery of said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse; means for setting the amplitude of a subsequent cardioversion or defibrillation pulse as a function of the impedance measured by said measuring means. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 13 April 1993 (13.04.93) ; original claims 6 and 7 amended; other claims unchanged (4 pages) ]
1. An implantable or defibrillator comprising means (514, 520,
524) for detecting the presence of a tachyarrhythmia, a pulse generator
(548) for delivering a cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to detection of a tachyarrhythmia by said detection means, electrode means
(506, 508, 510) for delivering said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen to a heart, said electrode means comprising a plurality of electrodes
(506, 508, 510), said electrodes defining a plurality of pulse pathways
between ones of said electrodes, and means (554) for selecting which of
said defibrillation pathways are to be employed during delivery of said
defibrillation or cardioversion pulse regimen, characterized in that:
said cardioverter or defibrillator further comprises means (537,
537, 539, 532, 530) for measuring the impedance of each of said
selected pathways during delivery of said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen, means (524, 526) for comparing each
said measured impedance associated with delivery of said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen with a reference
impedance for each said selected pathway to determine whether said
measured impedance differs by more than a predetermined amount
from said previously measured impedance, means (524) for
determining whether said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen
was effective to terminate said detected tachycardia, and means
(524, 526, 554) for rendering any selected pathway for which said 


 measured impedance differs by more than said predetermined amount
from said reference impedance unavailable for delivery of future
cardioversion or defibrillation regimens, provided that said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen is determined to be
ineffective to terminate said detected arrhythmia.
2. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1
wherein said means for selecting further comprising means for selecting a defibrillation or cardioversion pulse regimen for subsequent use which does
not employ said unavailable pathway.
3. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1
or claim 2 further comprising memory means (526) for storing said measured impedances and wherein said reference impedance comprises an impedance measurement stored in said memory means.
4. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1
or claim 2 further comprising means (554, 530) for incrementing the
amplitude of a subsequent cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to said determining means determining that a previous
cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen was ineffective to terminate said
detected tachyarrhythmia. 


 5. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising means (554, 530) for adjusting the amplitude of a subsequent cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen in response to
the measurement of the impedances of said selected pathways during
delivery of said cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen.
6. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator according to claim 1
or claim 2 wherein said selecting means comprises means responsive to said
comparing means to define an alternative cardioversion or defibrillation pulse
regimen employing all of said plurality of electrodes previously selected to
deliver said cardioversion or defibrillation regimen and which does not employ any said selected pathway for which said measured impedance
differs by more than said predetermined amount from said reference
impedance.
7. An implantable cardioverter or defibrillator comprising means
(514, 520, 524) for detecting the presence of a tachyarrhythmia, pulse
generator means (548) for delivering a cardioversion or defibrillation pulse in
response to detection of tachyarrhythmia by said detection means, and
electrode means (506, 508, 510) for delivering said cardioversion or
defibrillation pulse to a heart, said electrode means comprising a plurality of electrodes (506, 508, 510), said electrodes defining a plurality of pulse 


pathways between ones of said electrodes, means (524) for defining a first cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen and for selecting (554) a set of said electrodes and a set of said defibrillation pathways to be employed
during the delivery of said first cardioversion or defibrillation pulse regimen,
characterized in that: said defibrillator or cardioverter further comprises means (537,
538, 539, 530) for measuring the impedance of each of said selected pathways during delivery of said first cardioversion or defibrillation
pulse regimen and means (524, 554) for setting the relative
amplitudes of subsequent cardioversion or defibrillation pulses applied
along said selected pathways as a function of the relative impedances
measured by said measuring means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
