<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610043</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ultrasonic interferometer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1702	G01B1702	G01N2904	G01N2907	G01N2909	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B17	G01B17	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of measuring thin film properties of 
materials using interference of ultrasonic waves in the 

frequency range of 2-15 MHz. An ultrasonic interferometer 
produces interference "fringes" from which the film 

thickness can be accurately determined. The film may 
consist of any solid material having known sonic 

properties and thickness of the order of the sonic 
wavelength. The device utilizes a narrow-band source 

of ultrasound and guided-wave propagation to accurately 
define the optical path of the ultrasonic waves 

producing the interference. The interferometer is also 
useful to measure certain material properties in thin 

specimens, thereby allowing the material to be 
characterized locally. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TERHUNE JAMES HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TERHUNE, JAMES HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to non-destructive 
measurement of local material properties. The invention 
specifically relates to an interferometer useful in 
determining the thickness and other material properties 
of thin films. Ultrasound is a common means of non-destructively 
inspecting materials for flaws and structural integrity. 
For steels, the preferred frequency used for inspection 
and sizing of flaws is in the range of 1-10 MHz with 
2.25-5 MHz preferred. Pulsed ultrasonic transducers and 
their electronics, common to the art of nondestructive 
examination (NDE), are typically relatively broad-band, 
with bandwidth roughly 40% of the nominal operating 
frequency. Such transducers and electronics are, 
therefore, ill-suited to interferometry, which requires 
narrow-band, or "monochromatic", continuous wave 
"bursts". In addition, the NDE acoustical paths are not 
critically related to inspection accuracy, except that 
long paths in metal reduce signal strength due to 
attenuation. In contrast, interferometry requires well-defined 
paths of accurate lengths. Therefore, standard 
methods commonly applied to NDE are not directly 
applicable to interferometry. The basic principle behind any interferometer, 
whether of the acoustical, optical or microwave variety, 
is linear superposition of waves, i.e., two or more  
 
partial waves add algebraically to give the total wave 
amplitude. This is particularly simple when all of the 
partial waves have substantially the same frequency. 
Thus, a monochromatic source is especially desirable to 
optimize performance of an interferometer. The present invention is a method of accurately 
measuring the thickness of thin films of materials using 
interference of ultrasonic waves in the frequency range 
of 2-15 MHz. The ultrasonic interferometer in 
accordance with the invention produces interference 
"fringes" that are a function of the film thickness, 
which fringes are used to determine the thickness. The 
film may consist of any solid material, metallic or non-metallic, 
having known sonic properties and a thickness 
on the order of the sonic wavelength. The choice of 
frequency is specific to the expected range of film 
thickness, and there is an inherent minimum thickness 
that can be measured at any given frequency of 
ultrasound employed. The interference effects are also a measure of 
thin-film material properties other than thickness, 
e.g., sonic velocity, acoustical impedance, density, 
elastic modulus, grain size and attenuation coefficient,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ultrasonic interferometer characterized by: 
   a source (8) of substantially monochromatic 

ultrasonic radiation; 
   means (16) for splitting said substantially 

monochro-matic ultrasonic radiation into a first wave 
portion which is reflected and a second wave portion 

which is transmitted; 
   first reflecting means (18) oriented to reflect 

said first wave portion back to said splitting means; 
   second reflecting means (34) positioned to reflect 

said second wave portion back to said splitting means; 
   means (20) for detecting a characteristic which is 

a function of the amplitude of ultrasonic radiation 
impinging thereon, said detecting means being positioned 

so that a portion of said first wave portion which is 
reflected by said first reflecting means and then 

transmitted by said splitting means and a portion of 
said second wave portion which is reflected by said 

second reflecting means and then reflected by said 
splitting means impinge thereon; and 

   waveguide means (14a-14d) for guiding ultrasonic 
radiation propagating to or from said splitting means, 

said waveguide means being filled with a viscous, 
compressible fluid medium. 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 1, characterized in that said waveguide means 

comprises first through fourth waveguides (14a-14d) for 
ultrasonically coupling said splitting means with said 

source, said first reflecting means, said second 
reflecting means and said detecting means respectively, 

each of said first through fourth waveguides comprising 
tubular wall means having a channel of substantially 

constant cross section filled with viscous, compressible 
 

fluid (4). 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 2, characterized in that said first and third 

waveguides (14a, 14b) are mutually parallel, said second 
and fourth waveguides (14c, 14d) are mutually parallel 

and said first and third waveguides are substantially 
perpendicular to said second and fourth waveguides. 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 1, further characterized by means (30) for 

compensating for differences in the acoustical path 
length for different source frequencies, said 

compensating means being arranged between said splitting 
means and said second reflecting means. 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 1, further characterized by first support means 

(22) which are slidably displaceable in a direction 
substantially parallel to the direction of propagation 

of said first wave portion reflected by said splitting 
means, said first reflecting means being mounted on said 

first support means. 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 2, further characterized by second support means 

(32) which are mounted at an end of said third waveguide 
(14b) such that the orientation of said second support 

means is adjustable. 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 6, further characterized by a thin film (34) of 

material supported by said second support means, said 
first reflector being a mirror (18) and said second 

reflector being an interface of said thin film. 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 7, characterized in that said second support means 

has a recess (42) machined into a surface facing said 
thin film, said recess and said thin film forming an 

airtight gas-filled gap, said second reflector being 
formed by the interface of said thin film and said gas-filled 

gap. 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 2, characterized in that said substantially 

monochromatic source comprises a piezoelectric crystal 
(44), a solid medium (46) having a fluid-filled gap (52) 

of constant height formed therein, and means (48) for 
coupling ultrasonic radiation from said piezoelectric 

crystal into said solid medium. 
The ultrasonic interferometer as defined in 
claim 1, further characterized by a casing (2) in which 

said waveguide means is housed with a cavity 
therebetween, said cavity and said waveguide means being 

filled with viscous, compressible fluid (4). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
