<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657833</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Workstation conference pointer-user association mechanism.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3038	G06F3048	G06F3048	G06F1300	G06F1300	G06F1500	G06F1500	G06Q1000	G06Q1000	H04N715	H04N715	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06Q	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F13	G06F13	G06F15	G06F15	G06Q10	G06Q10	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A conference communication system that includes multiple user 
terminals, each of which includes a display screen with a common working 

area, provides each user with a pointer icon that can be moved across all 
the display screens with a pointing device, provides the display screen 

of each user with a representation of all the conference participants, 
and, for each user, displays a line connecting each pointer icon of the 

other conference participants to the displayed representation of the user 
controlling the icon. Each user controls a pointer icon with a display 

mouse device having buttons, and the pointer icon and line connecting a 
user with the user's pointer icon is only displayed on the screens of the 

other conference participants if the user has pressed and held down a 
button of the user's mouse device. In this way, each user has control of 

a pointer icon and each pointer icon is readily associated with the user 
controlling it, while the number of objects displayed in the work area is 

kept to a minimum. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASER HOWARD JUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASER, HOWARD JUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to computer workstation conference 
systems that permit users to communicate via display screens and 
simultaneously point to areas of all the user screens. Communication systems that support group workstation conferences 
have been the subject of recent research and development. Such systems 
include, for example, multiple user terminals, comprising workstations or 
personal computers, connected together over a network. Each of the user 
terminals includes a display device that displays a conference window 
having a common work area. The conference support system permits 
multiple workstation users to join a conference in which the system keeps 
track of conference participants and provides the display device of each 
participant with the conference window. A workstation user who is a 
conference participant can place a variety of images, such as objects and 
messages, in the work area and the system will duplicate the images such 
that they are displayed in the work area of all the other conference 
participant display devices. Thus, the work area serves as a video 
"whiteboard" on which users can share information during a conference. 
Video images of the participants may or may not be transmitted among the 
workstations and displayed in the conference window. The workstations 
also may provide for audio transmission among the participants. In this 
way, conference participants can interactively exchange voice, video, and 
written information. For easier and more precise communication, workstation conference 
participants should have a way of designating or pointing to objects 
displayed in the work area of the conference windows during the 
conference. A common means of providing such a capability is to provide 
conference participants with a display device pointer, such as a movable 
cursor or pointer icon that can be moved about the common work area. All 
of the conference participants should be able to point to objects or 
data 
in the common work area. Moreover, conference participants should be 
able to associate a pointer with its corresponding user. A variety of 
workstation conference support systems provide such capabilities. A Conference support system, for example, can provide a single 
pointer icon that is shared in turn among the conference participants.  
 
Each workstation user is provided with a pointer control device, such as 
a display mouse or track ball. Such a system requires a mechanism for 
obtaining and then exchanging control of the pointer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A communication system comprising a plurality of user workstations, 
having at least a first user workstation and a second user workstation, 

each workstation having a display device and a mouse pointer device that 
controls a pointer icon displayed on the display device of the respective 

user workstation and moves the pointer icon on the display device as the 
mouse pointer device is moved and that includes a mouse button; 

   a network server that controls communication between the 
workstations; 

   position means for generating a signal that indicates the position 
of the pointer icon on the display device of each user workstation 

and indicates the status of the mouse button; 
   picture means for generating a representation of the system users 

in a conference window of the display device of each user 
workstation; 

   designator means for generating a signal identifying a user 
workstation and providing the location of a pointer icon and system 

user representation on the display device of the user workstation; 
and 

   association means for drawing a line on the display device of a 
user workstation connecting the display device location of a 

pointer icon identified by the designator means to the 
representation of the corresponding system user generated by the 

picture means for all other user workstations of the system. 
A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the picture means comprises 
a workstation video camera that generates a video image of a workstation 

user and provides it to the network server for transmission to all 
conference participant workstations. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the picture means generates 
a digital representation of the video image. 
A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the position means 
comprises a network message information packet. 
A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the information packet 
includes a header field that identifies a message source workstation and 

a message target workstation and a data field that provides the mouse 
button status. 
A system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the data field further 
provides the mouse pointer icon location on the display device of the 

respective workstation. 
A system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the data field further 
provides conference window position information. 
A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the network server 
maintains a conference participant table that contains an identification 

of each workstation participating in the conference and of the mouse 
pointer icon location on the display device of the respective 

workstation. 
A system as claimed in claim 8, wherein each workstation generates 
a network information packet message when the mouse button of its 

respective mouse device is pressed, the information packet including a 
header field that identifies a message source workstation and a message 

target workstation and a data field that provides the mouse button 
status. 
A system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the data field further 
provides the mouse pointer icon location on the display device of the 

respective workstation. 
A system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the data field further 
provides conference window position information. 
A system as claimed in claim 8, wherein each workstation generates 
a network information packet message when the mouse button of its 

respective mouse device is pressed, the information packet including a 
header field that identifies a message source workstation and a message 

target workstation and a data field that provides the mouse pointer icon 
location. 
A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the designator means 
comprises a conference participant table maintained by the network 

server. 
A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the association means 
comprises a workstation conference interface. 
A system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the conference interface 
displays a pointer arrow on the display devices of the remaining 

conference participants that is different in appearance from the mouse 
pointer icon of the button pressing first conference participant. 
A method for maintaining communications between users at conference 
workstations of a network, wherein each workstation in the network 

includes a display device on which is displayed a conference window and a 
mouse pointer device that includes a mouse button and that controls a 

pointer icon on the display device as the workstation mouse pointer 
device is moved, the method comprising the steps of: 

   generating a representation of each conference participant; 
   displaying the conference participant representations in the 

conference window of the display device of each conference 
participant workstation; 

   determining when a first conference participant has pressed the 
mouse button of the participant's workstation mouse device; 

   determining the display device location of the pointer icon of the 
button pressing first conference participant; and 

   displaying a pointer arrow on the display devices of the remaining 
conference participants extending from the display device 

representation of the button pressing first conference participant 
to the determined pointer icon location of the button pressing 

first conference participant. 
A method as claimed in claim 16, comprising the step of maintaining 
a conference participant table that contains an identification of each 

workstation participating in the conference and of the mouse pointer icon 
location on the display device of the workstation. 
A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the step of determining 
the pressing of a mouse button comprises generating a network information 

packet message including a header field that identifies a message source 
workstation and a message target workstation and a data field that 

provides the mouse button status. 
A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the step of determining 
the display device pointer icon location comprises generating a network 

information packet that further comprises generating a data field that 
also provides the mouse pointer icon location. 
A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the step of generating a 
data field further comprises providing conference window position 

information in the data field. 
A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the step of determining 
the display device pointer icon location comprises generating a network 

information packet message including a header field that identifies a 
message source workstation and a message target workstation and a data 

field that provides the mouse pointer icon location. 
A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the step of displaying a 
pointer arrow comprises displaying a pointer arrow on the display devices 

of the remaining conference participants that is different in appearance 
from the mouse pointer icon of the button pressing first conference 

participant. 
A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the step of generating a 
representation of each conference participant comprises producing a video 

image of each conference participant and transmitting the video images 
over the network to the workstation of each conference participant. 
A method as in claim 23, wherein the step of producing a video 
image comprises generating a digital representation of the video image. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
