<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632903</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR THE DETECTION AND MEASUREMENT OF AIR PHENOMENA AND TRANSMITTER AND RECEIVER FOR USE IN THE SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1300	G01S1395	G01W100	G01W100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01W	G01W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01W1	G01W1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for the detection and measurement of atmospheric air movement irregularities such as wind velocity vector, clear air turbulence, aircraft induced vorteces and turbulence, by means of electromagnetic waves. An air volume (10) under investigation is illuminated by a transmitter (1, 1A, 1B) with a beam of coherent electromagnetic energy (1E), and a resulting wave field (2E) is received and subsequently coherently demodulated and processed in process means to derive information on the existence of the said atmospheric irregularities and furthermore to give specific measurements of related parameters. At least one receiver (2, 2A, 2B) for said resulting wave field (2E), which is due to scattering in said air volume (10), is positioned at a bistatic location having a selected distance (2R) from said transmitter (1, 1A, 1B). Said electromagnetic energy (1E) is transmitted at microwave frequencies in a concentrated beam. Transmitter and receiver antennas (1A, 1B, 2A, 2B), respectively, are directed so as to cover said air volume (10) with a scattering angle ( THETA ) chosen to have such a (low) value that scattering from atmospheric irregularities in said air volume (10) has a higher power than noise sources in the system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUSAR AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUSAR A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GJESSING DAG K RE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HJELMSTAD JENS FREDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GJESSING, DAG, K RE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HJELMSTAD, JENS, FREDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Method and system for the detection and measurement of air phenomena and transmitter and receiver for use in the system.This invention relates to a system for the detection and measurement of velocity, turbulence, vorteces and similar irregularities or phenomena in air, including classification of such phenomena. These may comprise the wind velocity vector, clear air turbulence as well as aircraft induced vorteces and turbulence. Detection and measurement as contemplated here takes place by means of electromagnetic waves.The invention also comprises transmitter and receiver equipment for use in the system, as well as an associated method.The invention is primarily directed to radar-based technology for the measurement of wind, wind shear, aircraft wave vorteces and turbulence affecting air traffic safety. Thus, a simple and inexpensive bistatic radar is described theoretically and with practical examples.In general various and different fields of use of this invention will be possible, such as for meteorological purposes.A general background of interest in this connection can be found in the following publications:REFERENCES1) Gjessing, Dag T, (1962) :Determination of permittivity variations in the tropo¬ sphere by scatter-propagation methods. IEE Monograph No 510E, April.2) Gjessing, Dag T, (1969) : Atmospheric structure deduced from forward-scatter wave propagation experiments. Radio Science, Vol 4, No 12, pp 1195-1201, December.3) Gjessing, Dag T, Anton G. Kjelaas and J. Nordø, (1969) : Spectral measurements and atmospheric stability. J of the Atmospheric Sciences, Vol 26, February.4) Gjessing, Dag T, (1986) :Target adaptive matched illumination RADAR: Principles & applications. Peter Peregrinus Ltd, London. 

5) Gjessing, Dag T and Jens Hjelmstad, (1989) :Artificial Perception of objects and scattering surfaces based on electromagnetic waves. Target Adaptive Matched illumination radar (TAMIR) . Radar 1989.Reference to publications listed above will be made in the following description.More particularly reference is made at this point to published European patent application No. 436.048A1, which is directed to a method and system for measuring atmospheric wind fields, i.e. to problems related to those with which the present invention is concerned. Thus, according to EP 436.048A1 an air volume under investigation is illuminated by a transmitter with a beam of coherent electromagnetic energy and a resulting, i.e. reflected wave field is received and subsequently coherently demodulated and processed to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A system for the detection and measurement of atmos¬ pheric air movement irregularities such as wind velocity vector, clear air turbulence, aircraft induced vorteces and turbulence, by means of electromagnetic waves, whereby an air volume (10,70) under investigation is illuminated by a trans¬ mitter (1,1A,1B,71,71A,B,C) with a beam of coherent electro¬ magnetic energy (IE) , and a resulting wave field (2E) is received and subsequently coherently demodulated and processed in processor means (25) to derive information on the existence of the said atmospheric irregularities and furthermore to give specific measurements of related para¬ meters, characterized in that at least one receiver (2,2A,2B,72) for said resulting wave field (2E) , which is due to scattering in said air volume
(10,70) , is positioned at a bistatic location having a sele¬ cted distance (2R) from said transmitter (1,1A,1B,71,71A,B,C) , that said electromagnetic energy (IE) is transmitted at microwave frequencies in a concentrated beam, from one or more locations, and that transmitter and receiver antennas
(1A,1B,2A,2B,71A,B,C,72A) , respectively, are directed so as to cover said air volume (10,70) with a scattering angle (θ) chosen to have such a (low) value that scattering from athmospheric irregularities in said air volume (10,70) has a higher power than noise sources in the system.
2. A system according to claim 1, characterized in that said scattering angle (θ) is selected to be lower than 20°.
3. A system according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the transmitter and/or receiver antennas (1A,1B,2A,2B,71A,B,C,72A) are arranged to give a supressed radiated power (a null) in the direction of the other antennas (2A,2B,1A,1B,72A,71A,B,C) to reduce the direct 


leakage of electromagnetic energy between transmitter (1,71) and receiver (2,72).
4. A system according to claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that the receiver and/or transmitter antennas are adapted to be steered mechanically or electronically to provide a 2- or 3-dimensional map of said atmospheric irregularities, in particular windshear features.
5. A system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the transmitter (1,71) and receiver (2,72) comprise local oscillators (11,12,21,22) adapted to be locked to a common reference, such as a GPS satellite.
6. A system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the transmitter (1) comprises means (11,12) for transmitting two or more coherently related microwave frequencies (F.,, F.,+ΔF) .
7. A system according to claim 6, characterized in that separate, spatially displaced antennas (1A,1B) are provided for transmitting said coherently related microwave fre¬ quencies.
8. A system according to claim 6 or 7, characterized in that two receiver channels for said transmitted frequencies, comprise narrow bandpass filtering means (20A,20B) in associ¬ ation with said processor means (25) .
9. A system according to claim 6, 7 or 8 characterized in that the receiver has a separate receiving aperture (2A,2B) and a separate bandpass filter (20A,20B) for each transmitted frequency, and that said processor means (25) comprises a signal processor for multiplying a homodyned signal at each aperture and frequency to generate a time series having a spectrum which gives the directional Doppler shift in any plane through the scattering air volume (10) . 


10. A system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the or each receiver comprises a coherent ho odyne demodulator (21,22) for each channel that gives a directional Doppler shift.
11. A system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that the or each receiver has several receiving apertures and comprises a coherent homodyne demodulator for each aper¬ ture and/or frequency.
12. A system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that said receiver processor means (25,75) is adapted to perform Delta-K processing to achieve 1, 2 or 3-dimensional wavenumber representation of the scattering distribution in said air volume (10,70) .
13. A system according to any preceding claim, characterized in that said processor means (25) is adapted to generate a visual image (26) of said atmospheric irregularities through an inversion algorithm.
14. A method for the detection and measurement of atmos¬ pheric air movement irregularities such as wind velocity vector, clear air turbulence, aircraft induced vorteces and turbulence, by means of electromagnetic waves, whereby an air volume (10) under investigation is illuminated by a trans¬ mitter (1,1A,1B) with a beam of coherent electromagnetic energy (IE) , and a resulting wave field (2E) is received and subsequently coherently demodulated and processed in process means to derive information on the existence of the said atmospheric irregularities and furthermore to give specific measurements of related parameters, characterized in that said electromagnetic energy (IE) is transmitted at microwave frequencies in a concentrated beam from said trans¬ mitter (1,1A,IB) , that said resulting wave field (2E) , which is due to scatte¬ ring in said air volume (10) , is received by at least one 


receiver (2,2A,2B) positioned at a bistatic location having a selected distance (2R) from said transmitter (1,1A,1A), and that transmitter and receiver antennas (1A,1B,2A,2B) , respectively, are directed so as to cover said air volume (10) with a scattering angle (θ) chosen to have such a (low) value that scattering from athmospheric irregularities in said air volume (10) has a higher power than noise sources in the system.
15. A transmitter for use in a system according to claim 1, characterized by comprising means (11,12) for transmitting two or more coherently related microwave frequencies (F.,, F^ΔF) from the same or from different antennas (1A,1B).
16. A receiver for use in a system according to any one of claims 1-13, characterized by comprising processor means (25,75) adapted to perform Delta-K processing to achieve 1, 2 or 3-dimensional wavenumber representation of the scattering distribution in said air volume (10) .
17. A receiver according to claim 16 for use in a system as defined in claims 6, 7 or 8, characterized by comprising a separate receiver aperture (2A,2B) and a separate bandpass filter (20A,20B) for each transmitted frequency, and that said processor means (25) comprises a signal processor for multiplying a homodyned signal at each aperture and frequenc to generate a time series having a spectrum which gives the directional Doppler shift in any plane through the scatterin air volume (10) .
18. A receiver according to claim 16 or 17, characterized i that said processor means (25) is adapted to generate a visual image (26) of said atmospheric irregularities through an inversion algorithm. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
