<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629423</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for separating solid particles from liquid while forming a buffer stock.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2100	B01D2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D21	B01D21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method for separating solid 
particles from polluted liquid at least through sedimentation 

in a settler, a part of the sedimented solid particles being 
mixed as sediment suspension with the polluted liquid. 

According to the invention, a buffer stock is formed by at 
least a part of the returned solid particles, and per unit 

time the returned amount of solid particles is greater than 
the amount of solid particles in the supplied polluted liquid. 

The invention further relates to an apparatus suitable in 
particular for carrying out such method. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVEBE COOP VERKOOP PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COOEPERATIEVE VERKOOP- EN PRODUCTIEVERENIGING VAN AARDAPPELMEEL EN DERIVATEN 'AVEBE' B.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE VRIES JOHANNES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE VRIES, JOHANNES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for separating solid 
particles from polluted liquid at least through sedimentation 
in a settler, a part of the sedimented solid particles being 
mixed as sediment suspension with the polluted liquid. Such a 
method is disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,110,721. In the known method a flow of liquid polluted with solid 
particles is passed by way of a basin into a settling tank, 
where the solid particles settle and form a sediment layer on 
the bottom. This sediment layer is brought into a sludge sump 
by mechanical means and discharged from the sludge sump as a 
thickened suspension by means of a pump. A small part of the 
thickened suspension is returned, by way of a pipe, to the 
mixing basin where it is mixed with the flow of polluted 
liquid to serve as flocculating agent. The amount of returned 
thickened suspension is controlled by means of a control 
valve. The residual amount of discharged thickened suspension 
is directed to a treatment plant. In the known method the amount and the composition of the 
thickened suspension conducted to a treatment plant is 
directly dependent on the flow of polluted liquid passed into 
the processing apparatus: a large increase in the solids 
density of the flow of polluted liquid supplied leads to a 
substantially equally large increase in the density of the 
thickened suspension discharged from the sludge sump. The known method accordingly has as a disadvantage that 
the composition and the amount of thickened suspension 
directed to the treatment plant per unit time is strongly 
dependent on variations in the extent of pollution in the flow 
of liquid supplied. Accordingly, this method is not suitable 
for processing liquid flows exhibiting strong peaks in the 
supply of solid particles, since large fluctuations in the 
amount and composition of the solid particles in the 
discharged suspension yield a product of poor homogeneity, it 
being difficult to add necessary additives, if any, in the 
appropriate amounts.  The object of the invention is to provide a method of the 
type mentioned, in which the suspension discharged per unit 
time to a treatment plant is affected to only a minor extent 
in composition, density and volume by changes in the 
composition of the amount of polluted liquid supplied per unit 
time to the settler. To that end, the method according to the invention is 
characterized in that a buffer stock is formed by at least a 
part of the returned solid particles, and per unit time the 
returned amount of solid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for separating solid particles from polluted 
liquid at least through sedimentation in a settler, a part of 

the sedimented solid particles being mixed as sediment 
suspension with the polluted liquid, characterized in that a 

buffer stock is formed by at least a part of the returned 
solid particles, and per unit time the returned amount of 

solid particles is greater than the amount of solid particles 
in the supplied polluted liquid. 
A method according to claim 1. characterized in that the 
sediment suspension formed in the settler is discharged 

therefrom, a part of the discharged sediment suspension is 
returned into the settler and the remainder of the discharged 

sediment suspension is passed to a treatment plant, whilst per 
unit time the volume of polluted liquid fed into the settler, 

the volume of sediment suspension discharged from the settler 
and the volume of returned sediment suspension are 

substantially constant, the product of the density of solid 
particles of the returned sediment suspension and the returned 

volume being greater than the product of the density of solid 
particles in the supplied polluted liquid and the volume of 

supplied polluted liquid. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the volume of the returned sediment suspension is greater than 

half the volume of the sediment suspension discharged from the 
settler. 
A method according to any one of claims 1-3, 
characterized in that the sediment suspension is discharged 

from the settler at a substantially constant flow velocity. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the supplied volume of polluted liquid 

is between 2 and 10 times, and preferably 5 times, as large as 
the volume of returned sediment suspension; and the returned 

volume of sediment suspension is between 1.5 and 5 times, and 
preferably 2.5 times, as large as the volume of sediment 

suspension passed to the treatment plant. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the buffer capacity of the settling tank 

is between 1 and 5 times, and preferably 3.5 times, as large 
as the supply capacity. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that in the settler a fractionated sediment 

layer is formed, this sediment layer being brought into a 
thickened, substantially homogeneous sediment suspension by 

mechanical means, in such a manner that the sediment 
suspension passed to the sludge treatment plant has a 

composition which is substantially homogeneous and relatively 
constant in time and with a density and volume substantially 

constant in time. 
A processing apparatus for liquid polluted with solid 
particles, suitable in particular for the use of the method 

according to any one of the preceding claims, said processing 
apparatus comprising at least a settler, a supply pipe, an 

underflow pipe and an effluent discharge pipe, a return pipe, 
sediment suspension forming means, a sediment suspension 

discharge pipe and at least one pump, the return pipe having 
one end connecting to the underflow pipe and the other end 

terminating near the inlet side of the settler, characterized 
in that the processing apparatus is so designed that a volume 

of sediment suspension flowing through the underflow pipe, 
independently of the density thereof, is divided in a 

predetermined volume ratio between the return pipe and the 
sediment suspension discharge pipe, the pump being adapted for 

withdrawing from the settler through the underflow pipe a 
substantially constant volume of sediment suspension per unit 

time at a substantially constant velocity. 
An apparatus according to claim 8, characterized in that 
the settler comprises a substantially cylindrical settling 

tank and a sludge sump arranged concentrically in the bottom 
of the settling tank, the supply pipe terminating near the 

centre of the top of the settling tank, the sediment 

suspension forming means comprising a mechanical scraper 
adapted for rotation about a vertically extending central 

 
shaft, said scraper comprising at least one slat member and 

one spiral member, the or each slat member connecting at least 
to the sludge sump, and the or each spiral member extending 

from the vicinity of the circumferential wall of the settling 
tank, the or each slat member connecting at least to a spiral 

member in radial direction, and the or each slat member during 
operation leading the spiral member connecting thereto in the 

direction of rotation. 
An apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in that 
the spiral member extends in radial direction behind at least 

a part of the slat member. 
An apparatus according to claim 9 or 10, characterized in 
that the scraper comprises two slat members arranged opposite 

each other relative to the axis of rotation of the scraper and 
two spiral members. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
