<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649352</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WASTE DISPOSAL IN HYDRAULICALLY FRACTURED EARTH FORMATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B09B100	B09B100	E21B4100	E21B4100	E21B4325	E21B43267	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B09B	B09B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B09B1	B09B1	E21B41	E21B41	E21B43	E21B43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Slurried solid waste materials are injected into subterranean earth formations in a zone of interest (102) which has a relatively low in situ compressive stress (96) bounded by zones of higher in situ compressive stress (98, 100) and wherein the zone of interest has alternate layers of material of relatively high and low permeability to fluid flow, respectively. The solid waste slurry is conducted through an injection well (92) penetrating the zone of interest to form a conventional two-winged hydraulic fracture (132, 134). The fracture is extended by reducing the tendency to form filtercake in the fracture adjacent to the layers of material of relatively low permeability (142, 144) while depositing particle filtercake adjacent the earth layers of high permeability (146, 148, 150) so as to provide clear fluid flowpaths through the fracture while allowing the filtercake layers disposed in the fracture to assist in propping the fracture open.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATLANTIC RICHFIELD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERKINS THOMAS K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERKINS, THOMAS, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
WASTE DISPOSAL IN HYDRAULICALLY FRACTURED EARTH FORMATIONSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention pertains to a method for disposing of solid wastes by forming a slurry which is injected into a hydraulically fractured earth formation in a zone which includes alternate formation layers of relatively low permeability and relatively high permeability. BackgroundCertain types of solid waste material may be permanently disposed of by reducing the particle size of the solid material, forming a slurry with a carrier liquid and injecting the material into a subterranean earth formation. U.S. Patent 5,109,933 issued May 5, 1992 to James E. Jackson and assigned to the assignee of the present invention describes a system and method for disposing of the cuttings formed during the drilling of an oil well and the like. Other types of solid waste which may be ground into relatively fine particle sizes and slurried with a carrier liquid, such as water, may also be disposed of in the manner generally in accordance with the '933 patent. However, the amount of slurried waste which may be injected into a subterranean earth formation is dependent upon several factors including the compressive stress in the earth at the zone of injection, the permeability of the earth formation and the composition of the slurry. In this regard certain problems arise which are solved by the method of the present invention.Hydraulic fracturing of earth formations to stimulate production of hydrocarbon fluids from subterranean formations has been carried out in many parts of the world over the past 40 years or more. In hydraulic fracturing to stimulate the production of fluids, the injection fluid 

which forms the hydraulic fracture is commonly provided with a fluid loss control agent to minimize the leakage of fluid into the formation from the opposed faces of the fracture so that the fracture extension pressure may be maintained to obtain the desired fracture length and height. Conversely, in disposing of fluidized waste material into an earth formation, leak-off of the carrier fluid is desired so that a greater quantity of slurry may be injected into a disposal zone. However, if the permeability of the formation zone in which the fracture is being formed is relatively high, a layer of solids particles or so-called "filtercake" will rapidly accumulate on the faces of the fracture which will reduce the flowpath for the disposal slurry and result in increased pumping pressure. Control over pumping pressure must
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A method for disposing of solids waste material in an earth formation comprising the steps of: defining a formation zone of interest which has at least one layer of earth material which is relatively permeable to fluid flow and an adjacent layer of earth material which is relatively impermeable to fluid flow therethrough; and injecting a slurry including particles of said solids waste into said zone of interest at a pressure sufficient to hydraulically fracture said zone of interest in such a way that a fracture is formed which intersects said layers of earth material.
2. The method set forth in Claim 1 including the step of: continuing the injection of said slurry to deposit a filtercake of said particles in said fracture adjacent to said layer of relatively permeable material and to form a relatively unobstructed flowpath through said zone of interest adjacent to said layer of material that is relatively impermeable to fluid flow.
3. The method set forth in Claim 1 or 2 including the step of: defining said zone of interest to have a relatively low compressive stress of said earth material which is bounded by layers of earth material which have higher compressive stresses so as to confine said fracture to said zone of interest.
4. The method set forth in Claim 1 wherein: said slurry is injected into said formation through an injection well penetrating said zone of interest. 


 5. The method set forth in Claim 1 including the step of: reducing the particle size of said solids waste material and providing a slurry of a carrier liquid and said particles of solids waste material which will deposit said solids waste material in said fracture as a layer of filtercake adjacent said layer of material of relatively high permeability to prop open said fracture.
6. The method set forth in Claim 1 including the step of: pumping said slurry into said fracture until the pumping pressure increases to a value at least slightly less than the minimum in situ compressive stress of said formation adjacent said zone of interest.
7. A method for disposing of solids waste material in an earth formation comprising the steps of: defining a formation zone of interest which has plural layers of earth material which have different permeabilities to fluid flow; forming a slurry of relatively fine particles of said solids waste material and a carrier liquid; and injecting said slurry into said zone of interest at a pressure sufficient to extend a hydraulic fracture in said zone of interest in such a way that a fracture is formed which intersects said plural layers of earth material.
8. The method set forth in Claim 7 including the step of: continuing the injection of said slurry to deposit a filtercake of said particles in said fracture while forming at least one relatively unobstructed flowpath in said fracture to extend said fracture to receive said slurry. 


 9. The method set forth in Claim 7 including the step of: defining said zone of interest to have a minimum in situ compressive stress of said earth material which is bounded by layers of earth material which have higher in situ compressive stresses so as to confine said fracture to said zone of interest.
10. The method set forth in Claim 9 wherein: said slurry is injected into said formation through an injection well penetrating said zone of interest.
11. The method set forth in Claim 10 including the step of: pumping said slurry into said fracture until the pumping pressure increases to a value at least slightly less than said minimum in situ compressive stress of said formation adjacent said zone of interest.
12. A method for disposing of solids waste material in an earth formation comprising the steps of: defining a formation zone of interest which has at least one layer of earth material which is relatively permeable to fluid flow and an adjacent layer of earth material which is relatively impermeable to fluid flow therethrough; and injecting a slurry including particles of said solids waste and a carrier liquid into said zone of interest and into a fracture in said zone of interest to deposit a filtercake of said particles in said fracture adjacent to said layer of relatively permeable material and to form a relatively unobstructed flowpath through said zone of interest adjacent to said layer of material that is relatively impermeable to fluid flow. 


 13. The method set forth in Claim 12 including the step of: defining said zone of interest to have a relatively low in situ compressive stress of said earth material which is bounded by layers of earth material which have higher in situ compressive stresses so as to confine said fracture to said zone of interest. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
