<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650682</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for continuous high-volume steam cooking
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L101	A47J2716	A47J2716	A23L101	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A47J	A47J	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A47J27	A47J27	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved apparatus for uniformly cooking thick layers of 
food product in a 

saturated steam environment. A foraminous conveyor belt (15) 
transports a thick layer of food 

product into a walled cooking chamber (17) open at its ends. The 
walls trap pure saturated 

steam to the exclusion of air in the upper region of the chamber. 
A pressurized source of 

cooking energy supplies steam through a network of steam pipes 
situated just below the 

level of the belt along its carryway through the upper region 
of the cooking chamber. The 

pipes, which span the width of the conveyor belt, include small, 
restricted openings 

uniformly distributed along the pipes. The openings form steam 
outlets. The pipes are 

oriented with the steam outlets facing the conveyor belt. Saturated 
steam is emitted through 

the outlets directed through the foraminous conveyor belt at a 
velocity great enough to 

penetrate the thick product layer to cook even the innermost 
product within the thick layer, 

thereby improving the uniformity of the cook. The thick product 
layer slows the steam as it 

penetrates the layer to prevent the formation of turbulent flow 
paths that could draw 

unwanted air into the 212°F (100°C) saturated steam cooking region. 
An S-shaped 

back-flip in the conveying path repositions the product on the 
belt to further improve 

cooking uniformity. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAITRAM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE LAITRAM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEDET BRENT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, DAVID A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEDET, BRENT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to steam cooking of food products and, more particularly, to 
industrial high-volume cookers continuously conveying food products, such as thick layers 
of vegetables, through a cooking chamber on a flighted foraminous conveyor belt through 
which jets of steam are directed. Steam cookers through which conveyor belts carry food products are well known. For 
example, skins are loosened on tomatoes carried on a conveyor belt in Ryder, US-A-1,992,398, 
Feb. 26, 1935 by maintaining a cooking zone of superheated steam at above atmospheric 
pressure. There is no attempt to efficiently cook the entire product, nor to produce an 
efficient cooker. Thus, the hot steam at high pressure is used to purge air out of the 
cooking zone and thus the steam energy is inefficiently used for cooking the food. Vegetables are steam cooked by vaporized water over a body of boiling water in 
Bichel, US-A-4,937,090, June 26, 1990. The lower cooking temperatures, criticality in 
temperature and product controls, and inefficiency of heat exchange between the product 
and heating medium encompass a long cooking time and prevents uniformity and efficiency 
of cooking from the energy source that heats the water tank. Ellis-Brown, US-A-5,072,663, Dec. 17, 1991, specially teaches a cooker for shrimp with 
steam flowing at a pressure higher than atmospheric through a cooking zone containing a 
conveyor belt. Input cooking steam is mixed with air carried into the compartment by the 
belt, and vapors released by the cooking shrimp before reaching the shrimp cooking region, 
so that the input steam energy is not concentrated and spent solely upon the shrimp being 
cooked. Furthermore, uniform cooking conditions are difficult to obtain because of 
dependency upon variable air temperature and humidity, for example. Also, hotter steam 
migrating to the top of the compartment is discharged out of the top of the cooker to  
 
further decrease cooking efficiency. The incoming steam pressure keeps the compartment 
above atmospheric pressure, thus further tending to force the hot steam out into the 
atmosphere. Since an attempt is made to conserve minor energy losses through cabinet 
walls with specially formed insulation of stainless steel housing, it is clear that a more 
efficient system was not recognized. A previous development is a saturated steam cooker in the George C. Lapeyre et al. 
U.S. Patent, 4,862,794, Sept. 5, 1989, for APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING 
PRECOOKING AND MACHINE PEELING SHRIMP. This cooker carries
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A steam cooker in which an endless, foraminous conveyor belt (15) conveys food 
product along a carryway path and returns along a lower return path, the conveyor belt 

conveying the food product along the carryway path into an open-ended 
cooking chamber 

(17) having an upper side-walled cooking region of entrapped saturated steam, the pressure 
of which is maintained at substantially atmospheric and the temperature of which is 

maintained at about 100°C (212°F) by an energy supply means (95) supplying 
uncontaminated saturated steam into the cooking region at a flow rate sufficient to provide 

cooking energy expended in cooking and to maintain a static, air-free, 
saturated steam 

environment at 100°C (212°F) in the cooking region, the energy supply 
means comprising: 


steam outlets (36) situated slightly below the conveyor belt on the carryway path 
through the cooking region and above the return path of the conveyor belt and 

distributed across the width of the conveyor belt, 
characterised by 

the steam outlets having 
restricted openings forming jets (102) of steam, the openings directing the jets 

of steam through the foraminous belt at a velocity sufficient to penetrate a thick 
layer of food product carried thereon. 
The steam cooker of claim 1, in which the energy supply means includes a network of 
steam pipes spaced from each other and spanning the width of the conveyor belt in the 

cooking region and positioned just below the carryway of the conveyor belt, each of the 
steam pipes including the steam outlets aligned along the pipe, the pipe being oriented with 

respect to the conveyor belt such that the steam outlets directs steam to the food product 
along the shortest path.  

 
The steam cooker of claim 1, wherein the energy supply means supplies steam to the 
steam outlets at sufficient pressure and wherein the steam outlets are sufficiently restricted 

to emit streams of steam at exit speeds above about 20 meters per second. 
The steam cooker of claim 1, wherein the steam outlets are situated within about 1 cm of 
the conveyor belt on the carryway path. 
The steam cooker of claim 1, further comprising means for repositioning the food 
product on the conveyor belt as it traverses the cooking chamber. 
The steam cooker of claim 5, wherein the means for repositioning the food product 
comprises: 


an upper, forward sprocket engaging the non-conveying side of the conveyor belt, the 
sprocket reversing the direction and orientation of the belt and offsetting the 

conveyor path as the belt articulates about the sprocket; and 
a lower, rearward roller engaging the conveying side of the conveyor belt, the roller 
reversing the direction and orientation of the belt and further offsetting the 

conveyor path as the belt articulates about the roller; 
thereby forming an S-shaped back-flip in the path of the conveyor belt causing product 
to drop off the upper portion of the belt articulating about the sprocket and 

land on the lower portion of the conveyor belt below the drop-off from the 
upper portion of the conveyor at the sprocket, whereby product is repositioned 

on the belt. 
The steam cooker of claim 5, wherein the conveyor belt includes a plurality of flights 
extending outwardly from the conveying surface and transversely across the width of the 

belt and spaced longitudinally from each other along the belt in the direction of travel and 
wherein the means for repositioning the food product comprises a roller surface for 

accommodating the conveying side of the belt across its width, the roller surface comprising 
alternating peak and valley portions, the peak portions engaging the conveying side of the 

belt between consecutive flights, the valley portions being deep and wide enough to 
accommodate the flights as the belt articulates about the roller. 
The steam cooker of claim 7, wherein the peak portions of the roller surface are flat 
and wherein the valleys are V-shaped. 
A stern cooker comprising a foraminous conveyor belt (15) for conveying 
food product along a 

carryway 
path, a cooking chamber (17) having a cooking 

region for entrapped saturated steam, means for maintaining the pressure 
of the cooking region at substantially atmospheric, and energy supply 

means (95) for maintaining the temperature at about 100°C (212°F) by 
supplying saturated steam into the cooking region, 

the energy supply means (95) comprises steam outlets (36) 
disposed below the conveyor belt on the carryway path through 

the cooking region and distributed across the width of the 
conveyor belt, 

characterized in that 
the cooking chamber is substantially enclosed; and 

the steam outlets have restricted openings for forming jets (102) 
of steam, in use, the openings directing the jets of steam through 

the foraminous belt at a velocity sufficient to penetrate a layer of 
food product carried thereon.  

 
A method of steam cooking a food product comprising the steps of: 

conveying the food product in a layer on a foraminous conveyor belt 

(15) along a carryway path, 
passing the food product into a cooking chamber (17) having a cooking 
region, 
maintaining the pressure of the cooking region at substantially 
atmospheric, 
providing energy supply means (95) for supplying saturated steam 
into the cooking region, and 
supplying saturated steam 
from below the conveyor belt on the carryway path through 

the cooking region for maintaining 
the temperature at about 100°C (212°F), 
entrapping saturated steam within the cooking region and 
characterized by: 

supplying 
the saturated steam by directing jets of steam from below the conveyor 

belt (15) through this foraminous belt at a velocity sufficient to 
penetrate the layer of food product carried thereon. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
