<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617492</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DOUBLE IGNITION SYSTEM FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, IGNITION PLUG FOR DOUBLE IGNITION SYSTEMS, AND ELECTRIC SPARK GENERATOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02P1500	F02P1508	H01T1300	H01T1320	H01T1320	H01T1346	H01T1400	H01T1400	H01T2100	H01T2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02P	F02P	H01T	H01T	H01T	H01T	H01T	H01T	H01T	H01T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02P15	F02P15	H01T13	H01T13	H01T13	H01T13	H01T14	H01T14	H01T21	H01T21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In the field of manufacturing automobiles using internal combustion engines, 
an effort has been made to develop a low-pollution engine meeting the 

Muskie law in U.S.A., by reducing the concentration of noxious substances, such 
as nitrogen oxide including nitrogen dioxide and carbon monoxide in an exhaust 

gas of an engine. The ignition plug for double ignition systems according to the 
present invention was invented for removing these noxious substances from an exhaust 

gas of an engine. In this ignition plug, a sealed cavity is formed in an outer 
insulator thereof, and brass electric arc rods are provided as parts of a feeder circuit 

in this cavity so that the arc rods are opposed to each other with a clearance of 
around 10 mm therebetween. Spark discharge is generated once in this clearance, 

as well as large powerful electric sparks on an ignition port element simultaneously. 
A method of simultaneously generating spark discharge in two places, i.e. the 

inner side and outer side of a cylinder of an engine having one ignition plug, 
which is a so-called double ignition system. When spark discharge is once generated 

in this manner in a cavity in an outer insulator of an ignition plug, a lot of electric 
charge is collected in a conductor extending from the cavity to an ignition port 

element, sharp, large electric sparks short in discharge time are generated owing 
to an increased electric current. A combustion gas is burnt nearly completely with 

such large powerful electric sparks, whereby the concentration of the above-mentioned 
noxious substances in an exhaust gas is reduced greatly. This enables the 

concentration of noxious substances to decrease by not less than 60 %, and an engine 
output to be improved by around 25 % owing to an increase in the combustion 

rate. This ignition plug for double ignition systems is utilized in the industrial 
field of internal combustion engines. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IKEYA KANAME
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IKEYA, KANAME
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKEYA KANAME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKEYA, KANAME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a technical field of ignition plugs 
for internal combustion engines using gasoline as fuel. The automobile manufacturing 
industry and the aircraft manufacturing industry using internal 
combustion engines make sincere efforts to decrease noxious substances like 
nitrogen oxides such as nitrogen dioxide and carbon oxides such as carbon 
monoxide contained in the exhaust gas emitted from engines, as efforts for 
developing low-pollution engines. The present invention has been achieved to meet the demand for low-pollution 
engines. In the double ignition type ignition plug of the present 
invention, a sealed cavity is formed in the insulator outside the ignition 
plug, and electric are rods are provided as parts of the feeder circuit in 
this cavity, to face each other with a clearance of about 10 mm kept between 
them. A spark is discharged in this clearance, and simultaneously, the largest 
possible powerful electric spark is generated at the ignition port element 
of the ignition plug. In this structure, electric sparks are generated 
simultaneously at two points by one ignition plug; inside and outside a cylinder 
of an engine. This system allows large electric sparks to be generated 
for perfect combustion of fuel gas. So, the ignition plug for double ignition 
ststems can decrease the concentration of noxious substance in the  
 
exhaust gas by more than 60% compared to the conventional ignition plug, 
and can enhance the output of the engine of the same type by about 25%, for 
great contribution to the traffic industry and the transport industry. On the other hand, the electric spark generator of the present invention 
is used in combination with a conventional ignition plug, and since it 
is the same as the above double ignition type ignition plug in effect and 
action, it relates also to the same technical field. The conventional ignition plug for internal combustion engines adopts 
a single ignition system in which an electric spark is generated in a clearance 
of about 1 mm in the ignition port element of the ignition plug in a 
cylinder of an engine, for explosion of fuel gas. The efforts made by respective 
manufacturers of internal combustion engines for developing low-pollution 
engines have been centered on the improvement of the engine itself such 
as the CVCC (compound vortex controlled combustion) engine with a sub combustion 
chamber in addition to a main combustion chamber, and the catalytic 
methods for decreasing noxious substances in the exhaust
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A double ignition type ignition plug, comprising a cylindrical cavity, 
being enclosed as shown by symbol (A) in Fig. 2 in the porcelain or insulator 

outside the ignition plug; and electric arc rods of nichrome wires, tungsten 
or brass, being installed with a clearance of 5 mm to 15 mm (about 10 

mm ideally) as parts of the feeder circuit in the cavity (7 mm in diameter 

and 15 mm in length), to allow a spark to be discharged at the clearance, 
wherein the spark discharged there causes many charges to be collected in 

the conductor extending from there to the ignition port element of the ignition 
plug, for increasing the current at the ignition port element of the 

ignition plug, to cause a large and powerful spark to be generated simultaneously 
in a structure to generate electric sparks simultaneously at said two 

points inside and outside the cylinder of said one ignition plug in an engine, 
said electric spark generated at the ignition port element of the ignition 

plug by the spark discharged in the cavity, being sharp and short in duration, 
while the noise generated by the discharged spark in the enclosed 

cavity does not leak outside, to keep the engine silent; and 
   said insulator outside the ignition plug is sintered in two steps at 

optimum temperatures of about 800 to 1,000°C, the sintering of the first 
step, being effected to form the cavity left open and to fix the conductor 

extending from there to the ignition port element, and the sintering of the 
second step to enclose the cavity, being effected to install the arc rods in 

the cavity and to fix the conductor extending from there to the connection 
terminal. 
A double ignition system, comprising the basic structure and action 
of the double ignition type ignition plug stated in claim 1. 
A double ignition type ignition plug, according to claim 1, wherein 
the clearance at the ignition port element of the ignition plug shown by symbol 

(B) in Fig. 2 is somewhat wider than that of the conventional single 
ignition type ignition plug, being 1.1 to 5 mm (about 1.8 mm as an optimum 

clearance). 
An electric spark generator, to be connected to the connection terminal 
of a conventional single ignition type ignition plug, to form a double 

ignition system, comprising a cylindrical cavity (of vacuum ideally) enclosed 
in a porcelain or insulator cylinder as shown by symbol (A) of Fig. 3, 

being formed; and arc rods of nichrome wires, tungsten or brass, being installed 
to face each other with a clearance of 5 mm to 15 mm (about 10 mm ideally) 

as parts of the electric circuit in the cavity (7 mm in diameter and 
15 mm in length), to discharge a spark at the clearance, wherein the spark 

discharged causes charges to be collected in the conductor extending from 
there to the ignition port element of the ignition plug, to increase the current 

at the ignition port element of the ignition plug, for generating a 
large electric spark, in quite the same basic structure and action as those 

stated in claim 1; and the electrodes at both the ends of the electric spark 
generator are made of brass and connected with the conventional ignition plug 

by a socket and plug to allow disconnection, considering the life of the 
ignition plug. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
