<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636312</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A construction for automatically milking animals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K1502	A01K1100	A01K100	A01K1100	A01K1500	A01K112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K15	A01K11	A01K1	A01K11	A01K15	A01K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The construction for automatically milking animals 
comprises a shed (1) in which the animals can move about 

freely, a milking box (10), a feeding station (4, 5) and a 
plurality of resting boxes (2). The feeding stations (4, 5) 

and/or the resting boxes (2) include computer-controlled 
means (19, 20) for stimulating and, if necessary, compelling 

an animal to leave the resting box (2) or the feeding station 
(4, 5) in order to go to the milking box (10). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAASLAND N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a construction or
a similar arrangement for automatically milking animals, such
as cows, comprising a shed or another space in which the
animals can move about freely, a milking box, a feeding
station and a plurality of resting boxes having been arranged
in the shed or in another space, while furthermore there are
means present for stimulating an animal to leave her resting
box or the feeding station in order to proceed to the milking
box.A construction of the above defined type is known
from document NL-A-8104807. From this document there is known
an electric fence which extends along the entire width of the
shed. By moving the electric fence all animals are driven
from the shed to e.g. the milking parlour.However, sometimes it is desirable to drive
individual animals instead of all animals. It is therefore an
object of the invention to obtain a construction in which it
is possible to drive the animals selectively.According to the invention this is achieved in that
at least the majority of said resting boxes have
said stimulating means for inducing each animal resting therein to stand
up and leave its resting box,
so that said animal can be separately
and selectively chosen.The presence of means for stimulating the leaving
of the animals, in whichever resting box they may be, makes a
more efficient circulation of the animals through the shed or
another space possible.After an animal has been milked, it will be some
time before the teats of the udder of the animal milked have
closed and the openings will become dry. In order to protect
the teats from getting contaminated, it is advantageous to
discourage the animals for some time after having been milked
to enter a resting box. This can be effected when said means
will be controllable by means of a computer system in such a 
manner that they supply a warning signal which dissuades an
animal milked from entering a resting box for a certain
period of time. Such a warning signal may also be useful when
an animal has left a resting box for the purpose of going to
the milking box and the animal is to be discouraged to enter
another resting box on its way to the milking box.In accordance with a further feature of the
invention, the milking box may include means for detecting
diseased or low-productive animals and for separating them
from the herd. The invention therefore also relates to a
construction for automatically milking animals, such as cows,
comprising a shed or another space in which the animals can
move about freely,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A construction or a similar arrangement for
automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a

shed (1) or another space in which the animals can move about
freely, a milking box (10), a feeding station (4, 5) and a

plurality of resting boxes (2) having been arranged in the
shed (1) or in another space, while furthermore there are

means (19, 20) present for stimulating an animal to leave her
resting box (2) or the feeding station in order to proceed to

the milking box (10), characterized in that at least the
majority of said resting boxes (2) have said stimulating means

(19, 20) for inducing each animal resting therein to stand up
and leave its resting box, (2) so that said animal can be separately

and selectively chosen.
A construction as claimed in claim 1, characterized
in that a computer system is present, by means of which the

said means (19) are controllable in such a manner that they
supply a warning signal which dissuades an animal milked from

entering a resting box (2) for a certain period of time after
having been milked.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that there are

approximately as many feeding stations (4, 5) as there are

resting boxes (2).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that there are

approximately eighty resting boxes (2).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that there are

approximately eighty feeding stations (4, 5).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that feeding stations (4)

for fodder are arranged on both sides of a feeding passage
(3). 
A construction as claimed in claim 6, characterized
in that at least one side of the feeding passage (3) there

are feeding stations (5) for feeding concentrate.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the resting boxes (2)

are accommodated along the outer wall of the shed (1).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that between the resting

boxes (2) and the feeding stations (4, 5) there is a walking
area (12), via which the animal can proceed to the milking

box (10).
A construction as claimed in claim 9, characterized
in that a selection box (8) with computer-controllable

partitions is present for allowing the animals proceeding to
the milking box (10) either to pass to the milking box (10)

or to send them back to the walking area (12).
A construction as claimed in claim 9 or 10,
characterized in that a cleaning box (9) is present for

cleaning at least the teats of an animal before allowing her
to enter the milking box (10).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the milking box (10)

includes at least one milking robot for automatically
connecting teat cups to the teats of an animal and for

automatically milking the animal.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the milking box (10)

includes means for detecting diseased or low-productive
animals and for separating them from the herd.
A construction as claimed in claim 13,
characterized in that a reception room (13) for diseased or

low-productive animals is present, and the milking box (10)
includes computer-controlled partitioning means for allowing

an animal in the milking box (10) either to pass to the
walking area (12) or to the reception room (13).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that there are arranged

consecutively and in such a manner that they can be passed
through in one direction, a selection box (8), a cleaning box 

(9) and a milking box (10) and, positioned at the
longitudinal side of these boxes (8, 9, 10), a computer room

(11).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that at least the majority

of the resting boxes (2) and feeding stations (4, 5) are
equipped with a cow identification sensor (14) which,

together with a transponder (15) to be carried by the
animals, forms part of a cow identification system.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that a selection box (8)

for deciding whether the animals may enter the milking box
(10) or not, is equipped with a cow identification sensor

(14) which, together with a transponder (15) to be carried by
the animals, forms part of a cow identification system.
A construction as claimed in claim 16 or 17,
characterized in that the cow identification system is linked

to the computer system of the construction.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that a resting box (2)

includes a computer-controlled flashing light (19).
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that a resting box (2)

includes a flashing light (19) which is directly controlled
by a cow identification system.
A construction as claimed in claim 19 or 20,
characterized in that a flashing light (19) is controlled in

such a manner that the warning signal supplied thereby
stimulates an animal to leave the resting box (2), in which

she is resting, with the object of going to the milking box
(10), or stimulates an animal to yet pass the resting box (2)

which she has the tendency to enter or to leave same,
respectively, when having already entered.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that at least the majority

of the resting boxes (2) and feeding stations (4, 5) include
an expelling member (20), which, as it is in contact with the

animal, expels same from a resting box (2) or feeding station
(4, 5) by means of electric shocks. 
A construction as claimed in claim 19 and 22,
characterized in that a predetermined number of seconds after

the flashing light has been activated and the animal not yet
having left the resting box (2), the expelling member (20) is

activated.
A construction as claimed in claim 23,
characterized in that the intensity of the electric shocks

can be increased automatically.
A construction as claimed in claim 23 or 24,
characterized in that a computer system is present, in which

it is recorded when an animal has been milked and with the
aid of which an animal is stimulated to leave a resting box

(2) or feeding station (4, 5) when a time interval of
approximately 7.5 to 8 hours has elapsed after the last

milking turn.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the time interval

between the last milking turn of an animal and the subsequent
stimulation of the animal to go to the milking box (10), is

adjustable.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that a computer system is

present, with the aid of which an animal milked is dissuaded
from entering a resting box (2) for one to two hours, or,

when the animal has nevertheless entered a resting box (2),
is expelled therefrom.
A construction as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that a computer system is

present, in which it is established how long an animal dwells
in a resting box (2) or in a feeding station (4, 5).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
