<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617573</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vapor drain system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8586	B65G100	H01L2167	B65G100	B65D8586	H01L21677	H01L21673	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65G	H01L	B65G	B65D	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D85	B65G1	H01L21	B65G1	B65D85	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
During wafer fabrication, a transportable enclosure, such 
as a Standard Manufacturing InterFace (SMIF) pod encloses a 

nascent product, such as a semiconductor wafer, to protect 

the wafer against contamination during manufacture, storage 
or transportation. However chemical vapors emitted inside 

the pod can accumulate in the air and degrade wafers during 
subsequent fabrication. In order to absorb the vapors 

inside a closed pod, a vapor removal element typically 
including an activated carbon absorber, covered by a 

particulate-filtering vapor-permeable barrier, and covered 
by a guard plate with holes is disposed within the enclosure. 

A vapor removal element is disposed closely adjacent 
to each respective wafer. Alternatively, a single vapor 

removal element is located inside the enclosure. In 
certain instances, a fan or thermo-buoyant circulation 

causes any vapors located inside the enclosure to a vapor 
removal element for removal. Alternatively a porous vapor 

removal element may be disposed for removing vapors from 
air entering the enclosure. In another embodiment a vapor 

removal element is integrated with the back face of each 
wafer. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to transportable enclosures 
for reducing particle contamination during manufacture, 
storage or transportation of components and more particularly 
to standardized mechanical interface (SMIF) systems 
employing a vapor drain system for removing chemical vapors 
and components from within the enclosure. Chemical vapor contaminants are known to alter the processes 
used to manufacture sensitive devices such as micro-circuitry. 
Such chemical vapor contaminants have 
historically been inadequately addressed. These vapor contaminants 
originate from a variety of sources, including 
the enclosures used to protect components from particulate 
contamination. Outgassing of plastics, adhesives and 
sealant materials can make the enclosure itself a source of 
chemical contaminants. In addition, externally produced 
vapors are capable of contaminating an open enclosure. 
Later, when the enclosure contains a sensitive component, 
such as a semiconductor wafer, these vapors can be reemitted 
and contaminate the wafer. The import of particulate contamination on the manufacture 
of components having very tight tolerances, such as disk 
files and microcircuitry, is well known. Processes are 
carefully controlled to reduce by many orders of magnitude 
the quantity of particles in the manufacturing environment 
as evidenced by the increased use of "clean rooms" and by 
improvements in particle detection and removal technology. Chemical contamination is beginning to be recognized as a 
major factor in manufacturing operations. Such contamination  
 
was first recognized in process chemicals, such as 
impurities in gases used in semiconductor device manufacture 
and in solvent residues. Process contamination caused by environmental air-borne 
vapors is also a growing problem. Such vapors are everywhere 
in the environment at low concentrations. The origin 
of the vapor is diverse and includes plasticizer vapors, 
process materials from elsewhere in a factory, chemicals 
used in cleaning and air conditioning systems, cosmetics, 
adhesives and chemicals used in neighboring factories and 
in agriculture. These contaminants can degrade manufacturing 
by affecting the sensitivity of lithographic, etch 
and other processes, interfering with adhesion between surfaces, 
altering the wetability of surfaces, reducing effectiveness 
of cleaning processes, interfering with chemical 
reactions and inducing corrosion of metallurgy. Some chemical compounds are capable of travelling as vapors 
which deposit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A vapor drain system comprising: 

an enclosure (40) for holding a vapor sensitive product 
(12) between processing steps of its manufacture; and 
vapor removal element means (30) disposed in said 
enclosure for removing contaminating vapors arising from 

a source within said enclosure, the conductance of said 
vapor removal element sufficiently exceeding the 

conductance of said source of contaminating vapors, to 
maintain the relative vapor concentration (RVC) of said 

contaminating vapors in said enclosure at 10% or less 
adjacent the vapor sensitive product to thereby inhibit 

the formation of contaminating layers on said product. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said vapor removal element means is disposed 

substantially congruently with the product. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in claim 1 or 2, 
wherein said enclosure contains a plurality of vapor. 

removal element means disposed substantially congruently 
with a plurality of products. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in any one of claims 1 
to 3, wherein said enclosure comprises a cover having a 

plurality of walls and said vapor removal element means 
is disposed at at least one of said walls. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in any one of the 
preceding claims, further including means for circulating 

vapor past said vapor removal element means.  
 
A vapor drain system as set forth in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said enclosure holds a 

plurality of products in substantially parallel relation 
to one another and said vapor removal element means 

comprises a plurality of vapor removal element means 
disposed alternately with said plurality of products. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said enclosure holds a 

plurality of products in substantially parallel relation 
to one another and said vapor removal element means 

comprises a plurality of vapor removal element means, 
each vapor removal element means being disposed between a 

respective pair of products. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said vapor removal element 

means is disposed on a surface of the product. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in any one of the 
preceding claims, further including means for circulating 

vapors to the vicinity of said vapor removal element 
means. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said enclosure comprises a plurality of walls and said 

vapor removal element means comprises a breather vapor 
removal element disposed across an aperture in one of 

said walls. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said enclosure comprises a plurality of walls and said 

vapor removal element means comprises a first breather 
vapor removal element across an aperture in one of said 

walls and a second breather vapor removal element across 
an aperture in another of said walls for providing 

purging of the atmosphere within said enclosure.  
 
A vapor drain system as set forth in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said vapor removal element is 

removable and comprises an absorber for facilitating 
analysis of said vapors. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in claim 12, wherein 
said absorber is a reversible absorber. 
A vapor drain system as set forth in claim 1, wherein 
said vapor removal element comprises an aperture 

connecting the interior and exterior of said enclosure 
and a vapor-permeable and particulate-proof barrier 

disposed across said aperture. 
A thermo-buoyant vapor drain system comprising: 

an enclosure for holding vapor sensitive products between 
steps of its manufacture; 
means not part of the vapor sensitive product for 
non-uniformly heating and cooling air within said 

enclosure for causing thermo-buoyant convection of vapor 
within said enclosure, and vapor removal element means 

disposed in said enclosure for removing vapor from said 
circulating air. 
A thermo-buoyant vapor drain system as set forth in 
claim 15, wherein said means for non-uniformly heating 

and cooling comprises a heat source located within said 
enclosure, or a heat source disposed external to said 

enclosure and means for transferring heat non-uniformly 
to air in said enclosure. 
A thermo-buoyant vapor drain system as set forth in claim 
15 
or 16, wherein said means for non-uniformly heating 
and cooling comprises at least one thermal fin located on  

 
a wall of said enclosure, or at least one thermal 

conductor passing through a wall of said enclosure. 
A thermo-buoyant vapor drain system as set forth in 
claim 15, wherein said means for non-uniformly heating 

and cooling comprises a fluid cooled thermal plate. 
A thermo-buoyant vapor drain system as set forth in 
claim 15, wherein said enclosure is adapted for holding 

nascent product. 
A thermo-buoyant vapor drain system as set forth in 
claim 15, wherein said enclosure comprises a plurality of 

walls and said vapor removal element means is disposed at 
at least one of said walls. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
