<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644712</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
X-ray examination apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N532	H04N532	H05G100	H05G160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H05G	H05G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	H05G1	H05G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In an image detection system having a CCD sensor, particularly for an x-ray 
examination apparatus, image read-out is substantially accelerated. This is achieved 

by discarding portions of the electronic image that is stored in the image storage-part of 
the CCD. Thus, only, portions of the image that contain relevant image information are 

converted into an electronic video signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILLEN BARTHOLOMEUS GOVERDINA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILLEN, BARTHOLOMEUS GOVERDINA MARIA HENRICUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an x-ray examination apparatus for forming an x-ray 
image by irradiating an object, said apparatus comprising an x-ray image intensifier 
for converting said x-ray image into a visible image and an image detection system 
which incorporates a light-sensitive device to convert said visible image into an 
electronic image, a read-out circuit for reading out said electronic image by 
transforming said electronic image into an electronic video signal, and a control-circuit 
for the read-out-circuit. The invention also relates to such an image detection system. An x-ray examination apparatus of said kind has been described in the 
United States Patent US 4 881 124.There are several operating modes for performing x-ray radiology. In 
particular, a patient to be examined is exposed to a low dose of x-rays continuously or 
in a series of pulses during fluoroscopy, whereas pulses of a higher dose of x-rays are 
applied during exposure. An x-ray image intensifier is provided to convert an x-ray 
image into a visible image which is subsequently detected by a light-sensitive device 
incorporating a light-sensitive element. Such a light-sensitive element is substantially 
sensitive to light having a wavelength in a range covering the wavelengths between 
ultra-violet radiation and infrared radiation. In the x-ray examination apparatus of the 
cited reference, the light-sensitive element is a photoconductor-type image pick-up tube. 
When a sequence of x-ray images is made, time-resolution of such a sequence is 
determined by the image frequency, which itself is determined by the read-out rate of 
the light-sensitive device. The control circuit is arranged to adjust vertical and 
horizontal deflection frequencies of the scanning electron-beam of the pick-up tube. The 
control circuit is further arranged to adjust the scanning electron-beam current. The x-ray 
examination apparatus of the cited reference comprises an operating mode selection 
means. The control circuit adjusts the image pick-up tube in accordance with the  
 
selected operating mode, so as to provide proper image frequency and image quality. 
The control circuit of the known x-ray examination apparatus is not suitable for use 
together with a solid-state image sensor, notably a charge-coupled device, because such 
solid-state image sensors do not employ a scanning electron-beam to read out an image. 
Moreover, said adjustments relate to the entire area of the light-sensitive face of the 
photoconductive element of the image
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An x-ray examination apparatus for forming an x-ray image by irradiating 
an object, said apparatus comprising an x-ray image intensifier for converting said x-ray 

image into a visible image and an image detection-system which incorporates a light-sensitive 
device to convert said visible image into an electronic image, a read-out circuit 

for reading out said electronic image by transforming said electronic image into an 
electronic video-signal, and a control-circuit for the read-out-circuit, characterized in 

that the control circuit is arranged to select a region of interest of the electronic image 
for forming said electronic video signal from said selected region of interest, so as to 

reduce the time required for forming said electronic video signal. 
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in 
that the control-circuit is arranged to apply a discard signal to the read-out circuit to 

discard portions of said electronic image outside said region of interest. 
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in 
that the control-circuit is arranged to apply a discard signal to the read-out circuit to 

discard a first group of lines of said electronic image which first group precedes said 
region of interest when reading out said electronic image. 
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in Claim 2 or Claim 3, 
characterized in that the control-circuit is arranged to apply a discard signal to the read-out 

circuit to discard outer sections of a third group of lines of said electronic image, 
said third group having inner sections inside said region of interest and said outer 

sections outside said region of interest. 
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 4, 
characterized in that the control circuit is arranged to apply a discard signal to the read-out 

circuit to discard a second group of lines of said electronic image which second 
group succeeds said region of interest when reading out said electronic image. 
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 4, 
wherein the image detection device incorporates a row-driver circuit, characterized in 

 
that the control circuit is arranged to apply a charge-reset signal to the row-driver 

circuit to clear the light-sensitive element after reading out said region of interest of said 
electronic image. 
An x-ray examination apparatus according to any one of Claims 2 to 6, 
characterized in that the read-out circuit is arranged to receive charges which are part of 

said electronic image, and in that said discard signal is applied to the read-out circuit to 
adjust the read-out circuit so as to add up charges of portions outside said region of 

interest. 
An x-ray examination apparatus according to any one of Claims 2 to 6, 
characterized in that the read-out circuit is arranged to receive charges which are part of 

said electronic image, and in that the read-out circuit comprises a drain-circuit 
connected to a switching device and in that said discard signal is applied to close the 

switching device so as to carry off charges of portions outside said region of interest to 
the drain-circuit. 
An x-ray examination apparatus according to Claim 8, characterized in 
that the switching device comprises a transistor having a gate arranged to receive said 

discard signal. 
An x-ray examination apparatus according to Claim 7, characterized in 
that the read-out circuit is arranged to receive charges of successive lines of the 

electronic image, in that the control circuit is arranged to supply a shift signal to the 
read-out circuit to shift charges to its output terminal, and in that the control circuit is 

also arranged to supply a discard signal to add charges of a current line to the read-out 
circuit, subsequent to the shift of charges of an inner section of a preceding line, so as 

to keep charges of said inner section of a preceding line apart from charges of an inner 
section of said current line. 
An image detection system incorporating a light-sensitive device for 
converting a visible light-image into an electronic image, a read-out circuit for reading 

out said electronic image by transforming said electronic image into an electronic video-signal, 
and a control-circuit for adjusting a read-out rate of the read-out circuit, 

characterized in that the control circuit is arranged to select a region of interest of the 
electronic image for forming said electronic video signal from said selected region of 

interest so as to reduce the time required for forming said electronic video signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
