<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614133</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Varying tone security document
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B42D1510	G03G1301	G03G1301	G03G2104	G03G500	B42D1510	G07D712	G03G2104	B41M314	G03G2100	G07D700	B41M314	G03G2100	G03G500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B42D	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	B42D	G07D	G03G	B41M	G03G	G07D	B41M	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B42D15	G03G13	G03G13	G03G21	G03G5	B42D15	G07D7	G03G21	B41M3	G03G21	G07D7	B41M3	G03G21	G03G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved security document (10) according to the present 
invention includes a substrate having a surface for carrying 

indicia. The document has background printed matter (20), consisting 
of a pattern of elements of a first size and frequency, printed 

at a first density on the surface. The document further has a 
cancellation term (22), consisting of a pattern of elements of a 

second size and frequency, printed at a second density on the 
surface. Elements of one of the first size or the second size 

are sufficiently small such that they are not reproduced by a 
color copier at a particular copier setting, and elements of the 

other of the first size or the second size are sufficiently large 
such that they are reproduced by the color copier at the 

particular copier setting. As a result, a copy of the security 
document made on a color copier displays the cancellation term. 

At least a portion of the security document surface is divisible 
into a plurality of bands extending across the surface. The 

sizes of the elements and the density of the background printed 
matter and the cancellation term vary together across the bands 

in a direction generally normal to the bands. As an alternative, 
the frequencies of the elemen
ts may vary across the bands such 
that the density of the background printed matter and the density 

of the cancellation term are changed. Such a document may be 
printed with different colors of ink on different portions of the 

document, and with the bands in which a color transition occurs 
being printed with two colors of ink at differing screen angles. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANDARD REGISTER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE STANDARD REGISTER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOWRY JR WILLIAM H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOWRY JR.,WILLIAM H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a security document comprising a
substrate having a surface for carrying indicia, the document
having both background printed matter and a cancellation term
printed on the surface.The importance of making various types of documents
safe from nefarious duplication is readily apparent. The
development of the color copier has resulted in significant
concern in this regard. The quality of color reproductions that
can be made with a color copier has become so good that it may be
very difficult to distinguish the original documents from the
color reproductions. Even if a reproduction is not an exact
copy, the reproduction often appears reasonably authentic in the
absence of the original for comparison purposes. As a
consequence, there has been concern that color copiers could be
used to reproduce security documents, such as checks, stock
certificates, automobile title instruments, and other documents
of value, for illegal purposes. This concern has been heightened
with the advent of desk top publishing software and hardware,
including personal computers and scanners. Such desk top
publishing systems allow sophisticated image processing and
printing not previously generally available.Many techniques have been developed to prevent improper
reproduction of security documents. One of the most successful
is the use of a hidden warning message which is readily apparent
on reproduced copies of a document, but which is invisible, or
nearly so, on the original document.Examples of this technique are shown in U.S. Patent
Nos. 4,227,720 and 4,310,180. A single tone warning phrase and a
single tone background pattern are used. Tone refers to the
visual effect produced by solid ink coverage or by halftone dots,
bars, or marks which cover a portion of a printed area and which
usually have a frequency that is measured in dots, lines, or 
marks per inch. Halftone dots, bars, or marks may be more or
less uniformly distributed over an area to produce the visual
effect, i.e., less than full tone, of a lighter overall color
with the use of a darker color ink printed at less than full area
coverage. The warning phrase and background pattern area tones
are of different frequency and are made up of dots, bars, or
marks of differing size but they are selected to provide similar
appearance to the eye of a casual observer. A less than full
tone effect may also be produced by full area coverage of a paler
color of ink than the darker color of ink used for the halftone
dots, bars, or marks.Because the tone of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A security document (70) comprising a substrate (72) having a surface for carrying indicia;
background printed matter on said surface, said background printed matter (20) consisting of a

pattern of elements of a first size and a first frequency such that said background printed matter
(20) is printed at a first density perceived by an observer as a first tone; and a cancellation term

(22) printed on said surface, said cancellation term (22) consisting of a pattern of elements of a
second size and a second frequency such that said cancellation term (22) is printed at a second

density perceived by an observer as a second tone, elements of one of said first size or said
second size being sufficiently small such that they are not reproducible by a color copier at a

particular copier setting, and elements of the other of said first size or said second size being
sufficiently large such that they are reproducible by said color copier at said particular copier

setting, 
characterized in that
:

at least a portion of said security document (70) surface is divisible into a plurality of
bands extending across said surface,
the density of said background printed matter (22) and the density of said cancellation
term (22) vary together across each of said bands (74-82) according to respective predetermined

mathematical functions,
said respective predetermined mathematical functions comprise at least one of a

predetermined linear function and a predetermined non-linear function, and
said respective predetermined mathematical functions define a plurality of different
mathematical functions within said plurality of bands (74-82) thereby impeding copying said

security document (70) without said cancellation term (22) being apparent on at least some
portion of the copy of said security document (70).
The security document (70) of claim 1 in which the tone of each portion of the surface
printed with said sufficiently large elements is greater than the tone of adjacent portions of the

surface printed with said sufficiently small elements.
The security document (70) of claim 1 further comprising a camouflage pattern on said
surface to disguise said cancellation term (22). 
The security document (70) of claim 3 in which said camouflage pattern is defined by the
absence of said elements of said first and second sizes.
The security document (70) of claim 3 in which said camouflage pattern is defined by the
presence of further elements.
The security document (70) of claim 1 in which said cancellation term (22) consists of a
plurality of letters, each of which is approximately two bands in height.
The security document (70) of claim 1 in which the density of said background printed
matter ( 20) and the density of said cancellation term (22) vary together across at least some of

said plurality of bands (74-82) accordingly to a predetermined logarithmic function.
The security document (70) of claim 1 in which the density of said background printed
matter (20) and the density of said cancellation term (22) along each edge of each band are

substantially the same as the density of said background printed matter (20) and the density of
said cancellation term (22) along the edge of the adjacent band, respectively.
The security document (70) of claim 1 in which a plurality of cancellation terms are
printed on said surface, at least some of said plurality of cancellation terms being printed over

more than one of said plurality of bands.
The security document (70) of claim 9 in which said plurality of cancellation terms and
said plurality of bands (74-82) vary in height.
The security document (10) of claim 1 in which the color of said background printed
matter (20) and the color of said cancellation term (22) vary together over said surface.
The security document (70) of claim 11 in which the upper portion of said security
document (70) is printed with a first color and the lower portion of the security document (70) is 

printed with a second color, and in which the color transition area in the central portion of the
security document (70) is printed in both colors at a relatively low density.
The security document (70) of claim 12 in which the screen angle of the pattern of
elements in said central portion printed with said first color differs from the screen angle of the

pattern of elements in said central portion printed with said second color, thereby facilitating a
smooth transition between colors.
The security document (70) of claim 1 in which the tone of each portion of the surface
printed with said sufficiently large elements is substantially the same as the tone of adjacent

portions of the surface printed with said sufficiently small elements.
The security document (70) of claim 1 wherein the sizes of said elements of said first and
second sizes vary across each of said bands (74-82).
The security document (70) of claim 1 wherein the frequencies of said elements of said
first and second frequencies vary across each of said bands (74-82).
The security document (70) of claim 1 wherein the sizes of said elements of said first and
second sizes vary across each of said bands (74-82) and the frequencies of said elements of said

first and second frequencies vary across each of said bands (74-82).
The security document (70) of claim 1, wherein the sizes of said elements of said first
and second sizes vary across each of said bands (74-82) such that the density of said background

printed matter (20) and the density of said cancellation term (22) vary together across each of
said bands (74-82) on said surface.
The security document (70) of claim 1, wherein the density of said background printed
matter and the density of said cancellation term vary together linearly across a first group of said

plurality of bands (74-82) according to a predetermined linear function and non-linearly across a
second group of said plurality of bands (74-82) according to a predetermined non-linear function. 
The security document (70) of claim 19, wherein said non-linear variation is defined by a
predetermined logarithmic function.
The security document (70) of claim 1, wherein the density of said background printed
matter (20) and the density of said cancellation term (22) vary together according to a first

predetermined mathematical function across at least one of said bands (74-82) and according to a
second predetermined mathematical function across at least another of said bands (74-82).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
