<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612413</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NO DRIFT ZERO-OFFSET MAGNETOMETER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3304	G01R3304	G01R3302	G01R3302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION NAVIGATION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION NAVIGATION, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWKS TIMOTHY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAWKS, TIMOTHY J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is in the field of magnetometers, and is
particularly concerned with digital circuitry therefor which is
insensitive to temperature variations and variations which occur
in the process of mass manufacturing and which normally occur
with age.A variety of digital magnetometers are known in the art.
For example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,396,329 issued Aug. 6, 1968 to
Salvi, discloses a magnetometer in which the intensity of weak
magnetic fields is a function of frequency differences in sensed
signals, but independent of orientation of a vessel in which the
magnetometer is installed. U.S. Pat. No. 3,634,946 issued Jan.
18, 1972 to Star, relates to an all digital circuit
implementation of a digital compass which operates on the basis
of spatial relationships of pulses produced when a sensor is
aligned in a reference direction and orthogonal to the Earth's
magnetic field. U.S. Pat. No. 4,305,034, issued Dec. 8, 1981 to
Long et al., disclosed a magnetometer in which frequency changes
are created when a background magnetic field is perturbed by a
metal object. This device, however, cannot provide sign
information, i.e. whether the field is parallel or antiparallel
to the sensor coil. U.S. Pat. No. 4,340,861, issued July 20,
1982 to Bondarevsk et al., discloses that a strong magnetic
field will produce frequency differences in an LC circuit.U.S. Pat. No. 4,851,775, issued Jul. 25, 1989, assigned to
Precision Navigation, Incorporated of Mountain View California,
discloses a digital compass
and magnetometer having a sensor coil wound on a high magnetic
permeability isotropic core. This patent is closely related to
the present invention in that the response of the sensor coil to
an external magnetic field in conjunction with a resistive
element controls the frequency of a relaxation oscillator. In 
this patent the oscillator driver is a Schmitt-trigger, the
output of which provides a signal related to the magnitude
of the external magnetic field. This implementation
however, suffered from problems with zero offset. The
magnetometer zero-offset would drift significantly with
temperature and with age.Another approach that deals specifically with the
zero-offset problem is described in European Patent
Application A3 0045509 filed August 3, 1981. In that
application, the magnetic sensor is an iron core with a
winding which determines the frequency of the oscillator.
A square wave is laid onto the excitation winding of the
magnetic sensor. The detection winding of the magnetic
sensor is the inductance of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A relaxation oscillator circuit comprising:

driver means (11) having an input terminal and an

output terminal for providing an oscillating signal at said
output terminal;
sensor means (13) having a first coil would on a first
high magnetic permeability core for controlling the period

of said oscillator circuit, said first coil having first
and second first-coil terminals, and said first coil being

electrically symmetric between said first and second first-coil
terminals; and
a first first-coil resistor (15) coupled to said first
first-coil terminal;

   characterised by:

a second first-coil resistor (17) coupled to said
second first-coil terminal, said second first-coil resistor

and said first first-coil resistor being impedance matched;
switching means (19) coupled to said first and second
first-coil terminals and to said input terminal of said

driver means coupling said input terminal alternately to
said first first-coil terminal and to said second first-coil

terminal; and
gate means (21) coupled to said first first-coil
resistor and to said second first-coil resistor for

shunting said first first-coil resistor to a DC potential
when said switching means couples said input terminal of

said driver means to said second first-coil terminal, and
for shunting said second first-coil resistor to said DC

potential when said switching means couples said input
terminal of said driver means to said first first-coil

terminal.
An oscillator circuit according to Claim 1, wherein
said driver means comprises a Schmitt-trigger.
An oscillator circuit according to any preceding 
Claim, wherein said driver means comprises an inverting

gain element having hysteresis.
An oscillator circuit according to Claim 2, wherein
said Schmitt-trigger has symmetrical thresholds.
A magnetometer for measuring an external magnetic
field, comprising:


an oscillator circuit according to any preceding
Claim; and
measurement means (55) for analyzing the output signal
from said output terminal of said driver means, and for

providing a signal representing the magnitude of said
external magnetic field strength.
A magnetometer according to Claim 5, wherein said
sensor means comprises a second coil wound on a second high

permeability magnetic core, said second coil having first
and second second-coil terminals, and said second coil

being electrically symmetric between said first and second
second-coil terminals;

   and wherein said magnetometer further comprises:

a first second-coil resistor coupled to said first
second-coil terminal;
a second second-coil resistor coupled to said second
second-coil terminal, said second second-coil resister and

said first second-coil resistor being impedance matched;
and wherein said switching means is coupled to said
first and second second-coil terminals and to said input

terminal of said driver means for coupling said input
terminal alternately to said first second-coil terminal and

to said second second-coil terminal;
and wherein said gate means is also coupled to said
first second-coil resistor and to said second second-coil 

resistor for shunting said first second-coil resistor to a
DC potential when said switching means couples said input

terminal of said driver means to said second second-coil
terminal, and for shunting said second second-coil resistor

to said DC potential when said switching means couples said
input terminal of said driver means to said first second-coil

terminal.
A magnetometer according to Claim 6, wherein said
sensor means comprises a third coil wound on a third high

permeability magnetic core, said third coil having first
and second third-coil terminals, and said third coil being

electrically symmetric between said first and second third-coil
terminals;

   and wherein said magnetometer further comprises:

a first third-coil resistor coupled to said first
third-coil terminal;
a second third-coil resistor coupled to said second
third-coil terminal, said second third-coil resistor and

said first third-coil resistor being impedance matched;
and wherein said switching means is coupled to said
first and second third-coil terminals and to said input

terminal of said driver means for coupling said input
terminal alternately to said first third-coil terminal and

to said second third-coil terminal;
and wherein said gate means is also coupled to said
first third-coil resistor and to said second third-coil

resistor for shunting said first third-coil resistor to a
DC potential when said switching means couples said input

terminal of said driver means to said second third-coil
terminal, and for shunting said second third-coil resistor

to said DC potential when said switching means couples said
input terminal of said driver means to said first third-coil

terminal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
