<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619772</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RAZOR CARTRIDGE WITH IMPROVED RINSABILITY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26B2108	B26B2122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26B	B26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26B21	B26B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNER LAMBERT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNER-LAMBERT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOZIKOWSKI STANISLAW D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOZIKOWSKI, STANISLAW, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
RAZOR CARTRIDGE WITH IMPROVED RINSABILITYFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention pertains generally to razor blade shaving cartridges. More particularly the present invention pertains to multi-blade shaving systems. The present invention is particularly, but not exclusively, useful as a multi-blade shaving system which is easily rinsable to remove debris filling the interblade spaces to maintain the effectiveness of the cutting blades.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONTwin bladed razor systems for shaving hair form a body surface are well known and widely used. Typically, such razor systems incorporate a razor cartridge on. which the two blades are mounted. More specifically, the blades are normally spaced apart from each other and are mounted on the cartridge in parallel. Additionally, the cartridge typically includes a guard bar which provides structure for guiding the blades into contact with the surface to be shaved. The cartridge, in turn, is attachable to a handle which is used to maneuver the cartridge and its blades during a shaving operation. For purposes of establishing nomenclature and structural interaction, it is to be appreciated that the leading blade is commonly referred to as the seat blade, and the trailing blade is commonly referred to as the cap blade. Further, the seat blade is normally positioned so as to be between the -cap blade and the guard bar.One significant disadvantage to presently available twin bladed razor systems is the fact that debris easily accumulates in the space between the blades. The unwanted result is that this accumulation diminishes the efficacy of the blades to cut hair. When compared to the condition where there is no debris in the space between the blades, it has been determined that the build up of debris in the space between the blades can reduce the effectiveness of the cap blade by almost eighty percent (80%) . This 

reduction in efficiency will also result for the seat blade if the space between the guard bar and the seat blade is also allowed to accumulate debris. Further, it is believed that the build up of debris contributes to discomfort during the shaving operation.In order to alleviate the above mentioned disadvantages, the user normally rinses the razor cartridge during shaving in an attempt to clear debris from the cartridge. If effective, this rinsing will improve the cutting effectiveness of the razor as well as contribute to user comfort. It happens, however, that the spacers which are presently used to stabilize the blades of a typical twin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A rinsable twin bladed shaving cartridge which comprises: a substantially flat cap blade having a cutting edge; a substantially flat seat blade having a cutting edge; and means for holding said cap blade parallel to said seat blade with said cutting edges aligned to establish a substantially unobstructed passageway through said cartridge between said cap blade and said seat blade for rinsing debris therefrom.
2. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim l wherein said holding means comprises a support having an upper platform wit a forward edge and a rear edge, a lower platform having a forward edge and a rear edge, and at least one post connecting said rear edge of said upper platform to said rear edge of said lower platform, and wherein said cap blade is attached to said upper platform to align its cutting edge with said forward edge of said upper platform and said seat blade is attached to said lower platform to align its cutting edge with said forward edge of said lower platform.
3. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 2 further comprising a pair of side posts, each said side post positioned clear of said passageway and connecting said upper platform with said lower platform.
4. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 3 further comprising a handle attachable to said support for controlling said support during shaving. 


 5. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 4 wherein said handle is formed with an elongated guard bar, said guard bar being disposed substantially parallel to said seat blade and opposite said cap blade therefrom when said handle is attached to said support.
6. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 5 wherein said guard bar is distanced from said support to establish a substantially unobstructed channel therebetween.
7. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 4 wherein said support further comprises an elongated guard bar, said guard bar being disposed substantially parallel to said seat blade and opposite said cap blade therefrom, and said guard bar being distanced from said seat blade to establish a substantially unobstructed channel therebetween.
8. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 7 wherein said handle is attachable to said guard bar.
9. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 7 wherein said handle is attachable to said lower platform of said support.
10. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 7 wherein said support is made of a plastic material. 

11. A rinsable twin bladed shaving cartridge which comprises: a first platform having an upper surface and a lower surface; a second platform having an upper surface and a lower surface; at lease one post connecting said first platform to said second platform to hold said second platform below said first platform and establish a substantially unobstructed passageway therebetween; a cap blade attached to said lower surface of said first platform; and a lower blade attached to said upper surface of said second platform.
12. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 11 wherein said cap blade is substantially parallel to said seat blade.
13. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 12 further comprising a pair of side posts, each said side post positioned clear of said passageway and connecting said upper platform with said lower platform.
14. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 13 further comprising a handle attachable to said support for controlling said support during shaving, said handle being formed with, an elongated guard bar disposed substantially parallel to said seat blade and opposite said cap blade therefrom, and wherein said guard bar is distanced from said support to establish a substantially unobstructed channel therebetween when said handle is attached to said support. 


 15. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 13 further comprising a handle attachable to said support for controlling said support during shaving, said support having an elongated guard bar disposed substantially parallel to said seat blade and opposite said cap blade therefrom, and wherein said guard bar is distanced from said seat blade to establish a substantially unobstructed channel therebetween, said handle being attachable to said guard bar.
16. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 13 further comprising a handle attachable to said support for controlling said support during shaving, said support having an elongated guard bar disposed substantially parallel to said seat blade and opposite said cap blade therefrom, and wherein said guard bar is distanced from said seat blade to establish a substantially unobstructed channel therebetween, said handle being attachable to said lower platform of said support.
17. A rinsable twin bladed shaving cartridge which comprises: a support having an upper platform with a forward edge and a rear edge, a lower platform having a forward edge and a rear edge, and at least one post connecting said rear edge of said upper platform to said rear edge of said lower platform to hold said upper platform relative to said lower platform and establish a substantially unobstructed passageway therebetween; a cap blade attached to said upper platform; and a seat blade attached to said lower platform. 


 18. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 1
7
 further comprising a handle attachable to said support for controlling said support during shaving, said handle being formed with an elongated guard bar disposed substantially parallel to said seat blade and opposite said cap blade therefrom, and wherein said guard bar is distanced from said support to establish a substantially unobstructed channel therebetween when said handle is attached to said support.
19. A shaving cartridge as recited in claim 17 further comprising a handle attachable to said support for controlling said support during shaving, said support having an elongated guard bar disposed substantially parallel to said seat blade and opposite said cap blade therefrom, and wherein said guard bar is distanced from said seat blade to establish a substantially unobstructed channel therebetween, said handle being attachable to said guard bar.
20. λ shaving cartridge as recited in claim 17 further comprising a handle attachable to said support for controlling said support during shaving, said support having an elongated guard bar disposed substantially parallel to said seat blade and opposite said cap blade therefrom, and wherein said guard bar is distanced from said seat blade to establish a substantially unobstructed channel therebetween, said handle being attachable to said lower platform of said support. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
