<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623213</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INSTRUMENTATION AND METHOD FOR EVALUATING CLOT ELASTIC MODULUS, FORCE DEVELOPMENT AND ERYTHROCYTE FLEXIBILITY DURING CLOTTING AND DISSOLUTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3386	G01N33487	G01N3349	G01N3349	G01N33487	G01N3386	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Intermittent application and removal of a compressive force on a blood sample (8) positioned between a pair of plates (12 and 14) throughout clot formation and dissolution provides a standard for using voltage output from a transducer (22) to determine force and elastic modulus parameters. Force development arises from the internal actions of the platelets during clot retraction. Elastic modulus provides a measure of the stiffness of the clot. Clotting can be measured as an increase in force development and clot elastic modulus. Clot dissolution can be determined by a dramatic decrease in force development and in elastic modulus. Providing the blood sample with a clot dissolving agent such as tPA allows determining the fibrinolytic potential of whole blood and, thus, aids in identifying patients at risk for thrombosis due to a decreased ability to dissolve clots. Clot elastic modulus provides a measure of erythrocyte flexibility.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH UNIVERSITY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARR MARCUS E JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARR, MARCUS, E., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is generally related to blood
analysis instrumentation and, more particularly, to
instrumentation and techniques for monitoring the
platelet function and clot structure of a blood
sample during both clotting and dissolution of
clots. In addition, the invention provides a new
method of assessing erythrocyte flexibility.U.S. Patent 4,986,964 to Carr et al. discloses
a clot retractometer which measures force
development during platelet mediated clot
retraction. This instrument has been shown to be a
novel gauge of platelet function (see, Carr et al.,
Blood Coagulation and Fibrinolysis, 2:303-308
(1991), Carr et al., Am. J. of Med. Sci., 302:13-18
(1991), and Carr et al., Blood, 78:482A (1991)).
However, clot retraction is dependent on intact
platelet membrane structure, normal platelet
metabolic function, fibrin structure and normal
platelet-fibrin interactions. Changes in clot 
retraction are sensitive to a spectrum of both fluid
phase and platelet abnormalities. Force development
is completely dependent on platelet function and if
platelet function is abnormal or if no platelets are
present, force development will be completely
absent.While force development is dependent on
platelet function, the degree of deformation of a
blood clot is dependent in large measure on fibrin
structure. If the clot structure is very rigid, as
sometimes occurs in diseases such as multiple
myeloma, clot deformation may be minimal even with
large force development. The elastic modulus of a
blood clot (gel) is a commonly used measurement of
rigidity. For years, clinicians and investigators
have been measuring gel elastic modulus as a screen
of clot "integrity", meaning a determination of
whether the blood possesses the structural
characteristics necessary to impede and eventually
stop the flow of blood at a site of injury.There are currently two types of elastic
modulus measurements being performed on blood clots:
tensile (linear stretching) modulus and torsional
(twisting) modulus. Tensile modulus measurement
techniques have been described in Ferry et al., J.
Am. Chem. Soc. 69:388-400 (1947), Ferry, Adv.
Protein Chem. 4:1-78 (1948), and Ferry et al., Arch.
Biochem. 34:424 (1951). Clot tensile modulus
measurements have been performed on cylindrical
clots formed in and subsequently removed from clot
forming chambers or vessels. Because manipulation
of the clot is required for these types of
measurements, there is a chance of inducing 
irreversible structural changes in the clot and,
thereby altering, in unknown
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for analyzing blood and plasma samples (8),
comprising a means for analyzing platelet function of a

sample (8) utilizing a common pair of spaced apart plates
(12, 14), said means for analyzing platelet function being

provided by a measurement of force development between said
pair of spaced apart plates (12, 14);

characterized in that

a means (26) for applying a known amount of force to said
spaced apart plates (12, 14) is provided which biases said

spaced apart plates towards each other;
a means for analyzing clot structure for the same sample is
provided by a measurement of clot elastic modulus;

wherein both said means for analyzing platelet function and
said means for analyzing clot structure for the same sample

(8) utilize said common pair of spaced apart plates (12,
14), and a means (22) for sensing is positioned to sense

the relative movement of said spaced apart plates (12, 14)
towards each other.
An apparatus as recited in claim 1 characterized in that
said means (26) for applying is intermittently actuatable.
An apparatus as recited in claim 1 characterized in that
said means (22) for sensing is a displacement sensor which

monitors movement of said first plate (14) being connected
to said displacement sensor (22) towards a second plate

(12) of said pair of spaced apart plates.
An apparatus as recited in claim 1 characterized in that
said apparatus is adapted for determining the retraction

force and elastic modulus characteristics of said blood and
plasma samples (8), the spacing (10) of said spaced apart

plates (12, 14) allows platelets in a blood sample to
adhere to both of said pair of spaced apart plates, said

means (22) for sensing comprises one or more sensors, a
means for monitoring a pulling force is provided for 

monitoring the pulling force exerted by a sample (8)
between said pair of spaced apart plates, a means (26) for

compressing is provided for compressing a blood sample (8)
between said pair of spaced apart plates (12, 14), and a

means for monitoring a degree of compressive movement is
provided for monitoring the degree of compressive movement

of said pair of spaced apart plates (12, 14) towards one

another exerted by said means (26) for compressing said
sample (8).
An apparatus as recited in claim 4 characterized by a means
for correlating output from said means for monitoring a

pulling force with platelet mediated force development.
An apparatus as recited in claim 4 characterized by a means
for correlating output from said means for monitoring a

degree of compressive movement with clot elastic modulus.
An apparatus as recited in claim 1, characterized in that
said apparatus is adapted for measuring clot retraction

force, a displacement sensor (22) is connected to at least
one of said pair of spaced apart plates (12, 14); and a

means for intermittently compressing a blood sample (8) is
provided, said blood sample being provided between said

pair of spaced apart plates (12, 14).
An apparatus as recited in claim 7, characterized in that
said means for intermittently compressing includes a means

for displacing a first plate (14) of said pair of spaced
apart plates towards a second plate (12) of said pair of

spaced apart plates.
A method for determining an elastic modulus of a sample,
comprising the steps of:


positioning a sample (8) between a pair of spaced apart
plates (12, 14);
compressing said sample between said pair of spaced apart
plates by means of applying a known amount of force to said spaced

apart plates; 
monitoring electrical output from a sensor connected to at
least one of said pair of spaced apart plates during said

compressing step; and
calculating an elastic modulus of said sample based on a
relationship between said electrical output and a degree of

compression exerted during said compressing step.
A method as recited in claim 9, wherein the spacing (10) of
said pair of spaced apart plates (12, 14) allows platelets

in said blood sample to adhere to both of said plates; a
pulling force is monitored which is exerted on one of said

plates pulling said plates towards each other while said
blood sample is clotting; and a force development is

determined from measurements made during said monitoring
step.
A method as recited in claim 9, wherein blood and plasma
samples are analyzed; said blood sample (8) is provided

with a clot dissolving or clot destroying agent, said blood
sample is allowed to clot and to dissolve, said blood

sample is compressed between said pair of spaced apart
plates (12, 14) intermittently with respect to time while

said blood sample is clotting and dissolving, and a
dissolution time for a clot formed from said blood sample

is identified.
A method as recited in claim 11 wherein the step of
identifying includes the step of analyzing a clot

retraction force for said blood sample with respect to
time.
A method as recited in claim 11 wherein said step of
identifying includes the step of analyzing an elastic

modulus of said blood sample with respect to time.
A method as recited in claim 11 further comprising the step
of providing said blood sample with a clotting agent. 
A method as recited in claim 9, wherein blood and plasma
samples are analyzed, said blood samples is compressed

intermittently with respect to time between said pair of
spaced apart plates while said blood sample is clotting;

and a clot retraction force and a clot elastic modulus are
determined for said blood sample with respect to time.
A method as recited in claim 9, wherein said compression
elastic modulus is related to erythrocyte flexibility.
A method as recited in claim 16 wherein the step of
compressing is performed by displacing a first plate (14)

of said pair of spaced apart plates towards a second plate
(12) of said pair of spaced apart plates.
A method as recited in claim 17 wherein said step of
compressing is performed intermittently with respect to

time.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
