<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0092353</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COAL-WATER FUEL SLURRIES AND PROCESS FOR MAKING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10L132	C10L1018	C10L132	C10L1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10L1	C10L10	C10L1	C10L10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Coal-water fuel slurries having long-term storage stability 
and improved viscosities and comprising finely-divided coal 

having a particle size distribution which is 100% -50 mesh 
(-297µ) and at least 50% -200 mesh (-74µ) said coal being in an 

amount sufficient to provide a suitable coal concentration in the 
slurry so as to remain within efficient combustion size range, 

water, and minor amounts of alkali metal salts of organic disper­
sants to reduce the viscosity of the slurry and alkaline earth metal 

salts of organic dispersants to obtain a higher slurry yield point 
and provide a substantially stable static dispersion and a process 

for making such slurries. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATLANTIC RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHEFFEE, ROBERT STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

Coal-Water Fuel Slurries and a process for making same.


 This invention relates to a high fuel value coal-water slurry which can be injected directly into a furnace as a combustible fuel can supplant large quantities of expensive fuel oil presently being used by utilities, factories, ships, and other commercial enterprises.


 For many years, coal-water slurries have been successfully transported long distances by pipeline to point of use, such as a utility. Since practical, cost-effective pipeline slurries do not possess the requisite characteristics for efficient use as fuels, present practice is to dewater, grind the dried coal cake to finer particle sizes, and spray the dried solid particles into the combustion chamber.


 Pipeline and fuel coal-water slurries differ markedly in required characteristics because of their different modes of use.


 For efficient, low-cost service, slurries which are pumped through pipelines for long distances should have the lowest possible viscosities and rheology which is preferably Newtonian with zero or negligible yield point. In practice, these requirements are achieved by coal concentrations which are considerably smaller than those desired in the fuel slurry. Particle sizes in the upper end of the size distribution range are excessively large for efficient combustion. A typical long-distance pipeline slurry containing no dispersant has a coal concentration of about 40 to 50% and a particle size distribution of 8M x O (U. S. Standard
Sieve) with about 20% being   - 32 5M (      44(A).   


 A great deal of work has been done to make possible higher loadings in pipelinable slurries by adding a suitable organic dispersant which reduces viscosity and improves particle dispersion. A dispersant which has been of particular interest is an  anionic compound in which the anion is a high molecular weight organic moiety and the cation is monovalent, e. g., an alkali metal, such as Na or K. The anion attaches to the coal particles to give them a high negative charge or zeta potential, which causes repulsion sufficient to overcome Van der Waal's attraction and, thereby, prevent flocculation with concomitant reduction in viscosity. In accordance with DLVO theory, small monovalent cations maximize the desired negative zeta potential.


This phenomenon is discussed in Funk U. S. 4, 282, 006, which also advises against the use of multivalent cations because they act as counterions which disadvantageously reduce zeta potential.


The monovalent salt dispersants have been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims:



1. A coal-water fuel slurry which comprises:
 a. finely-divided coal having a particle size distribution

 which is 100% -50 mesh   (-297,L()    and at least 50%
 -200   mesh(-74 )    said coal being in amount sufficient to

 provide a desired coal concentration in the slurry;
 b. a minor amount of anionic monovalent cation salt

 organic dispersant sufficient to reduce substantially
 the viscosity of the slurry;

 c. a minor amount of anionic alkaline earth metal salt
 organic dispersant sufficient to produce a slurry yield

 point larger than that obtained with said monovalent
 cation salt alone and to maintain the slurry in

 substantially stable static dispersion; and
 d. water.




2. A slurry according to claim 1 in which the monovalent
 cation is an alkali metal.




3. A slurry according to claim 1 or 2 in which the finely
 divided coal has a particle size distribution of which

 at least 65% is -200 mesh   (-74 
>
 1).   



4. A slurry according to any one of claims 1 to 3 in which the
 alkaline earth metal salt dispersant is an organosulfonate.




5. A slurry according to claim 4 in which the alkaline earth
 metal dispersant is a Ca lignosulfonate..




6. A slurry according to any one of claims 1 to 5 in which the
 monovalent cation salt dispersant is an organosulfonate.




7. A slurry according to claim 6 in which the monovalent
 cation salt dispersant is a Na or K lignosulfonate.




8. A slurry according to any one of claims 1 to 7 in which
 the coal particle sizes comprise:  

 a. fine particles having a maximum size of 30  MMD
 (Mass Median Diameter) in an amount comprising

 from 10 to 50% by weight of the slurry, and
 b. larger coal particles within the size range of from 20

 to   200r    MMD, in which sub-sieve particle sizes are
 defined in terms of those obtainable by forward

 scattering optical counter.



9. A slurry according to claim 8 in which the fine particles
 comprise from 10 to 30% by weight thereof.




10. A slurry according to claim 8 or 9 in which the size range
 of the fine coal particles is from 1 to   157 
<
     MMD and the
 size range of the larger coal particles is from 20 to   150zU   

 MMD.



11. A process for making a substantially stable coal-water
 fuel slurry, which comprises:

 a. admixing:
 (i) finely-divided coal having a particle size distribution

 which is 100% -50 mesh   (-29',ct)    and at leasr 50%
 -200 mesh   (-74fL    ) said coal being in amount sufficient

 to provide a desired coal concentration in the slurry;
 (ii) a minor amount of anionic monovalent cation salt

 organic dispersant sufficient to reduce substantially
 the viscosity of the slurry;

 (iii) a minor amount of anionic alkaline earth metal salt
 organic dispersant sufficient to produce a slurry

 yield point larger than that obtained with said
 monovalent cation salt dispersant alone and to maintain

 the slurry in substantially stable static dispersion;

 and
   (iv) water,    and

 b. subjecting the mixture to high shear mixing at a shear rate    -l
 of at least 100 sec     12. A process according to claim 11 in which the coal particle

 sizes comprise:
 a. fine particles having a maximum size of   30/(    MMD in an

 amount comprising from 10 to 50% by weight of the
 slurry; and

 b. larger coal particles within the size range of from 20 to
   200 MMD;    in which   sub- sieve    particle sizes are defined

 in terms of those obtainable by forward scattering optical
 counter.




13. A process according to claim 11 or 12 in which the fine
 particles comprise from 10 to 30% by weight of the slurry.




14. A process according to any one of claims 11 to 13 in which

 the size range of the fine particles is from 1 to   157 
<
  MMD   
 and the size range of the larger particles is from 20 to

 150  MMD.



15. A process for converting a coal-water pipeline slurry into a
 substantially stable fuel slurry, wherein the pipeline slurry

 contains particles of excessive size for efficient combustion,
 which comprises:

 a. partially dewatering or   adding finely-divided    coal in an
 amount sufficient to increase the coal content in the

 pipeline slurry to a concentration desired in the fuel
 slurry, if the coal concentration in the aqueous pipeline

 slurry is less than that desired in the fuel slurry;
 b. passing said slurry through a comminuting means to

 reduce excessively sized coal particles to sizes
 sufficiently small for combustion in a combustion chamber

 and to produce a particle size distribution of 100% -50
 mesh   (-297P)    and at least   50%    -200 mesh (-74 ).




 c. adding to the slurry a minor amount of:  
 (i) an anionic monovalent cation salt organic dispersant

 sufficient to reduce substantially the viscosity of the
   slurry    and

 (ii) an alkaline earth metal salt organic dispersant sufficient
 to produce a slurry yield point larger than that produced

 with said monovalent cation dispersant alone and to
 maintain the slurry in a substantially stable static

 dispersion; and
 d. subjecting the mixture comprising said coal, said

 monovalent cation and alkaline earth metal dispersants
 and water to high shear mixing at a shear rate of at least   

 -1
 about 100 sec    16. A process according to claim 15 in which at least some of the

 monovalent cation dispersant is a component of the pipeline
 slurry.


 

17. A process according to any one of claims 11-16 in which the
 monovalent cation is an alkali metal.




18. A process according to any one of claims 11-17 in which the
 finely-divided coal has a particle size distribution of which

 at least 65% is -200 mesh   (-74fl).   



19. A process according to any one of claims 11-18 in which the
 alkaline earth metal salt is an organosulfonate.




20. A process according to claim 19 in which the alkaline earth
 metal salt is a Ca lignosulfonate.




21. A process according to any one of claims 11-20 in which the
 monovalent cation dispersant is an organosulfonate.




22. A process according to claim 21 in which the monovalent
 cation dispersant is a Na or K lignosulfonate. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
