<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655072</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Immunological method  for the detection of antibodies to equine herpesvirus type 1 and 4 glycoprotein G
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K39245	A61P3100	C12N704	C07K14005	C12N701	C12N1538	C12N701	C12N1534	C07K1403	A61K39245	C12N704	A61P3122	A61K3800	A61K3800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61P	C12N	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C07K	A61K	C12N	A61P	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K39	A61P31	C12N7	C07K14	C12N7	C12N15	C12N7	C12N15	C07K14	A61K39	C12N7	A61P31	A61K38	A61K38	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are serological assays based on unique sequence type-specifice gG proteins and polypeptides capable of distinguishing the closely related EHV4 and EHV1 viruses. The assays are capable of clearly and unambiguously distinguishing animals infected with EHV4 or EHV1 and thereby distinguishing the EHV4 infection: equine rhinopheumonitis, causing "snotty noses" from the more dramatic consequences of EHV1 infection; equine abortion, which often results in an "abortion storm" and high loss of livestock. Further disclosed are the unique type-specific epitopes of EHV4 and EHV1, recombinantly derived novel nucleic acid sequences and proteins which are useful in providing assay reagents, antibodies, vaccines, probes and associated peripherals for diagnosis and control.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MELBOURNE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRABB BRENDAN SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUDDERT MICHAEL JUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRABB, BRENDAN, SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUDDERT, MICHAEL, JUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to Equine Herpesvirus and in particular to type-specific
glycoproteins thereof and diagnostic tests and clinical applications associated
with the characterization of such glycoproteins.Equine rhinopheumonitis and equine abortion are commonly recognised diseases
of horses caused by two distinct but antigenically related viruses that are
designated equine herpesvirus 4 and equine herpesvirus 1, known as EHV4 and
EHV1 respectively. Because the viruses are related antigenically it has not been
possible to date by serological examination (blood test), to determine whether a
horse has been infected with either or both EHV4 or EHV1. For example, if a
horse had been infected with EHV4 as a foal it would develop antibodies in its
serum that would react with not only EHV4 but with EHV1 as well, so one would
not know that such a foal had been infected with only EHV4.However, since 1981 it has been repeatedly shown that the restriction
endonuclease fingerprints of the two viruses are distinctly different with
respiratory isolates and fetal isolates almost invariably typing as EHV4 and EHV1
respectively. The availability of specific monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) directed
to either EHV4 or EHV1 has also allowed consistent and specific typing of 
isolates of the two viruses.The major significance in developing a specific antibody test relates to the fact
that both these herpesviruses are believed, after primary infection, to establish
a persistent, latent and life-long infection. Either virus may from time to time
be reactivated from the latent state (just as is the case with recurrent cold sores
in humans infected with herpes simplex virus); the virus, reactivated from the
latent state, will usually cause recurrent disease in the host horse but more
importantly such a horse will either directly or indirectly by contact act as a
source of infection for other horses. In this way, for EHV4, there is usually in
the annual foal crop born on a farm an annual round of respiratory disease
("snotty" noses). Such an occurrence is almost an accepted part of breeding
horses. Occasionally foals become severely affected and require treatment or die
because of severe secondary complications such as bacterial pneumonia.While the natural history of EHV1 is less clearly understood, there is an
assumption that the virus does establish persistent, lifelong latent, infections.
Upon reactivation there may be a further bout of respiratory disease. However,
a far more serious consequence for other horses infected by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An isolated envelope glycoprotein G (gG) of EHV4 that elicits a type-specific
response to equine herpesvirus 4 (EHV4), said EHV4 gG comprising the

following sequence:


or glycosylated forms thereof.
A variant of the polypeptide of claim 1 comprising an EHV4 epitope
selected from the following sequences:



or glycosylated forms thereof

and


or glycosylated forms thereof.
An isolated envelope glycoprotein G (gG) of EHV1 that elicits a type-specific
response to equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV1), said EHV1 gG comprising the

following sequence:


or glycosylated forms thereof.
A variant of the polypeptide of claim 3 comprising an EHV1 epitope
selected from the following sequences:


 
or glycosylated forms thereof

and


or glycosylated forms thereof.
A nucleic acid molecule corresponding to the coding region of EHV4
gG according to claim 1 comprising the following nucleotide sequence:-


 
or corresponding to the coding region of claim 2.
An immunological method of testing for an equine herpesvirus 1
(EHV1)-infected or equine herpesvirus 4 (EHV4)-infected horse, said method

comprising detecting the presence of antibody to EHV1 or EHV4 envelope
glycoprotein G (gG) as defined in any one of claims 1 to 4 in serum from said

horse, wherein the presence of EHV1 gG antibody correlates with EHV1 infection
and EHV4 gG antibody correlates with EHV4 infection.
An immunological method of testing for a horse vaccinated against
EHV4 and/or EHV1 by the detection of EHV4 and/or EHV1, said method

comprising detecting the presence of antibody to EHV4 or EHV1 envelope
glycoprotein G (gG) as defined in any one of claims 1 to 4 in serum isolated from

said horse, wherein the presence of EHV4 gG antibody correlates with vaccination
against EHV4 and the presence of EHV1 gG antibody correlates with vaccination

against EHV1.
A method according to either one of claim 6 or 7, said method
comprising at least the following steps:


a) Antibody contained in horse serum is added to a filter paper disc and
allowed to react with EHV4 gG or EHV1 gG capture antigens;
b) Following washing a second anti-species antibody conjugated to an
enzyme marker is added to the filter paper and allowed to react with any

specifically bound horse antibody;
c) After a further washing, an enzyme substrate capable of generating a
signal is added.
An immunological test method according to claim 8 for detection of
the presence of wild type EHV4 
characterised by
 testing for the presence of EHV4
gG antibody. 
An immunological test method according to claim 8 for detection of

the presence of wild type EHV1 
characterised by
 testing for the presence of EHV1
gG antibody.
An immunological test method according to claim 8 for determining
whether a horse has been vaccinated against EHV4 by testing for the presence of

EHV4 antibody and the absence of EHV1 gG antibody.
An immunological test method according to claim 8 for determining
whether a horse has been vaccinated against EHV1 by testing for the presence of

EHV1 antibody and the absence of EHV4 gG antibody.
An immunological test method according to claim 8 for determining
when a horse has been neither infected with nor vaccinated against EHV4 by

testing for the absence of EHV4 gG antibody.
An immunological test method according to claim 8 for determining
when a horse has been neither infected with nor vaccinated against EHV1 by

testing for the absence of EHV1 gG antibody.
An EHV4 epitope capable of eliciting a type-specific response and
having the following amino acid sequence:



or glycosylated forms thereof.
An EHV4 epitope capable of eliciting a type-specific response and
having the following amino acid sequence:



or glycosylated forms thereof.
An EHV1 epitope capable of eliciting a type-specific response and
having the following amino acid sequence: 



or glycosylated forms thereof.
An EHV1 epitope capable of eliciting a type-specific response and
having the following amino acid sequence:



or glycosylated forms thereof.
An EHV4 discontinuous epitope 
characterised by
 a discontinuous
combination of the epitopes according to claim 15 or 16, either alone or together,

with other regions of the EHV4 gG molecule.
Plasmid vector pEG4var, wherein said plasmid vector comprises a
nucleotide fragment encoding an amino acid sequence as defined in claim 15

inserted into a 
Smal
 site of plasmid pGEX-3X (AMRAD, Hawthorn Australia).
Host cells transformed with plasmid vector pEG4var as defined in
claim 20.
An EHV1 discontinuous epitope 
characterised by
 a discontinuous
combination of the epitopes according to claim 17 and 18, either alone or together,

with other regions of the EHV1 gG molecule.
Plasmid vector pEG1var, wherein said plasmid vector comprises a
nucleotide fragment encoding an amino acid sequence as defined in claim 17

inserted into a Smal site of plasmid pGEX-3X (AMRAD, Hawthorn Australia).
Host cells transformed with pEG1var as defined in claim 23.
A vaccine for the selective immunisation of horses against EHV4
and/or EHV1 
characterised in that
 it comprises viruses from which the gene
encoding the gG protein as defined in claim 1 or claim 3 has been deleted and into

which other genes derived from related and/or unrelated viruses or agents have
been inserted. 
Vaccine according to claim 25 which is a deletion mutant vaccine

characterised by
 the deletion of amino acids 287-382 of the EHV4 gG protein
sequence presented in Figure 5A.
Vaccine according to claim 26 which is a deletion mutant vaccine

characterised by
 the deletion of amino acids 288-350 of the EHV1 gG protein
sequence presented in Figure 5A.
A vaccine composition comprising an immunogenic amount of the
EHV4 epitope according to any one of claims 15, 16 and 19 in a physiologically

acceptable vehicle.
A vaccine composition comprising an immunogenic amount of the
EHV1 epitope according to any one of claims 17, 18 and 22 in a physiologically

acceptable vehicle.
Vaccine according to claim 29 which is an insertion mutant vaccine
comprising a mutant of EHV4 or EHV1 containing a heterologous gene coding for

equine influenza virus haemagglutinin antigens or other equine virus antigens
including equine influenza neurimidase or nucleoprotein antigens or derivatives

thereof inserted downstream of the gG promoter by recombinant DNA techniques.
Vaccine according to claim 30 which is an insertion mutant vaccine
comprising a mutant of EHV4 or EHV1 containing a heterologous gene coding for

any one or a combination of equine arteritis virus, equine rhinovirus and equine
adenovirus inserted downstream of the gG promoter by recombinant DNA

techniques.
A vaccine for selective immunisation of horses against EHV4 and/or
EHV1 
characterised by
 the substitution of any one of the type-specific envelope
glycoproteins according to claim 1 or 3 with a foreign gene or genes and further


characterised by
 the substitution of the gG promoter with a foreign promoter.
An immunological test kit for determining the EHV4 and EHV1 status
of a horse 
characterised by
 capture antigens in the form of envelope glycoproteins 
G of EHV4 according to claim 1 and/or envelope glycoproteins G of EHV1

according to claim 2.
An immunological test kit according to claim 33 wherein the capture
antigens are those defined in any one of claims 1 to 4, 15 to 18, 19 and 22.
Antibodies specific to any one of EHV epitopes as defined in any one
of claims 1 to 4, 15 to 18, 19 and 22.
Antibodies according to claim 35 which are monoclonal or polyclonal.
Hybridisation nucleic acid probes specific for nucleotide sequences
encoding EHV1 and EHV4 glycoprotein gG epitopes as defined in any one of

claims 1 to 4, 15 to 18, 19 and 22 that enables distinction to be made between
wild type virus and gG deleted vaccine virus.
Hybridisation probes according to claim 37 comprising a nucleotide
sequence complementary to the nucleotide sequence coding for the amino acid

sequence of any one of the glycoproteins defined in claims 1 to 4, 15 to 18, 19 and
22.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
