<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635202</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sprinkler device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B302	B05B304	B05B1500	B05B1500	B05B1510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B3	B05B3	B05B15	B05B15	B05B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The lawn sprinkler device comprises a manually 
operative combination of a container (12), sprinkler head 

(14) and lid (16). The container (12) and lid (16) are manually 
movable between a closed position defining a closed volume 

in the container (12) and an open position that provides access 
to the closed volume. The container (12) and lid (16) are 

mounted within the ground so that the closed volume 
extends downwardly from the level of the lawn area and in 

the open position access to the closed volume is available 
generally at the level of the lawn area. The sprinkler 

head component (14) includes a hose coupling inlet (52) for 
manual connection by a user with an above-ground hose and 

an outlet structure (88) for discharging water under 
pressure in a desired pattern on the lawn area. The 

sprinkler head (14) is mounted with respect to the 
container (12) and lid (16) for manual movement between a storage 

position within the closed volume of the container and an 
operative position which is in elevated relation to the 

closed volume. In the operative position the sprinkler 
head (14) can be manually connected to the above-ground hose 

containing a source of water under pressure so that water 
will discharge from the outlet in a 

desired pattern on the lawn area. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NELSON CORP L R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
L.R. NELSON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUER THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRUER, THOMAS R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a sprinkler 
device. There are two basic types of lawn 
sprinkler systems on the market. The first type of 
system uses above-ground hoses that are attached to 
a water supply and to a portable sprinkler. This 
system allows the user to freely place the sprinkler 
in any position on the lawn. To entirely water a 
lawn area, a user must move the hose and sprinkler 
to different locations. This free moving system 
offers the user a number of advantages. 1) The 
materials needed, i.e. a hose and a sprinkler, are 
readily available on the market, and 2) the variety 
of sprinklers available offer the user different 
options of expense and area coverage depending on 
the size and shape of the area to be covered. This 
system has disadvantages, it can be time consuming 
for the user as the system must be set up each time 
it is used and the hose and sprinkler must be moved 
and readjusted a number of times before an entire 
area is adequately watered. Furthermore, the act of 
watering the lawn can be messy as the user must walk 
through wet grass and readjust the sprinkler, with 
the risk of getting wet, each time it is moved. The second type of system does not require 
the user to move hoses and sprinklers because the 
entire system is fixed underground. This fixed 
system has specially designed sprinklers that are 
installed in the ground. The sprinkler in the 
underground system is held in the ground by a  
 
canister when it is not in use. Underground pipes 
are connected to the canisters and a water supply. 
According to U.S. Patent No. 4,892,292, when the 
water enters the canister, the pressure differential 
in the canister and sprinkler cause the sprinkler to 
pop-up out of the canister. After the sprinkler has 
popped-up, water will issue forth from the sprinkler 
outlet and water the area. When the water stops 
flowing through the system the sprinkler returns to 
its position within the canister by way of a spring 
or gravity. The sprinkler can also be of the type 
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,353,506 or an 
externally driven sprinkler. Because the system is positionally fixed, 
it is simpler to operate and is far less time 
consuming. Often an underground system is attached 
to a timer that, on a regular basis, automatically 
will turn the water supply on and off. 
Consequently, the user is not required to spend the 
same amount of time to water the yard as in the 
first system and is not subject to the same sort of 
physical mess. On the other hand, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sprinkler device including a sprinkler head 
component (14) for installation within the ground and 

mounted for movement between a lower position for storage 
and an elevated operative position for discharging water in 

a desired pattern over the ground, 
   characterised in that the sprinkler device also 

comprises a container (12) adapted to be mounted within the 
ground in the area to be sprinkled, and said sprinkler head 

component (14) includes a coupling inlet (52) for manual 
connection by a user with an above-ground 

supply of water under pressure, and an outlet structure 
(106) for discharging water under pressure in a desired 

pattern on the area to be sprinkled, 
   said sprinkler head component (14) being mounted with 

respect to said container (12) for manual movement between 
said storage position wherein said sprinkler head component 

is disposed within said container, and said operative 
position wherein said sprinkler head component is in 

elevated relation to said container enabling said coupling 
inlet (52) to be manually connected by a user with an above 

ground source of water under pressure. 
A sprinkler device according to claim 1 further 
comprising a lid component (16), said container and lid 

components being manually movable between a closed position 
wherein a substantially closed volume is defined within 

said container and lid components (12,16), and an open 
position wherein access to said closed volume is available 

through an open top of said container (12), 
   said container and lid components (12,16) being 

adapted to be mounted within the ground in the area to be 
sprinkled so that when said container and lid components 

(12,16) are in said closed position said closed volume 
 

extends downwardly from the level of the ground area, and 
when said container and lid components (12,16) are in said 

open position access to said closed volume is available 
generally at the level of said ground area, 

   said sprinkler head component (14) being mounted with 
respect to said container and lid components (12,16) for 

said manual movement between said storage position wherein 
said sprinkler head component (14) is disposed within said 

closed volume with said container and lid components 
(12,16) disposed in said closed position, and said 

operative position wherein said sprinkler head component 
(14) is in accessed elevated relation to said closed volume 

with said container and lid components (12,16) in said open 
position enabling said coupling inlet (52) to be manually 

connected by a user with said above ground source of water 
under pressure so that water will be discharged from said 

outlet structure in the desired pattern on the ground 
area. 
A sprinkler device as defined in claim 1 or 2 adapted 
to provide said manual movement from said stored position 

to said operative position and from said operative position 
to said stored position as rectilinear movement. 
A sprinkler device as defined in claim 1, 2 or 3 
wherein said sprinkler head component (14) is snap-locked 

into said operative position by a mount assembly (18) and a 
lock assembly (20) said mount assembly (18) being between 

said sprinkler head component (14) and said container (12). 
A sprinkler device as defined in claim 4 wherein said 
lock assembly (20) is attached to said container (12) at an 

open top thereof and wherein said lock assembly (20) 
connects with said mounting when said sprinkler head 

component (14) is snap-locked into said operative position 
and releases said mounting when said sprinkler head 

 
component is manually moved from said operative position 

to said stored position. 
A sprinkler device as defined in claim 4 or 5 wherein 
said container (12) further has multiple grooves below 

said open top, said lock assembly (20) further having 
multiple tongues so that said tongues fit into said grooves 

securely attached said lock assembly to said container 
structure. 
A sprinkler device as defined in claim 6 wherein said 
lock assembly (20) further comprises: 

   an upper ring having a hole so that said container 
(12) has an open top when said lock assembly is connected 

to said container structure; 
   multiple arms below said upper ring of said arm 

perpendicularly attached to said upper ring at one end 
thereof said attached end having said tongue and unattached 

to said upper ring at another end thereof said unattached 
end having a tab; 

   said mounting further including multiple collars; 
   said first collar having multiple ribs on the 

underside of first collar and the top outer edge of said 
first collar being bevelled; and 

   said second collar having multiple notches in the 
outer edge thereof said notches being aligned with said 

ribs and shaped to accommodate said tabs so that when 
said sprinkler head component is in said operative position 

said upper ring surrounds said first collar said ribs are 
above and adjacent said tabs, said tabs fitting into said 

notches and said third collar below and adjacent to said 
tabs. 
A sprinkler device as defined in claim 7 wherein 
said lock assembly (20) further comprises a hinge assembly 

said hinge assembly attached to said upper ring at one end 
 

thereof and cylindrical rod at another end thereof; and 
   said lid (16) further having multiple clasps that fit 

onto said cylindrical rod of said hinge so that said lid is 
thereby attached to said container structure and can be 

manually moved between said first and second relationships. 
A sprinkler device as defined in claim 8 wherein 
said lid (16) further comprises: 

   multiple clips for securing so that said lid is 
secured to said container structure when said lid is in 

said first relationship; and 
   a lifting tab to manually move said lid between said 

first and second relationship. 
A sprinkler device as defined in any preceding claim 
arranged to allow said sprinkler head component (14) to be 

manually removed from said container structure (12). 
A sprinkler device as defined in any preceding claim 
wherein said container (12) further comprises: 

   a track (36) wherein said coupling inlet (52) is 
accommodated; and 

   said mount further includes a tongue (168) to fit into 
said track (36) so that said sprinkler head component 

manual movement is rectilinear. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
