<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0225512</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL FREE-RUNNING CLOCK SYNCHRONIZER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03L708	H03K303	H03K302	H03K300	H03L7099	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03L	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03L7	H03K3	H03K3	H03K3	H03L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital free-running clock oscillator com­
prises a circuit synchronizing the operation of the 

oscillator with an asynchronous timing signal from 
an external source, and is provided with a protec­

tion circuit for preventing a logic race condition 
in the synchronizing circuit during a period of 

coincident transition of the oscillator output and 
the external timing signal. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THEUS, JOHN G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to oscillators, and more 
particularly to a free-running oscillator synchro­
nized with an external asynchronous pulse. Computer systems are required to work effi­
ciently with data stores of different speeds within 
the same system. If a semiconductor data store is 
used, the characteristics of the dynamic storage 
devices require that data in the storage elements 
be refreshed periodically. If store refresh opera­
tions are accomplished internally of the data 
store, the response time of the store will vary, 
and, accordingly, fully synchronous operation of a 
data store and the system central processor is not 
practical or desirable. Nevertheless, data trans­
fer between the two units must be synchronized. 
One means of effecting synchronization between 
asynchronously operating units of a computer system 
involves resynchronization or restarting of a clock 
signal source of one unit, for example a free-­
running oscillator forming a part of such unit, 
with a clock signal from another unit. However, 
clock synchronizing circuits using logic gates are 
particularly susceptible to logic race conditions 
inasmuch as the asynchronous clock signals of the 
various units of the system drift with respect to 
each other. Such logic race conditions can result 
in the generation of clock signals having pulse 
widths of insufficient duration for proper system 
operation. Accordingly, it is an object of the invention 
to provide an improved synchronizing circuit for a 
free-running clock signal generator.  Another object of the invention is to provide 
an improved free-running clock signal generator 
having a digital logic circuit for synchronizing 
the generation of the clock signals with an asyn­
chronous clock signal from an external source. Another object of the invention is to provide 
an improved digital-logic clock signal synchro­
nizing circuit which provides protection against 
logic race conditions. In accordance with the present invention, a 
free-running clock signal oscillator comprises a 
logic element supplying a clock-signal output con­
nected in driving relation to a precision delay 
line, wherein the output of the delay line is 
connected back to the input of the logic element 
whereby the delay line serves as the timing element 
of the oscillator. The logic element also receives 
as an input a control signal from an asynchronously 
operating external source with which the clock 
signal output is to be synchronized. This control 
signal turns the oscillator on and off,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A clock synchronizer, comprising: 
means for generating a clock signal; 

means for enabling the operation of said 
clock signal generating means, said enabling means 

including means responsive to a timing signal from 
an external source for disabling and then 

restarting said clock signal generating means in 
synchronism with the timing signal; and 

means for delaying said disabling means 
during a period of coincident transition of the 

clock signal and the timing signal. 
2. The clock synchronizer of claim l, wherein 
said clock signal generating means comprises an 

inverting logic element having an output in series 
with a delay line and an input connected to an 

output of the delay line; and wherein said enabling 
means includes a second input of the inverting 

logic element receiving the timing signal. 
3. The clock synchronizer of claim 2, wherein 
said delaying means includes means responsive to 

said delay line for detecting the transition period 
of the clock signal. 
4. The clock synchronizer of claim 3, wherein 
said delaying means includes a latch circuit con­

nected to said logic element, said latch circuit 
receiving the timing signal from the external 

source, the latch circuit being responsive to said 
detecting means to regenerate the timing signal, 

the regeneration being inhibited during the transi­
tion period. 
5. An oscillator circuit, comprising: 
a coincidence logic element having a first 

input receiving a control signal, a second input, 
and an output, the control signal having first and 

second logic states: 
a delay element having an input terminal 

connected to the output of said coincidence logic 
element, and a first output terminal connected to 

the second input of said coincidence logic element, 
said delay element passing a signal on the input 

terminal to the first output terminal after a delay 
T2, the control signal in the first logic state 

enabling said coincidence logic element to re­
generate on the output a complement of the signal 

on the second input, thereby generating on the 
output of said coincidence logic element a square 

wave output signal, the control signal in the 
second logic state disabling said coincidence logic 

element to stop the operation of said oscillator, 
said delay element having a second output terminal 

passing the signal on the input terminal after a 
delay Tl where Tl 
<
 T2; 
a latch circuit receiving an asynchronous 

timing signal from an external source and having an 
enabling input, said latch circuit, when enabled, 

regenerating the asynchronous timing signal as the 
control signal; and 

a logic element having an output connected 
to the enabling input of said latch circuit, said 

logic element receiving the first and second out­
puts of said delay element and generating an 

enabling output signal, the enabling output signal 
being disabled during a period of positive to nega­

tive transition of the square wave output signal. 
6. The oscillator circuit of claim 5, wherein 
said coincidence logic element comprises a NAND 

gate and the square wave output signal has a period 
2(T2 + D) where D is a gate delay of the NAND gate. 
7. A clock synchronizer circuit, comprising: 
a free-running clock signal generator; 

a source of an asynchronous timing signal; 
and 

enabling means connected to said clock 
signal generator, said enabling means being respon­

sive to the asynchronous timing signal to provide 
an enabling signal for stopping and restarting said 

clock signal generator in synchronism with the 
timing signal; 

said enabling means responding to said 
timing signal with delay during a transition period 

of the clock signal to inhibit said enabling means 
from stopping said clock signal generator during a 

transition period of the clock signal. 
8. The clock synchronizer circuit of claim 7, 
wherein said clock signal generator comprises an 

inverting logic element and a delay line having an 
input terminal and an output terminal, a signal at 

the output terminal of said delay line being recir­
culated through said inverting logic element to the 

input terminal of said delay line. 
9. The clock synchronizer circuit of claim 8, 
wherein said said inverting logic element comprises 

a NAND gate. 
l0. The clock synchronizer circuit of claim 7, 
wherein said enabling means includes a coincidence 

 
circuit detecting the transition period of the 

clock signal, and a latch circuit receiving and 
regenerating the timing signal, the regenerating of 

the timing signal being inhibited by the output of 
the coincidence circuit during a clock signal tran­

sition period. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
