<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612862</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Measuring wafer temperatures.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1600	C23C1600	C23C1648	C23C1648	C23C1652	C23C1652	G01J500	G01J500	G01J502	G01J502	G01J504	G01J504	G01J508	G01J508	H01L2102	H01L2126	H01L2166	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a semi-conductor 
processing apparatus (20) having a processing chamber 

(21) for a wafer (22) including a heating element (15) 
located directly above the wafer. An apparatus is 

provided for measuring the temperature of the wafer 
(22) which is insenstive to the emissivity of the 

surface of the wafer comprising a reflector (30) which 
is placed near to the surface of the wafer to form a 

reflecting cavity (32) between the surface and the 
reflector such that any thermal radiation emitted from 

the surface of the wafer is repeatedly reflected 
between the reflector and the surface. A light pipe 

(36) inserted through the reflector removes a sample 
of the radiation within the reflecting cavity to a 

pyrometer (38) which determines the temperature of the 
wafer. The measured temperature may be used by a 

controller (16) to control the amount of radiant heat 
applied to the wafer by the heating element (15) 

located directly above the wafer. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRONET CHRISTIAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINER GARY E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRONET, CHRISTIAN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINER, GARY E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method of measuring the 
temperature of a semiconductor wafer in a wafer processing 
chamber. In many manufacturing processes, e.g., semiconductor 
wafer processes, high quality results can be achieved only 
when the temperature of the workpiece (e.g., the wafer) is 
tightly controlled. However, in many circumstances the 
temperature measurement must be made without physically 
contacting the workpiece. For example, a wafer being 
processed would be contaminated if contacted by a thermal 
probe. Thus, there is a need for a method for measuring 
temperature without contacting the workpiece. One known method for non-contact temperature 
measurement is based on measurements of thermal radiation. 
Every body at a temperature greater than absolute zero emits 
broadband thermal radiation. At temperatures below about 
500°C, most of the radiation is infrared, whereas at higher 
temperatures, some visible light is emitted. The rate of emission of radiation per unit area, 
integrated over the entire spectrum of wavelengths, 
increases as the temperature of the surface increases. The 
relationship between emission and temperature at a given 
wavelength is represented by the Stefan-Boltzmann equation:

IT,λ=σ·e(λ)·T⁴,   (1)


 
where I T,λ  is the total radiation emitted at wavelength λ per 
second per cm² from a surface at absolute temperature T; 
e(λ) is a constant called the emissivity which ranges from 0 
to 1 as a function of wavelength λ depending on the nature  
 
of the emitting surface; and σ = 0.0567 x 10⁻⁴ 
erg-cm⁻²-deg⁻⁴-sec⁻¹ (the Stefan-Boltzmann constant). A more 
detailed explanation of the Stefan-Boltzmann equation can be 
found in texts such as: Heat and Thermodynamics; Zemansky, 
M.W.; McGraw Hill and Fundamentals of Modern Physics; 
Eisberg R.M.; John Wiley and Sons. If the emissivity of the workpiece is known at a 
given wavelength or range of wavelengths, the Stefan-Boltzmann 
relation may be used to measure the workpiece 
temperature by collecting light emitted by the workpiece at 
those wavelengths (and no other light) and measuring the 
intensity of this light in a detector such as a pyrometer or 
radiometer. Unfortunately, the emissivity of the workpiece is 
often unknown. For example, it has been found that the 
emissivity of silicon wafers varies widely from wafer to 
wafer, thereby requiring that the emissivity of each wafer 
be separately measured in order to use the above technique 
to measure wafer temperatures. Furthermore, it has been 
found that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for measuring the temperature of a surface 
of a body, comprising: 

   a reflector forming a reflecting cavity between said 
surface of said body and a reflecting face of said 

reflector, such that said reflecting face reflects thermal 
radiation emitted from said surface of said body back to 

said surface; and 
   a radiation sensor sampling said thermal radiation 

and using the sampled radiation to determine the temperature 
of said body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said reflecting 
face does not contact said surface of said body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein thermal radiation 
emitted from said surface is repeatedly reflected between 

said reflecting face and said surface of said body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said reflecting 
face is cooled to a temperature substantially below the 

temperature of said body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said reflecting 
face has a topography and said surface of said body has a 

topography, and said topographies are locally parallel. 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said topographies 
are substantially flat. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the width of said 
reflecting face is at least twenty times larger than the 

 
largest distance between said reflecting face and said 

surface of said body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor 
comprises a light conductive conduit which collects thermal 

radiation from within said reflective cavity at a receiving 
end and carries collected thermal radiation to a remote 

measuring device. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said conduit 
penetrates said reflecting cavity through said reflecting 

face. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said conduit is 
coupled to an actuator which moves the receiving end of said 

conduit relative to said body. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said conduit is 
bent and said actuator moves the receiving end of said 

conduit by rotating said conduit. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said radiation 
sensor collects light from a location proximate said surface 

of said body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said radiation 
sensor is adapted to sample radiation from different 

positions within the reflecting cavity. 
An apparatus for measuring the temperature of a 
semiconductor wafer in a semiconductor wafer processing 

chamber, comprising:
 

   a reflector placed within the chamber and facing the 
wafer so as to form a reflecting cavity between a surface of 

the wafer and a reflecting face of said reflector, such that 
said reflector reflects thermal radiation emitted from said 

surface of said wafer back to said surface; and 
   a radiation sensor sampling said thermal radiation 

and using the sampled radiation to determine the temperature 
of said wafer. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said reflector 
does not contact said surface of said wafer. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said thermal 
radiation is repeatedly reflected between said reflecting 

face and said surface of said wafer. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said reflecting 
face is cooled to a temperature substantially below the 

temperature of the wafer. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said reflecting 
face has a topography and said surface of said body has a 

topography, and said topographies are locally parallel. 
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said topographies 
are substantially flat. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said reflecting 
face does not contact said surface of said wafer, and the 

width of said reflecting face is at least twenty times 
larger than the largest distance between said reflecting 

face and said surface of said body. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said sensor 
comprises a light conductive conduit which collects thermal 

radiation from within said reflective cavity at a receiving 
end and carries collected thermal radiation to a remote 

measuring device. 
The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said conduit 
penetrates said reflecting cavity through said reflecting 

face. 
The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said conduit is 
coupled to an actuator which moves the receiving end of said 

conduit relative to said body. 
The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said conduit is 
bent and said actuator moves the receiving end of said 

conduit by rotating said conduit. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said radiation 
sensor samples radiation from different positions on the 

wafer. 
The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising: 
   a heating element for heating the semiconductor 

wafer, said heating element comprising a plurality of 
controllable radiant energy sources, each radiant energy 

source irradiating a portion of the surface area of the 
wafer; and 

   a controller for individually controlling the 
intensity of irradiation from at least one sub-group of said 

radiant energy sources, said controller being coupled to 
said radiation sensor so that the radiant energy sources are 

controlled in relation to the amount of thermal radiation 
 

sensed at different positions on the wafer by said sampling 
means. 
The apparatus claim 26 further comprising baffles 
located about said wafer, said baffles limiting radiation 

from said radiant energy sources from passing into said 
reflecting cavity. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said radiation 
sensor comprises an objective lens. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said radiation 
sensor comprises a light conductive conduit located 

proximate to said surface of the wafer. 
The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said light 
conductive conduit comprises an open tube with reflective 

internal surfaces. 
The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said radiation 
sensor further comprises a pyrometer for measuring thermal 

radiation collected by said conduit. 
The apparatus of claim 31 wherein said pyrometer is 
sensitive to a band of wavelengths at which said wafer is 

not transparent. 
A method of measuring the temperature of a body from 
thermal radiation emitted from a surface of said body, 

comprising the steps of: 
   positioning a reflector to form a re
flecting cavity 
between said surface and a reflecting face of said 

reflector, such that said reflecting face reflects thermal 
 

radiation emitted from said surface of said body back to 
said surface; 

   sampling thermal radiation within said reflecting 
cavity; and 

   determining the temperature of said body from 
sampled radiation. 
The method of claim 33 further comprising cooling 
said reflecting face to a temperature substantially below 

the temperature of said body. 
The method of claim 33 wherein said thermal 
radiation is sampled from a position proximate said surface 

of said body. 
The method of claim 33 wherein said thermal 
radiation is sampled from a plurality of different positions 

within the reflecting cavity. 
The method of claim 36 wherein said thermal 
radiation is sampled by scanning an area of said surface of 

said body. 
The method of claim 33, further comprising the steps 
of: 

   heating said body; and 
   controlling said heating step in response to said 

determined temperature. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
