<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611052</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for cooling semiconductor processing equipment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2100	H01L2100	H01L2102	H01L21302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved system and apparatus is provided for cooling the 
energy source used in powering various types of semiconductor 

processing devices. The improved cooling system uses a solenoid 
valve which is electrically controlled by the processing 

equipment during times in which the energy source is on, or 
during times in which the user manually or automatically programs 

valve activation. The solenoid valve can be easily and readily 
retrofitted to any pre-existing processing device which uses an 

energy source and which can be electrically activated by the 
processing device or a user interface panel. An activated 

solenoid valve allows coolant to flow through the energy source 
in order to maintain optimal performing temperature of the energy 

source. An inactive valve will reroute coolant away from the 
energy source to ensure longevity of the system and to minimize 

condensation upon the energy source electrical components. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIKES ROGER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIKES, ROGER A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to semiconductor processing equipment
and more particularly to an improved system and apparatus for
cooling semiconductor processing equipment.Manufacture of a semiconductor often requires large power
supplies. The power supplies are used to perform many wafer
processing steps. For example, energy in the form of a light
source is needed during lithography. High current ion sources
are often needed during ion beam deposition. High voltage
supplies are generally placed on the target during sputter
deposition. Still further, chemical vapor deposition (CVD)
requires a large radio frequency (RF) supply to enhance the
chemical vapor plasma. Even still further, large power supplies
are often used during the etching process and more particularly
during plasma etching. Accordingly, "processing equipment" or
"processing device" as defined herein includes any processing
apparatus or step utilizing an energy source for the manufacture
of a semiconductor or integrated circuit. Processing equipment
can be used during any of the wafer fabrication operations
including cleaning, epitaxy, oxidation, diffusion, implantation,
lithography, etching, deposition, etc.Large power supplies often develop large amounts of heat
during operation. A build up of heat may cause the power supply
to skew or drift out of specification. Prolonged heating may
eventually cause power supply failure. In order to prevent
improper operation, processing equipment often employs a system
for cooling the supply. The cooling system includes a coolant 
circulated between a chiller and the power supply. The system is
used to send cooled coolant to the supply and receives warm
coolant from the supply. The coolant thereby exchanges or sinks
heat away from the energy supply. As defined herein, "coolant"
includes any fluid media having high thermal conductivity. The
fluid must be capable of movement through a relatively small-diameter
conduit and must flow readily over a mass transfer
surface within the chiller.Problems associated with circulating coolant through an
energy supply are manyfold. In some cases there exists no device
which can readily regulate the coolant flow. As such, coolant
may circulate through the energy supply when it is not needed.
For example, coolant may circulate through the supply when the
supply is inactive, or is cool. Continuous circulation through a
cool supply may bring about condensation within the supply and
thereby cause moisture ingress into the supply's electrical
components. Furthermore, continuous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cooling unit for use with a semi-conductor processing device (12) operated by an
energy generator (16) controlled by an electronic controller (20);

   said cooling unit comprising a chiller (32), a pair of conduits (34,36) for conveying
coolant coupled between the chiller (32) and the energy source (16) and a solenoid valve

(38) coupled to the conduits (34,36) and controlled by the controller (20) to supply
coolant from the chiller to the energy source (16) via one of the conduits (34,36) during

a first time period during which the valve (38) is actuated by the controller (20) and when the
energy source (16) is operating, so that the energy supplied by said energy generator is constant.
A coolant unit according to claim 1, wherein said semiconductor processing device
(12) comprises a semiconductor etcher.
A cooling unit according to claim 2, wherein said semiconductor etcher is a
semiconductor plasma etcher.
A cooling unit according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said coolant is a fluid of high
thermal conductivity. 
A cooling unit according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said solenoid valve
(38) is adapted to discharge said coolant into the other of said pair of conduits (36,34)

during a second time period in which said valve is not actuated.
A cooling unit according to claim 5, wherein the chiller (32) is provided with a
mass transfer surface capable of expelling heat from said coolant; and the solenoid valve

(38) has an input port (42) and first and second output ports (44,46), wherein said input
port (42) is connected to said first conduit (34) to receive coolant directly from the

chiller (32) said first output port (44) is connected to said first conduit (34) to feed
coolant to the energy generator (16) and said second output port (46) is connected to said

second conduit (36); and

   the electronic controller (20) controls said solenoid valve to form a first path
between said input port (42) and said first output port (44) during the first time period,

and to form a second path between said input port (42) and said second output port (46)
during the second time period.
A cooling unit according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said solenoid valve
(38) comprises:


a helical conductive coil (48) extending along a central axis;
a ferrous metal core (50) disposed along said central axis and capable of movement
at least partially within said coil;
a valve seat (68) indirectly connected to one end of said core; and 
current means (66) connected to said coil for moving said valve seat to an open
position.
A cooling unit according to claim 7, wherein said solenoid valve (38) further
comprises:

   a spring (72) connected to said valve seat for biasing said valve seat to a closed
position.
A cooling unit according to claim 8, wherein said conductive coil (48) is connected
to said electronic controller (20).
A cooling unit according to claim 7,8 or 9, wherein said open position allows said
coolant to flow along said path formed between said input port (42) and said first output

port (44).
A cooling unit according to claim 7, 8 or 9, or 10 wherein said valve seat (68)
adopts a closed position when the current means is inactive to allow said coolant to flow

along said path formed between said input port (42) and said second output port (46).
A cooling unit according to any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein said controller (20)
comprises:


a programmable circuit; and 
a digital input/output circuit adapted to programmably deliver said current means
to said coil during said first time period.
A semiconductor processing system comprising a processing device (12), an energy generator
(16) operating the processing device (12), an electronic controller (20) for

controlling the operation of the energy generator and a cooling unit according to any one of
the preceding claims.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
