<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631693</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A CIRCUIT CONSTRUCTION FOR PROTECTIVE BIASING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21331	H01L2170	H01L21822	H01L2702	H01L2702	H01L2704	H01L2704	H01L2706	H01L2706	H01L2966	H01L2973	H01L29732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A circuit construction for biasing near a pocket containing a power supply potential circuit element in a junction-isolated circuit. In normal operation if the polarity of the supply voltage is reversed from that intended the pocket is disconnected. To achieve this, in one embodiment the emitter of a transistor is connected to the positive supply voltage. The collector of that transistor is used to bias the pocket, containing a circuit element, which in normal operation should receive the supply voltage. When the supply voltage is reversed, the emitter-base junction is reverse biased and the collector-base junction is turned off. The pocket is thus disconnected from the supply during supply reversal. The transistor may also have a second collector to handle reinjection of carriers when it is saturated. This second collector can be connected to the base or used by other circuits to detect when saturation occurs.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANALOG DEVICES, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROKAW A PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROKAW, A., PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A CIRCUIT CONSTRUCTION FOR PROTECTIVE BIASING Field of the InventionThe present invention pertains to a circuit for protecting circuit elements from reverse voltage. More particularly, the present invention pertains to a circuit for preventing damage to circuit elements, such as integrated circuits, when a reverse voltage appears at a power supply terminal.Background of the InventionIn electronic circuits designed to receive supply voltages at two input terminals herein called V+ and V-, the V+ terminal is intended to receive a higher (i.e., more positive) potential than the V- terminal in normal operation. Generally, the V+ terminal receives a positive voltage, relative to a reference ground, and the V- terminal receives a negative voltage; or both voltages may be of the same polarity but different in magnitude. In some cases, however, it is possible for the supply voltage connections to be reversed, for instance, by the attachment of a supply connector in reverse. Unfortunately, when the supply voltage to an electronic circuit is reversed, the electronic circuit may be damaged. Many types of circuits may be damaged by supply reversal, especiallySUBSTITUTE SHEET 

junction isolated integrated circuits.Figure 1 shows a partly isometric, partly cross-sectional view of a part of a typical prior art integrated circuit, which includes a p-type substrate 10, a buried layer 12 of n-t- type material, an n— ype epitaxial layer 14, an τι+ type diffusion 20 formed in the epitaxial layer 14 to act as a contact, and p— ype isolation bands 16. The buried layer 12, epitaxial layer 14 (enclosed within junction isolation bands 16) and diffusion 20 are commonly referred to as the "pocket" . The pocket is typically biased as close to V+ as possible while the p-type isolation bands are biased at V-. The p—n junction formed between the pocket and the isolation bands 16 is thus reverse biased. If supply reversal occurs, this junction becomes forward biased and the circuit will be damaged. To prevent forward biasing of this junction in this case, the pocket is often connected to the V+ supply via a diode (not shown) . When supply reversal occurs, the diode disconnects the pocket from the power supply and this junction is not forward biased. Unfortunately, some circuit elements formed in such n-type pockets require biasing the pocket closer to the V+ supply than a diode allows. Two examples of such circuit elements are thin film resistors and diffused resistors.Also shown in Figure 1 is a thin film resistor 18 formed on an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A circuit construction for protective biasing of integrated circuit elements formed in a substrate of a first semiconductive type of material, comprising: first and second means for connection to a source for receiving a supply voltage of a predetermined polarity therebetween; the substrate being connected to the first means for receiving; a pocket of a second semiconductive type of material formed on the substrate forming a junction therebetween; a circuit element formed in the pocket; and means for protecting the junction between the substrate and the pocket from being forward biased if and when the source is connected to the first and second means for receiving such that the polarity therebetween is the reverse of the predetermined polarity, the means for protecting including means for connecting the pocket to the second means for receiving such that, when the source is connected to the first and second means for receiving to provide the predetermined polarity, the voltage drop between the second means for receiving and the pocket is less than the forward bias voltage of a diode. 


2. The circuit construction of claim 1, wherein the means for connecting includes a transistor having an emitter connected to the second means for receiving, a collector and a base; means for connecting the base to the first means for receiving; and wherein if and when said source is connected such that the polarity between said first and second means for receiving is the reverse of the predetermined polarity, the collector-base junction of the transistor is turned off, electrically disconnecting said pocket from said second means for receiving.
3. The circuit construction of claim 1, wherein said means for connecting the base of the transistor includes bias means for causing the transistor to saturate.
4. The circuit construction of claim 3, wherein the means for biasing comprises a field effect transistor having a source, a gate connected to said substrate, and a drain connected to the base of the transistor so that a start up current biases the transistor, and the field effect transistor is disconnected upon a reversal of the supply voltage.
5. The circuit construction of claim 2, wherein said first circuit element is a resistor, and wherein a resistor-pocket junction is reverse biased by said means for protecting when
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


the supply voltage is reversed.
6. The circuit construction of claim 5 wherein said pocket is a n—type pocket and said resistor is a p— ype resistor.
7. The circuit construction of claim 2, further comprising means for reinjecting carriers from the collector into the base of the transistor when said collector is saturated.
8. The circuit construction of claim 7, wherein said reinjection means is a ring of said first semiconductive type material surrounding the collector for returning said carriers to the base of said transistor.
9. The circuit construction of claim 2, wherein said transistor is a pnp transistor, and said supply voltage is a positive supply voltage.
10. The circuit construction of claim 2, wherein said transistor is an npn transistor and said supply voltage is a negative voltage.
11. The circuit construction of claim 2, wherein said integrated circuit elements are automotive circuit elements and said supply voltage is supplied by an automobile battery.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 27 August 1993 (27.08.93
)
 original claims 1,5 and 8-11 amended; original claims 2 and 7 cancelled; original claims 3-6 and 8-11 renumbered as claims 2-9, new claims 10-13 added (4 pages)]
1. A circuit construction for protective biasing of an integrated circuit element formed in a pocket of a first semiconductive type of material which is formed on a substrate of a second semiconductive type of material, whereby a junction is formed between the pocket and the substrate, the circuit construction comprising: first and second means for connection to a source for receiving a supply voltage of a predetermined polarity therebetween, the substrate being connected to the first means for receiving; means for protecting the junction between the substrate and the pocket from being forward biased if and when the source is connected to the first and second means for receiving such that the polarity therebetween is the reverse of the predetermined polarity, the means for protecting including a transistor having an emitter connected to the second means for receiving, a collector connected to the pocket and a base connected to the first means for receiving, such that, when the source is connected to the first and second means for receiving to provide the predetermined polarity, the voltage drop between the second means for receiving and the pocket is less than the forward bias voltage of a diode, and wherein if and when said source is connected such that the polarity between said first and second means for receiving is the reverse of the predetermined polarity, the collector-base junction of the transistor is turned off, electrically disconnecting said pocket from said second means for receiving; and 



 means for collecting carriers reinjected from the collector into the base of the transistor when said transistor is saturated, and for conveying a current generated by the collected carriers.
2. The circuit construction of claim 1, wherein said means for connecting the base of the transistor includes bias means for causing the transistor to saturate.
3. The circuit construction of claim 2, wherein the means for biasing comprises a field effect transistor having a source, a gate connected to said substrate, and a drain connected to the base of the transistor so that a start up current biases the transistor, and the field effect transistor is disconnected upon a reversal of the supply voltage.
4. The circuit construction of claim 1, wherein said integrated circuit element is a resistor, and wherein a junction between the resistor and the pocket is reverse biased by said means for protecting when the supply voltage is reversed.
5. The circuit construction of claim 4 wherein said pocket is a n-type pocket and said resistor is a p-type resistor.
6. The circuit construction of claim 1, wherein said reinjection means is a ring of said second semiconductive type material surrounding the collector for returning said carriers to the base of said transistor. 


7. The circuit construction of claim 1, wherein said transistor is a pnp transistor, and said supply voltage is a positive supply voltage.
8. The circuit construction of claim 1, wherein said transistor is an npn transistor and said supply voltage is a negative voltage.
9. The circuit construction of claim 1, wherein said integrated circuit elements are automotive circuit elements and said supply voltage is supplied by an automobile battery.
10. A circuit construction for protective biasing of an integrated circuit element formed in a pocket of a first semiconductive type of material which is formed on a substrate of a second semiconductive type of material, whereby a junction is formed between the pocket and the substrate, the circuit construction comprising: first and second means for connection to a source for receiving a supply voltage of a predetermined polarity therebetween, the substrate being connected to the first means for receiving; a transistor having an emitter connected to the second means for receiving, a collector connected to the pocket and a base connected to the first means for receiving and a ring of the first semiconductive type material surrounding the collector for collecting carriers reinjected from the collector into the base of the transmitter when the transistor is saturated and for conveying a current generated by the collected carriers. 


 11. The circuit construction of claim 10, wherein the ring is connected to the base of the transistor.
12. A circuit construction of a transistor which controls saturation of the transistor, comprising: a base formed of a first semiconductor type; a collector and an emitter each made of a second semiconductor type of material; and a ring of the first semiconductive type of material surrounding the collector for collecting carriers reinjected from the collector into the base of the transistor when the transistor is saturated.
13. The circuit construction of claim 12, wherein the ring is connected to the base of the transistor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
