<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632682</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compliant lead for surface mounting a chip package to a substrate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K100	B23K100	H01L2348	H01L23495	H01L2350	H01R402	H01R402	H05K102	H05K102	H05K334	H05K334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B23K	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01R	H01R	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K1	B23K1	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01R4	H01R4	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A compliant lead (32) for electromechanically surface mounting 
an integrated circuit chip package to a substrate. The 

compliant lead (32) extends from the package and includes at 
least two regions of different lead thickness. In a first 

region (42), a standard lead thickness is employed to ensure 
the applicability of existing package fabrication techniques. A 

second region (44), having a reduced thickness, then extends 
from the first region (42) and is predefined to encompass an 

area of the lead expected to undergo greatest stress during 
thermal cycling. Compliancy is further guaranteed by providing 

a solder dam within the region of reduced thickness to limit 
wicking of solder when the package is solder mou
nted to the 
substrate. Lead frame fabrication is also discussed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOFFMAN HERMAN SOL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOTH RICHARD WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOFFMAN, HERMAN SOL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOTH, RICHARD WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates in general to an electromechanical 
connector for mounting an integrated circuit chip package to a 
substrate, such as a printed wire board, and more particularly, 
to a more compliant lead for electromechanical connection of 
the chip package to the substrate. Integrated circuit (IC) chips are typically packaged in plastic 
encapsulant to provide circuit protection from hostile 
environments and facilitate chip electrical interconnection to 
a substrate or printed wire board (PWB). By far the most common 
plastic package for active IC devices is a molded plastic 
package. With a few variations, the same basic package assembly 
process is used to fabricate either pin-in-hole packages (such 
as dual-in-line packages (DIPs)) or surface mounted components, 
such as thin small-outline packages (TSOPs). Construction of a molded plastic package begins with a metal 
lead frame that is usually made by stamping, although for cases 
in which fine dimensions are required the lead frame may be 
made by chemical etching. Stamped lead frames are generally 
preferred because of a lower fabrication cost. Lead frame 
thickness is typically 250 µm (10 mils), but may be as thin as 
150 µm (6 mils) today for higher lead count packages. The lead frame is the central supporting structure of a chip 
package to which every other element is attached. Etched or 
stamped from a thin sheet metal strip into a filigree of narrow 
fingers that radiate from a center platform, the frame carries 
the chip throughout the assembly process and is embedded in 
plastic after molding. Bonded to the lead frame's central  
 
platform is a semiconductor chip which, in turn, is 
electrically connected to the radiating fingers of the frame 
with fine-diameter wires. This assembly of chip, wires and 
frame is then covered with a thermoset plastic in an operation 
called transfer molding. With the body defined in rigid 
plastic, the leads are trimmed, formed, and plated to finish 
the package. Further, due to inherent advantages such as small component 
size, reduced board area requirements, decreased cost and 
shorter signal paths, surface mount technology is gaining 
acceptance in the art for mounting components to substrates. 
In a typical surface mount manufacturing process, solder paste 
is placed on conductive pads or regions of a substrate such as 
a circuit board, using a screen or stencil printing operation. 
A component is placed on the board with its leads contacting 
the solder paste and a reflow operation is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A compliant lead (32) for electrically and mechanically 
mounting an integrated circuit chip package to a surface 

of a substrate (36), said compliant lead (32) comprising: 
a finger of conductive material having a length with at 

least two regions of different thickness along said 
length; 

a first region (42) of said finger of conductive material 
having a uniform thickness 't', said first region (42) of 

uniform thickness being disposed so as to be located 
adjacent to the integrated circuit chip package when said 

compliant lead (32) electrically and mechanically connects 
the integrated circuit chip package to said surface of the 

substrate; and 
a second region (44) of said finger of conductive material 

having a substantially uniform, reduced thickness 'tr', 
wherein 'tr' 
<
 't', said second region (44) of reduced 
thickness being located so as to improve lead compliancy 

during thermal cycling when said compliant lead (32) 
electrically and mechanically connects the integrated 

circuit chip package to said surface of the substrate. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 1, wherein said finger 
having at least two regions of different thickness along 

said length includes a third region, said third region of 
said finger of conductive material having said 

substantially uniform thickness 't' and being located so 
as to be adjacent to said surface of the substrate when 

said compliant lead (32) electrically and mechanically 
connects the integrated circuit chip package to said 

surface of the substrate, and wherein said second region 
(44) of reduced thickness 'tr' is disposed between said 

first region (42) of uniform thickness 't' and said third 
region of uniform thickness 't'. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 2, wherein said third 
region of said finger of conductive material having said 

substantially uniform thickness 't' comprises a foot of 
said compliant lead, said foot being configured to 

facilitate mounting of said integrated circuit chip 
package to said surface of the substrate. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 1, wherein said reduced 
thickness 'tr' of said second region (44) of said finger 

of conductive material is approximately one-half said 
uniform thickness 't' of said first region (42) of said 

finger of conductive material. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 4, wherein said uniform 
thickness 't' of said first region (42) of said finger of 

conductive material is in the range of 6-10 mils. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 1, wherein said lead is 
fabricated from copper or nickel-iron alloy, and wherein 

said integrated circuit chip package includes a plastic 
encapsulant, and said surface of said substrate comprises 

plastic such that a coefficient of thermal mismatch exists 
between said integrated circuit chip package, said 

compliant lead (32) and said substrate. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 6, wherein said 
integrated circuit chip package comprises a thin small-outline 

package. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 1, wherein said finger of 
conductive material is curved in a gull-wing 

configuration. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 1, further comprising a 
non-metallic substance secured to said finger within said 

second region (44) of substantially uniform, reduced 
thickness 'tr' such that when said compliant lead (32) 

undergoes soldering to electrically and mechanically 
 

connect the integrated circuit chip package to the surface 
of the substrate, said non-conductive substance functions 

as a solder dam to limit wicking of solder along said 
finger of conductive material. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 9, wherein said non-metallic 
substance comprises a non-metallic tape affixed 

to said finger within said second region (44) having said 
substantially uniform, reduced thickness 'tr' of 

conductive material. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 10, wherein said non-metallic 
tape extends substantially entirely within said 

second region (44) of said finger of conductive material 
having said substantially uniform, reduced thickness 'tr'. 
A lead frame for electrically and mechanically connecting 
an integrated circuit chip package to a substrate, said 

lead frame forming part of said integrated circuit chip 
package, said lead frame comprising: 

a platform of conductive material having multiple fingers 
radiating therefrom, each of said fingers having 

substantially a same length with at least two regions of 
different thickness disposed along said length; 

a first region (42) of each finger having a uniform 
thickness 't', each first region (42) of uniform thickness 

being disposed so as to be located adjacent to the 
integrated circuit chip package when said lead frame 

electrically and mechanically connects the integrated 
circuit chip package to the substrate; and 

a second region (44) of each finger having a substantially 
uniform, reduced thickness 'tr', wherein 'tr' 
<
 't', each 
second region (44) of reduced thickness being located so 

as to improve finger compliancy during thermal cycling 
 

when said lead frame electrically and mechanically 
connects the integrated circuit chip package to the 

substrate. 
The lead frame of claim 12, wherein each of said second 
regions (44) of reduced thickness 'tr' is at least 

partially filled with a non-metallic material designed to 
minimize solder wicking along said finger when solder is 

employed to connect said finger to the substrate. 
The lead frame of claim 12, wherein said non-metallic 
material comprises a non-metallic tape affixed to each 

finger within said second region (44) so as to extend 
substantially entirely within said second region (44) of 

said finger. 
The lead frame of claim 13, wherein said reduced thickness 
'tr' of said second region (44) of each finger is 

approximately one-half said uniform thickness 't' of said 
first region (42) of each finger. 
A compliant lead (32) extending from an integrated circuit 
chip package for electrically and mechanically mounting 

said chip package to a surface of a substrate via a solder 
connection, said compliant lead (32) comprising: 

a finger of conductive material having a length with at 
least two regions of different thickness along said 

length; 
a first region (42) of said finger of conductive material 

having a uniform thickness 't' and a second region (44) of 
said finger of conductive material having a substantially 

uniform, reduced thickness 'tr', wherein 'tr' 
<
 't', said 
region of reduced thickness being disposed so as to 

improve compliancy of said finger when exposed to thermal 
stress; and

 
a non-metallic substance affixed to said finger and 

located so as to provide a solder dam to limit wicking of 
solder along said finger when said finger is soldered to 

the surface of the substrate to provide electrical and 
mechanical mounting of the integrated circuit chip package 

to said surface of the substrate. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 16, wherein said reduced 
thickness 'tr' of said second region (44) is approximately 

one-half said uniform thickness 't' of said first region 
(42) of said finger. 
The compliant lead (32) of claim 16, wherein said non-metallic 
substance comprises a non-metallic tape affixed 

to said finger within said second region (44). 
A method for fabricating an integrated circuit chip 
package with compliant leads extending therefrom for 

electrically and mechanically mounting said chip package 
to a surface of a substrate, said fabricating method 

comprising the steps of: 

a) fabricating a lead frame of substantially uniform 
thickness in strip form with a platform and multiple 

fingers extending outward therefrom, said platform 
being sized to reside within the integrated circuit 

chip package once fabricated, at least some of said 
fingers extending from said platform being 

interconnected so as to form a dam bar site; 
b) forming a region of reduced thickness within each of 
said fingers extending from said platform, said 

regions of reduced thickness being disposed outwardly 
from said dam bar site; 
c) attaching said lead frame to an integrated circuit 
chip; 
d) encapsulating said lead frame and integrated circuit 
chip, said fingers forming leads extending from said 

encapsulant with said regions of reduced thickness 
formed in said step (b); and 
e) removing all finger interconnects comprising part of 
said dam bar site such that multiple discrete leads 

exist extending from said encapsulant. 
The fabricating method of claim 19, further comprising the 
step of providing a non-metallic substance within the 

region of reduced thickness formed in each of said fingers 
in said step (b), said non-metallic substances being 

positioned within said fingers so as form solder dams when 
outermost ends of said fingers are electromechanically 

soldered to said surface of the substrate. 
The fabricating method of claim 20, wherein said providing 
of said non-metallic substance includes providing a non-metallic 

tape encompassing substantially each entire 
region of reduced thickness within said fingers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
