<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632282</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor integrated circuit device with test mode switching.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3128	G01R3128	G01R31317	G06F1122	G06F1122	G11C2900	G11C2900	G11C2904	G11C2934	H01L2170	H01L21822	H01L2704	H01L2704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G06F	G06F	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	G06F11	G06F11	G11C29	G11C29	G11C29	G11C29	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mode selector is disclosed, for causing a testing circuit 
(29) in an LSI to test an internal circuit (22) of the LSI. 

The mode selector includes an N channel MOS transistor (25) 
having a source, and a gate and drain which are connected to 

an input terminal (21) of the LSI, and a P channel MOS 
transistor (26) having a gate, a source connected to the 

source of the N channel MOS transistor and a drain for 
outputting a mode change signal to the testing circuit (29) 

based on a control voltage to be applied to the gate of the 
P channel MOS transistor (26). The mode selector further 

includes a voltage supplying circuit (24) for applying the 
control voltage to the gate of the P channel MOS transistor 

(26). The control voltage is so set as to turn the N channel 
MOS transistor and the P channel MOS transistor on, when a 

voltage higher than the normal operation voltage is applied 
to the input terminal (21). 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU VLSI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU VLSI LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKI TERUO C O FUJITSU VLSI LI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEKI, TERUO, C/O FUJITSU VLSI LIMITED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor integrated 
circuit device (LSI), and, more particularly, to a technique 
of switching the operation mode of an LSI between a normal 
mode and a test mode in response to a control instruction 
externally supplied. An LSI generally has various circuits to accomplish predetermined 
functions and a testing circuit for testing the 
performance of the LSI. Before the delivery of each LSI, the 
testing circuit is activated to check whether the LSI properly 
performs desired functions. Fast progress has been made on the large scale integration and 
high performance of recent LSIs. Therefore, testing for the 
performance of LSIs requires that an increase in testing time 
should be suppressed and the statuses of various circuits 
should be monitored through external terminals. For a 
semiconductor memory whose memory cells are accessed bit by 
bit, for example, if 4-bit memory cells are accessed at a time  
 
for the test, the number of accesses becomes 1/4, thus 
shortening the overall testing time. There are various 
methods to externally control the testing circuit of an LSI 
to switch the operation mode of the LSI to the test mode. One 
typical method to switch the operation mode is to set the 
voltage applied to an external input terminal higher than the 
normal operation voltage. Fig. 1 shows a part of a conventional LSI. An external input 
terminal 11 of an LSI 10 is connected to an internal circuit 
12 which accomplishes predetermined functions. An operation 
voltage of the LSI 10 in normal operation mode lies between 
a supply voltage Vcc and ground potential GND. When a signal 
voltage lying between a supply voltage Vcc and ground 
potential GND is applied to the input terminal 11, the LSI 10 
becomes the normal operation mode and the internal circuit 12 
functions. An operation-mode selector 15 is connected to the 
input terminal 11 to switch the operation mode of the LSI 10 
between the normal mode and test mode. The selector 15 
comprises n N channel MOS transistors T1 to Tn connected in 
series between the input terminal 11 and ground GND, and an 
invertor 13. Each of the transistors T1 to Tn has a gate 
connected to its drain. The drain of the transistor Tn is 
connected via the invertor 13 to a testing circuit 14. The 
threshold voltage (n·VthN) of the transistors T1-Tn is set 
larger than the normal operation voltage (i.e., the voltage 
of the power supply Vcc).  When a voltage equal to or lower than the voltage of the power 
supply Vcc is applied
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor integrated circuit device comprising: 
   an input terminal (21) for receiving an external signal 

of which the voltage level is variable; 
   an internal circuit (22) for accomplishing a 

predetermined function based on a normal operation voltage 
supplied via said input terminal; 

   a testing circuit (29) for testing said function of said 
internal circuit; and 

   a mode selector (23) for causing said testing circuit to 
test said internal circuit, characterized in that the mode 

selector includes: 
   a first transistor of the first conductivity type 

(25), having a source, and a gate and drain which are 
connected to said input terminal; 

   a second transistor of the second conductivity type 
(26), having a gate, a source connected to said source of said 

first transistor and a drain for outputting a mode change 
signal to said testing circuit based on a control voltage 

(Vref) to be applied to said gate of said second transistor; 
   voltage supplying means (24) for applying said 

control voltage (Vref) to said gate of said second transistor; 
and 

   said control voltage (Vref) being so set as to turn 

said first transistor and said second transistor on, when a 
voltage higher than said normal operation voltage is applied 

 
to said input terminal. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 1, wherein said mode selector further comprises a 

guarantee circuit, provided between a ground and said drain 
of said second transistor (26), for connecting said drain of 

said second transistor (26) to said ground to inhibit said 
mode change signal from being supplied to said testing circuit 

when said normal operation voltage is applied to said external 
input terminal. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 2, wherein said guarantee circuit includes a resistor 

(27) provided between said ground and said drain of said 
second transistor (26). 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 2, wherein said guarantee circuit includes a transistor 

of the first conductivity type (39) having a drain connected 
to said drain of said second transistor, a source connected 

to said ground, and a gate to which said control voltage 
(Vref) is applied. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 2, wherein said guarantee circuit includes a transistor 

of the first conductivity type (41) having a drain and gate 
connected to said drain of said second transistor, and a 

 
source connected to said ground. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 2, wherein said guarantee circuit includes a transistor 

of the second conductivity type (43) having a source connected 
to said drain of said second transistor, and a drain and gate 

connected to said ground. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 2, wherein said guarantee circuit includes a transistor 

of the first conductivity type (45) having a drain connected 
to said drain of said second transistor, a source connected 

to said ground, and a gate connected via an invertor to said 
drain of said first transistor. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 1, wherein said power supplying means includes a voltage 

generator (24,32,35) for generating said control voltage 
(Vref) based on said normal operation voltage and for 

outputting said control voltage. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 8, wherein said voltage generator comprises two MOS 

transistors of one conductivity type, connected in series 
between said normal operation voltage and a ground, each of 

said MOS transistors having a gate and drain connected 
together, a potential between said MOS transistors being said 

 
control voltage (Vref). 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 9, wherein said MOS transistors of one conductivity type 

are N channel MOS transistors. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 9, wherein said MOS transistors of one conductivity type 

are P channel MOS transistors. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit device according to 
Claim 8, wherein said voltage generator comprises at least two 

resistors (36,37), connected in series between said normal 
operation voltage and a ground, for dividing said normal 

operation voltage to generate said control voltage (Vref). 
A mode selecting circuit for use in a semiconductor 
integrated circuit device including an input terminal (21) for 

receiving an external signal of which the voltage level is 
variable, an internal circuit (22) for accomplishing a 

predetermined function based on a normal operation voltage 
supplied via the input terminal, and a testing circuit (29) 

for testing the function of the internal circuit, wherein the 
mode selecting circuit (23) causes the testing circuit to test 

the internal circuit, characterized by comprising: 
   a first transistor of the first conductivity type (25) 

having a source, and a gate and drain which are connected to 
 

the input terminal; 
   a second transistor of the second conductivity type (26) 

having a gate, a source connected to said source of said first 
transistor and a drain for outputting a mode change signal to 

the testing circuit based on a control voltage (Vref) to be 
applied to said gate of said second transistor; 

   voltage supplying means (24) for applying said control 
voltage (Vref) to said gate of said second transistor; and 

   said control voltage (Vref) being so set as to turn said 
first transistor and said second transistor on, when a voltage 

higher than the normal operation voltage is applied to the 
input terminal. 
The mode selecting circuit according to Claim 13 further 
comprising a guarantee circuit, provided between a ground and 

said drain of said second transistor (26), for connecting said 
drain of said second transistor (26) to said ground to inhibit 

said mode change signal from being supplied to the testing 
circuit when the normal operation voltage is applied to the 

external input terminal. 
The mode selecting circuit according to Claim 13, wherein 
the first conductivity type is N channel type, and the second 

conductivity type is P channel type. 
A circuit for detecting an instruction signal externally 
supplied thereto and for switching the operation mode of an 

 
other circuit (22,29) based on the instruction signal, 

comprising: 
   an input terminal (21) for receiving the instruction 

signal of which the voltage level is variable; 
   a first transistor of the first conductivity type (25) 

having a source, and a gate and drain which are connected to 
said input terminal; 

   a second transistor of the second conductivity type (26) 
having a gate, a source connected to said source of said first 

transistor and a drain for outputting a mode change signal to 
the other circuit based on a control voltage (Vref) to be 

applied to said gate of said second transistor; 
   voltage supplying means (24) for applying said control 

voltage (Vref) to said gate of said second transistor; and 
   said control voltage (Vref) being so set as to turn said 

first transistor and said second transistor on, when a voltage 
higher than a predetermined normal operation voltage is 

applied to the input terminal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
