<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629333</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRET MICROPHONE ASSEMBLY, AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R1900	H04R1904	H04R3100	H04R3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R19	H04R19	H04R31	H04R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electret microphone assembly, such as for a hearing aid comprises an electret microphone having a diaphragm and a charged plate, a substrate spaced from the charged plate, and a wire loop having first and second ends and a mid-portion. The first and second ends are secured to the substrate and the mid-portion is pressed against the charged plate. An amplifier is disposed on the substrate and has an input terminal coupled to the wire loop. Alternatively, an impedance matching circuit can be disposed on the substrate and coupled to the wire loop. A conductive bond containing silver particles futher secures the wire loop mid-portion and the charged plate. In an alternative configuration the loop is dimensioned such that its mid-portion passes close to the charged plate without touching it. The conductive bond serves not only to form a rigid structure, but also serves as an electrical bridge to complete the circuit between the two elements.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KNOWLES ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KNOWLES ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LENZINI ERNEST L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WICKSTROM TIMOTHY K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LENZINI, ERNEST, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WICKSTROM, TIMOTHY, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an electret 
microphone assembly having a charged plate coupled 
to a substrate, such as for a hearing aid, and to  
 
a method of manufacturing the assembly. More 
particularly, the invention relates to the 
connection of the charged plate to the substrate. Electret microphone assemblies are well known 
in the art. Typically, the assemblies include an 
electret microphone disposed within a housing. 
The electret microphone has a diaphragm and a 
charged plate. Sound vibration vibrates the 
diaphragm, which vibration generates an electrical 
signal on the charged plate. Often the housing 
also contains a substrate. The substrate can 
support an impedance matching circuit for matching 
the high impedance of the electret microphone with 
the relatively lower input impedance of an 
external amplifier. Alternatively, the substrate 
can support an internal amplifier, such as that 
disclosed in the above-incorporated patent. In either event, the impedance matching 
circuit and the internal amplifier each have an 
input terminal which must be coupled to the 
charged plate. Because of the extremely small 
dimensions of such microphones, especially as used 
in hearing aids, coupling the charged plate to the 
particular input terminal has been difficult. Applicants' invention is provided to solve 
this and other problems.  
 It is an object of the invention to provide 
an electret microphone assembly, such as for a 
hearing aid. In accordance with the invention, the 
assembly comprises an electret microphone having a 
diaphragm and a charged plate, a substrate spaced 
from the charged plate, and a wire loop having 
first and second ends and a mid-portion. The 
first and second ends are secured to the substrate 
and the mid-portion is pressed against the charged 
plate. It is comprehended that an amplifier or 
impedance matching circuit can be disposed on the 
substrate. The amplifier or impedance matching 
circuit each have a respective input terminal 
coupled to the wire loop. It is further comprehended that a conductive 
epoxy bond containing silver particles further 
secures the wire loop mid-portion to the charged 
plate. It is further comprehended that the wire loop 
is configured with a radius chosen such that the 
mid-portion of the loop can pass close to the 
charged plate without contacting it, and that a 
conductive epoxy bond bridges the gap between the 
two elements as a conducting member to 
conductingly secure them together. It is still further comprehended that the 
first
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electret microphone assembly comprising: 

an electret microphone (12) having a diaphragm (14) and a 
charged plate (16); 
a substrate (20) spaced from said charged plate (16), 
characterized by a wire loop (30, 50) having a first end (30a) 

and a portion (30c, 50c) distal from said first end, wherein 
said first end is secured to one of said substrate (20) and 

said charged plate (16), and said distal portion (30c, 50c) is 
in confrontation with said other of said substrate and said 

charged plate; and 
contacting means for forming an electrical contact between 
said distal portion (30c, 50c) and said other of said substrate 

and said charged plate. 
The assembly of claim 1,
 
characterized in that said 
contacting means includes said distal 
portion (30c, 50c) configured to be in pressing contacting 

engagement with said other of said substrate (20) and said 
charged plate (16). 
The assembly of claim 2,
 
characterized in that said loop (30, 50) has first (30a, 50a) 

and second ends (30b, 50b) secured to said one of said substrate 
(20) and said charged plate (16), and said distal portion (30c) 

is intermediate said ends.  
 
The assembly of claim 3,
 
characterized in that said distal portion is affixed to said 

other of said substrate (20) and said charged plate (16) by 
means of a quantity of hardened conductive adhesive (42). 
The assembly of claim 4,
 
characterized in that said conductive adhesive (42) comprises 

conductive epoxy. 
The assembly of claim 4,
 
characterized in that said conductive adhesive (42) comprises 

conductive plastic. 
The assembly of claim 1,
 
characterized in that said distal portion (50c) is proximate to 

and out of contact with said other of said substrate (20) and 
said charged plate (16), and said contacting means (42) includes 

a hardened conductive adhesive joining said distal portion and 
said other of said substrate (20) and said charged plate (16). 
The assembly of claim 7,
 
characterized in that said loop (50) has first (50a) and second 

ends (50b) secured to said one of said substrate (20) and said 
charged plate (16), and said distal portion (50c) is 

intermediate said ends. 
A method of manufacturing an electret microphone assembly 
comprising: 


providing a substrate (20), 
characterized by providing a wire loop (30, 50) having a first 

end (30a, 50a) and a distal portion (30c, 50c); 
providing an electret microphone (12) having a diaphragm 
(14) and a charged plate (16); 
securing said first end to one of said substrate (20) and 
said charged plate (16) so that said distal portion extends a  

 
first distance away from said one of said substrate and said 

charged plate; 
disposing said electret microphone (12) in spaced 
relationship with said substrate (20) such that said distal 

portion is in confrontation with the other of said substrate 
(20) and said charged plate (16); and 
forming an electrical connection between said distal portion 
and said other of said substrate (20) and said charged plate 

(16). 
The method of claim 9,
 
characterized by the step of configuring said distal portion 

(30c) to be in pressing contacting engagement with said other 
of said substrate (20) and said charged plate (16). 
The method of claim 10,
 
characterized by the step of configuring said loop (30) to have 

first (30a) and second ends (30b) secured to said one of said 
substrate (20) and said charged plate (16) with said distal 

portion (30c) intermediate said ends. 
The method of claim 11,
 
characterized by the steps of providing a quantity of hardenable 

conductive adhesive (42); affixing said distal portion (30c, 
50c) to said other of said substrate (20) and said charged plate 

(16) by means of a quantity of said hardenable conductive 
adhesive; and causing said conductive adhesive to harden. 
The method of claim 9,
 
characterized by the steps of configuring said distal portion 

(50c) to be proximate to and out of contact with said other of 
said substrate (20) and said charged plate (16); providing a 

quantity of hardenable conductive adhesive (42); disposing a 
quantity of said adhesive to form a bridge between said distal 

portion and said other of said substrate and said charged plate; 
and causing said adhesive bridge to harden.  

 
The method of claim 13,
 
characterized by the step of configuring said loop (30, 50) to 

have first and second ends secured to said one of said substrate 
(20) and said charged plate (16) with said distal portion 

intermediate said ends. 
The electret microphone assembly of claim 1,
 
characterized by a wire loop (30, 50) having a first end (30a, 

50a), a second end (30b, 50b) and a distal portion (30c, 50c) 
intermediate said first and second ends defining a convex 

surface, wherein said first and second ends are secured to one 
of said substrate and said charged plate, and said convex 

surface is in confrontation with a generally planar surface of 
said other of said substrate and said charged plate; and 

contacting means for forming an electrical contact between said 
convex surface and said other of said substrate and said charged 

plate. 
The assembly of claim 15,
 
characterized in that said convex surface is affixed to said 

other of said substrate (20) and said charged plate (16) by 
means of a quantity of hardened conductive adhesive (42). 
The assembly of claim 15,
 
characterized in that said convex surface is proximate to and 

out of contact with said other of said substrate (20) and said 
charged plate (16), and said contacting means (42) includes a 

hardened conducting plastic bond element joining said convex 
surface and said other of said substrate and said charged plate. 
The method of manufacturing an electret microphone 
assembly of claim 9,
 
characterized by: 


providing a wire loop having first and second ends and an 
intermediate-portion (30c, 50c) defining the distal portion as  

 
a convex surface; 
securing said first and second ends to one of said substrate 
(20) and said charged plate (16) so that said convex surface 

extends a first distance away from said one of said substrate 
and said charged plate; 
disposing said electret microphone (12) in spaced 
relationship with said,substrate such that said convex surface 

is in confrontation with a generally planar surface of the other 
of said substrate and said charged plate; and 
forming an electrical connection between said convex surface 
and said generally planar surface. 
The method of claim 18,
 
characterized by the step of configuring said convex surface to 

be in pressing contacting engagement with said other of said 
substrate (20) and said charged plate (16). 
The method of claim 18,
 
characterized by the steps of providing a quantity of hardenable 

conductive adhesive (42); affixing said convex surface to said 
other of said substrate and said charged plate by means of a 

quantity of said hardenable conductive adhesive; and causing 
said conductive adhesive to harden. 
The method of claim 18,
 
characterized by the steps of configuring said convex surface 

to be proximate to and out of contact with said other of said 
substrate and said charged plate; providing a quantity of 

hardenable conductive adhesive; disposing a quantity of said 
adhesive to form a bridge between said convex surface and said 

other of said substrate and said charged plate; and causing 
said adhesive bridge to harden. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
