<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614383</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RETRACTABLE SAFETY PENETRATING INSTRUMENT FOR PORTAL SLEEVE INTRODUCTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1734	A61B1734	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A retractable safety penetrating instrument (30) for introducing a portal sleeve (34) into a cavity in the body includes a portal sleeve (34) and a penetrating member (32) disposed within the portal sleeve (34) and supported in a manner to automatically move proximally from an extended position wherein a sharp distal end (42) of the penetrating member (32) protrudes from the portal sleeve (34) to a retracted position wherein the sharp distal end (42) of the penetrating member (32) is protected in response to distal movement of the retractable safety penetrating instrument (30) upon penetration into a cavity in the body. A retracting mechanism moves the penetrating member (32) proximally and is normally locked in a position preventing proximal movement of the penetrating member (32) and is released by distal movement of an operating member to trigger retraction of the penetrating member (32).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Retractable Safety Penetrating Instrument for Portal Sleeve IntroductionBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention:The present invention pertains to safety penetrating instruments and, more particularly, to safety penetrating instruments having portal sleeves for introduction into anatomical cavities and penetrating members with sharp tips for penetrating cavity walls and being automatically retractable upon penetration to protect tissue and organ structures within the cavities from the sharp tips of the penetrating members.Discussion of the Prior ArtPenetrating instruments are widely used in medical procedures to gain access to anatomical cavities of various sizes; and, in particular, use of penetrating instruments has become an extremely popular and important first step in endoscopic, or least invasive, procedures to establish an endoscopic portal for many various procedures, most notably laparoscopy procedures, with access being established via a portal sleeve positioned during penetration into the cavity with the penetrating instrument. Such penetrating instruments include a penetrating member having a sharp tip or point to pierce or penetrate the tissue forming the cavity wall, and the force required to penetrate the cavity wall is dependent upon the type and thickness of the tissue of the wall. Once the wall is penetrated, it is desirable to protect the sharp tip of the penetrating member to prevent inadvertent contact with or injury to tissue or organ structures in or forming the cavity, and a particular problem exists where substantial force is required to penetrate the cavity wall or the cavity is very 

 small in that, once penetration is achieved, the lack of tissue resistance can result in the sharp tip traveling too far into the cavity and injuring adjacent tissue or organ structures.Safety trocars having a spring-biased protective shield disposed between an outer sleeve and an inner trocar are marketed by Ethicon, Inc. as the Endopath and by United States Surgical Corp. as the Surgiport. U.S. Patents No. 4,535,773 to Yoon, No. 4,601,710 to Moll and No. 4,654,030 to Moll et al are illustrative of such safety trocars. A trocar disposed within a portal sleeve and retractable within the sleeve in response to an electrical signal generated when force from tissue contact is removed from the sharp tip of the trocar is set forth in U.S. Patent No. 4,535,773 to Yoon.While prior art safety penetrating instruments are widely used, they suffer from many disadvantages when used in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is:
1. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for forming a portal communicating with a cavity in the body to allow passage of instruments for performing least invasive medical procedures comprising hollow portal sleeve means for providing a passage through a cavity wall and having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal sleeve ends; penetrating member means disposed in said lumen of said sleeve means having a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; retracting means for moving said penetrating member means proximally relative to said sleeve means from an extended position where said sharp distal end protrudes beyond said sleeve means distal end to a retracted position to prevent contact of said sharp distal end with tissue; and trigger means for automatically actuating said retracting means to move said penetrating member means to said retracted position in response to movement of said retractable safety penetrating instrument distally upon said sleeve means distal end entering the body cavity whereby said sharp distal end of said penetrating member means is protected from inadvertent contact with tissue in the body cavity.
2. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 wherein said retracting means includes means for biasing said penetrating member means in a proximal direction.
3. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 2 further including means engageable with said retracting means for preventing movement of said penetrating member means in the proximal direction and said trigger means includes means for automatically disengaging said movement preventing means. 


 4. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 3 wherein said penetrating member means includes a hollow proximal end and further including hub means for mounting said proximal end of said penetrating member means and cylindrical member means secured to said hub means and extending into said penetrating member means proximal end for guiding proximal movement of said penetrating member means.
5. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 4 wherein said biasing means includes a spring disposed within said penetrating member means proximal end concentrically around said cylindrical member means.
6. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 5 further including a rim on said cylindrical member means disposed within said proximal end of said penetrating member means and a shoulder on said proximal end of said penetrating member means, said spring being mounted in compression between said rim and said shoulder.
7. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 5 further including a rim on said cylindrical member means disposed within said proximal end of said penetrating member means and a plate extending into said proximal end of said penetrating member means, said spring being mounted in compression between said rim and said plate.
8. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 4 wherein said biasing means is disposed within said hub means externally of said penetrating member means proximal end.
9. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 8 further including rail means mounted externally on said proximal end of said penetrating member means and having an abutment- wall, and said biasing means 


 includes a spring mounted in compression between said hub means and said abutment wall.
10. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 9 further including plate means extending from said rail means and having an aperture therein for receiving said proximal end of said penetrating member means.
11. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 10 further including longitudinal slot means in said proximal end of said penetrating member means and pin means on said rail means received within said slot means for providing a positive stop limiting proximal movement of said penetrating member means.
12. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 11 wherein said rail means includes a hollow cylinder having an end closed by said abutment wall and said spring is disposed concentrically within said cylinder.
13. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 11 wherein said rail means includes opposing parallel sides extending perpendicularly from said abutment wall and said spring is disposed between said opposing sides.
14. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 4 wherein said biasing means includes a spring disposed concentrically around said penetrating member means.
15. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 14 further including an abutment wall mounted on said proximal end of said penetrating member means and having an aperture allowing passage therethrough of said proximal end of said penetrating member means, and an annular skirt disposed concentrically around said proximal end of said penetrating member means and extending from said abutment wall, said spring being disposed concentrically around said 


 penetrating member means proximal end within said skirt and maintained in compression between said hub means and said abutment wall.
16. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 15 further including a middle member disposed between said penetrating member means and said portal sleeve means and having a proximal end secured in said hub means and a distal end disposed within said portal sleeve means, and neck means on said distal end of said penetrating member means for engaging said distal end of said middle member when said penetrating member means moves proximally for providing a positive stop limiting proximal movement of said penetrating member means.
17. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 4 further including a middle member disposed between said penetrating member means and said portal sleeve means and having a proximal end disposed in said hub means and a distal end disposed in said portal sleeve means and wherein said biasing means includes a spring disposed concentrically around said middle member.
18. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 17 further including a flange on said proximal end of said penetrating member means, a plate on said proximal end of said middle member engageable with said flange and an annular skirt extending from said hub means concentrically around said middle member and terminating at a shoulder, and wherein said spring is mounted in compression between said shoulder and said plate.
19. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 18 further including neck means said distal end of said penetrating member means for engaging said distal end of said middle member when said penetrating member means 


 moves proximally for providing a positive stop limiting proximal movement of said penetrating member means.
20. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for forming a portal communicating with a cavity in the body to allow passage of instruments for performing least invasive medical procedures comprising hollow portal sleeve means for providing a passage through a cavity wall and having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal sleeve ends; a penetrating member having a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; and means for mounting said penetrating member in said lumen of said sleeve means for allowing proximal movement of said penetrating member relative to said sleeve means during penetration of the cavity wall.
21. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 20 wherein said means for mounting includes means for biasing said penetrating member in a distal direction to allow proximal movement of said penetrating member against the distal bias in response to a proximal force from tissue contact of said distal end of said penetrating member during.
22. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 21 wherein said penetrating sTtember includes a proximal end and further including a hub mounting said proximal end of said penetrating member and a flange on said penetrating member proximal end disposed in said hub and wherein said distal biasing means includes a spring mounted in compression between said flange and said hub.
23. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 22 wherein said hub includes an end wall and said proximal end of said penetrating member is hollow and 


 further including a tube extending from said end wall into said proximal end of said penetrating member, said spring being disposed concentrically around said tube.
24. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 21 wherein said penetrating member distal end includes an end surface tapering to a sharp tip and a cylindrical body joined to said end surface at a junction and said portal sleeve means distal end includes a peripheral edge, said junction being aligned with said peripheral edge when said penetrating member means moves proximally against said distal bias in response to a proximal force from tissue contact at said distal end of said penetrating member to present a substantially smooth profile.
25. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 24 further including positive stop means for limiting proximal movement of said penetrating member against said distal bias.
26. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 25 wherein said positive stop means is disposed at said proximal end of said penetrating member.
27. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 25 wherein said positive stop means is disposed at said distal end of said penetrating member.
28. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for forming a portal communicating with a cavity in the body to allow passage of instruments for performing least invasive medical procedures comprising hollowportal sleeve means for providing a passage through a cavity wall and having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal sleeve ends; 


 penetrating member means disposed in said lumen of said sleeve means having a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; retracting means for moving said penetrating member means proximally relative to said sleeve means from an extended position where said sharp distal end protrudes beyond said sleeve means distal end to a retracted position to prevent contact of said sharp distal end with tissue; and trigger means including an operating member movable proximally as said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall and movable distally thereafter, said trigger means being responsive to said distal movement of said operating member to actuate said retracting means to move said penetrating member means to said retracted position.
29. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 28 further including means for permitting said penetrating member means to move proximally as said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall and wherein said operating member is disposed on said penetrating member means.
30. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 28 further including means for permitting said portal sleeve means to move proximally as said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall and wherein said operating members disposed on said portal sleeve means.
31. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 30 wherein said penetrating member means includes a distal end surface joined to a cylindrical body at a junction and said distal end of said portal sleeve means includes a peripheral edge, said junction being aligned with said peripheral edge when said penetrating member means and said portal sleeve means move proximally as said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall. 


 32. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 28 further including a middle member disposed between said portal sleeve means and said penetrating member means and means for permitting said middle member to move proximally as said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall and wherein said operating members disposed on said middle member.
33. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 28 further including an inner member disposed within said penetrating member means and means for permitting said inner member to move proximally as said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall and wherein said operating member is disposed on said inner member.
34. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 33 wherein said penetrating member means distal end is hollow and includes a distal end surface and said distal end of said inner member includes a distal end surface projecting beyond said penetrating member means distal end surface, said distal end surface of said penetrating member means being aligned with said distal end surface of said inner member when said penetrating member means and said inner member move proximally as said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall.
35. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 28 wherein said retracting means includes means for biasing said penetrating member means proximally and further including a locking means engageable with said retracting means for preventing movement of said retracting means proximally, said trigger means further including releasing means for being engaged by said operating member when said operating member moves distally for disengaging said locking means from said retracting means. 


 36. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 35 wherein said locking means includes a latch biased into engagement with said retracting means.
37. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 36 wherein said latch includes a spring.
38. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 37 wherein said releasing means includes cam means for disengaging said latch from said retracting means.
39. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 38 wherein said releasing means further includes a trigger on said cam means for being engaged by said operating member when said operating member moves distally.
40. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 39 wherein said cam means is biased to a rest position wherein said trigger is disposed within the path of distal movement of said operating member.
41. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 37 wherein said releasing means includes spring means and a trigger on said spring means biased into the path of distal movement of said operating member.
42. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 36 wherein said latch includes a locking bar and said releasing means includes spring means for biasing said locking bar into engagement with said retracting means and disengaging said locking bar from said retracting means, said releasing means further including a trigger biased into the path of distal movement of said operating member.
43. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 42 further including stop means on said locking bar 


 for limiting proximal movement of said penetrating member means,
44. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 35 wherein said locking means and said releasing means are of integral, unitary construction.
45. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 35 wherein said locking means and said releasing means are of multi-part construction.
46. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for forming a portal communicating with a cavity in the body to allow passage of instruments for performing least invasive medical procedures comprising hollow portal sleeve means for providing a passage through a cavity wall and having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal sleeve ends; penetrating member means disposed in said lumen of said sleeve means having a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; means for biasing said penetrating member means distally within said lumen of said sleeve means to an extended position where said sharp distal end protrudes beyond said sleeve means distal end; retracting means for moving said penetrating member means proximally relative to said sleeve means from said extended position to a retracted position to prevent contact of said sharp distal end with tissue; and trigger means for automatically actuating said retracting means to move said penetrating member means to said retracted position in response to movement of said penetrating member means distally within said lumen of said sleeve means. 



 47. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 46 further including means for selectively moving said penetrating member means from said retracted position to said extended position.
48. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 47 wherein said means for selectively moving includes knob means on said penetrating member means, hub means for mounting said penetrating member means and slot means in said hub means for receiving said knob means, said knob means being moveable along said slot means to move said penetrating member means from said retracted position to said extended position.
49. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 48 further including means for selectively locking said penetrating member means in said extended position.
50. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 49 wherein said means for locking includes a locking member pivotably mounted on said hub means for being selectively moved into a position preventing proximal movement of said knob means along said slot means.
51. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for forming a portal communicating with a cavity in the body to allow passage of instruments for performing least invasive medical procedures comprising hollow portal sleeve means for providing a passage through a cavity wall and having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal sleeve ends; penetrating member means disposed in said lumen of said sleeve means having a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; 


 housing means movably receiving said sleeve proximal end and including means for biasing said sleeve means distally relative to said housing means and for allowing proximal movement of said sleeve means relative to said housing means when said sharp distal end of said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall; retracting means for moving said penetrating member means proximally relative to said sleeve means from an extended position where said sharp distal end protrudes beyond said sleeve means distal end to a retracted position to prevent contact of said sharp distal end with tissue; and trigger means for automatically actuating said retracting means to move said penetrating member means to said retracted position in response to movement of said sleeve means distally relative to said housing means.
52. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 51 wherein said biasing means includes a spring disposed concentrically around said portal sleeve means.
53. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 51 further including a flange on said proximal end of said portal sleeve means and said biasing means includes a spring mounted in compression between said flange and said housing means.
54. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 53 wherein said penetrating member means includes a distal end surface joined to a cylindrical body at a junction and said distal end of said portal sleeve means includes a peripheral edge, said peripheral edge being aligned with said junction when said portal sleeve means moves proximally when said distal end of said penetrating member means penetrates the cavity wall.
55. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 54 wherein said penetrating member means 


includes a hollow proximal end received in said housing means and further including a tube secured to said housing means and extending into said proximal end of said penetrating member means and locking means mounted within said tube and projecting from a slot in said tube to engage said penetrating member and prevent proximal movement of said penetrating member.
56. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 55 wherein said trigger means includes releasing means disposed in said housing means for disengaging said locking means from said penetrating member means and a trigger on said flange for engaging said releasing means in response to movement of said portal sleeve means distally to disengage said locking means from said penetrating member means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
