<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648093</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR THE CLOSURE OF WIDE SKIN DEFECTS BY STRETCHING OF SKIN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1703	A61B1706	A61B1706	A61B1708	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for closing wide skin defects may be used with two long interdermal needles configured for insertion underneath skin close to margins of a skin defect. The skin closing apparatus may include two retaining members (70, 71) configured as a flange connecting two legs (20) and forming a U-shaped profile. Each of the legs may include either a sharp hook (23) or a blunt skin insertion element at the end of the leg adapted for percing the skin and engaging one of the long interdermal needles. Alternatively, the retaining members may include topical engagement elements for engaging portions of the interdermal needles which are located above the skin surface. A contracting mechanism such as a screw (82) may connect the retaining members and approximate the interdermal needles, while bringing the skin margins together until final closure of the skin defect results. One of the retaining members may be fixed to the screw shaft while the other may be releasably connected to the screw shaft by an intergral locking mechanism (85). The skin closing apparatus may also include a clutch mechanism (110) configured to disengage the screw from a knob (81) or handle, when a predetermined force is met or exceeded. Each retaining member of the skin stretching device may include a base segment connected to a pivotal needle carrier by a flexible pivot segment (132). Each retaining member may also include a base segment, which carries the skin insertion needles, removably connected to the body of the skin stretching device. Each base segment may further include a male and/or female connector (143, 144) for engaging a connector (146, 148) on an opposing base member. The retaining members of the skin stretching device may also include skin insertion needles which may be adjustably positioned. The apparatus may further include a device for shielding (176) the sharp points of the skin insertion needles.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDCHEM PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEDCHEM PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORGIA JULIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICEZARE PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILAT ALEXANDER R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRSHOWITZ BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVY AMNON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PUTNAM CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RODAK DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGEL EITAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEIN JEFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITLOCK THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORGIA, JULIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICEZARE, PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILAT, ALEXANDER, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRSHOWITZ, BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEVY, AMNON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PUTNAM, CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RODAK, DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGEL, EITAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEIN, JEFFREY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITLOCK, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS FOR THE CLOSURE OF WIDE SKIN DEFECTSBY STRETCHING OF SKINCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThis is a continuation-in-part of United States Patent Application Serial No. 08/055,413 filed May 3, 1993, now pending; which is a continuation-in-part of United States Patent Application Serial No. 07/835,636, filed February 13, 1992, now U.S. Patent No. 5,263,971 and United States Design Patent Application Serial No. 29/003,751, filed December 3, 1992, now pending.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe invention relates to an apparatus for stretching skin to cover an open wound, and more particularly, to an apparatus for use before or during an operation for closure of skin defects or otherwise damaged skin areas.2. Description of the Related TechnologyU.S. Patent No. 4,896,680 discloses a method and apparatus for stretching skin over a wound by load cycling. A force may be applied on opposite skin margins during several periods interrupted by relaxation periods, so skin may be stretched over a wide area. A surgical stretching apparatus according to that patent may include two pins for insertion into the skin along both edges of a wound.The pins may be gradually pulled together by a flexible strap. The tension or pulling load on the pins may be applied in intervals to allow the collagen fibers of the skin to rearrange for further stretching. The pins may be substantially shaped as safety pins exhibiting a loop for attachment to a flexible strap. The strap may exhibit projections or apertures for engaging a ratchet-shaped device that may hold the pins in forceful apposition.A disadvantage of the above-described apparatus is manifest when the pins have been drawn together, as no space or room is provided for suturing the approximated skin margins. Another drawback resides in the rather 

crude manner for approximating the pins, i.e., manually pulling on the flexible strap, as the pulling force cannot be minutely controlled. Another drawback is the two pins grip only relatively narrow strips of skin along both edges, therefore, it is not possible to close a wide wound in a single pulling operation.There exists a need for a skin closing or skin stretching device that closes a wide skin defect in a single pulling operation. There further exists a need for a skin closing apparatus that provides a visual or auditory indication of the tension or force applied to the wound margins during a pulling operation, and may limit the amount of force applied to the wound margins by disengaging a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A skin defect closing device comprising: means for engaging skin along opposing margins of a skin defect; means for approximating the opposing margins of said skin defect; means for limiting a force applied along the margins of the skin defect; and means for maintaining alignment of the skin closing device with the margins of the skin defect.
2. The skin defect closing device according to claim 1, wherein said means for limiting comprises a clutch connected to said means for approximating and configured so a force applied along the margins of the skin defect by said means for approximating is limited to a predetermined value.
3. The skin defect closing device according to claim 2, wherein said clutch exhibits: a male engaging member exhibiting a single radially extending spline; and a female engaging member exhibiting a plurality of radial splines and defining a recess configured to receive said male member.
4. The skin defect closing device according to claim 3, wherein each 


of said splines exhibits an oblique contact surface.
5. The skin defect closing device according to claim 1, wherein the means for engaging comprises: a plurality of interdermal needles configured for insertion into the skin along said opposing margins of the skin defect such that at least longitudinal portions of each of said interdermal needles are visible; and a plurality of topical engaging elements configured for engaging the visible portions of the interdermal needles.
6. The skin defect closing device according to claim 5, wherein said topical engagement element is a loop.
7. The skin defect closing device according to claim 5, wherein said topical engagement element is a suture.
8. The skin defect closing device according to claim 5, wherein said topical engagement element is a clip.
9. The skin defect closing device according to claim 5, wherein said topical engagement element is a terminal portion of a leg configured in the shape of an orifice or recess.
10. The skin defect closing device according to claim 1, wherein said 


means for maintaining alignment comprises: a plurality of retaining members, each of said retaining members exhibiting a base member and a flange having a first end connected to said base member and a second end connected to said means for approximating; a plurality of needle carriers, each of said needle carriers pivotally connected to a surface of said base member and exhibiting a plurality of skin insertion elements.
11. The skin defect closing device according to claim 1, wherein said means for engaging comprises: a first retaining member exhibiting a first base member, said first base member exhibiting: a plurality of skin insertion elements, each of said skin insertion elements protruding from a surface of said first base member; at least a male engaging member protruding from a surface of the first base member; and a second retaining member exhibiting a second base member, said second base member exhibiting: a plurality of skin insertion elements, each of said skin insertion elements protruding from a surface of said second base member; at least a female engaging member protruding from a surface of the second base member, said female engaging member configured to receive and retain said male engaging member once said retaining members have been fully approximated. 


 12. The skin defect closing device according to claim 11, wherein said first base member is detachably connected to said first retaining member, and said second base member is detachably connected to said second base member.
13. The skin defect closing device according to claim 1, wherein said means for engaging is detachably connected to said means for approximating.
14. The skin defect closing device according to claim 1, wherein said means for engaging comprises a plurality of retaining members, each retaining member exhibiting: a vacuous needle carrier body; and a needle shuttle slidably disposed within said vacuous needle carrier body, said needle shuttle exhibiting a plurality of skin insertion elements protruding from a surface of said needle shuttle.
15. The skin defect closing device according to claim 1, further comprising means for shielding a plurality of skin insertion elements attached to said means for engaging, said means for engaging comprising a base member having a surface from which said plurality of skin insertion elements extend.
16. The skin defect closing device according to claim 15, wherein said means for shielding comprises a flexible substantially planar shield 


having a first end fixed to said base member and a second end exhibiting a flange extending at an acute angle with respect to an upper surface of said shield.
17. The skin defect closing device according to claim 15, wherein said means for shielding comprises a vacuous shield retractably connected to said base member and configured to cover said plurality of skin insertion needles.
18. A skin defect closing apparatus comprising: a plurality of retaining members, each of said retaining members exhibiting: at least two legs, a flange connecting said legs and exhibiting a flange bore located between said legs, a plurality of topical engagement elements, each of said topical engagement elements protruding from a surface of one of said legs; and a contracting mechanism connecting said retaining members and engaging one of said flange bores, said contracting mechanism configured to approximate said retaining members. 


 19. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising a plurality of interdermal needles configured for insertion into the skin along opposing margins of the wound such that portions of said interdermal needle are disposed above the surface of the skin for engagement by said topical engagement elements.
20. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the plurality of interdermal needles are woven through the skin such that said interdermal needles emerge from the skin at least twice so that the engagement members protruding from each leg of the retaining members may engage with the interdermal needles topically.
21. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein each of said retaining members is configured so said legs are in parallel alignment.
22. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein each of said topical engagement elements comprises a loop.
23. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein each of said topical engagement elements comprises a suture.
24. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein each of said topical engagement elements comprises a clip. 


 25. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein each of said topical engagement elements comprises an orifice or recess disposed in the terminal portion of the leg.
26. A skin defect closing apparatus comprising: a plurality of retaining members, each of said retaining members exhibiting: a base member, a flange connected to said base member and exhibiting a flange bore; a plurality of skin insertion elements, each of said skin insertion elements protruding from a surface of said base member; and a contracting mechanism connecting said retaining members and engaging one of said flange bores, said contracting mechanism configured to approximate said retaining members.
27. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said base member further comprises: a base plate having an upper surface connected to a lower surface of said flange; and a needle carrier pivotally connected to said base plate, said needle carrier exhibiting at least two legs, each of said skin insertion elements protruding from a surface of one of said legs. 


 28. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 27, wherein said base member further comprises a pivotal link connecting said base plate to said needle carrier.
29. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said base plate, said needle carrier and said pivotal link comprise a one-piece integral member.
30. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said plurality of retaining members comprise: a first retaining member exhibiting a first base member, said first base member further exhibiting at least a male engaging member protruding from a surface of the first base member; and a second retaining member exhibiting a second base member, said second base member further exhibiting at least a female engaging member protruding from a surface of the second base member, said female engaging member configured to received and retain said male engaging member once said retaining members have been fully approximated.
31. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 30, wherein said first base member further exhibits a female engaging member protruding from a surface of said first base member; and said second base member further exhibits a male engaging member protruding from a surface of said second base member, said female engaging member of said first base member 


configured to receive and retain said male engaging member of said second base member once said retaining members have been fully approximated.
32. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 30, wherein said first base member is detachably connected to a flange of said first retaining member and said second base member is detachably connected to a flange of said second retaining member.
33. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said base member is detachably connected to said flange.
34. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 33, wherein said flange exhibits an engaging stud protruding from a surface of the flange, and said base member exhibits an engaging receptacle formed in a surface of the base member for detachably receiving said engaging stud.
35. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said base member comprises: a vacuous needle carrier body; and a needle shuttle slidably disposed within said vacuous needle carrier body, said plurality of skin insertion elements protruding from a surface of said needle shuttle.
36. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 35, wherein 


said vacuous needle carrier body comprises: at least one adjustment rack disposed along each lateral surface of said vacuous needle carrier body; and at least one slot formed in each said lateral surface of said vacuous needle carrier body.
37. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said needle shuttle comprises: at least one spring flexing pawl, each configured to releasably engage one of said at least one adjustment rack; and at least one adjustment button, each connected to one of said at least one spring flexing pawl and extending through one of said at least one slot in said vacuous needle carrier body, said adjustment button configured to release said at least one spring flexing pawl from engagement with said at least one adjustment rack upon actuation of the adjustment button.
38. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 26, further comprising: a flexible shield attached to each of said plurality of retaining members and configured to shield points of said skin insertion elements.
39. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 38, wherein said flexible shield includes an upper substantially planar member and a lower substantially planar member attached to and extending substantially 



perpendicular from said upper planar member, such that the flexible shield exhibits a substantially L-shaped cross section.
40. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 39, wherein said upper substantially planar member is fixed to said retaining member.
41. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 39, further comprising an integral flange extending from a free end of said lower substantially planar member at an acute angle with respect to an upper surface of said shield, and configured to shield the points of said skin insertion elements.
42. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 39, wherein said lower substantially planar member exhibits a plurality of parallel slots for receiving said skin insertion elements.
43. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said contracting mechanism comprises at least a threaded screw shaft.
44. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 43, wherein one of said retaining members exhibits a pivoting lock having at least a locking threaded element and configured so said locking threaded element engages said screw, when said pivoting lock is in a locked position. 


 45. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 26, further comprising a vacuous pivoting shield connected to said base member and configured to shield said skin insertion elements when in a closed position.
46. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 45, wherein said vacuous pivoting shield comprises: a shield body exhibiting at least a downward sloping anterior surface connected to an upper surface, said upper surface slidably disposed on an upper surface of said base member; an integrally formed spring extending from said upper surface of said shield body; at least one integrally formed pin, each protruding from an interior lateral surface of said shield body and configured to slidably engage a corresponding slot in a lateral surface of said base member; at least one integrally formed tab, each protruding from said interior lateral surface of said shield body and configured to slidably engage a corresponding slide path in said lateral surface of said base member; and at least one finger grip, each disposed on an exterior lateral surface of said shield body.
47. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said contracting mechanism exhibits a clutch configured so a force applied along the margins of the skin defect by said contracting mechanism is limited to a predetermined value. 


 48. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 47, wherein said clutch exhibits a male engaging member and a female engaging member defining a recess configured to receive said male engaging member.
49. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 48, wherein said male engaging member exhibits one radial extending spline, and said female engagement member exhibits a plurality of corresponding radial splines.
50. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 49, wherein a distance between said retaining members defines an axis, said female engaging member configured as an axially stationary engaging member, and said male engaging members configured as an axially movable engaging member.
51. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 50, wherein each of said engaging members exhibits an oblique contact surface.
52. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 50, wherein said clutch further exhibits a biasing element configured so said axially movable engaging member is biased toward said axially stationary engaging member. 


 53. A skin closing apparatus for closing skin defects comprising: at least two retaining members, each of said retaining members exhibiting a plurality of skin insertion elements for insertion into the skin along margins of the skin defect; a contracting mechanism connecting said retaining members and exhibiting a clutch configured so a force applied along the margins of the skin defect by said contracting mechanism is limited to a predetermined value.
54. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 53, wherein said contracting mechanism exhibits a plurality of contractor arms in substantially parallel alignment, each of said contractor arms supporting one of said retaining members in a sliding arrangement.
55. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 54, wherein each of said contractor arms exhibits a straight, smooth bar at one end, each of said retaining members further exhibiting a retaining member support bore configured so said contractor arm bar passes through said retaining member support bore.
56. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 54, wherein one of said contractor arms exhibits a contractor arm smooth bore, and another of said contractor arms exhibits a contractor arm screw-threaded bore.
57. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 56, further 


comprising a screw connecting said contractor arms and exhibiting a screw- threaded portion engaging said contractor arm screw-threaded bore.
58. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 56, wherein each of said contractor arms exhibits a plurality of lugs, each of said lugs defining one of said contractor arm bores.
59. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 54, further comprising a cylindrical bar, wherein each of said contractor arms further exhibits an alignment bore; said cylindrical bar extending through said alignment bores.
60. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 53, wherein each of said retaining members exhibits a flange connected to said legs and defining a flange bore exhibiting an axis in substantially parallel alignment with axes of said legs.
61. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 60, wherein one of said flange bores is a threaded flange bore, another of said flange bores is a smooth flange bore, said contracting mechanism comprising at least a screw extending through said flange bores.
62. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 53, wherein said at least two retaining members further comprise two U-shaped retaining 


members, each of said U-shaped retaining members exhibits two legs and a flange connecting said legs.
63. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 53, further comprising a plurality of interdermal needles for engagement by said skin insertion elements.
64. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 63, wherein said plurality of interdermal needles comprises two interdermal needles.
65. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 53, wherein said clutch is a frictional clutch.
66. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 53, wherein said clutch exhibits a male spline and a female spline defining a recess configured to receive said male spline.
67. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 53, wherein a distance between said retaining members defines an axis, said clutch exhibits a plurality of splines, one of said splines configured as an axially stationary spline, another of said splines configured as an axially movable spline.
68. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 67, wherein each of said splines exhibits an oblique contact surface. 


 69. The skin closing apparatus according to claim 53, further comprising a force level indicator connected to said contracting mechanism and for indicating the force applied along the margins of the skin defect.
70. A skin defect closing apparatus comprising: a plurality of retaining members, each of said retaining members exhibiting: at least two legs, a flange connecting said legs and exhibiting a flange bore located between said legs, a plurality of skin insertion elements, each of said skin insertion elements protruding from a surface of one of said legs; and a contracting mechanism connecting said retaining members and engaging one of said flange bores, said contracting mechanism configured to approximate said retaining members.
71. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, wherein each of said retaining members is configured so said legs are in parallel alignment.
72. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, further comprising two interdermal needles, each of said interdermal needles is configured for insertion underneath skin proximal to a margin of a skin defect, each of said skin insertion elements engaging one of said interdermal 


needles.
73. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, wherein said plurality of retaining members comprises two retaining members.
74. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, wherein each of said skin insertion elements is a skin-piercing hook, said plurality of skin-piercing hooks comprising two skin-piercing hooks.
75. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, wherein said contracting mechanism comprises at least a screw.
76. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 75, wherein one of said flange bores is a screw-threaded flange bore, said screw engaging said screw-threaded flange bore.
77. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 75, wherein one of said retaining member flange bores is a smooth bore, said screw exhibits a collar configured to contact said retaining member exhibiting said smooth bore, said screw extending through said smooth bore.
78. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 75, wherein one of said retaining members exhibits a reversible lock having at least a locking threaded element and configured so said locking threaded element 


engages said screw, when said reversible lock is in a locked position.
79. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, wherein said at least two retaining members further comprise two U-shaped retaining members, each of said U-shaped retaining members exhibits two legs and a flange connecting said legs.
80. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, further comprising a plurality of interdermal needles configured so said retaining members engage said interdermal needles, when said contracting mechanism approximates said retaining members.
81. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 80, wherein said plurality of interdermal needles comprises two interdermal needles.
82. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 80, wherein each of said plurality of interdermal needles exhibits a handle and a straight interdermal needle shaft connected to said handle.
83. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 82, wherein said handle exhibits a portion offset from said straight interdermal needle shaft.
84. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, further 


comprising a force level indicator connected to said contracting mechanism and for indicating the force applied along the margins of the skin defect.
85. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 84, wherein said force level indicator exhibits a plurality of numerals, each of said numerals representing a different level of force applied along the margins of the skin defect.
86. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, wherein said contracting mechanism exhibits a clutch configured so a force applied along the margins of the skin defect by said contracting mechanism is limited to a predetermined value.
87. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 86, wherein said clutch is a frictional clutch.
88. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 86, wherein said clutch exhibits a male spline and a female spline defining a recess configured to receive said male spline. 

89. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 86, wherein a distance between said retaining members defines an axis, said clutch exhibits a plurality of splines, one of said splines configured as an axially stationary spline, another of said splines configured as an axially movable spline.
90. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 89, wherein each of said splines exhibits an oblique contact surface.
91. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 89, wherein said clutch further exhibits a biasing element configured so said axially movable spline is biased toward said axially stationary spline.
92. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 70, wherein each of said retaining members exhibits a pivotal base element configured so said base element rotates about a reference position on said retaining member.
93. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 92, wherein each of said retaining members further exhibits a stop for limiting rotational movement of said pivotal base element.
94. The skin defect closing apparatus according to claim 92, wherein said pivotal base element is further configured so said base element rotates 


from about 0° to about ±20° about the reference position on said retaining member.
95. A method of closing a wide skin defect comprising the steps of: locating retaining members about opposing margins of the skin defect; inserting interdermal needles into skin along said opposing margins of the skin defect and into engagement with said retaining members; applying force to a contracting mechanism through a force limiting element to bring one margin of the skin defect toward another margin of the skin defect without exceeding a predetermined force.
96. The method of closing a wide skin defect according to claim 95, wherein the step of inserting the interdermal needle further comprises the steps of: weaving the interdermal needle into the skin, out of the skin, through a first topical engagement element of one of said retaining members, into the skin again, out of the skin and through a second topical engagement element of one of said retaining members into the skin again.
97. The method of closing a wide skin defect according to claim 95, wherein the step of inserting the interdermal needles further comprises the steps of: weaving the interdermal needle into the skin, out of the skin, into the skin again, out of the skin again, and into the skin again; 


 engaging exposed portions of the interdermal needle with a plurality of topical engagement elements extending from a surface of each of said retaining members.
98. The method of closing a wide skin defect according to claim 95, further comprising the steps of: observing skin relaxation as indicated by decreasing values on a force level indicator; and reapplying force to a contracting mechanism so the retaining members engage the interdermal needles and bring one margin of the skin defect toward another margin of the skin defect, when a predetermined force level is indicated on the force level indicator.
99. A method of closing a wide skin defect comprising the steps of: inserting interdermal needles into skin along margins of the skin defect; locating retaining members about the skin defect proximal to the interdermal needles; applying force to a contracting mechanism through a force limiting element so the retaining members engage the interdermal needles and bring one margin of the skin defect toward another margin of the skin defect without exceeding a predetermined force. 


 100. The method of closing a wide skin defect according to claim 99, wherein said step of locating retaining members about the skin defect proximal to the interdermal needles further comprises the step of: piercing skin with skin piercing elements attached to the retaining members so the skin is pierced simultaneously with the step of locating retaining members about the skin defect.
101. The method of closing a wide skin defect according to claim 99, wherein said step of locating retaining members about the skin defect proximal to the interdermal needles further comprises the steps of: piercing skin with skin piercing elements; and locating skin insertion elements attached to the retaining members in pierced skin areas.
102. The method of closing a wide skin defect according to claim 99, further comprising the steps of: observing skin relaxation as indicated by decreasing values on a force level indicator; and reapplying force to a contracting mechanism so the retaining members engage the interdermal needles and bring one margin of the skin defect toward another margin of the skin defect, when a predetermined force level is indicated on the force level indicator. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
