<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653723</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Scan module with shock protection
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K710	G06K710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Optical scanning of barcode symbols is carried out
first in an aim mode wherein the symbol is scanned using

a first scan pattern that is relatively small and dense
so as to be visible to the user, and thereafter using a

second, larger, more robust scan pattern for decoding.
The preferred scanner module has a scanner mirror which

is mounted to a bracket by way of a leaf spring, allowing
the mirror to oscillate in one direction. This is hung

from a stationary chassis by means of two strips of mylar
film, which are themselves protected against mechanical

shock by pins which pass through holes in the bracket.
The pins provide accurate alignment of the bracket with

respect to the chassis.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYMBOL TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYMBOL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIDGELALL RAJ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DVORKIS PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOREN DAVID P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZ JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI YAJUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIDGELALL, RAJ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DVORKIS, PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOREN, DAVID P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZ, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LI, YAJUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to
scanning systems which "read" indicia, such as barcode
symbols.It further relates to a scan module for use in an
optical scanner, for example, a bar code scanner.Various optical readers and scanning systems have
been developed for reading barcode symbols appearing on
a label or the surface of an article. The barcode symbol
itself is a coded pattern of indicia comprised of a
series of bars of various widths spaced apart from one
another to bound spaces of various widths, the bars and
spaces having different light-reflecting characteristics.
The readers and scanning systems electro-optically
transform the graphic indicia into electrical signals,
which are decoded into alpha-numerical characters
intended to be descriptive of the article or some
characteristic of it. Such characters typically are
represented in digital form, and utilized as an input to
a data processing system for applications in point-of-sale
processing, inventory control and the like. 
Scanning systems of this general type have been
disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,251,798;
4,360,798; 4,369,361; 4,387,297; 4,409,470 and 4,460,120,
all assigned to the assignee of the present invention.One embodiment of such a scanning system, as
disclosed in some of the above patents, resides in, inter
alia, a hand-held, portable laser scanning head supported
by a user. The scanning head is configured to enable the
user to aim the head at a target to emit a light beam
toward a symbol to be read. The light source is a laser
scanner typically in the form of a gas or semiconductor
laser element. Use of semiconductor devices as the light
source in scanning systems is particularly desirable
because of the small size, low cost and low power
requirements of semiconductor lasers. The laser beam is
optically modified, typically by a lens, to form a beam
spot of a certain size at the target distance.
Preferably, the beam spot size at the target distance is
approximately the same as the minimum width between
regions of different light reflectivity, i.e., the bars
and spaces of the symbol. A one-dimensional single-line scan, as ordinarily
provided by hand-held readers, functions by repetitively
scanning the light beam in a line or series of lines
across the symbol using a scanning component such as a
mirror -disposed in the light path. The scanning
component may either sweep the beam spot across the
symbol and trace a scan line across and past the symbol,
or scan the field in view of the scanner, or do both.Scanning
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A scan module for use in a scanner for reading
indicia having parts of differing light reflectivity, the

scan module comprising:

a) a framed (10);
b) a scanning component (12) mounted to the frame for
oscillatory motion, the scanning component

including an optical element (180) for directing
light in a scanning pattern across an indicia

to be read, the scanning component having an
aperture (68) therein; and
c) an anti-shock member (56, 58), 
characterized in that
 said anti-shock member passes through the
aperture in the scanning component, the anti-shock

member being smaller in cross section
than the size of the aperture, thereby

providing clearance for the scanning component
to oscillate in use, but preventing excessive

movement of the scanning component with respect
to the frame in the event that the module is

subjected to a mechanical shock.
A scan module as defined in claim 1 wherein the anti-shock member (56, 58) is
a pin having a first head portion (60), a second head portion (64),

and a waist portion (62) having a smaller cross section than
the first and second head portions, the waist portion

being located within the aperture (68) during normal operation
of the scan module.
A scan module as defined in claim 2 wherein the first head portion (60)
carries an external screw thread which is arranged to be

screwed in to a bore (66) in the frame.
A scan module as defined in claim 2 wherein the second head portion (64) is
arranged to be received within a correspondingly-sized 

bore (70) within the frame.
A scan module as defined in claim 2 wherein the cross sectional size
and shape of the second head portion (64) corresponds with the

size and shape of the aperture (68).
A scan module as defined in claim 5 wherein the second head portion (64)
is of such a length that the pin may be positioned with

the second head portion contained within the aperture and
extending from the aperture in to a correspondingly-sized

bore within the frame, thereby locating the scanning
component with respect to the frame.
A scan module as defined in claim 3 wherein the first head portion (60) is
substantially flush with the frame when the pin is in a

position for normal operation of the scan module.
A scan module as defined in claim 2 wherein the pin (56, 58) extends across a
cut out portion (54) of the frame, the aperture (68) being in a

portion of the scanning component which extends into the
said cut out portion.
A scan module as defined in claim 8 wherein the said portion of the
scanning component comprises a hanging bracket (34, 36).
A scan module as defined in claim 1 wherein the aperture (68) is in a
portion of the scanning component comprising a hanging

bracket (34, 36). 
A scan module as defined in claim 9 or 10 wherein the hanging bracket (34, 36) is
supported from the frame by a flexure member (38).
A scan module as defined in claim 11 wherein the flexure member (38)
comprises a polyester material film.
A scan module as defined in claim 1 wherein the scanning component (12) is
supported from the frame (10) by a flexure member (38), the

scanning component (12) further including counterweight means (30, 32)
balan
cing the mass of the optical element (180) at the flexure
member (38).
A scan module as defined in claim 13 further including an
electromagnetic coil (172) mounted to the frame (10), the

counterweight means (30, 32) at least partially overlying the
coil (172).
A scan module as defined in claim 1 wherein the scanning component (12) is
supported from the frame (10) by a flexure member (38), and the

optical element (180) is supported from the scanning component
by a further flexure member (178), the flexure member (38) and the

further flexure member (178) being arranged to flex in mutually
perpendicular directions.
A scan module as defined in claim 1 including first and second anti-shock
members (56, 58), the first anti-shock member (56) being adjacent

a first side of the frame, and the second anti-shock
member (58) being adjacent a second side of the frame.
A scan module as defined in claim 1 wherein the anti-shock member (56, 58) has
a longitudinal axis, the movement of the scanning

component at the aperture (68), during oscillation, being
substantially parallel to said longitudinal axis. 
A scan module as defined in claim 1 wherein the anti-shock member (56, 58)
comprises a pin.
A method of assembling a scan module for use in a
scanner for reading indicia having parts of differing

reflectivity, the scan module comprising: a frame (10); a
scanning component (12) to be mounted to the frame for

oscillatory motion, the scanning component including an
optical element (180) for directing light in a scanning pattern

across an indicia to be read, the scanning component
having an aperture (68) therein; and an anti-shock pin (56, 58) having

a first head portion (60), a second head portion (64) and a waist
portion (62) having a smaller cross section than the first and

second head portions; the method comprising:

a) positioning the scanning component (12) adjacent to
the frame (10);
b) partially inserting the pin (56, 58) into the frame so
that the second head portion (64) passes through the

aperture (68) and extends from the aperture in to a
correspondingly-shaped bore (70) in the frame,

thereby aligning the scanning component with
respect to the frame;
c) securing the scanning component (12) to the frame (10);
d) continuing insertion of the pin (56, 58) into the frame
so that the waist portion (62) of the pin becomes

located within the aperture (68), thereby providing
clearance for the scanning component to

oscillate in use, but preventing excessive
movement of the scanning component with respect

to the frame in the event that the module is
subjected to a mechanical shock.
A method as defined in claim 19 wherein the first head portion (60) of the
pin is threaded, and is received within a corresponding 

threaded bore (66) within the frame.
A method as defined in claim 20 wherein the final location of the
pin (56, 58), for normal operation of the scan module, is defined

by a position in which the first head portion (60) of the pin
lies flush with the frame.
A scan module as defined in any of claims 1 et 18, for use in a scanner for reading
indicia having parts of differing light reflectivity,


wherein said scanning component (12) comprises a main bracket (26)
mounted to the frame by flexible support means (38)

for oscillatory motion, the main bracket (26) carrying said
optical element for directing light in a

scanning pattern across an indicia to be read, the main the bracket (26) having said aperture (68) therein;

the scan module further comprising :
d) an electromagnetic coil (172) mounted to the frame;
e) magnet means (174) secured to the main bracket (26) adjacent
the coil (172);

and
f) the main bracket (26) further including a counterweight
portion (30, 32) balancing the mass of the optical

element (180) at the flexible support means (38), the
counterweight portion (30, 32) at least partially

overlying the coil (172).
A scan module as defined in claim 22 wherein the frame (10) comprises a
first side portion (18), a second side portion (20), and a rear

portion (16) connecting the first and second side portions,
the electromagnetic coil (172) being mounted between the side

portions (18, 20).
A scan module as defined in claim 23 including an optical collector
element (184) mounted to the first side portion (18). 
A scan module as defined in claim 23 including a photodetector unit (186)
mounted to the second side portion(20).
A scan module as defined in claim 23 wherein the first and second
side portions (18, 20) have respective cut out portions (54), within which are

received respective hanging brackets (34, 36) of the main bracket (26).
A scan module as defined in claim 26 wherein the hanging brackets (34, 36) are
mounted to the frame by respective flexure members (38).
A scan module as defined in claim 27 wherein the flexure members (38) are
polyester material films.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
