<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652672</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image-dependent sharpness enhancement
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N156	H04N146	H04N158	G06T520	G06T520	H04N146	H04N1409	H04N1409	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	G06T5	G06T5	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of altering the sharpness in the reproduction of an electronically encoded 
natural scene image, including process steps of: a) converting (12) the signals to a luminance-chrominance 

signal format, wherein at least one signal represents overall image intensity; b) 
determining (14) the maximum local contrast within the image; c) determining (14) a filter 

function applicable to the image which increases maximum local contrast to a predetermined 
target value, and all other contrast to an amount proportional thereto; and d) applying (16,19) 

the determined filter function to the image to increase sharpness thereof. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESCHBACH REINER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUSS WILLIAM A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESCHBACH, REINER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FUSS, WILLIAM A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a method and apparatus for improving the
appearance of a digitally encoded image having a pictorial scene, and more particularly,
to a method for improving sharpness within a digitally encoded image having a pictorial
scene.In the past, a typical application for copiers or scan-to-print image processing systems
was to reproduce an input image as accurately as possible, i.e., render a copy. Thus, copies have
been rendered as accurately as possible, flaws and all. However, as customers become more
knowledgeable in their document reproduction requirements, they recognize that an exact
copy is often not what they want. Instead, they would rather obtain the best possible
document output. Until recently, image quality from the output of a copier or a scan-to-print
system was directly related to the input document quality. One very common set of input
documents includes photographs. Unfortunately, photography is an inexact science,
particularly among amateurs, and original photographs are often poor. Alternatively,
technology, age or image degradation variations often result in pictures having an
unsatisfactory and undesirable appearance. What is desired then, is a copy giving the best
possible picture, and not necessarily a copy of the original.Photography has long dealt with this issue. Analog filters and illumination variations
can improve the appearance of pictures in the analog photographic process. Thus, for
example, yellow filters enhance the appearance of white clouds against a blue sky in black and
white images. Further, various electrophotographic devices, including digital copiers, can clean
up and improve images by adjustment of threshold, filtering, or background suppression.
Generally, these methods are manual methods which a user must select on an image by image
basis. Unfortunately, the casual user is not skilled enough to perform these operations. The
inability to perform image enhancement operations is exacerbated when additionally dealing
with color controls.Three possible choices are presented by the art in the area of image enhancement. In
the first case, we can do nothing. Such a system is a stable system, in that it does no harm to an
image, but its output documents are sometimes not satisfactory to the ultimate customer. This
is a common approach taken to reproduction.In a second case of image enhancement, the image can always be processed. It turns
out than an improvement can usually be made to an image if certain assumptions are made
that are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for altering the sharpness in the
reproduction of an electronically encoded natural scene

image, comprising:

a) an electronic signal input suitable for receiving an
electronically encoded natural scene image, where the

encoding is in terms of k-bit colour density signals;
b) a colour space convertor (12) for converting the
colour density signals to a format wherein at least one

signal represents image intensity and is defined for L
levels of intensity;

characterized by:
c) a comparison means (204; 304) for dividing said image into a plurality
of discrete areas and, for each of said discrete areas, for comparing the

intensity signals in at least a predetermined local area of
the image, differences in intensity signals representing

image sharpness, and wherein the comparison means
generates the maximum

sharpness of the local area as a sharpness signal; and,
d) a sharpness filter (208;308) which operates on one of
the converted colour density signals or on the converted

colour density encoded image signals, to sharpen the image in accordance
with the sharpness signal.
Apparatus according to claim 1, the apparatus further
comprising an encoding means for encoding the image prior

to output.
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
comparison means (204;304) comprises a first comparator

(252;352) which compares the intensity signals and
generates a number of signals representing a number of

sharpnesses of the image, and a second comparator (256;356)
which compares the number of signals and generates a

maximum signal representing the maximum sharpness of the
local area.
Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the maximum
signal is the sharpness signal.
Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the comparison
means (204;304) further includes a modifier (206;306), 

wherein the modifier utilises a number of sharpness measurements
to generate the sharpness signal.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the output of the sharpness filter (208;308) is used in reducing

the number of bits in each image separation.
Apparatus according to any of the preceding claims,
the apparatus further comprising a sharpness coefficient

processor (207) which uses the sharpness signal to
calculate filter coefficients, and wherein the sharpness

filter operates in accordance with the filter coefficients.
Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the sharpness
coefficient processor (207) further uses an externally

applied target sharpness signal to calculate the filter
coefficients such that a given sharpness is transformed

into a target sharpness.
Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 6, the
apparatus further comprising a look-up table (360), which

utilises the sharpness signal to retrieve filter operation
control information mapped thereto.
Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said sharpness
filter includes an edge enhancing error diffusion circuit

(308) which compares the colour density signals to a threshold,
said threshold being set for each pixel as a function of an

enhancement signal retrieved from the look-up table (360)
mapping enhancement values to local area sharpness values,

said circuit providing an output of m-bit colour density
signals, where M
<
k.
A method of altering the sharpness in the reproduction
of an electronically encoded natural scene image,

comprising the steps of:

a) receiving an electronically encoded natural scene
image, where the encoding is in terms of k-bit colour

density signals;
b) converting the colour density signals to a format
wherein at least one signal represents image intensity and

is defined for L levels of intensity;

characterized by: 
c) dividing said image into a plurality of discrete areas and, for each of said discrete areas,

comparing the intensity signals in at least a
predetermined local area of the image, differences in

intensity signals representing image sharpness,
and generating the maximum sharpness of the local area as

a sharpness signal; and,
d) filtering one of the converted colour density signals or
the converted colour density encoded image signals, to sharpen the

image the filtering being carried out in accordance with
the sharpness signal.
A method according to claim 11, the method further
comprising the step of:


e) encoding the image prior to output.
A method according to claim 11 or claim 12, wherein
step c) comprises the sub-steps of:


c1) comparing the intensity signals and generating a
number of signals representing a number of sharpnesses of

the image; and,
c2) comparing the number of signals and generating a
maximum signal representing the maximum sharpness of the

local area.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the maximum
signal is the sharpness signal.
A method according to claim 13, wherein step c2)
further comprises using a number of sharpness measurements

to generate the sharpness signal.
A method according to any of claims 11 to 15, wherein
the output of the filtering step is used in reducing the number of bits

in each image separation.
A method according to any of claims 11 to 16, wherein
the method further comprises using the sharpness signal to

calculate filter coefficients, the filtering step being
carried out in accordance with the filter coefficients.
A method according to claim 17, wherein an target
sharpness is used to calculate the filter coefficients such

that a given sharpness is transformed into the target
sharpness. 
A method according to any of claims 11 to 16, wherein
the sharpness signal is used to access a look-up table

(360), to determine filter operation control information
mapped thereto.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
