<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650593</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR DETECTING ATOMIC OR MOLECULAR SPECTRA OF A SUBSTANCE, AND/OR THRESHOLD PHENOMENA ASSOCIATED WITH THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B1108	G11B900	H01J3720	G11B1100	G11B900	G12B2106	G12B2100	G11B1100	H01J3720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	H01J	G11B	G11B	G12B	G12B	G11B	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B11	G11B9	H01J37	G11B11	G11B9	G12B21	G12B21	G11B11	H01J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A microwave sweep oscillator or other signal source is used to apply a time varying signal to a scanning tunneling microscope and the current or voltage passing through a sample between the electrodes or the signal coupled by an electrode and reflected from the sample is measured by a microwave spectrum/network analyzer. The frequency of the signal applied by the oscillator may be swept across a spectrum and the optimum frequency of the spectrum is determined so that an improved image of the surface of a sample may be obtained. The spectrum of a known substance may also be recorded and used as a signature for identifying components of an unknown substance by comparison. When applied to electrochemical cells, dynamic information of the electrochemical cell can be measured. When applied to a Coulomb blockade device, charging thresholds and charge dissipation rates can be measured. Using multiple input frequencies, multiple substances may be monitored simultaneously. When applied to an array of Coulomb blockade devices used as a current standard, accuracy of the standard can be tested and the signal-to-noise ratio can be improved in the measurements, or the threshold of the devices can be detected.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOTECHNOLOGY RES 
&
 DEV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PENN STATE RES FOUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PENN STATE RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRANICK STEPHAN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISS PAUL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRANICK, STEPHAN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEISS, PAUL, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a system for
detecting the threshold and spectra of substances at the
atomic or molecular level. The threshold and spectra of
substances at the atomic or molecular level may be
detected by detecting either the current through or
voltage across the substances or reflection of an
electrical signal from the substances such as bulk
electrical insulators or other materials. Multiple
sources and detection frequencies are proposed for use
in detecting threshold phenomena associated with and/or
atomic or molecular spectra of one or more substances.With the advent of instruments such as the
scanning tunneling microscope (STM), it is now possible
to investigate the structure, spectra and dynamics of
biological molecules and membranes as well as other
substances at the atomic or molecular level. While more
than a thousand STM's have been in operation and the
instrument has sparked great interest in spectroscopy,
the actual headway that has been made in this area
remains rather modest. Thus, Bob Wilson and co-workers
at IBM Almaden have made some progress in distinguishing
closely related adsorbed surface species in STM images.
G. Meijer et al., Nature 348, 621 (1990). In "NonLinear
Alternating-Current Tunneling Microscopy,"
Kochanski, Physical Review Letters, 62:19, pp. 2285-2288
(May 1989), a method for scanning tunneling microscopy
is described, where a non-linear alternating current 
(AC) technique is used that allows stable control of a
microscope tip above insulating surfaces where direct
current (DC) tunneling is not possible.The STM has a counter electrode on which the
sample to be investigated is placed and another
electrode in the shape of a microscope probe with a tip
placed at a small distance away from the sample surface.
A DC or a low frequency AC signal is then applied across
the pair of electrodes. The probe tip is then moved
across the sample surface in a scanning operation and
the changes in the current or voltage across the
electrodes are monitored to detect the characteristics
of the sample.The distance between the probe tip and the
counter electrode/sample is controlled by a
piezoelectric, driver in one of two possible modes: a
constant current mode and a constant height mode. The
current or voltage detected between the pair of
electrodes is used to derive a control signal for
controlling the piezoelectric driver in the constant
current mode to change the distance between the probe
tip and the sample so as to maintain a constant current
between the electrodes. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A detection apparatus (20) for detecting a change in amplitude of a current or
voltage transmitted through, or reflected from, a substance (26), said change being

related to threshold phenomena associated with the substance and/or atomic or
molecular spectra of the substance, the apparatus comprising:


a source (21) for providing a time varying electrical signal;
at least one electrode (22, 22a) for coupling said signal to a substance; and
a device (30) connected to the at least one electrode for measuring the amplitude
of the current or voltage of an electrical signal at the at least one electrode;

said apparatus 
characterised in that
 the electrical signal provided by the source has at
least one frequency in the range of about 1 to 30 GHz, and 
in that
 the device measures
amplitude changes of the current or voltage of the electrical signal at the at least one

electrode substantially simultaneously at two or more frequencies in a predetermined
spectrum of frequencies.
The detection apparatus of claim 1 
characterised in that
 the electrode detects a
reflected electrical signal from the substance in response to said time varying electrical

signal and 
in that
 the device measures amplitude changes of the current or voltage of the
reflected electrical signal.
The apparatus of claim 2, said measuring device measuring the amplitudes of the
reflected signal from the electrode over a predetermined spectrum of frequencies.
The apparatus of claim 3, said measuring device measuring substantially
simultaneously frequencies of the reflected signal over said predetermined spectrum.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said source is a tunable source
for providing said time varying electrical signal at a selected frequency; and wherein 

said electrode is spaced apart from the substance by a gap, said electrode coupling the
time varying electrical signal to the substance across the gap and detecting across said

gap a reflected electrical signal from the substance in response to said input signal.
The apparatus of claims 1 to 2, said source being tunable to any desired
frequency within a predetermined range.
The apparatus of claim 1 to 2, wherein said
substance is undergoing electrochemical changes.
The apparatus of claims 1 or 2, wherein said source is tunable to
provide a signal at different frequencies but of substantially the same amplitude.
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2 wherein said source comprises:

a tunable source for providing said time varying electrical signal at a
selected frequency.
The apparatus of any preceding claim wherein said measuring device is a
spectrum analyser, a network analyser, a lock-in amplifier, a microwave transition

analyser measuring at one frequency and its harmonics, a vector voltmeter, or a power
meter 
with tunable filters.
The apparatus of claims 1 or 2, said electrode having a tip (22a) spaced apart by
vacuum, a gas or fluid from the substance.
The apparatus of claims 11, said apparatus further comprising:

feedback means (152) for deriving an error signal from the current or voltage or of
reflected signal measured by the measuring device and the signal provided by the

source; and 
means (34) for moving the tip to change the distance between
the tip and the substance in response to the error signal in order

to reduce the error signal.
The apparatus of claims 1 or 2, further comprising
means for storing amplitude changes corresponding to atomic or

molecular spectra of a known substance for comparison with
amplitude changes corresponding to atoric or molecalar spectra of

an unknown substance detected by the measuring device to detect the
unknown substance.
The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said electrode
and said measuring device are components of a scanning tunneling

microscope adapted for scanning the substance to obtain an image of
the substance,
The apparatus of claims 1 or 2, wherein said source
provides a DC signal, an AC signal, a signal pulse, a signal

transient, or a combination of two or more thereof.
The apparatus of claims 1 or 2, wherein said
substance is undergoing electrochemical changes, said apparatus

further comprising an electrochemical cell (100) containing the
substance, a reference electrode, and wherein said electrode is the

working electrode of the cell, so that the amplitude changes of the
current or voltage across the working electrode and a reference

electrode of the cell or the amplitude changes of the reflected
signal from the working electrode, measured over said spectrum,

reveal dynamic information concerning the changes.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said substance is
an insulator layer, further comprising a second electrode for

coupling the signal to the substance, and wherein the pair of
electrodes are attached to the layer to form a Coulomb blockade

device (200), said amplitudes across the spectrum measured indicating the 
threshold phenomena and rates of motion of electrical charges in

the device.
The apparatus of claims 1 or 2, said source
providing a time varying electrical signal, said signal including

components of at least two different frequencies, wherein said at
least two frequencies individually or in combination are

characteristic of at least two substances; said at least one
electrode being for coupling the signal to said at least two substances;

and wherein said device substantially simultaneously measures the
amplitude changes of the current or voltage across the substances

at said at least two frequencies or their harmonics, or their sums
and differences or combinations thereof.
The apparatus of claim 18, said source including a
plurality of signal generators (21n) that each provides an electrical

signal with frequencies in a frequency band.
The apparatus of claim 19, said generators each
comprising an oscillator, wherein said source further comprises a

combiner or mixer (302) connecting the oscillators.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein neither of said
at least two frequencies is an integral multiple of the other.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the components of
at least two different frequencies cause a pulse of amplitude

higher than the amplitudes of the components to occur at a
frequency lower than the at least two different frequencies.
The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said substances
are undergoing electrochemical changes, and wherein said source is

such that said pulse alters the electrochemical changes, or is
characteristic of substances at the electrode(s) or rates of the

electrochemical changes. 
The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said substances
include an array of two or more Coulomb blockade devices with

different thresholds, and wherein the source is such that one or
more of the components of said at least two frequencies are

variable over time, so that the relative amplitudes of current or
voltage of the higher harmonics of the difference frequency to the

lower harmonics of the difference frequency measured by the circuit
indicates one or more of the thresholds of the devices.
The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the components
combine or mix to form a signal with spikes of a shape determined

by the sum of the at least two frequencies, said spikes occurring
at a frequency substantially equal to the difference between the at

least two frequencies.
The apparatus of claim 25, said circuit measuring at
the difference frequency of the at least two frequencies to

increase signal/noise ratio.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said substances
include two or more Coulomb blockade devices arranged in series or

in parallel as a current standard, and wherein said source is such
that the two frequencies are different by a small offset, so that

the current or voltage measured by said measuring device at said at
least two frequencies or their harmonics, or their sums and

differences or combinations thereof indicates accuracy of the
standard.
The apparatus of claim 18, said electrode having a
tip spaced apart by vacuum, a gas or fluid from the substance.
The apparatus of claim 28, further comprising:

a feedback circuit (310) for deriving an error signal; and
a controller (34) moving the tip or the substances to change
the distance between the tip and the substances in response to the

error signal in order to reduce the error signal.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said source provides an AC electrical signal,
a DC voltage or current, an AC electrical signal superposed upon a DC voltage or a

signal pulse or transient.
The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said source provides a signal that is a DC
signal, an AC signal, a signal pulse or signal transient or a combination of two or more

thereof.
A method for detecting a change in amplitude of a current or voltage transmitted
through, or reflected from, a substance (26), said change being related to threshold

phenomena associated with the substance and/or atomic or molecular spectra of the
substance, the method comprising:


providing a time varying electrical input signal to at least one electrode (22, 22a) in the
vicinity of the substance; and
measuring amplitude changes of the current or voltage of transmitted or reflected
electrical signal at the at least one electrode;
said method 
characterised in that
 said time varying electrical signal has a frequency in
the range of about 1 to 30 GHz and 
in that
 said amplitude changes are measured
substantially simultaneously at two or more frequencies in a predetermined spectrum of

frequencies.
The method of claim 32 wherein said substance reflects said input signal to
generate a reflected signal;

said method comprising measuring amplitude changes of the reflected signal at the at

least one electrode.
The method of claim 33, wherein said measuring step measures substantially
simultaneously the amplitudes of the reflected signal at the electrode over a

predetermined spectrum of frequencies. 
The method of claims 32 or 33, further comprising
repeating the signal providing step where the signals provided in

the signal providing steps are of different frequencies, and
repeating the measuring step at each of said different frequencies

of the signal.
The method of claims 32 or 33, wherein the amplitude
of the signal provided remains substantially unchanged when the

signal providing step is repeated.
The method of claims 32 or 33, wherein said
substance is undergoing electrochemical changes.
The method of claim 37, further comprising
determining an optimal frequency of the signal for differentiating

different surfaces species or for obtaining images of said
surfaces.
The method of claim 38, wherein said providing step
is performed using a tunable source (21) of microwave AC

signals, said method further comprising tuning the source to the
optimal frequency before said providing step is repeated.
The method of claim 39, further comprising scanning
the substance when said providing step is repeated in a constant

current or constant height mode to obtain an image of the
substance.
The method of claims 32 or 33, wherein the providing
and measuring steps are repeated where the frequency of the

electrical signal provided in the providing steps is varied, in
order to detect rates of motion of charges in the substance. 
The method of claim 32 or 33, wherein the frequency
of the electrical signal provided in the providing steps is

continually reduced, said method further comprising comparing the
amplitudes of high harmonics and those of low harmonics measured in

the measuring step, when the frequency of the signal provided in
the providing step is continually reduced.
The method of claims 32 or 33, further comprising
repeating the signal providing step where the signals provided in

the signal providing steps are of substantially the same frequency
but different amplitudes, and repeating the measuring step at each

of said different amplitudes of the signal.
The method of claim 43, wherein the signal providing
step is repeated so that the amplitude of the signal is varied for

each providing step compared to the previous providing step, said
method further comprising detecting a sudden change in current or

voltage at a selected frequency at the electrode when the
amplitudes of the signal are varied to detect a threshold of the

substance.
The method of claim 43, wherein the amplitude of the
signal provided in the providing step is continually increased,

said method further comprising comparing the amplitudes of high
harmonics and those of low harmonics measured by the measuring

step, when the amplitude of the signal provided in the providing
step is continually increased.
The method of claims 32 or 33, wherein said
providing step provides a DC signal, an AC signal, a signal pulse,

a signal transient, or a combination of two or more thereof.
The method of claim 33, wherein said electrode has
a tip (22a) and is a component of a scanning tunneling microscope adapted

for scanning the substance to obtain an image of the substance,
wherein said scanning step is performed by causing the tip of the 

electrode to scan the substance when said providing step is
repeated.
The method of claims 32 or 33, said providing step
providing a time varying electrical signal, said signal including

components of at least two different frequencies, wherein said at
least two frequencies individually or in combination are

characteristic of said at least two substances; wherein said at
least one electrode couples the signal to at least two substances;

and wherein said measuring substantially simultaneously measures
the amplitudes of the current or voltage at the substances at said

at least two frequencies or their harmonics, or their sums and
differences or combinations thereof to detect the at least two

substances.
The method of claim 48, wherein neither of said at
least two frequencies provided by the providing step is an integral

multiple of the other.
The method of claim 48, wherein the components at
least two different frequencies provided by the providing step

cause a pulse of amplitude higher than the amplitudes of the
components to occur at a frequency lower than the at least two

different frequencies.
The method of claim 50, wherein said substances are
undergoing electrochemical changes, and wherein the providing step

is such that said pulse alters the electrochemical changes, or is
characteristic of substances at the electrode or rates of the

electrochemical changes.
The method of claim 50, wherein said substances
include an array of two or more Coulomb blockade devices (200) with

different thresholds, and wherein said providing step is such that
one or more of the components of said at least two frequencies are

variable over time, so that measuring the relative amplitudes of 
current or voltage of the higher harmonics of the difference

frequency to the lower harmonics of the difference frequency
indicates one or more of the thresholds of the devices.
The method of claim 48, wherein the providing step
combines or mixes the components.
The method of claim 53, said providing step forming
a signal with spikes of a shape determined by the sum of the at

least two frequencies, said spikes occurring at a frequency
substantially equal to the difference between the at least two

frequencies.
The method of claim 54, said measuring step
measuring at the difference between the at least two frequencies to

increase signal/noise ratio.
The method of claim 48, wherein said substances
include two or more Coulomb blockade devices (200) arranged in series or

parallel as a current standard, and wherein said providing step
provides components at two frequencies that are different by a

small offset, so that the current or voltage measured by said
measuring step at said at least two frequencies or their harmonics,

or their sums and differences or the harmonics thereof indicates
accuracy of the standard.
The method of claim 48, said method employing an
electrode having a tip (22a), said providing step including supplying

said time varying signal to said electrode and moving the tip of
the electrode to a location in contact with or close to the

substances.
The method of claim 57, said method further
comprising:


feeding back an error signal; and 
moving the tip or the substances to change the distance between the tip and the
substances in response to the error signal in order to reduce the error signal.
The method of claim 48, wherein said providing step provides a signal that is a
DC signal, and AC signal, a signal pulse or signal transient or a c
ombination of two or
more thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
