<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0990042</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REGULATORY SEQUENCES INVOLVED IN HYPOXIA REGULATED GENE EXPRESSION AND USES THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K14435	C07K1452	C12N1585	C12N1585	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Described are recombinant DNA molecules comprising regulatory sequence(s) of the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) gene or of a gene homologous to the VEGF gene, being capable of modulating hypoxia inducible expression of a heterologous DNA sequence in vivo. Vectors comprising said recombinant DNA molecules are provided. Also provided are pharmaceutical and diagnostic compositions comprising such recombinant DNA molecules and vectors. Furthermore, cells and transgenic non-human animals, comprising the aforementioned recombinant DNA molecules or vectors stably integrated into their genome and their use for the identification of substances capable of suppressing or activating transcription of a hypoxia inducible gene are described. Described is furthermore the use of the before described recombinant DNA molecules and vectors for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions for treating, preventing, and/or delaying a vascular or tumorous disease in a subject. Furthermore, uses of the recombinant DNA molecules and vectors of the invention for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions for inducing a vascular or tumorous disease in a non-human animal are provided. In addition, methods for identifying agonists/activators or antagonists/inhibitors of genes or gene products involved in hypoxia and/or ischemia, compounds identifiable by said method, antibodies directed to said compounds as well as to pharmaceutical and diagnostic compositions comprising said agonists/activators, antagonists/inhibitors and/or antibodies are described. Such compositions may be useful for the treatment or prevention or for diagnosing of vascular diseases.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAX PLANCK GESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAX-PLANCK-GESELLSCHAFT ZUR FOERDERUNG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMERT ANNETTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLATE KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RISAU WERNER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMERT, ANNETTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLATE, KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RISAU, BARBARA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Regulatory sequences involved in hypoxia regulated gene expression and uses thereofThe present invention relates to recombinant DNA molecules comprising regulatory sequence(s) of the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) gene or of a gene homologous to the VEGF gene, being capable of modulating hypoxia inducible expression of a heterologous DNA sequence in vivo. The present invention also provides vectors comprising said recombinant DNA molecules. The present invention additionally relates to pharmaceutical and diagnostic compositions comprising such recombinant DNA molecules and vectors. Furthermore, the present invention relates to cells and transgenic non-human animals, comprising the aforementioned recombinant DNA molecules or vectors stably integrated into their genome and their use for the identification of substances capable of suppressing or activating transcription of a hypoxia inducible gene. The present invention also relates to the use of the before described recombinant DNA molecules and vectors for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions for treating, preventing, and/or delaying a vascular or tumorous disease in a subject. Furthermore, the recombinant DNA molecules and vectors of the invention can be used for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions for inducing a vascular or tumorous disease in a non- human animal. In addition, the present invention relates to a method for identifying agonists/activators or antagonists/inhibitors of genes or gene products involved in hypoxia and/or ischemia, to compounds identifiable by said method, to antibodies directed to said compounds as well as to pharmaceutical and diagnostic compositions comprising said agonists/activators, antagonists/inhibitors and/or antibodies. Such compositions may be useful for the treatment or prevention or for diagnosing of vascular diseases. 

In the field of neuroscience and medical therapy, there is a great demand for test systems to study the function and interaction of gene products, the malfunction or expression of which cause vascular and/or tumorous diseases. Such systems would also be suitable for drug development against such diseases. A prominent example for such diseases are diseases which develop from cells in tissues that are faced with low oxygen tension under certain physiological (embryogenesis) as well as pathological (tumor growth, wound healing) conditions. The compensatory mechanisms that enable these cells to survive hypoxic conditions involve activation and repression of certain
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A recombinant DNA molecule comprising:
(a) a first regulatory sequence of a promoter active in mammalian cells;
(b) operatively linked thereto a heterologous DNA sequence; and
(c) operatively linked thereto a second regulatory sequence derived from the 3'-untranslated region of the Vascular Endothelial Growth factor (VEGF) gene or of a gene homologous to the VEGF gene being capable of regulating hypoxia inducible expression in vivo.
2. The recombinant DNA molecule of claim 1 , wherein said second regulatory sequence is selected from the group consisting of
(a) DNA sequences comprising a nucleotide sequence as given in SEQ ID NO. 1 ;
(b) DNA sequences comprising the nucleotide sequence of the 3'-untranslated region from the human or rat VEGF gene;
(c) DNA sequences comprising a nucleotide sequence which hybridizes with a nucleotide sequence of (a) or (b) under stringent conditions and which is capable of regulating hypoxia induced expression in vivo;
(d) DNA sequences comprising a nucleotide sequence which is conserved in the nucleotide sequences of (a) and (b); and
(e) DNA sequences comprising a fragment, analogue or derivative of a nucleotide sequence of any one of (a) to (d) capable of regulating hypoxia inducible expression in vivo.
3. The recombinant DNA molecule of claim 1 or 2, wherein said first regulatory sequence comprises an AP-1 binding site, an SP1 binding site, a Hypoxia inducible Factor (HIF) 1 binding site or any combination(s) thereof.
4. The recombinant DNA molecule of claim 3, wherein said first regulatory sequence comprises an AP-1 and an HIF1 binding site.
5. The recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said first regulatory sequence is derived from a promoter of hypoxia inducible genes, genes encoding growth factors or its receptors or glycolytic enzymes.
6. The recombinant DNA molecule of claim 5, wherein said growth factor is VEGF, PDGF or Fibroblast growth factor. 

7. The recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said first regulatory sequence comprises a minimal promoter.
8. The recombinant DNA molecule of claim 7, wherein said minimal promoter is derived from SV40.
9. The recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said first regulatory sequence comprises a DNA sequence selected from the group consisting of
(a) DNA sequences comprising the nucleotide sequence as given in SEQ ID NO. 2; preferably from nucleotide 1 to nucleotide 280;
(b) DNA sequences comprising the nucleotide sequence of the human VEGF promoter;
(c) DNA sequences comprising a nucleotide sequence which hybridizes with a nucleotide sequence of (a) or (b) under stringent conditions and wich is capable of regulating hypoxia induced expression in vivo;
(d) DNA sequences comprising a nucleotide sequence which is conserved in the nucleotide sequences of (a) and (b); and
(e) DNA sequences comprising a fragment, analogue or derivative of a nucleotide sequence of any one of (a) to (d) capable of regulating hypoxia inducible gene expression.
10. The recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein said heterologous DNA sequence encodes a peptide, protein, antisense RNA, sense RNA and/or ribozyme.
1 1. The recombinant DNA molecule of claim 10, wherein said protein is selected from the group consisting of VEGF, Hypoxia Inducible Factors (HIF), HIF- Related Factor (HRF), tissue plasminogen activator, p21 cell cycle inhibitor, nitric oxide synthase, interferon-γ, atrial natriuretic polypeptide, p53, proteins encoded by apoptosis inducing genes of the bcl2 family and monocyte chemotactic proteins.
12. The recombinant DNA molecule of claim 10, wherein said protein is a scorable marker, preferably luciferase, green fluorescent protein or lacZ.
13. The recombinant DNA molecule of claim 10, wherein said antisense RNA or said ribozyme are directed against a gene involved in vasculogenesis and/or angiogenesis and/or tumors. 

14. A nucleic acid molecule of at least 15 nucleotides in length hybridizing specifically with the second regulatory sequence of the recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13.
15. A vector comprising a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13.
16. The vector of claim 15, which is an expression vector and/or a targeting vector.
17. A cell transformed with a DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13 or the vector of claim 15 or 16.
18. The cell of claim 17, which is a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell, preferably a glioma cell, primary cell, tumor cell, spheroid cell, aggregate cell, stem cell or a differentiated cell.
19. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13, the vector of claim 15 or 16 and/or the nucleic acid molecule of claim 16 and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
20. A diagnostic composition comprising a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13, the vector of claim 15 or 16 and/or the nucleic acid molecule of claim 14, and optionally suitable means for detection.
21. A method for the production of a transgenic non-human animal, preferably mouse comprising introduction of the recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13 or the vector of claims 15 or 16 into a germ cell, embryonic cell or an egg cell or a cell derived therefrom.
22. A transgenic non-human animal comprising stably integrated into its genome a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13 and/or the vector of claim 15 or 16 or obtained by the method of claim 21.
23. A method for the identification of an agonist/activator and antagonist/inhibitor of genes or gene products involved in hypoxia and/or ischemia comprising the steps of:
(a) providing an animal or human cell, or tissue or a non-human animal comprising a recombinant DNA molecule comprising a readout system operatively linked to at least one regulatory sequence capable of mediating 


 or regulating hypoxia and/or ischemia inducible expression of said readout system, wherein said regulatory sequence is preferably the first and/or second regulatory sequence as defined in any one of claims 1 to 9;
(b) culturing said animal or human cell, or tissue or non-human animal in the presence of a sample comprising a plurality of compounds under conditions which permit inducible expression of said readout system;
(c) identifying a sample and compound, respectively, which leads to suppression or activation and/or enhancement of expression of said readout system in said animal or human cell, or tissue or non-human animal.
24. The method of claim 23 further comprising the step of
(d) identifying and/or isolating from the identified sample the compound responsible for said suppression or activation and/or enhancement of expression of said readout system in said animal or human cell, or tissue, or non-human animal.
25. The method of claim 23 or 24 further comprising the step of
(e) determining whether said sample or compound mimics or suppresses the cellular effects of hypoxia.
26. A method for the production of a pharmaceutical composition comprising the steps of the method of any one of claims 23 to 25 and a step of formulating the compound identified in step (c), (d) or (e) in a pharmaceutically acceptable form.
27. The method of any one of claims 23 to 26, wherein said recombinant DNA molecule is a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13 or a vector of claim 16 or 17.
28. The method of any one of claims 23 to 27, wherein said cell is a cell of claim 17 or 18.
29. The method of any one of claims 23 to 28, wherein said non-human animal is a transgenic non-human animal of claim 22.
30. The method of any one of claims 23 to 29, wherein said DNA molecule is introduced into the genome by transfection, transformation, electroporation, infection or particle bombardment. 

31. The method of any one of claims 23 to 30, wherein induction of hypoxia is performed by modulation of 0
2
 concentration, or conferred by a compound capable of mimicking effects of hypoxia, preferably cobaltous chloride, desferrioxamine, glucose and nutrient deprivation.
32. The method of claim 31 , wherein said compound which is capable of inducing mimicking effects of hypoxia is a hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) or an HIF- related-factor (HRF) or a nucleic acid molecule encoding either of said factors operatively linked to regulatory elements allowing expression of said nucleic acid molecules in said mammalian cell.
33. A compound obtained or identified by the method of any one of claims 23 to 32, which is an agonist/activator of hypoxia inducible gene expression and/or function.
34. A compound obtained or identified by the method of any one of claims 23 to 32, which is an antagonist/inhibitor of hypoxia inducible gene expression and/or function.
35. An antibody specifically recognizing the compound of claim 33 or 34.
36. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the agonist/activator of claim 33, the antagonist/inhibitor of claim 34 and/or the antibody of claim 35, and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
37. A diagnostic composition comprising the agonist activator of claim 33, the antagonist/inhibitor of claim 34 and/or the antibody of claim 35, and optionally suitable means for detection.
38. Use of a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13, the vector of claim 15 or 16, the cell of claim 17 or 18, the pharmaceutical composition of claim 20, the diagnostic composition of claim 21 and/or the transgenic non- human animal of claim 22 for the identification of a chemical and/or biological compound capable of suppressing or activating and/or enhancing the transcription, expression and/or activity of hypoxia regulated genes and/or its expression products. 

39. The method of any one of claims 23 to 32 or the use of claim 38, wherein the chemical and/or biological compound is selected from the group consisting of peptides, proteins, nucleic acids, antibodies, small organic compounds, hormones, neurotransmitters, peptidomimics and PNAs.
40. A method of inhibiting a vascular disease in a subject, comprising contacting an artery of said subject with the vector of claim 15 or 16, wherein said protein reduces or prevents the development of the vascular disease.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein said protein reduces or induces proliferation of vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells.
42. Use of a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13, the vector of claim 15 or 16, the nucleic acid molecule of claim 14, the compound of claim 33 or 34 and/or the antibody of claim 35 for the preparation of a composition for directing or preventing expression of genes specifically during or after hypoxia induction.
43. Use of a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13, the vector of claim 15 or 16, the nucleic acid molecule of claim 14, the compound of claim 33 or 34 and/or the antibody of claim 35 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for treating, preventing and/or delaying a vascular disease, cardiac infarct or stroke, for ischemic preconditioning of organs and/or tissues, for enhancing angiogenesis, arteriogenesis, collateral growth of arteries and/or ischemic tolerance or for the stimulation of hypoxia function, and/or for treating, preventing and/or delaying a tumorous disease in a subject.
44. Use of a recombinant DNA molecule of any one of claims 1 to 13, the vector of claim 15 or 16, the nucleic acid molecule of claim 14, the compound of claim 33 or 34 and/or the antibody of claim 35 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for inducing a vascular disease in a non-human animal or in the transgenic non-human animal of claim 22.
45. The use of claim 43, wherein said vascular disease is selected from the group consisting of arteriosclerosis, coronary artery diseases, cerebral occlusive diseases, peripheral occlusive diseases, visceral occlusive diseases, renal artery diseases, mesenterial arterial insufficiency, opthalmic and retinal occlusions, or wherein the tumorous disease is selected from the group 


 consisting of colon carcinoma, sarcoma, carcinoma in breast, carcinoma in the head/neck, mesothelioma, glioblastoma, lymphoma and meningeoma.
46. Use of a second and optionally first regulatory sequence as defined in any one of claims 1 to 9 for regulating gene expression. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
