<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646732</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Core element length adjustment mechanism for control cable
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C110	F16G1100	F16C122	F16G1112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16G	F16C	F16G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C1	F16G11	F16C1	F16G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A motion transmitting remote control cable 
assembly (10) for transmitting motion in a curved path 

comprises a motion transmitting core element (12) having 
first and second segments (14,16) and a tension 

adjusting spring (20) disposed between these segments. 
The assembly also includes an angled flange (24) 

disposed on an end of the second segment (16) angled to 
thread into the spring (20) to enable adjustment to the 

slack length of the core element (12). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFLEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFLEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BYRNES JOHN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BYRNES, JOHN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The subject invention relates to motion 
transmitting remote control cable assemblies of the type 
for transmitting motion in a curved path, and more 
particularly to assemblies for adjusting the length of 
motion transmitting core elements. It is desirable in many remote control 
environments to include a tension adjustment mechanism 
along the length of a motion transmitting core element 
to maintain the tension of the core element. 
US-A-4 428 180 to Carlson teaches the concept 
of placing a helical spring between an end 
of the core element and a control lever pirotally mounted to a mounting plate. The spring fits inside a housing which 
is attached to the control lever. An end of 
the core element extends through the housing and 
through the helical spring. An annular flange or washer 
disposed on this end of the core element abuts the end 
of the spring and prevents the core element from being  
 
pulled through the spring. The flange thus retains the 
core element to the control lever. It would be desirable in a number of 
circumstances to provide adjustment in the manner in 
which the two elements attach in order to 
adjust the overall slack length of the core element. 
US-A-4 696 203 to Gregory teaches a core 
element having such an adjustment, but the adjustment 
mechanism is unnecessarily complex for most purposes. A motion transmitting remote control cable 
assembly for transmitting motion in a curved path 
comprises a motion transmitting core element having 
first and second segments and a tension adjustment 
mechanism disposed between the first and second segments 
of the core element. The tension adjustment mechanism 
comprises a helical spring having a first end and a 
second end, an inner diameter and an outer diameter and 
a plurality of spaced apart helical coils. The spring 
is secured to one end of the first segment generally 
coaxial with the first segment. The tension adjustment 
mechanism also includes a flange disposed on the second 
segment and extending radially away from the second  
 
segment to distal extremities. The 
flange extends across the inner 
and outer diameters with the distal extremities disposed 
in a plane parallel to the helical coils for varying the 
position of the flange along the spring upon relative 
rotation between the spring and the flange to adjust the 
overall length of the core element and for preventing 
the second segment from being pulled axially through the 
spring. Thus, the invention provides a simple and 
inexpensive way to adjust the slack
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A motion transmitting remote control cable 
assembly (10) for transmitting motion in a curved path 

comprising: 

a motion transmitting core element (12) having 
first and second segments (14,16); and 
a tension adjustment mechanism (18) disposed 
between said first and second segments of said core 

element (12) comprising: 
a helical spring (20) having a first end and 
a second end, an inner diameter and an outer diameter 

and a plurality of spaced apart helical coils (22), said 
spring being secured to one end of said first segment 

(14) generally coaxial with said first segment; and 
a flange (24) disposed on said second segment 
(16) and extending radially away from said second 

segment to distal extremities (26); 
said flange (24) extending 
across said inner and outer diameters with said distal 

extremities (26) disposed in a plane parallel to said 
helical coils (22) for varying the position of said 

flange (24) along said spring (20) upon relative 
rotation between said spring and said flange to adjust 

the overall length of said core element (12) and for  
 

preventing said second segment (16) from being pulled 
axially through said spring. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 1 
further characterized by said spring (20) being open at 

one end to allow said flange (24) to thread into said 
spring at said one end. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 1 
further char
acterized by including a housing (28) for 
housing said spring (20), said housing having first and 

second ends, said housing being attached at said first 
end to said first segment (14). 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 3 
further characterized by said housing (28) being open at 

said second end to enable said spring (20) to be 
inserted into said housing. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 4 
further characterized by said housing (28) having a 

tubular inner surface having an inside diameter, said 
distal extremities (26) of said flange (24) extending 

generally to said inside diameter of said housing.  
 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 5 
further characterized by said distal extremities (26) of 

said flange (24) being rounded slightly to conform to 
said tubular inner surface of said housing (28). 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 4 
further characterized by including a closing member (32) 

extending across and closing said second end of said 
housing (28) to retain said spring within said housing 

(28) after said spring (20) has been inserted into said 
housing. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 7 
further characterized by said closing member (32) being 

positioned to abut and compress said spring (20) to 
prevent rotational movement of said spring with respect 

to said housing (28). 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 8 
further characterized by said closing member (32) 

defining an opening (34) for allowing said second 
segment (16) to pass through said opening and into said 

housing (28). 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 9  
 

further characterized by said second end of said housing 
(28) including retaining means (36) for retaining said 

closing member (32) within said housing (28). 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 10 
further characterized by said retaining means (36) being 

a curl in said second end of said housing (28) extending 
radially inward to abut said closing member (32). 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 1 
further characterized by said flange (24) having a 

substantially rectangular shape. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 1 
further characterized by said flange (24) including a 

hollow cylindrical portion (38) coaxial with said second 
segment (16) for receiving and crimping over said second 

segment. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 13 
further characterized by said distal extremities (26) of 

said flange (24) each having a distal surface (40) 
parallel to said hollow cylindrical portion (38). 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 3  
 

further characterized by said housing (28) including at 
said first end a crimping tube (30) receiving said first 

segment (14), said crimping tube being crimped onto said 
first segment to secure said housing (28) to said first 

segment. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 9 
further characterized by said opening (34) in said 

closing member (32) including a tubular portion 
extending away from said closing member for slideably 

supporting said second segment (16) as said second 
segment passes through said closing member. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 1 
further characterized by said first segment (14) 

including a first terminal (42) on the end of said first 
segment opposite said housing (28) for attaching said 

first segment to a support structure. 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 1 
further characterized by said second segment (16) 

including a second terminal (44) disposed on the end of 
said segment opposite from said flange (24) for 

attaching said second segment to a support structure.  
 
An assembly (10) as set forth in claim 1 
further characterized by including a tubular sleeve (46) 

disposed along a portion of said second segment (16). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
