<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636803</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Linear motion bearing assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C2906	F16C2906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C29	F16C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A linear motion bearing assembly (40) is provided and includes ball 
retainer 

structure (42), outer housing sleeves (48,50), a plurality of 
load bearing plates (44) and plate retainer 

structure (52). The ball retainer structure (42) of the bearing assembly 
(40) can be either 

monolithically formed or, alternatively, assembled from multiple 
elements. At least a 

portion of axial ball tracks are formed in the outer radial faces of 
the ball retainer 

structure (42) with each ball track having a load bearing portion 
providing access to a 

support shaft (70) or spline. An outer housing including a pair of 
sleeves (48,50) are provided to 

encompass and protect the ball retainer structure (42) and the bearing 
balls (46) contained 

therein. These sleeves (48,50) are preferably formed of an engineering 
plastic. A plurality 

of load bearing plates (44), preferably of the self-aligning type, are 
positioned within the 

outer housing and serve to receive and transmit loads from the bearing 
balls (46) in the 

load bearing portion (62) of the ball tracks. Separate plate retainer 
structure (52) is configured 

and positioned to directly receive and transmit loads from the load 
bearing plates (44) to a 

carriage into which the bearing assembly (40) is mounted. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NG ALISON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NG, ALISON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to anti-friction linear motion bearing 
assemblies and, more particularly, to multiple track linear bearing assemblies for 
longitudinal movement along a shaft. FR-A-2516994 
discloses such an assembly having the technical features 
recited in the pre-characterising part of claim 1, below. The present invention is directed to improvements in linear motion 
bearing assemblies. In particular, the improvements relate to linear motion bearing 
assemblies of the type which support a carriage or pillow block for linear movement 
along a support member such as an elongated shaft or spline. These bearing assemblies can either be of the open type or the closed 
type. Bearing assemblies contemplated by the present invention generally include an 
outer housing and a ball retainer dimensioned for insertion into the outer housing. 
The ball retainer defines a plurality of longitudinal planar faces each having at least 
one ball track in a loop configuration for containing and recirculating bearing balls. 
The ball tracks include open portions which facilitate load transfer from the 
supporting shaft to load bearing structure such as load bearing plates operatively 
associated with either the ball retainer or the outer housing. Return portions of the 
ball tracks permit continuous recirculation of the bearing balls through the ball tracks 
during linear motion. The ball retainer is typically formed as a monolithic element 
with the ball tracks integrally incorporated therein. See, US-A-3,767,276 
to Henn. This structure, however, is difficult to efficiently manufacture because of 
the complex molds required. Also, these ball retainers, prior to insertion into a 
mounting carriage or outer housing are necessarily open and thus exposed to ambient  
 
conditions and contaminants such as dust and dirt. Such exposure could deleteriously 
affect the operation and life of the bearing assembly as well as the support structure 
on which it moves. The load bearing structure may be in the form of integral elements 
formed on an inner radial surface of the outer housing. Typical bearing assemblies 
utilizing load bearing structure formed in the outer housing are shown, for example, 
in commonly owned US-A-5 046 862 to Ng. In lieu of integral load bearing structure, separate load bearing plates 
may be utilized to transfer loads from the supporting shaft. These load bearing plates 
are longitudinally oriented in association with the ball retainer so as to engage at least 
those bearing balls in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A linear motion bearing assembly (40, 98) for interposition 
between an block and a shaft (70, 112), for movement of the block 

along the shaft, the assembly comprising: 

a ball retainer structure (42, 100) having at least a 
portion of a plurality of axial ball tracks (60, 118) formed 

therein, said ball tracks including a load bearing 
portion (62, 120), a return portion (64, 122) and turnarounds (66, 124) 

interconnecting said load bearing and return portions; 
a plurality of bearing balls (46, 104) disposed in 
said ball tracks; 
an outer housing (48, 50, 106, 108) for enclosing 
substantially all of an exposed exterior surface (56, 114) of said 

ball retainer structure; 
a plurality of load bearing plates (44, 102) axially 
positioned within said outer housing for receiving load 

from said balls disposed in said load bearing portion of 
the ball tracks; and 
plate retainer means (52, 110) disposed at least 
partially around a medial portion of said ball retainer 

structure for maintaining said plurality of load bearing 
plates in position and for receiving load from said load 

bearing plates;
 
the assembly being characterised in that: 
the outer housing comprises a pair of sleeves (48, 
50, 106, 108), said sleeves being formed of an 

engineering metal or plastic, and each abutting an 
opposite side of the plate retainer means whereby, in use 

of the assembly, the plate retainer means serves to 
transmit load between the load bearing plates and the 

said block. 
An assembly as in claim 1 wherein said load bearing 
plates (44, 102) are received in said ball retainer 

structure (42, 100). 
An assembly as in claim 1 or 2 wherein said plate 
retainer means comprises a plate retainer ring (52, 110). 
An assembly as in claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said load 
bearing plates (44, 102) include self-aligning structure (90, 144). 
An assembly as in claim 4, as dependent on claim 3, 
wherein said plate retainer ring (52, 110) is dimensioned 

and positioned to engage said self-aligning structure of 
said load bearing plates. 
An assembly as in any one of the preceding claims wherein 
said plate retainer means is formed of an engineering 

metal. 
An assembly as in any one of the preceding claims further 
comprising joining means (72, 82) for joining said pair 

of sleeves (48, 50) together. 
An assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 
wherein, the ball retainer structure (42, 100) has a 

plurality of complete axial ball tracks (60, 118) formed 
therein. 
An assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the load bearing plates are self-aligning 

axial load bearing plates (44, 102) each having at least 
one axial ball groove (138) formed on an inner radial 

surface (86) thereof, said load bearing plates being at 
least partially supported by said ball retainer structure (42, 100) 

for receiving load from said balls (64, 104) disposed in said load 
bearing portion (62, 120) of the ball tracks;  

  
 
An assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the plate retainer means comprises at 

least one plate retainer ring (52, 110) configured and 
dimensioned to extend substantially circumferentially 

around a medial portion of said ball retainer structure 
for engaging and maintaining said plurality of load 

bearing plates in self-aligning position and for 
receiving and transmitting load from said load bearing 

plates. 
An assembly as in any one of the preceding claims wherein 
said ball retainer structure (100) is monolithically 

formed. 
An assembly as in any one of the preceding claims wherein 
said bearing assembly is an open-type bearing assembly 

(40). 
An assembly as in claim 12 wherein said open-type bearing 
assembly includes a ball retainer structure (42) having 

a pentagonal cross-section, 
defining an open side and four longitudinal outer surfaces (56). 
An assembly as in any of claims 1 to 11 wherein said 
bearing assembly is of closed type and includes a ball 

retainer structure (100) having a pentagonal cross-section 
defining five longitudinal outer surfaces (114). 
A linear motion bearing assembly as in claims 13 or 14 
wherein a plurality of complete ball tracks (60 118 are formed in 

each of said longitudinal faces. 
A linear motion bearing assembly as in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein said load bearing plates (44) includ
e 
a plurality of axial grooves formed on an underside (86).  

 
A linear motion bearing assembly as in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein said load bearing plates are 

both circumferentially and axially self-aligning. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
