<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610442</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE POWDER DELIVERY FOR SELECTIVE LASER SINTERING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22F300	B22F300	B22F302	B22F302	B22F303	B22F3035	B22F310	B22F310	B22F3105	B22F3105	B23K2600	B23K2600	B23K2634	B29C3508	B29C3508	B29C6700	B29C6700	C04B3564	C04B3564	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B23K	B23K	B23K	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B29C35	B29C35	B29C67	B29C67	C04B35	C04B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DTM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DTM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DECKARD CARL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORDERHASE PAUL F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN JACK M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DECKARD, CARL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FORDERHASE, PAUL F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN, JACK M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTIPLE POWDER DELIVERY FORSELECTIVE LASER SINTERING* * * * *This invention is in the field of the production of prototype parts in layerwise fashion, and is more particularly directed to the delivery of powder materials in part producing systems.Background of the InventionRecent advances have been made in the field of producing prototype parts, or finished parts in small quantities, directly from computer-aided-design (CAD) data bases. An important one of these advances produces parts from a powder in layerwise fashion by scanning selected portions of a layer of powder with an energy beam, such as a laser. The energy from the beam fuses the powder at the scanned locations into a mass within the layer which adheres to portions of previously fused layers. The fused portions -f each powder layer are defined according to a cross-seccion of the part, so that a series of layers processed in this manner results in a finished part. As a computer can control the scanning of the energy beam, this method can directly transfer a design from a CAD data base into an actual part.This method, and apparatus for performing the same, are described in further detail in U.S. Patent No. 4,863,538, issued September 9, 1989, U.S. Patent No. 5,017,753 issued May 21, 1991, U.S. Patent No. 4,938,816 issued July 3, 1990, and U.S. Patent No. 4,944,817 issued July 31, 1990, all assigned to Board of Regents, The University of Texas System and incorporated herein by this 

 reference. Parts are now being commercially produced according to this method, namely the "SELECTIVE LASER SINTERING" method, by the SLS Model 125 DeskTop Manufacturing system manufactured by DTM Corporation of Austin, Texas. As described in the above-noted patents, and also in copending applications S.N. 624,419 filed December 7, 1990, S.N. 657,151 filed February 19, 1991, and S.N. 692,172, filed April 26, 1991, all also assigned to Board of Regents, The University of Texas System and incorporated herein by this reference, various materials and combinations of materials can be processed according to this method, such materials including plastics, waxes, metals, ceramics, and the like. In addition, as described in these patents and applications, the parts produced according to the "SELECTIVE LASER SINTERING" method can have shapes and features which are sufficiently complex as to not be capable of fabrication by conventional subtractive processes such as machining.Other additive methods also fuse selected portions of a layer of powder in the layerwise formation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. In an apparatus for producing parts from powder, said apparatus including a target area at which an additive process is performed to produce a part, the powder delivery system comprising: a plate, having first and second openings therethrough on first and second sides of said target area; a first powder piston, located below said first opening, for pushing a volume of powder through said first opening above the surface of said plate; a second powder piston, located below said second opening, for pushing a volume of powder through said second opening above the surface of said plate; and means for distributing powder from above said first powder piston to said target area, and from above said second powder piston to said target area.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said distributing means comprises: a roller; and a motor coupled to said roller, for moving said roller across said plate from beyond said first opening to beyond said second opening.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein said motor is coupled to said roller in such a manner that said roller rotates counter to the direction of travel across said plate.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein said motor is coupled to said roller in such a manner that the rotation of the roller is slaved to the travel of the roller across said plate. 



 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said first powder piston comprises: a first piston surface, over which powder may be disposed; a first piston motor coupled to said first piston surface, for moving said first piston surface upwardly and downwardly relative to said plate.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein said first powder piston comprises: a first powder cartridge, having a movable bottom, for holding powder therein; a first piston plunger, for contacting said movable bottom of said first powder cartridge; and a first piston motor, coupled to said first piston plunger, for moving said first piston plunger upwardly and downwardly so that said movable bottom of said first powder cartridge moves upwardly and downwardly.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein said first piston cartridge comprises a container having rigid sidewalls and a movable bottom panel.
8. The system of claim 6, further comprising: means for receiving said first piston cartridge, so that said first piston cartridge can be removed from and installed into said system.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein said second powder piston comprises: a second powder cartridge, having a movable bottom, for holding powder therewithin; a second piston plunger, for contacting said movable bottom of said second powder cartridge; a second piston motor, coupled to said second piston plunger, for moving said second piston plunger 


upwardly and downwardly so that said movable bottom of said second powder cartridge moves upwardly and downwardly; and drawer slides for receiving said second piston cartridge, so that said second piston cartridge can be removed from and installed into said system.
10. The system of claim 6, further comprising: a distributor disposed below said first opening, for distributing the powder in said first powder piston thereat.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein said target area is located over a part cylinder, said part cylinder comprising: a part cylinder surface for holding fused and unfused powder, said part cylinder surface located under a part opening in said plate; and a part cylinder motor, for downwardly moving said part cylinder surface so that the part being produced is lowered from said target area to allow for delivery of powder thereover.
12. A method for delivering powder to a target area at a surface in an apparatus in the production of parts by an additive process, comprising: lifting a first volume of powder above said surface at a first location on a first side of said target area; moving a member across said target area from beyond said first location so that a first layer of powder is delivered across said target area; performing said additive process to selected portions of said first layer of powder at said target area; lifting a second volume of powder above said surface at a second location on a second side of said target area; 


 after said performing step, moving said member across said target area from beyond said second location so that a second layer of powder is delivered across said target area; and performing said additive process to selected portions of said second layer of powder at said target area.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein said member comprises a roller.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein said each of said moving steps comprise: translating said roller across said target area; and rotating said roller in a direction counter to the direction of said translating step.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of lifting said second volume of powder is performed after said performing step.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein said lifting steps each comprise: upwardly moving a piston, having powder disposed thereover, so that said volume of powder is lifted through an opening in said surface.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein said apparatus includes first and second pistons located at said first and second locations, respectively; wherein said apparatus further includes a part cylinder located at said target area, said surface having an opening thereat, said part cylinder having fused and unfused powder disposed thereover; and further comprising: 


 prior to said step of moving said member from beyond said first location, lowering said part cylinder; and after said step of performing said additive process in said first layer, and prior to said step of moving said member from beyond said second location, lowering said part cylinder.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: loading first and second powder cartridges into said apparatus below said first and second locations, respectively, said first and second powder cartridges each including movable bottom panels with powder disposed thereover, said movable bottom panels serving as said pistons.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein each of said performing steps comprise fusing selected portions of said layer of powder into a mass at said target area, said selected portions corresponding to a cross-section of a part; wherein said step of performing said additive process in said second layer of powder fuses the selected portions of said second layer of powder to a portion of the mass fused in said first layer of powder.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein each of said fusing steps comprise directing an energy beam at selected portions of said layer.
21. An apparatus for producing parts at a target area at which an additive process is performed, comprising: a chamber, having a target area at which said additive process is performed, and having a first opening through its bottom on a first side of said target area; 


 means for fusing selected portions of a layer of powder at said target area; a first powder piston assembly, located below said first opening, for pushing a volume of powder through said first opening into said chamber, comprising: a removable powder cartridge having a movable bottom; means for receiving said cartridge into said first powder piston assembly; and means for moving the bottom of said cartridge, said moving means engaged by said cartridge when received by said receiving means; and means for distributing powder from above said first powder piston to said target area.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said first piston cartridge comprises a container having rigid sidewalls and a movable bottom panel.
23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said first piston cartridge comprises: a bag for retaining powder; a housing for suspending said bag; and and wherein said moving means comprises means for moving the bottom of said bag upwardly and downwardly when suspended in said housing, so that said bag feeds and receives powder, respectively.
24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said chamber bottom has a second opening therethrough on a second side of said target area; and further comprising: a second powder piston assembly, located below said second opening, for pushing a volume of powder through said second opening into said chamber, comprising: 


 a removable powder cartridge having a movable bottom; means for receiving said cartridge into said second powder piston assembly; and wherein said distributing means also is -for distributing powder from above said second opening to said target area.
25. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising: means, within said chamber, for removing said part and its entraining powder from said target area while maintaining the atmospheric integrity of said chamber.
26. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising: means for isolating said means for receiving said powder cartridge from said chamber, so that said removable cartridge may be installed therein while maintaining the atmospheric integrity of said chamber.
* * * * * 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
