<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626922</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUID DELIVERY APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B1100	B05B1100	B65D3524	B65D3528	B65D8300	B65D8300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B11	B05B11	B65D35	B65D35	B65D83	B65D83	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Delivery apparatus for a flowable material such as toothpaste wherein a two part container is employed, thereby to form a dispenser of which one part is replaceable to renew the contents. A preferred embodiment is a sachet (450) progressively rolled up with a roll-up spring (Tensator) within a housing (418, 426) which is openable to enable the sachet to be replaced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMBRIDGE CONSULTANTS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMBRIDGE CONSULTANTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATTERALL CLIVE PATRICK ASHLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANDO WILLIAM GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAYLOR IAN MICHAEL DAVIES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATTERALL, CLIVE PATRICK ASHLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANDO, WILLIAM GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAYLOR, IAN MICHAEL DAVIES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Title; Fluid Delivery ApparatusField of inventionThe present invention relates to fluid delivery apparatus and more especially to dispensers for dispensing and delivering flowable materials such as pastes, liquids and the like from a reservoir of material by pressurising the contents of the reservoir as required to thereby expel material therefrom. The invention is of particular application to dispensers for toothpastes, soaps, creams, shampoos and the like.Background to the inventionToothpaste is commonly supplied in squeezable tubes which require a reclosable exit means typically a screw cap or snap action closure. Soaps, shampoos, hand creams and the like have been supplied in containers having trigger operated (or press down and release) pumping means for expelling the material from the container. Latterly it has been proposed to package toothpaste in containers having similar trigger operated (or press down and release) pumping means for expelling the material therefrom.In order to dispense a fluid in the manner aforesaid a degree of pressurisation is required to force the fluid through an exit nozzle. Hitherto it has been commonplace to store the fluid in a pressurised container together with a low boiling point gas which serves as a fluid 

spring acting either directly or through a diaphragm onto the fluid which is to be dispensed. The need for a pressurised container tends to restrict the shape of the container. Additionally suitable low boiling point gasses have either been found to be environmentally damaging or are flammable or have undesirable characteristics.It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved dispenser for dispensing flowable materials such as toothpaste. -It is another object of the present invention to provide a dispenser into which may be fitted throw-away containers in the form of sachets or reservoirs which when emptied can be removed and discarded to make way for a refill.It is a further object of the invention to provide improved refills for such dispensing devices.Yet another object of the invention is to provide an improved delivery system for fluids as aforesaid.It is therefore still another object of the present invention to provide an alternative fluid delivery system which does not incorporate a pressurised gas and therefore does not require a pressure vessel.Summary of the inventionAccording to one aspect of the present invention a dispensing device for dispensing flowable materials comprises:1. a housing including a region defining a discharge 

n
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A dispensing device for dispensing lowable materials comprising: .
A. a housing including a region defining a discharge nozzle, through which flowable material can pass,
B. support means for receiving containers which initially are filled with material to be dispensed, the support means serving to position a container relative to the discharge nozzle defining region and retain the container in position so that flowable material leaving the container exits through the nozzle defining region, and
C. means for pressurising the contents of a container situated within the support means at least when discharge of material therefrom is required.
2. A device according to claim 1, having valve means for controlling the flow of material through the nozzle defining region.
3. A device according to claim 2, wherein the housing contains support means for a flexible sachet of flowable material and the pressurising means comprises a spring means which in use exerts a force on the sachet to expel material therefrom through the valve means, which prevents exit of material except when it is opened. 


A. A device according to claim 3, comprising a two part housing which is openable to enable sachet replacement.
5. A device according to claim 3 or claim , wherein the spring means comprises a self roll-up spring.
6. A device according to claim 5, wherein the roll-up spring is initially unrolled and expels material through the opened nozzle as it rolls up, the sachet being progressively rolled up with the spring.
7. A device according to claim 5 or claim 6 when appendant to claim 4, wherein the two parts of the housing are relatively displaceable in the direction in which the spring rolls up and unrolls, and displacing one part relative to the other to open the housing for sachet replacement automatically unrolls the spring so that it will pressurise a replacement sachet when the housing is subsequently closed.
8. A device according to claim 7, wherein the roll-up spring has one end fixed to the first part of the housing carrying the nozzle defining means and at the other end has a curled portion engaged and displaced by the second part of the housing when the latter is displaced relatively to the first part to open the housing.
9. A device according to claim 8, wherein the two parts of the housing are relatively displaceable by means of a plunger having a handle external to the housing.
10. A device according to claim 9
>
 wherein the handle can be pulled to slide the second part of the housing relative to the first part. 


11. A device according to claim 9
>
 wherein the plunger is a threaded plunger and is rotatable by means of the handle to displace the second part of the housing relative to the first part.
12. A device according to any of claims 8 to 11, wherein the first part of the housing carries a sachet piercing means to establish a fluid exit from the sachet to the nozzle defining means.
13. A device according to any of claims 3 to 12, having a finger-operable accessible element for opening the nozzle defining means.
14. A device according to claim 13, wherein the finger- operable element acts to open apart two movable jaws which, when closed together, grip and close the end of the sachet through which fluid emerges in use.
15. A device according to claim 14, having inside the housing a member for limiting distortion of the sachet adjacent the movable jaws.
16. A device according to claim 8 or any claim appendant thereto, wherein the curled up end of the spring is mounted on a drum which has wheels running on guides in the closed housing.
17- A device according to claim 16, wherein the wheels are guided for movement in the direction of the housing in which the spring rolls up and unrolls.
18. A device according to claim 16 or claim 17, wherein a 


core of the drum is made of compliant material to assist guiding of the drum and thereby ensure uniform compression of the sachet across its width.
19. A device according to any of claims 16 to 18, wherein, in order to enable use of a sachet wider than the drum and spring, the ends of the drum have flanges between which the wider sachet is constrained to roll up as the spring progressively rolls up in use.
20. A device according to claim 1 or claim 2, comprising a two part housing comprising a first part incorporating the nozzle defining means and a second replaceable part which is operatively connectable to the first part and at least initially contains the fluid to be dispensed, the second part being separable from the said first part to permit a replacement second part to be fitted.
21. A device according to claim 20,. wherein the first and second parts of the housing comprise an outer sleeve and a separable and replaceable inner sleeve which can be secured as by screwing into the outer sleeve, a piston sealingly engaged within the inner sleeve and slidable therein and having projecting fingers which both engage the inside surface of the inner sleeve and additionally engage the exterior of a central elongate member extending axially of the sleeve assembly, the said elongate member having an undulating external surface, and discharge is achieved by relative axial oscillatory movement of the elongate member and inner sleeve, so that during movement in one sense the sleeve engaging fingers prevent the piston from following the movement but during movement in the other sense the other fingers lock onto the said undulating external surface of the elongate member to 


cause the piston to follow the relative movement, the said sleeve engaging members permitting movement in said other sense, thereby to pressurise flowable material within the inner sleeve for ejection through the nozzle defining means.
22. A device according to claim 21, wherein at least part of a discharge head incorporating the nozzle defining means is movable relative to the upper end of the said sleeve assembly so as to permit up and down movement to be transmitted to the said elongate member to effect pressurisation and expel the flowable material from within the said inner sleeve.
23. A device according to claim 21 or claim 22, wherein the undulating surface is formed as a helical thread so that the piston can be unscrewed from the central member after use, to permit the empty internal sleeve to be separated, complete with piston, from the said outer sleeve and discharge head, thereby to enable the inner sleeve to be replaced- by a filled sleeve.
24. A device according to any of claims 21 to 23, wherein the inner sleeve is threadedly engaged within the outer sleeve to achieve the said securing of the two sleeves.
25. A device according to any of claims 21 to 24 , wherein each filled sleeve includes a tear-off foil which is removed just before the filled sieeve is to be inserted into the outer sleeve, or is pierced adjacent the nozzle defining means after insertion.
26. A device according to claim 20, comprising an inner sleeve and an outer member to which the inner sleeve 


replaceably couples, a discharge head incorporating the nozzle defining means secured to and communicating with the outer member, and two pistons, one associated with the discharge head and movable with a relatively small stroke in a reciprocating manner within the end of the inner sleeve when the latter has been fitted to the outer member, and a second piston which initially forms the base of the inner sleeve remote from the discharge head and which with successive pumping of the first piston is caused to travel up the inside of the inner sleeve to pressurise and discharge the flowable material located therein, one way fingers being provided which extend into engagement with the internal surface of the inner sleeve from the said second piston such that the latter can slide in one sense but is prevented (by engagement of the fingers with the internal surface of the inner sleeve) from moving in the opposite sense, and the flowable material within the inner sleeve exiting through at least one aperture in the first piston.
27. A device according to claim 26, in which the outer member is an outer sleeve.
28. A device according to claim 26, wherein the outer member is a collar at one end of the discharge head and which defines a cavity within which the upper piston is located, the inner sleeve being securable to the said collar by a quick release coupling.
29. A device according to any of claims 26 to 28, wherein the first piston with a pumping action is replaced by a diaphragm.
30. A device according to claim 29, wherein an upper 


flexible end wall of the refill serves as the diaphragm.
31. A device according to claim 26, wherein the first and second parts of the housing comprise an outer sleeve and a flexible walled inner sleeve in the form of a rolling diaphragm the internal surface of which is provided with a plurality of ratchet teeth extending either completely or partly around the internal surface thereof, and the end of the sleeve remote from the discharge head is more rigidly formed than the remainder of the wall section so that the said end acts as a piston, the end of the sleeve adjacent the discharge head being secured to a pump action device having a non-return valve so that with compressive movement the contents of the inner sleeve are pressurised and caused to be forced under pressure through the non¬ return valve into a cavity within the discharge head to flow through to the nozzle defining means, and on reverse movement of the said pump action device the contents of the inner sleeve are depressurised Co such an extent that the base of the rolling diaphragm is sucked into the inner sleeve.
32. A device according to claim 31, wherein the ratchet - teeth formed in the inside surface of the rolling diaphragm extend completely around the inside surface of the sleeve.
33. A device according to claim 31 or claim 32, wherein the non-return valve is formed in the upper end of the inner sleeve or within a conduit leading from the upper end of the inner sleeve to the discharge head or relatively sliding parts of the said inner sleeve and the pump action device. 


34. A device according to claim 31 or claim 32, wherein the non-return valve is formed by a thin walled rubber tube which surrounds a solid spigot formed within a movable end cap, the thin walled tube forming a conduit between the pressurisable contents of the sleeve and a cavity within the discharge head leading to a discharge nozzle, and the action of pressing down the head and pressurisation of the contents of the sleeve is sufficient to expand the thin walled tube to permit the egress of flowable material under pressure through the annular space so created between the thin walled tube and said projection, subsequent upward movement of the head causing depressurisation of the contents and permitting the thin walled tube to revert to its normal state to grip the projection and seal off the contents of the inner sleeve from the cavity.
35. A device according to claim 31 or claim 32, wherein a movable plunger is caused to depress
"
 a flexible diaphragm across the upper end of the inner sleeve thereby to pressurise the contents thereof, and the diaphragm includes a central upwardly extending thin walled tube within which a plug member is slidable, the latter having a groove in its external surface to permit flowable material to flow under pressure to a point just below the upper rim of the thin walled rubber tube surrounding the said plug, and with continued rise in pressure to distort the said thin walled tube away from the surface of the plug and permit the material to escape under pressure.
36. A device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein a sachet containing the flowable material is situated within one half of a suitcase-like housing formed from rigid or semi-rigid material forming two shells hinged along one 


edge, which can be hinged into a first position, which is such as to permit further movement of the housing shells towards each other, so that as they are squeezed together from the closed position, the sachet is also squeezed so as to pressurise its contents, to expel the latter from the sachet through a nozzle formed at one end thereof.
37. A device according to claim 36, wherein the sachet is inserted in a sealed condition and a nozzle end thereof is adapted to extend through an end wall of the housing into a nozzle defining section of the housing to be severed after the sachet is in place, to allow the contents to be expelled therethrough, when the housing is squeezed.
38. A device according to claim 36 or claim 37, wherein the interior of one or both of the shells forming the housing may be at least in part filled with a foamed material and the foamed material is shaped so that the space available for a sachet between the cooperating surfaces of the foamed material is less at one end than at the other when the two housing halves are closed together, so that as the two halves are progressively squeezed the sachet is preferentially squeezed at one end rather than the other so as to progressively expel the contents from the sachet from the closed end thereof toward the open end containing the exit nozzle.
39. A device according to any preceding claim, wherein a container for use with a dispensing device for containing a flowable material such as a paste or the like is formed with two or more separate compartments each of which is separately fillable so that different materials can be stored within the same container and each of the compartments includes an exit passage which merges with 


the exit passages of the other compartments to form a single exit nozzle through which the contents of the separate compartments are simultaneously expelled if the contents of the different compartments are all subject to a uniform expelling force, thereby to produce a striped extrusion from the exit nozzle if differently coloured materials are employed.
40. A fluid delivery system comprising
(a) housing means
(b) a *
*
iable volume reservoir located therein
(c) valve means for controlling the flow of a fluid contained within the reservoir through an outlet nozzle
(d) spring means within the cannister acting on the reservoir to pressurise the contents thereof so that when the nozzle valve is opened the contents are forced therethrough.
41. A system according to claim 40, wherein the reservoir comprises a sachet acted on by roll-up spring means and the housing includes means for retracting the spring to permit the insertion of a filled sachet and further includes means for releasing the retraction means to enable the spring to curl up and pressurise the sachet.
42. A system according to claim 40 or claim 41, wherein the housing includes sachet retention means remote from a curled-up end of the roll-up spring means together with means for piercing the sachet and providing a fluid exit therefrom leading to valve means and an exit nozzle.
43. A system according to claim 42, wherein sealing means is provided around the piercing means so that fluid from 


within the sachet cannot escape except through the exit passage established by the piercing.
44. A system according to any of claims 40 to 43, wherein the spring retraction means comprises a plunger having a handle externally of the cannister which can be displaced in a rearward direction to retract the roll-up spring means, i.e. extend the spring.
45. A system according to claim 44, wherein a threaded plunger is employed which can be rotated so as to draw the roll-up spring means rearwardly within the housing to retract said spring.
46. A system according to claim 40, comprising a two part housing which is openable to enable sachet replacement.
47. A system according to claim 46, wherein the spring means comprises a roll-up spring.
48. A system according to claim 47, in which the .roll-up spring is a Tensator (Trade Mark) spring.
49. A system according to claim 47 or claim 48, wherein the roll-up spring is initially unrolled and expels material through the opened nozzle as it rolls up, the sachet being progressively rolled up with the spring.
50. A system according to claim 46 or any claim appendant thereto, wherein the two parts of the housing are relatively displaceable in the direction in which the spring rolls up and unrolls, and displacing one part relative to the other to open the housing for sachet replacement automatically unrolls the spring so that it 


will pressurise a replacement sachet when the housing is subsequently closed.
51. A system according to claim 50, wherein the roll-up spring has one end fixed to the first part of the housing carrying the nozzle defining means and at the other end has a curled portion engaged and displaced by the second part of the housing when the latter is displaced relatively to the first part to open the housing.
52. A system according to claim 51, wherein the two parts of the housing are relatively displaceable by means of a plunger having a handle external to the housing.
53. A system according to claim 52, wherein the handle can be pulled to slide the second part of the housing relative to the first part.
54. A system according to claim 52,' wherein the plunger is a threaded plunger and is rotatable by means of the handle to displace the second part of the housing relative, to the first part.
55. A system according to any of claims 51 to 54, wherein the first part of the housing carries a sachet piercing means to establish a fluid exit from the sachet to the nozzle defining means.
56. A system according to any of claims 40 to 55, having a finger-operable accessible element for opening the nozzle defining means.
57. A system according to claim 56, wherein the finger- operable element acts to open apart two movable jaws 


which, when closed together, grip and close the end of the sachet through which fluid emerges in use.
58. A system according to claim 57, having inside the housing a member for limiting distortion of the sachet adjacent the movable jaws.
59. A system according to claim 51 or any claim appendant thereto, wherein the curled up end of the spring is mounted on a drum which has wheels running on guides in the closed housing.
60. A system according to claim 59, wherein the wheels are guided for movement in the direction of the housing in which the spring rolls up and unrolls.
61. A system according to claim 59 or claim 60, wherein the core of the drum is made of compliant material to assist guiding of the drum and thereby ensure uniform compression of the sachet across its width.
62. A system according to any of claims 59 to 61, wherein, in order to enable use of a sachet wider than the drum and spring, the ends of the drum have flanges beteen which the wider sachet is constrained to roll up as the spring progressively rolls up in use.
63. Dispensing apparatus substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any one or more of the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
