<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632782</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TAMPER-INDICATING CLOSURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D4134	B65D4134	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D41	B65D41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tamper-indicating closure serves as a closure for a container (2) which, at its container neck (3), possesses at least one locking surface (5) with which the retaining elements (6) of the tamper-indicating band (7) are able to engage. The tamper-indicating band (7) possesses an upper portion (10) which extends downwards from the cap skirt (12) and which is connected with this by a frangible line (11). A plurality of retaining elements (6) are provided on the upper portion (10) of the tamper-indicating band (7). The retaining elements (6) are in each case connected with the adjacent retaining element by a flexible web (13). Each of the retaining elements (6) possesses at least one wedge shape (8) on its surface oriented towards the container neck (3).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CROWN CORK 
&
 SEAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CROWN CORK 
&
 SEAL COMPANY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY RONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY, RONALD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to tamper-indicating
closures as well as an integrally molded blank for the manufacture
of a tamper-indicating closure.Tamper-indicating closures for various types of containers
are widely and numerously known and in use. These types of
closure are mainly employed in the beverage and food industry
for the most varied of uses. In order to hinder manipulation
of such containers, mainly bottles, the closures are provided
with a tamper-indicating band which is brought into engagement
with a locking surface on the container neck. A protruding
bead, one or more ribs, a groove or another shape for an
undercutting on the container neck mostly serve as the locking
surface.One difficulty with the use of known closures is mainly that
the tamper-indicating band on the one hand should slip over
the container neck and locking surface easily and without damage
to the frangible web or bridges connecting the band to
the closure. In addition the tamper-indicating band must be
elastic, in order to avoid too great a resistance when closing
the bottle and, with that, damage to the frangible line.On the other hand, the tamper-indicating band should be
formed to be as stiff and resistant as possible, in order to
reliably maintain engagement with the locking surface when
opening the tamper-indicating closure, so that the tamper-indicating
band will tear along the frangible line and thus
display the initial opening.These types of closures can be manufactured in one piece, together
with the tamper-indicating band, by means of plastic
injection molding. However, subsequent application of a weakened 
line to the closure blanks, between the closure cap and
the tamper-indicating band, is also known. These types of devices
and methods are known from US-PS-3,673,761 (Light/Ciba-Geigy),
DE-OS-14 82 603 (Teillac/ALCA SA) or US-PS-4,895,265
(Luc et al./ The West Co.).However, tamper-indicating closures made of metal are also
known on which a tamper-indicating band is subsequently affixed.
The tamper-indicating element is, with that, normally
annular in shape with a holding portion, with which it can be
brought into interlocking connection with the closure cap.
The holder portion - and with that the closure cap - is connected
with the tamper-indicating band by means of connecting
bridges or webs.Other methods of manufacture of such tamper-indicating closures,
such as compression molding, co-injection molding and
similar, are also known.A tamper-indicating band is known from US-patent 4,801,031
with which an inwardly
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Tamper-indicating closure for a container (2), the container
possessing at least one locking surface (5) on a

container neck (13), including

a closure cap with a cap base (12a), a cylindrical cap
skirt (12), and
a tamper-indicating band (7) which is connected with the
cap skirt (12) and is able to be separated at least partially

from the cap skirt (12) along a frangible line
(11),

the tamper-indicating band (7) possessing an upper portion
(10) which extends downwards from the cap skirt

(12), and moreover a plurality of retaining elements
(6), arranged at a distance from one another, being

arranged on the tamper-indicating band (7), the retaining
elements (6), after placement onto the container

(2), projecting radially inwards and upwards in the
direction towards the cap base (12a) from the portion

(10) of the tamper-indicating band (7), and with that
being able to be brought into engagement with the locking

surface (5) on the container neck (3), and

the cross-section of each retaining element parallel to
the cap base (12a) possessing at least one wedge shape

(8, 8a, 8b),

wherein the or each wedge shape (8, 8a, 8b) extends
along the entire length of the retaining

element (6) and in that said retaining elements (6) are
in each case connected with each adjacent retaining element

by a flexible web (13, 13a, 13b) formed to be thin 
in such a way that it serves as a frangible line in

order to display manipulations.
Tamper-indicating closure according to claim 1, wherein
the retaining elements (6) possess a V-shaped cross

section in the plane parallel to the cap base (12a).
Tamper-indicating closure according to claims 1 or 2,
wherein the frangible line (11) possesses a plurality of

connecting bridges (16) which are arranged at a distance
from one another.
Tamper-indicating closure according to claims 1 or 2,
wherein the frangible line (11) possesses an area with a

weakening of the material.
Tamper-indicating closure according to one of the preceding
claims 1 or 2, wherein each of the retaining

elements (6) is connected by a hinge element (9) with
the cap skirt (12).
Tamper-indicating closure according to one of the preceding
claims 1 or 2, wherein the retaining elements (6)

are formed as two parts and are provided with a web (6a)
in the vertex of the wedge shape (8).
Tamper-indicating closure according to one of the preceding
claims 1 or 2, wherein the surface of the retaining

elements (6) oriented towards the locking surface (5) is
provided with at least two wedge tips (8a, 8b).
Tamper-indicating closure according to claim 5, wherein
the hinge element (9) possesses a connecting portion

(20) which is connected with the lower edge of the upper
tamper-indicating band portion (10) and whose wall

thickness is thinner than the wall thickness of the 
upper portion (10) of the tamper-indicating band (7) and

which runs at a radially inwardly and downwardly
directed angle α.
Tamper-indicating closure according to claim 8, wherein
the angle α amounts to between 30° and 60° in relation

to the longitudinal axis of the tamper-indicating closure
(1).
Tamper-indicating closure according to claim 9, wherein
the angle α amounts to approximately 45°.
Tamper-indicating closure according to claim 9, wherein
a lower edge of the upper portion (10) possesses an

indentation (22) and that the connecting portion (20) is
arranged on the side lying radially inwards from the

indentation (22).
Tamper-indicating closure according to claims 5 or 8,
wherein the hinge element (9) is collectively provided

for a plurality of retaining elements (6) and that the
individual retaining elements (6) project radially inwards

from the hinge element (9).
Tamper-indicating closure according to claim 12, wherein
the hinge element (9) possesses an approximately radially

inwardly directed, annular bead (21).
Integrally molded blank, manufactured in one piece from
thermoplastic material, for the manufacture of a closure

(1) having a cylindrical cap skirt (12), a tamper-indicating
band (7) and a plurality of retaining elements

(6) projecting in the same direction from the cap base
(12a), the elements (6) having an inside wedge-shaped

surface, as seen parallel to the cap base (12a), which
is formed as an extension of the inner surface of the 

tamper-indicating band (7), wherein the wedge-shaped
surface of each retaining element (6) extends

along the entire length of the retaining element
and in that the retaining elements (6) are in each case

connected with each adjacent retaining element by a
flexible web (13, 13a, 13b) formed to be thin in such a

way that it serves as a frangible line in order to display
manipulations.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
