<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SWITCHING EQUIPMENT AND METHOD FOR A RADIOTELEPHONE SYSTEM OF THE LOCAL OR PRIVATE BRANCH EXCHANGE TYPE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W8402	H04W8414	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W84	H04W84	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radio telephone system is disclosed to satisfy in the short term basic telecommunication needs of areas which are insufficiently or not yet covered. The system has a number of duplex radio channels (transmission channels) substantially smaller than the number of radio telephone subscribers. These transmission channels are connected to the ports of a telecommunications exchange system which is part of the stationary radio station and which ensures both incoming and outgoing traffic with the public telecommunications network and internal exchanges within the system. Signalling, exchange, management, servicing and special functions of radio operation between the stationary radio station and the subscriber connection device are ensured by a radio switching device which uses one or, if required, several transmission channels used as organisation channels and not connected to the ports of the telecommunications exchange system. In the organisation channel, a constant time-multiplexed communication is maintained with the subscriber connection device according to a random access process based on a special organisation channel protocol. An essential characteristic of the invention is that the subscriber connection devices have an a/b interface for the connection of telecommunication terminals. The system and in particular the organisation channel protocol are designed in such a way that no differences from a wired telecommunications connection are perceptible to the user, although the system is radio operated. Included in the basic function is the priority switching of emergency calls and if required other priority call numbers. Besides the basic function, the system allows data and time, as well as paging information, to be transmitted to the subscriber connection devices; this option may involve the use of an additional apparatus or a special system telephone.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRONE AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRONE AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HACHENBERGER ANDREAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEROLD DETLEF DIPL-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAECKEL KLAUS DR-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHIFFEL REINHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STADLER BRUNO DR-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL HOLGER DIPL-ING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HACHENBERGER, ANDREAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEROLD, DETLEF, DIPL.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAECKEL, KLAUS, DR.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHIFFEL, REINHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STADLER, BRUNO, DR.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL, HOLGER, DIPL.-ING.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Local switching and transmission system which
is organized as a local radio cell, comprising a

central fixed radio station and a multiplicity of local
subscriber access units, and is connected as a local

exchange or a private branch exchange to the public
telecommunications network and allows those subscribers

who for widely differing reasons cannot be connected
via subscriber lines to a switching device or whose

connection in this form is not expedient to have access
to the public telecommunications network by the use of

wire-free transmission, and in the case of which, for
operation of the system when the number of subscribers

is greater than the number of duplex radio channels
(1.40...; 2.40...; 4.40...) used (referred to as

information channels in the following text) in the
central fixed radio station, a radio switching device

(2.2; 4.2) is present which uses at least one duplex
information channel as a standard organization channel

(2.40; 4.40) for signalling, switching, administration,
service and special functions during radio operation

between the fixed radio station and the subscriber
access units (2.51...; 4.51...) which is continuously

received and used in time-division multiplex form on
the transmission side by all those subscriber access

units (2.51...; 4.51...) which are in operation but are
not active, and a telecommunications switching device

(2.1; 4.1) is present, in which an information channel
(2.40...; 4.40...) is connected to in each case one 

port and which carries out the channel-related
switching, the radio switching device (2.2; 4.2) being

connected via a databus (Db) to control and switching
devices (2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) (referred to as

channel controllers (2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) in the
following text), which are arranged between the ports

(E
&
M/1. . .E
&
M/n) of the telecommunications switching
device (2.1; 4.1) and the information channels

(2.40...; 4.40...), and the channel controller
(2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) simulating the subscriber

access during the setting up of telecommunications
links until direct through-switching to the subscriber

access unit (2.51...; 4.51...) takes place via the
radio switching path, 
characterized in that
 the setting
up of the radio link takes place during the

subscriber's dialling process, in that the dialled
numbers are transmitted via the associated voice

channel, and in that, once dialling has been carried
out, the subscriber is connected directly to the

network and the subscriber can thus not perceive any
difference from a wire-based a/b main connection.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claim 1, characterized in that the channel

controllers (2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) are connected to
the E
&
M ports (E
&
M/1...E
&
M/n) of the telecommunications
switching device (2.1; 4.1), and the radio switching

device (2.2; 4.2) carries out the signal interchange
with the telecommunications switching device (2.1; 4.1)

via the channel controllers (2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n).
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claim 1, characterized in that, in the

case of digital telecommunications switching devices,
the channel controllers (2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) are

connected to the subscriber ports (E
&
M/1...E
&
M/n) of
the PCM primary multiplexer, and the PCM channels which

are used for signalling and synchronization are
connected to the radio switching device (2.2; 4.2), and

the radio switching device (2.2; 4.2) carries out the
signalling to the telecommunications switching device 

(2.1; 4.1) via the PCM signalling channel, either in
accordance with the E
&
M protocol or in accordance with
the S
2M
 protocol.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claim 1, characterized in that, in the

case of digital telecommunications switching devices
(4.1), these devices and the radio switching device

(4.2) are connected via a special data interface (Dv),
via which all the signalling is handled, independently

of post-office typical interfaces.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, characterized in that

other information channels (2.41...; 4.41...), which
are intended for dialled calls, are used temporarily as

organization channels by the radio switching device
(2.2; 4.2), in addition to the standard organization

channel (2.40; 4.40), and these information channels
(2.41...;4.41...) are reported to the

telecommunications switching device (2.1; 4.1) as being

busy, via the channel controller (2.31...2.3n;
4.31...4.3n) of the relevant information channel, via

the PCM signalling channel or via a special data
interface, so that these information channels can no

longer be used with dialled calls.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claim 1, characterized in that the radio

switching device (2.2; 4.2) has at least one control
assembly (called the organization channel controller -

OKC - in the following text), which communicates with
the subscriber access units (2.51...; 4.51...) via the

organization channel or channels (2.40; 4.40) using a
special organization channel protocol, and in that the

radio switching device (2.2; 4.2) can operate as an OKC
the channel controller (2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) of

each information channel which is intended for
temporary use as an organization channel via the

databus (Db), via which all the channel controllers
(2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) are connected to the radio

switching device (2.2; 4.2). 
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1 and 6, characterized in that each

subscriber access unit (2.51...; 4.51...) has a control
assembly (called a link controller - LC - in the

following text) which communicates with the radio
switching device (2.2; 4.2) via the organization

channel or channels using the special organization
channel protocol, and which controls a telephone

adapter assembly which is connected to the information
channel and provides an a/b interface for the

connection of subscriber terminals.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claim 1, characterized in that the

synchronous organization channel (2.40; 4.40), which is
constructed identically in both operating directions,

uses digital time-division multiplex transmission
without a mainframe structure and data frames are

transmitted in successive timeslots (Z) of constant
length, which data frames each contain an instruction

and comprise a precursor (VO) , a code block (C), a
subscriber number part (T), an information part (I), a

checksum part (P) and a follower (NA) (Table 1).
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1 and 8, characterized in that, in

another variant, the data frame is not identically
constructed in the two transmission directions in that,

in the transmission direction from the fixed radio
station to the subscriber access units (2.51...;

4.51...), the length of the precursor (VO) is minimized
in favour of the information part (I) and the checksum

part (P).
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 6, 7 and 8, characterized in

that the code block (C) comprises at least two
repetitions of a four-digit Barker code, and the

receiving parts in the OKC of the radio switching
device (2.2; 4.2) and the LC in the subscriber access

units (2.51...; 4.51...) have a timebase of sufficient
accuracy to be able to decide during reception of only 

one code word which repetition of the transmission of
the code word this is, so that the frame

synchronization can be ensured even in the case of
interference which leads to loss of an entire code

word.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1 and 8, characterized in that the

number which is used in the subscriber number part (T)
need not be identical to the telephone number of the

subscriber, and the recoding corresponding to the two
operating directions is for this purpose carried out

for all the processes in the radio switching device
(2.2; 4.2), using a key table.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 8 and 11, characterized in that

the key table in the radio switching device (2.2; 4.2)
is subject to continuous dynamic change, and the

subscriber access units (2.51...; 4.51...) are set to
their respective current number by means of service

instructions which are transmitted in the organization
channel (2.40; 4.40) and, as a result of this, the

subscribers appear with randomly changing numbers
during radio operation.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1 and 8, characterized in that the

information part (I) comprises a single-digit
hexadecimal instruction word and a multidigit data part

which is associated with the instruction word.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1 and 8, characterized in that the

checksum part includes a checksum of the net
information from the subscriber number part and the

information part (I).
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1 and 8, characterized in that the

follower (N) in the transmission direction from the
fixed radio station to the subscriber access units

(2.51...; 4.51...) comprises the transmission of one or
more bits at the same logic level, and no transmission 

takes place in the transmission direction from the
subscriber access units (2.51...; 4.51...) to the fixed

radio station, and the duration of the follower (N) is
dimensioned such that the delay time differences,

resulting from the different distance to the fixed
radio station, of two successively transmitting

subscriber access units (2.51...; 4.51...) do not lead
to superimposition of the signals on reception in the

fixed radio station.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1 and 8, characterized in that the

information of the subscriber number part, the
information part and the checksum part is transmitted

in BCH-coded form and, subsequently, using block
interleaving, so that successive bit errors up to a

maximum number of "correctable bit errors per code
word" * "interleaving factor", do not lead to data

losses.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 6 and 7, characterized in that

responses and acknowledgements to transmissions from
the opposing terminal take place with a constant

difference of at least one data frame length in both
operating directions in the organization channel (2.40;

4.40).
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 6 and 7, characterized in that

the data interchange in the organization channel (2.40;
4.40) is carried out using the master-slave method, the

radio exchange operating as the master and the
subscriber access units (2.51...;4.51...) reacting only

when they have been addressed, except after the
transmission of instructions which subsequently allow

the transmission of a dialling request by any
subscriber units.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 6 and 18, characterized in that,

as long as no ongoing switching processes require other
activities, the radio switching device (2.2; 4.2) 

transmits a free call (F) when at least one switchable
information channel is available, or transmits a

conditional free call (N) when no switchable
information channel is available, such that the

subscriber access units (2.51...; 4.51...) can report a
dialling request after a free call and only a dialling

request (W) with a priority feature (emergency call,
other previously authorized telephone numbers) after a

conditional free call (Table 2).
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 6, 18 and 19, characterized in

that, in the event of a simultaneous dialling request
(W) from a plurality of subscriber access units

(2.51...; 4.51...), the radio switching device (2.2;
4.2) does not transmit a dialling request

acknowledgement to any of the transmitting subscriber
access units (2.51...; 4.51..
.), and in the absence of
a dialling request acknowledgement for the subscriber,

the link controller of the subscriber access unit
(2.51...; 4.51...) continues to generate a busy signal

during this subscriber's dialling input.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 18 and 19, characterized in that

a dialling signal is transmitted from the subscriber
access unit (2.51...; 4.51...) to the subscriber,

irrespective of the state of the system, when a line
loop is connected to the a/b interface, and the digits

dialled on the subscriber terminal are buffer-stored
and checked for the presence of a priority feature and,

after a final decision and reception of a free call,
both the dialling request and the dialling request with

an emergency feature are transmitted and, in this case,
if there is no emergency dialling feature, a busy

signal is transmitted to the subscriber via the a/b
interface.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 18, 20 and 21, characterized in

that, in the absence of a dialling request
acknowledgement after a dialling request with a 

priority feature has been transmitted, the link
controller of the subscriber access unit ((2.51...;

4.51...) automatically carries out up to two
repetitions of the transmission of the dialling request

with a priority feature, and a busy signal for the
subscriber is generated only after three unsuccessful

attempts.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 18 and 19, characterized in that

when no switchable information channel is available and
a dialling request with a priority feature occurs, an

existing telecommunications link, with priority being
given to a local link, is disconnected from the radio

switching device (2.2; 4.2) in that, in parallel with
the dialling request acknowledgement in the

organization channel (2.40; 4.40) to the requesting
subscriber access unit ((2.51...; 4.51...), a

disconnect instruction, which causes the subscriber
access unit ((2.51...; 4.51...) which is active there

to switch over to the organization channel (2.40;
4.40), is transmitted via the channel controller

(2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) of the information channel
via which the link to be disconnected exists, to

acknowledge in the organization channel (2.40; 4.40)
with a presence message (A) and to transmit a busy

signal to the subscriber via the a/b interface.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1 and 18, characterized in that the

acknowledgement of the subscriber access unit (2.51...;
4.51...) and all other protocol handling actions in the

associated information channel between the channel
controller (2.31...2.3n; 4.31...4.3n) and the link

controller are carried out after all instructions which
instruct a subscriber access unit (2.51...; 4.51...) to

transfer from the organization channel (2.40; 4.40) to
an information channel, and in that these instructions

can be regarded as a free call for all the other
subscriber access units (2.51...; 4.51...). 
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 8 and 19, characterized in that,

in the case of a free call (F) and a conditional free
call (N), the subscriber number part and the data part

are alternately filled by the radio switching device
(2.2; 4.2) with the date or the time of day which are

used in the subscriber access unit (2.51...; 4.51...)
for setting a software clock.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 8 and 13, characterized in that

single-digit alphanumeric paging information (P) can be
transmitted in the organization channel (2.40; 4.40) to

individual subscriber access units or groups of
subscriber access units (2.51...; 4.51...), in that a

hexadecimal digit in the data part of a timeslot is
filled with this information, and multidigit

alphanumeric paging information can be transmitted by
transmitting the paging instruction in a first

instruction and by carrying out the command to change
to an information channel in a second instruction, in

which information channel the paging information is
then transmitted and which, during this time, is

reported by the radio switching device (2.2; 4.2) to
the telecommunications switching device (2.1; 4.1) as

being busy.
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 7, 8, 13 and 26, characterized

in that paging information is stored in the link
controller of the subscriber access unit (2.51...;

4.51...), the input of information is signalled to the
system telephone and, on request by the subscriber, is

caused to be displayed on the system telephone or on
the subscriber access unit (2.51...; 4.51...).
Local switching and transmission system
according to Claims 1, 8, 13 and 26, characterized in

that, in the case of systems which do not use any
dynamic change in the subscriber numbers according to

Claim 12, individual calls and group calls are carried
out in such a manner that the telephone number of the 

desired individual subscriber or of any subscriber
belonging to the calling group is transmitted in the

subscriber number part, and a hexadecimal digit in the
data part is used to define which digits of the

telephone number are valid, as a result of which the
individual call, call for main groups, call for

subgroups of a main group, calls to the manager of the
main groups or No. 2 or No. 3 etc. of the main groups,

call for the manager of the subgroups of a main group
or the No. 2 or No. 3 etc. of the subgroups of a main

group are produced as selection options (Table 3).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
