<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617973</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Biocompatible monomer and polymer compositions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L2400	A61L2400	A61L2406	C09J400	C09J400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	C09J	C09J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L24	A61L24	A61L24	C09J4	C09J4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A biocompatible monomer composition contains (A) 
at least one monomer of the formula: 


CHR=CXY
wherein X and Y are each strong electron withdrawing 
groups, and R is H or, provided that X and Y are both 

cyano groups, a C₁-C₄ alkyl group; and (B) an effective 
amount of at least one biocompatible agent effective to 

reduce active formaldehyde concentration levels, 
preferably a formaldehyde scavenger compound. The monomer 

is preferably an alpha-cyanoacrylate. The formaldehyde 
scavenger compound may be in microencapsulated or non-microencapsulated 

form. The composition can be applied to 
a variety of materials and is particularly suitable as 
in 
vivo
 tissue adhesive. A method of joining together 
in 
vivo
 two surfaces, e.g., body tissues, includes (a) 
applying to at least one of the surfaces a composition 

containing 1) at least one monomer, preferably an alpha-cyanoacrylate, 
which forms a polymer whose 
in
vivo
 biodegradation 
produces formaldehyde; and 2) an effective amount 

of at least one biocompatible agent effective to reduce 
active formaldehyde concentration levels, preferably a 

formaldehyde scavenger; and (b) maintaining the surfaces 
in contact until the composition polymerizes. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRI POINT MEDICAL LP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRI-POINT MEDICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK JEFFREY G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEUNG JEFFREY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, JEFFREY G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEUNG, JEFFREY C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to monomer and polymer 
compositions useful to form biomedical adhesives, sealants, 
bioactive agent release matrices, and implants. 
More particularly, this invention relates to biocompatible 
monomer and polymer compositions particularly useful for 
medical, surgical and other invivo applications. The products in primary use for wound closure are 
surgical sutures and staples. Sutures are recognized to 
provide adequate wound support. However, sutures cause 
additional trauma to the wound site (by reason of the need 
for the needle and suture to pass through tissue) and are 
time-consuming to place, and, at skin level, can cause 
unattractive wound closure marks. Surgical staples have 
been developed to speed wound apposition and provide 
improved cosmetic results. However, surgical staples also 
impose additional wound trauma and require the use of 
ancillary and often expensive devices for positioning and 
applying the staples. To overcome these drawbacks, fast-acting surgical 
adhesives have been proposed. One group of such adhesives 
is the monomeric forms of alpha-cyanoacrylates. Reference is made, for example, to U.S. Patents 
Nos. 3,527,841 (Wicker et al.); 3,722,599 (Robertson et 
al.); 3,995,641 (Kronenthal et al.); and 3,940,362 (Over-hults), 
which disclose that alpha-cyanoacrylates are 
useful as surgical adhesives. All of the foregoing references 
are hereby incorporated by reference herein. Typically, when used as adhesives and sealants, 
cyanoacrylates are applied in monomeric form to the 
surfaces to be joined or sealed, where, typically, in situ 
anionic polymerization of the monomer occurs, giving rise 
to the desired adhesive bond or seal. Implants, such as 
rods, meshes, screws, and plates, may be formed of  
 
cyanoacrylate polymers, formed typically by radical-initiated 
polymerization. However, a drawback to the invivo biomedical use 
of alpha-cyanoacrylate monomers and polymers has been 
their potential for causing adverse tissue response. For 
example, methyl alpha-cyanoacrylate has been reported to 
cause tissue inflammation at the site of application. The adverse tissue response to alpha-cyanoacrylates 
appears to be caused by the products released during 
invivo biodegradation of the polymerized alpha-cyanoacrylates. 
It is believed that formaldehyde is the biodegradation 
product most responsible for the adverse tissue 
response and, specifically, the high concentration of 
formaldehyde produced during rapid polymer biodegradation. 
Reference is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A biocompatible monomer composition, comprising: 

A. at least one monomer of the formula: 
(I)   CHR=CXY 

wherein X and Y are each strong electron withdrawing 
groups, and R is H or, provided that X and Y are both 

cyano groups, a C₁ -C₄ alkyl group; and 
B. an effective amount of at least one 
biocompatible agent effective to reduce active formaldehyde 

concentration levels. 
A biocompatible monomer composition, comprising: 

A. at least one monomer of the formula: 
(I)   CHR=CXY 

wherein X and Y are each strong electron withdrawing 
groups, and R is H or, provided that X and Y are both 

cyano groups, a C₁-C₄ alkyl group; and 
B. an effective amount of at least one 
formaldehyde scavenger compound. 
A composition according to claim 1, wherein 
the at least one monomer is anionically polymerizable. 
A composition according to claim 1, wherein 
the at least one monomer is free radical polymerizable. 
A composition according to claim 1, wherein 
the at least one monomer is an alpha-cyanoacrylate, a 

vinylidene cyanide, a C₁-C₄ alkyl homolog of a vinylidene 
cyanide, a dialkyl methylene malonate, an acylacrylonitrile, 

a vinyl sulfinate or vinyl sulfonate of the 
formula CH₂=CX'Y' where X' is -SO₂R' or -SO₃R' and Y' is - 

CN, -COOR, -COCH₃, -SO₂R', or -SO₃R', and R' is H or hydrocarbyl. 
A composition according to claim 5, wherein 
the at least one monomer is an alpha-cyanoacrylate. 
A composition according to claim 6, wherein 
the alpha-cyanoacrylate monomer has the formula  

wherein R² is hydrogen and R³ is a hydrocarbyl or substituted 
hydrocarbyl group; a group having the formula -R⁴-O-R⁵-O-R⁶ 

wherein R⁴ is a 1,2-alkylene group having 2-4 
carbon atoms, R⁵ is an alkylene group having 2-4 carbon 

atoms, and R⁶ is an alkyl group having 1-6 carbon atoms; 
or a group having the formula 

 
wherein R⁷ is 

 
or -C(CH₃)₂- and R⁸ is an organic radical. 
A composition according to claim 7, wherein 
R³ is a hydrocarbyl or substituted hydrocarbyl group, 

selected from the group consisting of straight chain or 
branched chain alkyl groups having 1-16 carbon atoms; 

straight chain or branched chain C₁₋₁₆ alkyl groups substituted 
with an acyloxy group, a haloalkyl group, an alkoxy 

group, a halogen atom, a cyano group, or a haloalkyl 
group; straight chain or branched chain a
lkenyl groups 
having 2 to 16 carbon atoms; straight chain or branched 

chain alkynyl groups having 2 to 12 carbon atoms; cycloalkyl 
groups; aralkyl groups; alkylaryl groups; and aryl 

groups. 
A composition according to claim 8, wherein 
R³ is an alkyl group having 1-6 carbon atoms or a group 

having the formula -AOR⁹, wherein A is a divalent straight 
or branched chain alkylene or oxyalkylene radical having 

2-8 carbon atoms, and R⁹ is a straight or branched alkyl 
radical having 1-8 carbon atoms. 
A composition according to claim 9, wherein 
the alpha-cyanoacrylate is methyl cyanoacrylate, butyl 

cyanoacrylate, octyl cyanoacrylate, 1-methoxy-2-propyl 
cyanoacrylate, 2-butoxy ethyl cyanoacrylate, or 

isopropoxy-ethyl cyanoacrylate. 
A composition according to claim 2, wherein 
the at least one formaldehyde scavenger compound is sodium 

bisulfite. 
A composition according to claim 2, wherein 
the at least one biocompatible agent effective to reduce 

active formaldehyde concentration levels is in microencapsulated 
form. 
A composition according to claim 1, wherein 
the at least one biocompatible agent effective to reduce 

active formaldehyde concentration levels is microencapsulated 
with a coating polymer which undergoes invivo 

bioerosion and which has a low inherent moisture content. 
A composition according to claim 13, wherein 
the at least one biocompatible agent effective to reduce 

active formaldehyde concentration levels is microencapsulated 
with a coating material selected from the group 

consisting of polyglycolic acid, polylactic acid, 
copolymers of polyglycolic acid and polylactic acid, 

polycaprolactone, poly-β-hydroxybutyrate, copolymers of 
epsilon-caprolactone and delta-valerolactone, copolymers 

of epsilon-caprolactone and DL-dilactide, polyester hydrogels, 
polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyamides, gelatin, albumin, 

proteins, collagen, poly(orthoesters), poly(anhydrides) 
poly(alkyl-2-cyanoacrylates), poly(dihydropyrans), 

poly(acetals), poly(phosphazenes), poly(urethanes), 
poly(dioxinones), cellulose, and starches. 
A biocompatible composition comprising A) at 
least one copolymer of two monomers each having the 

formula: 
(I)   CHR=CXY 

wherein X and Y are each strong electron withdrawing 
groups, and R is H or, provided that X and Y are both 

cyano groups, a C₁-C₄ alkyl group or at least one copolymer 
of a monomer of formula (I) and a monomer having the 

formula: 
(II)   CHZ=CXY 

wherein X and Y are as defined above and Z is -CH=CH₂ and 
   B. an effective amount of at least one biocompatible 

agent effective to reduce active formaldehyde 
concentration levels. 
A biocompatible composition, comprising 

A. a polymer whose invivo biodegradation produces 
formaldehyde and 
B. an effective amount of at least one biocompatible 
agent effective to reduce active formaldehyde 

concentration levels. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
