<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653922</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATED ENDOSCOPE SYSTEM FOR OPTIMAL POSITIONING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B100	A61B1700	A61B1900	B60R2246	B60R2246	A61B1900	A61B100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	B60R	B60R	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B1	A61B17	A61B19	B60R22	B60R22	A61B19	A61B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A robotic system (10) that moves a surgical instrument (18) in response to the actuation of a foot pedal (22) that can be operated by the foot of a surgeon. The robotic system (10) has an end effector that is adapted to hold a surgical instrument (18) such as an endoscope (18). The end effector (32) is coupled to a robotic arm assembly (26) which can move the endoscope (18) relative to the patient (12). The robotic system (10) includes a computer (20) which controls the movement of the robotic arm (26) in response to input signals received from the foot pedal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a robotic system for remotely controlling the position of a surgical instrument.Endoscopes typically contain a lens that is coupled to a visual display by a fiber optic cable. Such a system
allows the user to remotely view an image in front of the scope. Endoscopes are commonly used in a surgical procedure
known as laparoscopy, which involves inserting the endoscope into the patient through a small incision in the abdomen.
The endoscope allows the surgeon to internally view the patient without being in a direct line of sight with the object.
The use of an endoscope typically reduces the size of the incision needed to perform a surgical procedure.Endoscopes are commonly used to assist the surgeon in removing the gall bladder of a patient. Because the
surgeon typically requires both hands to remove a gall bladder, the endoscope must be held and operated by a assistant.
During the surgical procedure, the surgeon must frequently instruct the assistant to move the endoscope within the
patient. Such a method can be time consuming as the surgeon may have to relay a series of instructions until the assistant
has positioned the endoscope in the proper location. Additionally, the assistant may be unable to consistently hold
the instrument in a fixed position, resulting in a moving image. This is particularly true for surgical procedures that
extend over a long period of time.There is presently a system marketed by Leonard Medical Inc., which mechanically holds an endoscope. The
Leonard Medical system is an articulated mechanism which has a plurality of pneumatically powered joints that hold
the endoscope in a fixed position. To move the endoscope, the pneumatic powered joints must be initially released into
a relaxed condition. The surgeon or assistant then moves the scope and reactivates the pneumatic system. Although
the Leonard system holds the endoscope in one position, the system requires the surgeon or assistant to constantly
deactivate/activate the pneumatics and manually move the scope. Such system interrupts the surgery process and
increases the time of the surgical procedure. A similar system is known from US-A-4517963 in which the articulated
arm comprises a series of mechanically interhinged and optically intercoupled arm sections. The scope of the system
disclosed therein is manually operated.It would be desirable to provide a system that allows the surgeon to directly and efficiently control the movement
of an endoscope.The present invention refers to a system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system comprising a surgical instrument and a display device that allows a user to
remotely control a movement of said surgical instrument, wherein the surgical instrument

provides image signals to said display device, the system further comprising attachment
means for holding said surgical instrument; movement means (24,30,34,38) for moving

said attachment means and the surgical instrument (18), said movement means having an
original position and moves within a first coordinate system, the surgical instrument being

located within another coordinate system, said system being 
characterised by
 input means
(22) for inputting a command provided by the user to move the surgical instrument (18) in

a desired direction relative to the object displayed by the display device within the other
coordinate system; and con
trol means (20) for receiving said command to move the
surgical instrument in the desired direction, computing movement of said movement

means (24, 30, 34, 38) based on said command and the original position of said movement
means so that the surgical instrument (18) moves in the desired direction and providing

output signals to said movement means (24, 30, 34, 38) to move said movement means in
the first coordinate system, so that the surgical instrument (18) always moves in the

desired direction commanded by the user in the other coordinate system. 
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said movement means includes a worm gear (154) adapted to rotate a
corresponding bearing member attached to the surgical instrument (18).
The system as recited in claim 2, wherein said attachment means includes collar (148) attached to the surgical
instrument (18) and coupled to a collar holder (146).
The system as recited in claim 2, wherein said attachment means has a first joint (30) that allows the surgical instrument
(18) to rotate above a longitudinal axis of a first linkage arm (28) and a second joint (34) that allows the surgical

instrument (18) to rotate about an axis that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said first linkage arm
(28).
The system as recited in claim 4, wherein said control means includes first joint sensor means (54) coupled to the
attachment means (18) for providing a first joint feedback signal which corresponds to a first angular position of the

surgical instrument (18) relative to a second x axis, and second joint sensor means (55) coupled to the attachment
means (18) for providing a second joint feedback signal which corresponds to a second angular position of the surgical

instrument (18) relative to the second y axis.
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said movement means includes a first linkage arm (28) attached to said
attachment means and a first actuator (30) which can rotate said first linkage arm (28) in a plane perpendicular to

a first z axis, said first actuator (30) being coupled to a linear actuator (24) which can translate said attachment
means along an axis parallel with the first z axis.
The system as recited in claim 6, wherein said control means includes first actuator sensor means (46) coupled to
said linear actuator (24) for providing a first feedback signal which corresponds to a location of said first actuator

(30) on the first z axis, and second actuator sensor means (52) coupled to said first actuator (30) for providing a
second feedback signal which corresponds to a location of the attachment means in the plane that is perpendicular

to the first z axis.
The system as recited in claim 7, wherein said movement means includes a second actuator (34) attached to said
first actuator (30) by a second linkage arm (36), said second actuator (34) being adapted to rotate said first actuator

(30) in the plane that is perpendicular to the first z axis.
The system as recited in claim 8, wherein said control means includes third actuator sensor means (50) coupled to
said second actuator (34) for providing a third feedback signal which corresponds to a location of said first actuator

(30) in the plane that is perpendicular to the first z axis.
The system as recited in claim 9, further comprising clutch means (96) for disengaging said first actuator (30) from
said linear actuator (24), said second actuator (34) from said first actuator (30) and said third actuator (38) from

said second actuator (34) when said clutch means receives a clutch input signal.
The system as recited in claim 9, wherein said first, second and third actuators (30,34,38) are electric motors. 
The system as recited in Claim 1, wherein said control means is a computer (20) which
receives command signals from said input means (22) in the other coordinate system and

provides output signals to said control means to move the position of the surgical
instrument (18) in the first coordinate system in accordance with an algorithm that

transforms the command signals from the input means (22).
The system as recited in claim 12, further comprising storage means for storing a first position of said end effector
upon receiving a first storage input signal and moving said end effector to said first position upon receiving a second

storage input signal.
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said input means includes a foot pedal (22) which can be pressed by the
user to generate said command signals.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
