<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647332</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A DISPLAY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F11335	G02F113357	G02F113	G02F1139	G02F1133	G02F11347	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A display is provided comprising a semi-transparent display element (16, 17, 18, 19), such as double supertwisted nematic (DSTN) liquid crystal display (LCD) glass, a sub-assembly having backlight elements (11, 12, 13) mounted thereon, and mounting means (20) mounting the display element over the sub-assembly with the display element adjacent to the backlight elements, with no diffuser between the backlight elements and the display element. The backlight elements are an array of light emitting diodes (LEDs) of sufficiently wide angle and spaced sufficiently close together that, when viewed from the front of the display element, the display has substantially evenly dispersed brightness across the array.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to semi-transparent displays, such 
as liquid crystal displays (LCDs). Solid state displays are finding wider and wider 
applications in the electronics and consumer industries. Liquid 
crystal displays have largely superseded earlier light emitting 
diode displays, on account of factors such as low current drain, 
reliability, readability and aesthetic appearance. LCDs operate in either reflective mode, transmissive mode 
or transflective mode. A reflective mode LCD requires ambient 
light to be reflected from the display to show the contrasting 
segments. A transmissive mode LCD has a backlight and passes 
the light through the display. A transflective mode LCD has a 
low backlight and a thin reflective layer in the back polarizer. 
Transflective mode LCDs are usable in all conditions of ambient 
light. The ruggedness of such devices is in part dependent on 
the reliability of the backlights. Positive transmissive or Transflective mode LCDs are 
displays in which the characters appear dark in contrast to a 
light background. Negative transmissive or transflective mode 
LCDs allow light to pass through the characters and block the 
passage of light through the background. LCDs are made from a sandwich of two layers of glass with 
polarizable liquid between them. The liquid selectively rotates 
the light passing through. Front and back polarizers polarize the 
light and filter out light that has been rotated by the liquid, or 
has not been rotated, depending on the transmissive mode of the 
display. The glass sandwich is typically known as twisted 
nematic glass and typically rotates the light through 180°. 
Super twisted nematic glass is similar but has a liquid that 
imparts about 270° rotation. Double super twisted nematic 
(DSTN) glass is a double sandwich of super twisted nematic  
 
glass where the extra sandwich is a compensation cell and gives 
a wider viewing angle. Normal super twisted nematic displays 
tend to change colour with temperature. In a DSTN display, the 
compensation cell also gives colour compensation. DSTN displays 
are neutral regarding colour. It is known to provide negative transmission mode LCD 
displays using DSTN glass with a cold cathode tube to provide 
the backlighting, generally provided via a light pipe from outside 
the display. Such an arrangement is only possible in such 
applications as aviation displays where there is adequate room 
for the bulky cold cathode tube and the light pipe. Cold cathode 
tubes are not suitable for mobile radios
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display comprising: 

a semi-transparent display element; 
a backlight sub-assembly, and 
mounting means mounting the display element over and 
directly adjacent to the backlight sub-assembly, wherein the 

backlight sub-assembly comprises a 2-dimensional array of light 
emitting diodes mounted on a circuit board, characterised in 

that: 
there is no diffuser between the light emitting diodes and 
the display element, 
the light emitting diodes have a wide polar lighting angle, 
and the spacing between the light emitting diodes is determined 

in relation to the polar lighting angle such that overlapping of 
light from one light emitting diode to another provides the 

display, when viewed from the front of the display element, 
with substantially evenly dispersed brightness across the array. 
A display according to claim 1, wherein the display 
element is a transmissive or transflective mode liquid crystal 

assembly having a front polarizer, a back polarizer and a display 
cell element and a compensation cell element sandwiched 

between the front and back polarizers. 
A display according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the display 
element is a negative transmissive or transflective mode liquid 

crystal assembly. 
A display according to any one of the preceding claims, 
wherein the display element comprises a double super twisted 

nematic liquid crystal cell. 
A display according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein the display element has a layer of reflective material on 

the back side thereof, making it a transflective display element.  
 
A display comprising: 

a liquid crystal display element; 
a backlight sub-assembly, and 
mounting means mounting the display element over and 
directly adjacent to the backlight sub-assembly, wherein the 

backlight sub-assembly comprises a two-dimensional array of 
light emitting diodes mounted on a circuit board, the circuit 

board and other surfaces behind and around the light emitting 
diodes forming a reflective surface, characterised in that: 
the liquid crystal display element is of the double super 
twisted nematic type, 
there is no diffuser between the light emitting diodes and 
the display element, 
the light emitting diodes have a wide polar lighting angle, 
and the spacing between the light emitting diodes is determined 

in relation to the polar lighting angle such that overlapping of 
light from one light emitting diode to another provides the 

display, when viewed from the front of the display element, 
with substantially evenly dispersed brightness across the array. 
A display according to claim 6 wherein holes are provided 
in the mounting means for circulation of air. 
A display according to any one of the preceding claims 
comprising temperature measuring means, supply current 

means and means for controlling the supply current to the 
backlight sub-assembly to reduce the current when the 

temperature exceeds a threshold. 
A display according to any one of the preceding claims 
wherein the light emitting diodes are surface-mounted on the 

circuit board. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
