<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633943</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GENE THERAPY USING TARGETED VIRAL VECTORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3170	A61K3170	A61K3566	A61K3576	A61K4800	A61K4800	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N15867	C12N15867	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K35	A61K35	A61K48	A61K48	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A general method for delivering genes to specific target cells in vivo is described. Enveloped viruses are genetically engineered to infect specific target cells by replacing the cell surface receptor recognition domain of viral envelope proteins with ligands that direct the binding and fusion of these viruses to specific cell surface molecules.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOUNG ALEXANDER T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOUNG, ALEXANDER, T.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG ALEXANDER T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, ALEXANDER, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 GENE THERAPY USING TARGETED VIRAL VECTORS Background of the Invention The invention relates to gene therapy methods. Gene therapy is an approach to treating a broad range of diseases by delivering therapeutic genes directly into the human body. Diseases that can potentially be cured by gene therapy include 1) diseases associated with the aging population such as cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer's disease, high blood pressure, atherosclerosis and arthritis; 2) viral infectious diseases such as acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and herpes; and 3) inherited diseases such as diabetes, hemophilia, cystic fibrosis, and muscular dystrophy.Current methods of delivery of new genetic information into cells in vitro include cell fusion, chromosome-mediated insertion, microcell-mediatedT gene transfer, liposome DNA carriers, spheroplast fusion, DNA- mediated gene transfer, microinjection, infection with recombinant RNA viruses, and infection with recombinant DNA viruses (Martin, J.C., 1984, Mol . Cell Biochem . 59;3- 10) . These techniques are not generally applicable, however, for use in animals or humans because of low efficiency, instability of introduced genes, introduction of extraneous or undesirable genetic information, and lack of target specificity.In one particular example, a favored approach for human gene therapy involves the transplantation of genetically-altered cells into patients (Rosenberg, et al., 1988, New Eng J Medicine 311:570-578). This approach requires the surgical removal of cells from each patient to isolate target cells from nontarget cells. Genes are introduced into these cells via viral vectors or other means, followed by transplantation of the 

genetically-altered cells back into the patient. Although this approach is useful for purposes such as enzyme replacement therapy (for example, for transplantation into a patient of cells that secrete a hormone that diseased cells can no longer secrete) , transplantation strategies are less likely to be suitable for treating diseases such as cystic fibrosis or cancer, where the diseased cells themselves must be corrected. Other problems commonly encountered with this approach include technical problems, including inefficient transduction of stem cells, low expression of the transgene, and growth of cells in tissue culture which may select for cells that are predisposed to cancer. Finally, inappropriate expression of transplanted genes in nontarget cells may actually be harmful to patients. An alternative approach to gene therapy
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
Claims
1. A method for expressing a nucleic acid of interest in a heterologous host cell, said method comprising
(a) providing a virus whose genome comprises (i) said nucleic acid of interest and (ii) a hybrid envelope gene, said hybrid gene encoding an envelope fragment joined to a targeting ligand, whereby said envelope fragment does not facilitate recognition or binding of its normal host cell but which does facilitate efficient incorporation of said virus into a mature viral particle and whereby said targeting ligand facilitates targeting and binding of said mature viral particle to the surface of said heterologous host cell, and
(b) administering said virus so as to permit viral infection of said heterologous host cell.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said virus is an envelope virus.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said envelope virus is a Herpesviridae.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein said envelope virus is a Retroviridae.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said Retroviridae is a Moloney murine leukemia virus.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid of interest is DNA.
7. The method of claim l, wherein said nucleic acid of interest is RNA. 


 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said heterologous host cell is infectious.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a portion of said hybrid envelope fragment consists of a receptor binding domain, an oligomerization domain, a transmembrane domain, a virus budding domain, sorting signals, and a signal sequence.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said envelope fragment further consists of a fusion domain.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the fusion activity of said envelope fragment is performed by a second protein.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said administration is by implanting a container enclosing said virus into a patient.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein said virus is inside a packaging cell.
14. A virus, the genome of which encodes a hybrid envelope protein, said hybrid protein comprising an envelope fragment joined in frame to a targeting ligand, whereby said envelope fragment does not facilitate recognition or binding of its normal host cell but which does facilitate efficient incorporation of said hybrid envelope protein into a mature viral particle and whereby said non-viral protein facilitates targeting and binding of said mature viral particle to the surface of a cell not normally infected by said virus. 


 15. The virus of claim 14, wherein said virus is an envelope virus.
16. The virus of claim 15, wherein said envelope virus is a Herpesviridae.
17. The virus of claim 15, wherein said envelope virus is a Retroviridae.
18. The virus of claim 17, wherein said Retroviridae is a Moloney murine leukemia virus.
19. The virus of claim 14, wherein said nucleic acid of interest is DNA.
20. The virus of claim 14, wherein said nucleic acid of interest is RNA.
21. The virus of claim 14, wherein said heterologous host cell is infectious.
22. The virus of claim 14, wherein a portion of said hybrid envelope protein consists of a receptor binding domain, an oligomerization domain, a transmembrane domain, a virus budding domain, sorting signals, and a signal sequence.
23. The virus of claim 22, wherein said envelope fragment further consists of a fusion domain.
24. The virus of claim 14, wherein the fusion activity of said envelope fragment is performed by a second protein. 


 25. The virus of claim 14, wherein said administration is by implanting a container enclosing said virus into a patient.
26. The virus of claim 25, wherein said virus is inside a packaging cell.
27. A method for delivering a nucleic acid of interest to a heterologous host cell, said method comprising a) providing a virus whose genome comprises (i) said nucleic acid of interest and (ii) a hybrid envelope gene, said hybrid gene encoding an envelope fragment joined to a targeting ligand, whereby said envelope fragment does not facilitate recognition or binding to its normal host cell but does facilitate ef icient incorporation of said virus into a mature viral particle and whereby said targeting ligand facilitates targeting and binding of said mature viral particle to the surface of said heterologous host cell, and b) administering said virus so as to permit viral infection of said cell.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein said virus is an envelope virus.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein said envelope virus is a Herpesviridae.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein said envelope virus is a Retroviridae.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein said Retroviridae is a Moloney murine leukemia virus. 


 32. The method of claim 27, wherein said nucleic acid of interest is DNA.
33. The method of claim 27, wherein said nucleic acid of interest is an RNA.
34. The method of claim 27, wherein said heterologous host cell is infectious.
35. The method of claim 27, wherein a portion of said hybrid envelope fragment consists of a receptor binding domain, an oligomerization domain, a transmembrane domain, a virus budding domain, sorting signals, and a signal sequence.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein said envelope fragment further consists of a fusion domain.
37. The method of claim 27, wherein said the fusion activity of said envelope fragment is performed by a second protein.
38. The method of claim 27, wherein said administration is by implanting a container enclosing said virus into a patient.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein said virus is inside a packaging cell. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
