<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637383</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SALIVA TESTING AND FINGERPRINT IDENTIFICATION METHOD AND DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1000	A61B1000	G01N33543	G01N33543	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B10	A61B10	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and device for testing for the presence of substances such as drugs in the saliva of a test subject while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject comprising obtaining a saliva sample on a swab (20), adding labelled antibodies to the swab, covering the finger of the test subject with the mixture of saliva and labelled antibodies and pressing the finger onto the membrane of the test device. The device comprises a membrane (38) containing a plurality of separated areas provided with different immobilized antibodies, each of the antibodies having a specific binding site for specific antigens which correspond to the substances to indicate the presence of those substances in the saliva sample. The device further comprises a base area without immobilized antibodies to record the fingerprint of the test subject.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINA LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LA MINA LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUIRGUIS RAOUF A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUIRGUIS, RAOUF, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SALIVA TESTING AND FINGERPRINT IDENTIFICATION METHOD AND DEVICEBACKGROUND OF INVENTIONThe present invention is directed to an individual testing method and device and more specifically to a method and device for detecting the presence of specific antigens or specific antibodies produced by drugs in a biological fluid such as saliva and using the device to also positively identify the individual tested by reproducing the fingerprint of the person being tested. Previously drug testing has been accomplished by testing individual fluid samples such as urine or blood to determine the presence of drugs in the body. Such testing procedures are very common in the athletic world, prisons, courts of law, and in the general workplace and are many times proscribed by contracts between the individual and his/her employer or labor union which represents the individual or group. A problem which has occurred during such testing is that test fluids are obtained from persons other than the person to be tested or that test fluids become mixed, lost, or cannot be specifically identified with that person after the test comes back with positive results. Another problem is that the time for testing is generally too long to obtain results which are timely.Saliva is a transcellular fluid produced by several paired salivary glands, particularly the parotid, the submaxillary, the sublingual glands and some other small glands.The present invention attempts to overcome the problems which are inherit in the prior art through the use of a specifically designed fingerprint pad device which tests for the presence of drugs or other specified agents in the saliva as well as providing a fingerprint of the person giving the test so that positive identification of the fluid donor is irrefutably obtained. 

 It is known that there is a correlation between cocaine levels in blood and levels of cocaine in saliva (Vol. 11, Journal of Analytical Toxicology, p. 36, January/February 1987) and that cocaine can be found in saliva after cocaine administration in concentrations equal to or greater than those in plasma allowing for the possibility of a relatively noninvasive means of chain detection and monitoring (Vol. 34, Clinical Chemistry, p. 150B, No. 7, 1988). It is also known that detection of cocaine in saliva and urine is successful through the first 24 hours of collection for saliva and 4-5 days for urine (Vol. 13, Journal of Analytical Toxicology, p. 65, March/April 1989.Furthermore, it has been proposed that morphine and codeine usage can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A device for testing for the presence of substances in humans and identifying specifically the human tested with a saliva sample taken from the human being; comprising a support member, swab holder means formed in said support member, a membrane means mounted to said support member, said membrane means being constructed to contain immobilized antibodies having a specific receptor site for antigens produced in the saliva by at least one predetermined substance which captures antigen in direct proportion to the concentration of the substance in the saliva sample placed on the membrane and present a fingerprint of the human tested.
2. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said substance is a drug.
3. A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein said drug is cocaine.
4. A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein said drug is PCP.
5. A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein said drug is THC.
6. A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein said drug is methamphetamine.
7. A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein said drug is alcohol.
8. A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein said drugs are opiates.
9. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said membrane means is a plastic membrane which retains a negative fingerprint imprint on its surface.
10. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said membrane means is a membrane which is provided with a plurality of different sector areas, each of which contains immobilized antibodies which attach to different predetermined substances to present an inhibition assay for each predetermined substance in the saliva sample while retaining a fingerprint imprint on its surface. 


 11. A device for testing for the presence of different drugs in humans and identifying specifically the human test subject through the use of the human test subject's saliva comprising a support member with an absorbent pad section and a swab holder means, a membrane mounted to said absorbent pad section, said membrane being provided with a plurality of separated areas, each area being provided with different immobilized antibody, each antibody having a specific receptor site for specific antigens produced by different predetermined drugs.
12. A device for testing for the presence of different drugs in human beings and identifying specifically the human being through the use of saliva as claimed in claim 11 wherein said swab holder means comprises a channel and basin formed in said support member to hold and incubate a swab.
13. A device for testing for the presence of different drugs in human beings and identifying specifically the human being through the use of saliva as claimed in claim 11 including a swab removably mounted to said support member.
14. A method for testing for substances in the saliva of a test subject while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining a quantity of saliva of a test subject in an absorbent holder; (b) adding a solution containing labelled antibodies against specific substance molecules of interest to the saliva to form a saliva solution composite; (c) covering the finger with the saliva solution composite; and (d) placing the finger on a membrane so that saliva composite is deposited from the finger on the membrane to form a fingerprint and identify specific substance molecules of interest contained in the saliva.
15. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the 


test subject as claimed in claim 14 wherein said solution antibodies are attached to microspheres which allow visualization of antibody reaction.
16. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject as claimed in claim 15 wherein said solution antibodies are attached to gold particles microspheres.
17. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject as claimed in claim 15 wherein said specific substance molecules are at least one drug.
18. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject as claimed in claim 17 wherein said drug is cocaine.
19. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject as claimed in claim 17 wherein said drug is PCP.
20. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject as claimed in claim 17 wherein said drug is THC.
21. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject as claimed in claim 17 wherein said drug is methamphetamine.
22. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject as claimed in claim 17 wherein said drug is alcohol.
23. A method for testing for substances in the saliva while simultaneously positively identifying the test subject as claimed in claim 17 wherein said drugs are opiates.
24. A method for testing for drugs in the saliva and positively identifying the test subject 


 18
comprising the steps of: (a) covering the finger of the test subject with a thin film of saliva taken from the test subject premixed with a labelled antibody solution containing antibodies against specific substance molecules of interest, the antibodies attached to microsome means which present a color; (b) pressing the finger against a membrane mounted on an absorbent pad to deposit saliva antibody solution on the surface of the membrane to form a fingerprint, the membrane being provided with specific ligands which bind predetermined biological ligands produced in response to the substance molecules of interest, said biological ligands being carried in the saliva bringing out a coloration of the test subjects fingerprint and inhibition assay of any specific substance of interest.
25. A method of testing as claimed in claim 24 wherein said saliva is mixed with labelled antibodies having receptor sites for specific antigens produced by the body in reaction to specific drugs.
26. A method of testing as claimed in claim 24 wherein said membrane has receptor sites for specific ligands present in the saliva, the membrane being provided with a specific activated chemical groups which bind predetermined biological ligands, said biological ligands being carried in the saliva.
27. A method of testing as claimed in claim 24 wherein said microsome means are colloidal gold.
28. A method of testing as claimed in claim 24 wherein said microsome means are gold particles coated with silver. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
