<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617303</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method of integrating a semiconductor component with a polymeric optical waveguide component, and an electro-optical device comprising an integrated structure so attainable.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B6122	G02B6122	G02B642	G02B642	H01L3300	H01L3300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	H01L33	H01L33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method of fabricating an electro-optical 
device which comprises integrating a semiconductor component with a 

polymeric optical waveguide component. According to the invention, a 
semiconductor component obtained by epitaxial lift-off (ELO) is 

embedded in a waveguide device which in addition to a polymeric 
optical waveguide structure comprises an appropriate cavity. The 

invention further pertains to an integrated electro-optical device 
attainable by means of this ELO technique. Notably, it concerns an 

integrated electro-optical device in which the polymeric waveguide 
component and the semiconductor component are integrated on a 

substrate made of a different material from that of the semiconductor 
component, preferably a material with good heat dissipation, such as 

silicon. Preferably, the polymeric waveguide component comprises a 
polymer in which waveguide channels have been provided by bleaching. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AKZO NOBEL NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AKZO NOBEL N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE DOBBELAERE PETER MARTIN CYR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DAELE PETER PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE DOBBELAERE, PETER MARTIN CYRIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DAELE, PETER PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to a method of fabricating an electro-optical 
device which comprises integrating a semiconductor component with a 
polymeric optical waveguide component. In such an electro-optical device the necessary light sources, such as 
LEDs and laser diodes, optical detectors, or semiconductor electronic 
integrated circuits, can be incorporated into an integrated structure 
containing polymers in which light is transported and, optionally, 
modulated. These integrated structures have a number of important 
applications in the field of optical interconnects, int. al ., in the 
field of optical telecommunications (e.g., external modulation of 
light emitted by a laser diode, routing in interconnection networks, 
optical amplifiers, components for wavelength division multiplexing), 
high-speed interconnections in computers (optical backplane), optical 
sensors, etc., as well as being easier to use and handle than opto-electronic 
structures composed of separate, unintegrated components. 
As advantages of integrated structures may be mentioned the 
possibility of incorporating a wide range of functionalities into a 
single electro-optical device, improved efficiency in coupling light 
into and out of waveguides, and the fact that the known problems with 
regard to so-called pigtailing (providing a waveguide component with a 
section of optical fibre) can be avoided. The integration of semiconductor components with polymeric optical 
waveguide components is known from a post-deadline paper by Van Daele 
et al. presented at the 15th European Conference on Optical 
Communications held in Gothenburg in September of 1989 (ECOC 89) and 
published in the conference proceedings. At issue here is monolithic 
integration, with the polymeric optical waveguide component being  
 
disposed on a semiconductor substrate which is part of the 
semiconductor structure in which the semiconductor component is 
fabricated. In itself, this is the method which the person of ordinary 
skill in the art will make use of first. However, there are some 
drawbacks to this method, notably its fairly complex nature, which 
seems little suited to use on a commercial scale. Moreover, the 
requirement of using semiconductor substrates imposes unacceptable 
restrictions on the electro-optical device to be manufactured, int. 
al., as regards size, sturdiness, and cost price. In EP 230 520 an optical element integrated optical waveguide is 
disclosed which comprises a polymeric supporting member which has at 
least one bore
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of fabricating an electro-optical device comprising 
integrating a semiconductor component with a polymeric optical 

waveguide component, characterised in that a semiconductor 
component obtained by epitaxial lift-off (ELO) is embedded in a 

waveguide device which in addition to a polymeric optical 
waveguide structure comprises an appropriate cavity. 
A method according to claim 1, characterised in that the cavity 
is provided in a polymeric optical waveguide structure which is 

disposed on a support, with the cavity reaching down to the 
surface area of the support. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the 
polymeric optical waveguide component is made from the polymeric 

optical waveguide structure after the arrangement of the 
semiconductor component in the waveguide device. 
A method according to claim 3, characterised in that the 
polymeric optical waveguide structure comprises a bleachable 

polymer in which the polymeric waveguide component is fabricated 
by inducing a waveguide pattern by means of a bleaching process. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that where the semiconductor component is not 

in direct contact with the polymeric optical waveguide 
component, the intermediate space is filled with a material 

having an index of refraction of the same order of magnitude as 
the polymeric optical waveguide's. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the cavity is provided with substantially 

vertical walls. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that a polymeric layer is coated onto the 

polymeric optical waveguide component and the semiconductor 
component. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the semiconductor component to be embedded 

is made up of a monolithic array of semiconductor components. 
A method of fabricating an electro-optical device in which at 
least one semiconductor component is integrated with at least 

one polymeric optical waveguide component, comprising the 
following steps: 


making a transplantable film from a III-V component with a 
layer thickness in the range of about 0.1 µm to about 10 

µm; 
making a guest substrate by providing a cavity into which 
the III-V component will fit in a polymeric waveguide 

structure provided on a support; 
arranging the transplantable film of the III-V component in 
the cavity; 
where necessary, filling any spaces between the 
semiconductor component and the polymeric optical waveguide 

component using a material having an index of refraction of 
the same order of magnitude as the polymeric optical 

waveguide's. 
An integrated electro-optical device attainable by means of a 
method according to any one of the preceding claims. 
An integrated electro-optical device comprising a polymeric 
waveguide component and a semiconductor component, characterised 

in that the semiconductor component is wholly embedded in the 
polymeric waveguide component, the polymeric waveguide component 

 
comprising a waveguide structure made up of a flat core layer 

enclosed by a flat bottom deflection layer and a flat top 
deflection layer. 
An integrated electro-optical device comprising a polymeric 
waveguide component and a semiconductor component, characterised 

in that the semiconductor component and the polymeric waveguide 
component are integrated on a substrate made of a material 

different from that of the semiconductor component. 
An integrated electro-optical device according to claim 12, 
characterised in that the substrate serves as a heat sink. 
An integrated electro-optical device according to claim 13, 
characterised in that the substrate is made of silicon. 
An integrated electro-optical device according to any one of 
claims 10-14, characterised in that the semiconductor component 

is a laser diode, a light emitting diode, an optical amplifier, 
or a light detector. 
An integrated electro-optical device according to any one of 
claims 10-15, characterised in that the polymeric optical 

waveguide component comprises a polymer in which waveguide 
channels have been provided by bleaching. 
An integrated electro-optical device according to any one of 
claims 10-16, characterised in that the polymeric waveguide 

component comprises an optically non-linear polymeric core layer 
enclosed by deflection layers which may be optically non-linear 

or not. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
