<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616672</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TREATMENT OF LIQUID WASTE MATERIAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23G700	C01B1700	F23G700	F23G704	F23G704	C01B1758	C01B1776	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23G	C01B	F23G	F23G	F23G	C01B	C01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23G7	C01B17	F23G7	F23G7	F23G7	C01B17	C01B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Liquid waste material, particularly material containing sulphuric acid, may be combusted using an oxygen-rich material by a process in which: (i) a primary oxidant and fuel issuing from a burner are combusted in a furnace, the proportion of primary oxidant to fuel being such that there is insufficient oxygen to combust the fuel completely, (ii) introducing into the furnace the liquid waste material in atomised form around the burner, (iii) introducing into the furnace spaced from the burner a secondary oxidant which contains sufficient oxygen to combust completely the fuel not combusted by the primary oxidant the direction in which each of the primary oxidant, fuel and liquid waste material is introduced being such that the substances flow in substantially the same direction, the rate at which the primary oxidant, fuel, liquid waste material and secondary oxidant are introduced being such that a plug flow of substances through the furnace is created.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR LIQUIDE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ICI PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
L'AIR LIQUIDE, SOCIETE ANONYME POUR L'ETUDE ET L'EXPLOITATION DES PROCEDES GEORGES CLAUDE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARRIDO GUILLERMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLE JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUEILLE PHILIPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARRIDO, GUILLERMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOLE, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUEILLE, PHILIPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a method and 
apparatus for treating liquid waste material by combustion. Such a method and apparatus are known from US-A-4 544 350. More 
particularly, the present invention relates to a method for 
treating contaminated acid, especially contaminated sulphuric 
acid, by the application of heat to thermally and oxidatively 
dissociate the acid. The production of waste by-product materials is a common 
problem with many industrial processes. For example contaminated 
or spent acid is produced in the course of a number of industrial 
processes. Particular mention may be made of contaminated 
sulphuric acid which is produced in large quantities during the 
manufacture of methyl methacrylate by the so-called ACH process. The sulphuric acid which is generated during the production 
of methyl methacrylate by the ACH process is contaminated with 
water, ammonium sulphate, ammonium bisulphate and various organic 
species. The treatment of such waste sulphuric acid by combustion has 
been described in various patents, especially when the furnace is part 
of a sulphuric acid recovery facility. In one such sulphuric acid recovery facility, the 
contaminated sulphuric acid is introduced into a furnace along 
with fuel. The fuel/air mixture is combusted to generate the 
necessary heat to both vaporise the contaminated sulphuric acid 
and dissociate the acid and its associated contaminants to form 
water, carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide. These gaseous 
combustion products, together with the nitrogen contained in the 
air, exit the furnace and are passed firstly through a waste heat 
boiler to recover waste heat and then through a gas cleaning unit 
to remove water. Following water removal, the gas stream 
containing the sulphur dioxide is passed through a catalytic 
converter where the sulphur dioxide is reacted with oxygen to 
produce sulphur trioxide. The resulting product is then passed 
through an absorption tower in which the sulphur trioxide is 
reacted with water to produce sulphuric acid and/or oleum by the  
 
contact process. However, the use of air to support the combustion process 
carries with it certain problems. The inert gases (predominantly 
nitrogen) contained in air contribute significantly to the heat 
load, since they must also be heated to the appropriate 
temperature in the combustion process. In effect, a significant 
proportion of the heat generated in the combustion of the fuel is 
wasted by having to heat up the inerts contained in the air. In 
c
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for treating liquid waste material by combustion 
thereof in a furnace (1) to produce a flow of combustion gas which is 

substantially free of liquid waste material at an exit from the 
furnace, which process comprises: 


(a) supplying to the furnace (1) through at least one burner 
(2) located in an end wall (5) thereof a flow of a primary oxidant 

which issues from the at least one burner in a first flow direction 
and which contains at least 22% vol/vol of oxygen, together with a 

flow of fuel which issues from the at least one burner in 
substantially the same direction as the first flow direction; 
(b) combusting the fuel so as to produce a source of heat; 
(c) controlling the primary oxidant to fuel ratio such that 
the flow of primary oxidant provides insufficient oxygen to effect 

complete combustion of the fuel; 
(d) supplying a flow of liquid waste material to the furnace 
(1) through a plurality of atomising lances (4) such that the liquid 

waste material issues from the atomising lances in the form of 
atomised jets, the atomising lances being arranged in the end wall 

around the at least one burner (2) such that the material issues in 
substantially the same direction as the first direction; and 
(e) supplying a flow of secondary oxidant, which contains at 
least 22% vol/vol of oxygen, to the furnace through a plurality of 

oxidant lances (3) spaced from the at least one burner (2) so as to 
supplement the flow of primary oxidant and thereby providing 

sufficient oxygen to effect complete combustion of the fuel, 
and wherein the flows are supplied to the furnace (1) at such 
rates 
and positions that the momentum associated with the materials supplied 

is distributed essentially uniformly across the furnace cross-section 
creating a plug flow of material through the furnace from the end wall 

(5) to the exit. 
A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the flows issue 
into the furnace at an injection velocity of less than 100 m.s
-1
. 
A process as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein 
the at least one burner comprises a central passage which is in 

communication with a first inlet and an outer annular passage which is 
in communication with a second inlet. 
A process as claimed in claim 3 wherein the at least one 
burner (2) comprises a central passage, an intermediary annular 

passage (2A) and an outer annular passage (2B) and the flow of fuel 
passes through the central and outer annular passages into the furnace 

and the flow of primary oxidant passes through the intermediary 
annular passage into the furnace. 
A process as claimed in claim 4 wherein from 10 to 30% of 
the flow of fuel passes through the central passage. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein 
the fuel is selected from fuel oil, propane and natural gas. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein 
the atomising lances are supplied with a flow of an atomising gas 

which is used to atomise the liquid waste material. 
A process as claimed in claim 7 wherein the atomising gas 
is air. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein 
the secondary oxidant issues from the oxidant lances into the furnace 

in a direction which is substantially the same as the first flow 
direction. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein 
the flows of the primary and secondary oxidants and the atomising gas 

(when used) provides a quantity of oxygen which is in excess of the 
stoichiometric amount required to effect complete combustion of the 

fuel. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein 
the liquid waste material is spent sulphuric acid containing from 20 

to 90 weight % sulphuric acid, and from 10 to 80 weight % contaminants 
and the heat released by the combustion of the fuel  

 
is used to dissociate the sulphuric acid to produce a combustion 

gas which contains sulphur dioxide. 
A process as claimed in claim 11 wherein the spent sulphuric 
acid is atomised within the furnace into droplets having a size 

below 500 µm. 
A process as claimed in either claim 11 or claim 12 wherein 
the spent sulphuric acid has a residence time in the furnace of 

from 1 to 6 seconds. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 13 wherein 
the combustion gas exiting the furnace contain from 1 to 4 % by 

volume of oxygen on a dry gas basis. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 14 further 
comprising supplying a flow of liquid sulphur to the furnace 

through at least one lance. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 15 further 
comprising a series of recovery stages wherein 


(i) the combustion gas exiting the furnace is passed through 
a gas cleaning unit to remove water to produce a dried 

gas stream; 
(ii) the dried gas stream is passed through a catalytic 
converter to catalytically react the sulphur dioxide 

with oxygen in a catalytic converter to produce a 
sulphur trioxide laden stream; and 
(iii) the sulphur trioxide laden stream is passed through a 
contact process to produce sulphuric acid and/or oleum. 
A process as claimed in claim 16 wherein the combustion gas 
is subjected to indirect heat exchange prior to passage thereof 

through the gas cleaning unit, thereby recovering waste heat. 
A process as claimed in claim 17 wherein the waste heat is 
used to generate steam, which is then used to provide shaft power. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18 wherein the 
primary and/or secondary oxidant has an oxygen content in the 

range 22 to 66 % vol/vol. 
A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18 wherein the  
 

primary and/or secondary oxidant has an oxygen content of at least 40% 
vol/vol. 
A process as claimed in claim 20 wherein the primary 
and/or secondary oxidant has an oxygen content of at least 66% 

vol/vol. 
A furnace (1) suitable for carrying out the process as 
claimed in claim 1 which is connected to a supply of fuel, a supply of 

primary oxidant and a supply of secondary oxidant, which furnace 
comprises an end wall (5), a plurality of oxidant lances (3), an exit 

and a control system and wherein 

(a) the end wall has located therein at least one burner (2), 
and a plurality of atomising lances (4) disposed around the at least 

one burner; 
(b) the at least one burner (2) is connected to the supply of 
fuel and the supply of primary oxidant and is capable in use of 

directing a flow of fuel in a first direction and a flow of primary 
oxidant in substantially the same direction as the first direction; 
(c) the plurality of atomising jets (4) is connected to the 
supply of liquid waste material and is capable in use of forming a 

flow of liquid waste material into atomised jets and directing the 
atomised jets along a direction which is substantially the same as the 

first direction; 
(d) the plurality of oxidant lances (3) is connected to the 
supply of secondary oxidant and is spaced from the at least one burner 

(2); and 
(e) the control system is capable of adjusting the rates at 
which the fuel, primary oxidant, secondary oxidant and liquid waste 

material are supplied to the furnace so that in use the flow of 
primary oxidant provides insufficient oxygen to effect complete 

combustion of the fuel, the flow of secondary oxidant supplements the 
flow of primary oxidant to provide sufficient oxygen to effect 

complete combustion of the fuel and the momentum associated with the 
materials supplied is distributed essentially uniformly across the 

furnace cross-section creating a plug flow of material from the end 
wall to the exit. 
A furnace as claimed in claim 22 having a horizontal main  
 

axis. 
A furnace as claimed in either claim 22 or claim 23 wherein 
the at least one burner is positioned towards the centre of the 

end wall, at or around the main axis of the furnace. 
A furnace as claimed in claim 24 comprising three burners. 
A furnace as claimed in claim 25 wherein the burners are 
evenly spaced from the main axis of the furnace and equidistant 

with respect to one another. 
A furnace as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 26 wherein 
each of the plurality of atomising lances is arranged with its 

axis substantially parallel to the main axis of the furnace. 
A furnace as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 27 wherein 

the plurality of oxidant lances are located in the end wall of the 
furnace. 
A furnace as claimed in claim 28 wherein the plurality of 
oxidant lances are positioned around the at least one burner, and 

between the at least one burner and the plurality of atomising 
lances. 
A furnace as claimed in claim 29 wherein each of the 
plurality of oxidant lances is evenly spaced from the main axis of 

the furnace and equidistant with respect to one another. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
