<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631562</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEISMIC CABLE RETRIEVAL APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63B2156	B63B2166	B65H5100	B65H5118	G01V116	G01V120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63B	B63B	B65H	B65H	G01V	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63B21	B63B21	B65H51	B65H51	G01V1	G01V1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHELL OIL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHELL OIL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIBILICH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIBILICH, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTION SEISMIC CABLE RETRIEVAL APPARATUSTechnical FieldThe present invention relates generally to marine seismic cable and more particularly, to an apparatus or method to reduce tension on a marine seismic cable during retrieval of the cable from water for placement on a storage reel (drum) .Background ArtMarine seismic exploration is generally conducted by towing a marine seismic streamer cable at a given depth through the ocean or other body of water. However, in some locations due to congestion on the surface or a requirement to detect compressional and shear waves a marine seismic bottom cable is used.The current practice in marine seismic data collection is to require marine seismic cable of a longer length than was required in the past. For streamer cable, this means a length which could exceed four miles and for bottom cable the length could be equally as long and with an operating depth in excess of 4000 feet. In addition, some seismic data collection techniques require a plurality of marine streamer cables being towed behind a ship at the same time.A marine cable includes sections of marine cable, usually about 300 feet long, connected together by couplers. In some marine cable designs, each 600 feet, an instrumentation package is connected between sections of marine cable. Each section and each instrumentation package, if it is to be interchangeable, must be able to absorb the cumulative drag force upon the cable when towed in water and if a bottom cable, it must also be able to absorb the weight of the cable between the ship and the bottom.A marine cable section can absorb this tension 

 force by including longitudinally within the cable section stress members which connect to the couplers to transfer the drag and weight forces on that cable section to the next section of marine cable until finally at the connection to the ship, the drag force on the cable is received as a cumulative tension force on the cable.In the case of the instrumentation package connected between two couplers, the drag and weight forces are transferred from the trailing coupler, which is linked to stress members of the trailing section of seismic cable, through the body of the instrumentation package to the connecting coupler of the next section of marine cable.Longer cable or cable which can operate at greater depths place new demands on marine cable operations. The additional length can be a safety hazard. It takes time to retrieve the marine cable from water. If a storm approaches the crew of the ship could
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for retrieving marine cable on board a ship which reduces a longitudinal tension force on the cable at the cable storage reel when the cable storage reel is winding up the cable, comprising the steps of:
(a) sliding a cable retrieval tool along the cable away from the ship;
(b) gripping the cable at a predetermined location with the cable retrieval tool;
(c) pulling on the cable retrieval tool such that the longitudinal tension on the cable between the predetermined location and the cable storage reel is reduced; and
(d) winding up the cable between the cable retrieval tool and the ship.
2. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 1, wherein step (b) includes utilizing a ratcheting means for gripping the cable.
3. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 1, wherein step (a) includes: utilizing a sleeve which comprises at least a part of the cable retrieval tool to prevent damage to the cable by kinking; and guiding the sleeve along the cable by attaching a line between the forward end of the sleeve and the ship.
4. The method for retrieving a marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (b) includes guiding the cable within the sleeve to enhance the gripping of the cable.
5. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (a) includes utilizing a friction reduction mechanism for reducing friction between 


the sleeve and the cable.
6. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (a) includes utilizing rollers attached around the circumference of the sleeve to reduce friction between the sleeve and the cable.
7. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (a) includes utilizing longitudinal sections to form the sleeve, the longitudinal sections being joined to encircle the cable.
8. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (a) includes utilizing a drag enhancement mechanism for increasing a drag force on the sleeve to enhance sliding the sleeve along the cable.
9. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (a) includes utilizing a flared forward end piece attached to the sleeve for increasing a drag force on the sleeve to enhance sliding the sleeve along the cable away from the storage reel.
10. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (a) includes utilizing a cable protection mechanism for preventing the sleeve from bending the cable at the ends of the sleeve whereby the sleeve will not damage the cable due to rapid changes in the position of the sleeve and rapid changes in water flow near the sleeve.
11. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (a) includes utilizing a flared forward end piece and a flared rear end piece attached to the sleeve whereby the sleeve is prevented from damaging the cable due to rapid changes in the position of the sleeve and rapid changes in water flow near the sleeve due to the 


 limiting of the amount of bending the cable may undergo because of the flared forward end piece and the flared rear end piece.
12. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 3, wherein step (b) includes utilizing a collar and a biasing mechanism to grip the cable, the collar having a diameter larger than the cable and being attached to the cable at the predetermined location where the collar can absorb the tension on the trailing cable, the biasing mechanism being attached to the sleeve and being configured such that when the sleeve is moving in a direction away from the ship the biasing mechanism will pass over the collar and when the sleeve is being pulled toward the ship the biasing mechanism will engage the collar.
13. The method for retrieving a marine cable according to claim 12, wherein step (a) includes utilizing a biasing mechanism friction reduction mechanism for reducing friction between the biasing mechanism and the cable.
14. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 12, wherein: step (a) includes sliding the sleeve away from the ship until the sleeve passes over the collar; and step (b) includes engaging the biasing mechanism to grip the collar by pulling the sleeve with the line toward the ship until the biasing mechanism encounters the collar.
15. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 14, wherein step (b) includes utilizing a pivot, a biasing force, and a levered member for the biasing mechanism, the pivot being attached to the sleeve, the biasing force being located adjacent to the pivot, the levered member being located adjacent to the pivot and being aligned such that it may encounter the collar within the 


sleeve and connect at one point to the pivot and at another point to the biasing force whereby the biasing force urges the levered member toward the center of the sleeve for encountering the collar.
16. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 14, wherein step (b) includes utilizing pivots, biasing forces, and levered members for the biasing mechanism, a pivot being located at a plurality of locations around the circumference of the sleeve, a biasing force being located adjacent to each pivot, a levered member being located adjacent to each pivot and being aligned such that it may encounter the collar within the sleeve and connect at one point to the adjacent pivot and at another point to the adjacent biasing force whereby the biasing force urges the levered member toward the center of the sleeve for encountering the collar.
17. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 15, wherein step (b) includes utilizing a bias arm and a levered arm connected to the bias arm for the levered member, the levered arm having a collar encounter end, a passage passing through the levered arm for a pivot point and a connection with the bias arm, the levered member being aligned such that the levered arm is angled within the sleeve such that the collar encounter end of the levered arm extends toward the forward end of the sleeve, the bias arm extends toward the biasing force, the pivot point connects to the adjacent pivot and the bias arm connects to adjacent biasing force.
18. The method for retrieving a marine cable according to claim 17, wherein step (b) includes utilizing an engagement surface and an alignment surface on the collar encounter end of the levered arm to guide the cable within the sleeve and to enhance the engagement of the collar encounter end to the collar, the engagement surface having a 


 shape such that, when the collar encounter end is engaging the collar, the engagement surface in contact with the collar surface will align with the collar surface, and the alignment surface being configured such that the alignment surface rests upon the cable whereby the alignment surface will as a result of the biasing force acting on the levered arm through the pivot urge the cable to align within the sleeve for engagement by the biasing mechanism.
19. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 17, wherein step (b) includes utilizing the biasing force and the bias arm on the outside of the sleeve, the biasing force being located on the outside of the sleeve and adjacent to the pivot, the bias arm being extended outside the sleeve and connected to the biasing force whereby the biasing force urges the collar encounter end toward the center of the sleeve.
20. The method for retrieving marine cable according to claim 19, wherein step (b) includes utilizing guards which extend from the outside circumference of the sleeve, the guards being located adjacent to the biasing force to protect the biasing force and the bias arm by preventing an object in the water or the line from interfering with the operation of the biasing force and the bias arm.
21. The method for retrieving a marine cable according to claim 20, wherein step (b) includes utilizing the guards as a location to attach the pivot adjacent to the biasing force.
22. The method for retrieving a marine cable according to claim 18, wherein step (b) includes utilizing a biasing mechanism friction reduction mechanism for reducing friction between the alignment surface and the cable. 


 23. The method for retrieving a marine cable according to claim 18 wherein step (b) includes utilizing a roller attached to the alignment surface for reducing friction between the alignment surface and the cable.
24. A method for retrieving marine cable on board a ship which reduces a longitudinal tension force on the cable at the cable storage reel when the cable storage reel is winding up the cable, comprising the steps of:
(a) attaching to the cable a collar at a predetermined location;
(b) attaching a line between the ship and the forward end of a cable retrieval tool;
(c) sliding the cable retrieval tool along the cable away from the ship over the collar;
(d) gripping the collar with a biasing mechanism which comprises at least a part of the cable retrieval tool by pulling the line toward the ship such that the biasing mechanism contacts the collar;
(e) pulling the cable retrieval tool toward the ship to form a slack length of cable between the cable retrieval tool and the cable storage reel; and
(f) winding up the slack length of cable.
25. An apparatus for retrieving marine cable on board a ship which reduces a longitudinal tension force on the cable at a cable storage reel when the cable storage reel is winding up the cable, comprising:
(a) a collar attached to the cable at a location where the collar is functional to absorb the tension force on the cable trailing behind the collar;
(b) a cable retrieval tool encircling the cable;
(c) a biasing mechanism which comprises at least a part of the cable retrieval tool and is functional to allow movement of the cable retrieval tool along the cable in 


 a direction away from the storage reel and over the collar and movement toward the storage reel until the biasing mechanism encounters the collar; and
(d) a line attached between the ship and the forward end of the cable retrieval tool, the line is operative to apply a tension on the cable retrieval tool such that tension applied on the line pulls the cable retrieval tool toward the ship whereby the biasing mechanism engages the collar, and by applying an additional tension force on the line, an opposing force is placed on the collar which opposes the longitudinal tension force on the cable trailing behind the collar thereby reducing the longitudinal tension force on the length of cable between the cable storage reel and the cable retrieval tool so that the cable storage reel can then wind up the length of cable between the cable retrieval tool and the cable storage reel.
26. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 25, wherein the biasing mechanism and the collar in combination form a ratchet mechanism.
27. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 25, further comprising a biasing mechanism friction reduction means for reducing friction between the biasing mechanism and the cable.
28. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 25, wherein the cable retrieval tool includes a sleeve which is functional to prevent the cable from kinking.
29. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 28, wherein the sleeve includes longitudinal sections whereby the sections are joined to encircle the cable. 


 30. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 28, further comprising a sleeve friction reduction means for reducing friction between the sleeve and the cable.
31. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 28, further comprising rollers, the rollers are attached to the sleeve and act to reduce friction between the sleeve and the cable.
32. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 28, further comprising a drag enhancement means for increasing a drag force on the sleeve to propel the cable retrieval tool along the cable and away from the ship.
33. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 28, further comprising a flared forward end piece which is attached to the forward end of the sleeve whereby the flared forward end is functional to increase the resistance of the cable retrieval tool to water flow resulting in a greater drag force on the tool to propel the cable retrieval tool away from the ship.
34. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 28, further comprising a protecting means for protecting the cable from damage due to rapid changes in the position of the sleeve relative to the position of the cable and rapid changes in water flow near the sleeve.
35. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 28, further comprising a flared forward end piece and a flared rear end piece, each piece being attached to the ends of the sleeve whereby the flared end pieces are functional to increase the bending radius of the cable near the ends of the cable retrieval tool thereby preventing bending damage to the cable due to rapid changes in the position of the cable retrieval tool relative to the 


 cable and rapid changes in the flow of water near the sleeve.
36. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 28, wherein the biasing mechanism includes a biasing force and a levered member.
37. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 36, wherein:
(a) the levered member includes a levered arm and a bias arm;
(b) the levered arm has a collar encounter end, a passage through the levered arm for a pivot point and a connection to the bias arm;
(c) the sleeve has a pivot located on the circumference of the sleeve;
(d) the biasing force is located adjacent to the pivot;
(e) the levered member is aligned with the sleeve such that the collar encounter end of the levered arm extends toward the forward end of the sleeve and toward the center of the sleeve and the bias arm extends toward the biasing force;
(f) the pivot point of the levered arm is connected to the pivot; and
(g) the bias arm is connected to the biasing force such that the biasing force is functional to urge the collar engagement end toward the center of the sleeve.
38. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 37, wherein the collar encounter end has an engagement surface which faces toward the forward end of the sleeve and is functional to align with the collar engagement surface when the biasing mechanism is engaged with the collar.
39. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable 


according to claim 37, wherein the collar encounter end has an alignment surface, the alignment surface faces the cable and rides upon the cable whereby the alignment surface acting under the influence of the biasing force is functional to align the cable within the sleeve so that the collar encounter arm can encounter the collar attached to the cable.
40. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 37, wherein:
(a) the biasing mechanism includes a plurality of levered members and biasing forces; and
(b) a plurality of pivots are located around the circumference of the sleeve.
41. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 37, further comprising a biasing mechanism friction reduction means for reducing friction between the collar encounter end and the cable.
42. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 39, further comprising a roller, the roller is located on the alignment surface to reduce friction between the cable and the alignment surface.
43. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 39, wherein:
(a) the biasing force is located on the outside of the sleeve adjacent to the adjacent pivot; and
(b) the bias arm extends above the sleeve to connect to the biasing force.
44. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 39, further comprising:
(a) wherein the biasing force is located on the outside of the sleeve adjacent to the pivot;
(b) an opening located through the sleeve 


 adjacent to the biasing force whereby the bias arm extends through the opening to connect between the levered arm and the biasing force; and
(c) the portion of the bias arm extending outside of the opening to connect to the biasing force is functional to prevent the outside portion of the bias arm from entering the opening thereby jamming the biasing mechanism.
45. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 44, further comprising guards located adjacent to the biasing force and the bias arm, the guards are functional to protect the bias arm and the biasing force from interference of objects floating in the water and from getting tangled with the line.
46. The apparatus for retrieving marine cable according to claim 45, wherein the pivot is located on the guards.
47. An apparatus for retrieving marine cable on board a ship which reduces a longitudinal tension force on the cable at a cable storage reel when the cable storage reel is winding up the cable, comprising:
(a) a collar attached to the cable at a location where the collar is functional to absorb the longitudinal tension force of the cable trailing behind the collar;
(b) a cable retrieval tool which encircles the cable;
(c) a biasing mechanism which comprises at least a part of the cable retrieval tool and is functional to allow movement of the cable retrieval tool along the cable in a direction away from the cable storage reel and over the collar and movement toward the storage reel until the biasing mechanism encounters the collar; and 


 (d) a line attached between the ship and the forward end of the cable retrieval tool, the line is operative to apply a tension force on the cable retrieval tool such that tension applied on the line pulls the cable retrieval tool toward the ship causing the biasing mechanism to engage the collar, and by applying a large enough additional tension force on the line, an opposing force is placed on the collar which is greater than the longitudinal tension force on the cable trailing behind the collar, the larger opposing force on the line pulls the collar toward the ship creating an isolated portion of cable between the cable retrieval tool and the cable storage reel whereby the longitudinal tension force on the cable at the cable storage reel is reduced so that the isolated portion of cable can be wound on the reel. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
