<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610863</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Omniview motionless camera surveillance system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N5225	G08B1500	H04N121	H04N700	G06T100	H04N718	H04N700	G08B1500	H04N5225	A61B1900	G08B13196	H04N5262	G06T300	H04N5335	G06T100	H04N121	H04N5262	H04N5335	A61B1900	G06T300	G08B13194	H04N718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G08B	H04N	H04N	G06T	H04N	H04N	G08B	H04N	A61B	G08B	H04N	G06T	H04N	G06T	H04N	H04N	H04N	A61B	G06T	G08B	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	G08B15	H04N1	H04N7	G06T1	H04N7	H04N7	G08B15	H04N5	A61B19	G08B13	H04N5	G06T3	H04N5	G06T1	H04N1	H04N5	H04N5	A61B19	G06T3	G08B13	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for omnidirectional image viewing 
providing pan-and-tilt orientation, rotation, 

and magnification within a selected 
field-of-view for use in any application 

including inspection, monitoring, surveillance, 
and target acquisition.. The imaging device 

(using optical or infrared images) is based on 
the effect that the image from a wide angle 

lens, which produces a circular image of an 
entire field-of-view, can be mathematically 

corrected using high speed electronic 
circuitry. More specifically, an incoming 

image from any image acquisition source is 
captured in memory of the device, a 

transformation is performed for the viewing 
region of interest and viewing direction, and a 

corrected image is output as a video image 
signal for viewing, recording, or analysis. 

Multiple simultaneous images can be output from 
a single input image. As a result, this device 

can accomplish the functions of pan, tilt, 
rotation, and zoom throughout the selected 

field-of-view without the need for any 
mechanical mechanisms to move a camera. The 

preferred embodiment of the image 
transformation device can provide corrected 

images at real-time rates compatible with 
standard video equipment. The device can be 

controlled by discrete user input, automatic 
computer scanning, or discrete environmental  

 
inputs to select desired output images. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERACTIVE PICTURES CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERACTIVE PICTURES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUSKO NICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUBAN DANIEL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN H LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIMMERMANN STEVEN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUSKO, NICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUBAN, DANIEL P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN, H. LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIMMERMANN, STEVEN D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus, algorithm, and method for
transforming single perspective-distorted field-of-view images into multiple non-distorted,
normal perspective images at any orientation, rotation, and magnification
within the field-of-view, and for using the resultant system for surveillance
applications. The viewing direction, orientation, and magnification are controlled by
either computer or remote control means. More particularly, this apparatus is the
electronic equivalent of a mechanical pan, tilt, zoom, and rotation camera viewing
system with no moving mechanisms, and is typically utilized for automatic or manual
surveillance of a selected environment.Camera viewing systems are utilized in abundance for surveillance,
inspection, security, and remote sensing. Remote viewing is critical, for example, for
robotic manipulation tasks. Close viewing is necessary for detailed manipulation
tasks while wide-angle viewing aids positioning of the robotic system to avoid
collisions with the work space. The majority of these systems use 
either a fixed-mount camera with a limited
viewing field to reduce distortion, or they
utilize mechanical pan-and-tilt platforms and
mechanized zoom lenses to orient the camera and
magnify its image. In the applications where
orientation of the camera and magnification of
its image are required, the mechanical solution
is large in size and can subtend a significant
volume making the viewing system difficult to
conceal or use in close quarters. Several
cameras are usually necessary to provide
wide-angle viewing of the work space.In order to provide a maximum amount of
viewing coverage or subtended angle, mechanical
pan/tilt mechanisms usually use motorized
drives and gear mechanisms to manipulate the
vertical and horizontal orientation. An
example of such a device is shown in U.S.
Patent Number 4,728,839 issued to J.B.
Coughlan, et al, on March 1, 1988. Collisions
with the working environment caused by these
mechanical pan/tilt orientation mechanisms can
damage both the camera and the work space and
impede the remote handling operation.
Simultaneously, viewing in said remote
environments is extremely important to the
performance of inspection and manipulation
activities.Camera viewing systems that use internal
optics to provide wide viewing angles have also
been developed in order to minimize the size 
and volume of the camera and the intrusion into
the viewing area. These systems rely on the
movement of either a mirror or prism to change
the tilt-angle
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surveillance monitoring system including a camera system comprising:

a receiving device (33) which receives a signal containing data representing a
hemispherical image having a circular field of view;
an input device (38,40) for selecting a portion of said image;
a converter (6,7) which converts said selected portion of the image into a
perspective corrected image representing said selected portion of the

hemispherical image in real time, said converter determining how to convert said
selected portion;
display apparatus (48), for displaying said perspective corrected image;
a processer (5) for receiving data defining a new selection portion of the image
from an activity sensor switch (36), a remote control (12) or a computer control

(13);
characterized in that

said processor (5) repeatedly calculates data defining a next portion, wherein said
next portion varies incrementally from said selected portion to said new selected

portion, and said converter (6,7) selects said next portion and performs the
conversion of said next portion into a next perspective corrected image such that

an effective view of the camera system is moved incrementally between two
selected points.
The surveillance monitoring system according to Claim 1 further including an
alarm (42, 44).
The surveillance monitoring system according to Claim 2 wherein the alarm
activates the display apparatus (48). 
The surveillance monitoring system according to Claim 2 or 3 wherein said alarm

(44) is activated upon the occurrence of at least one of the loss of said signal, the
loss of said perspective corrected signal and the loss of power.
The surveillance monitoring system according to Claim 4 wherein, upon the
occurrence of said alarm (44), said processor (5) verifies the operation of said

surveillance monitoring system.
The surveillance monitoring system according to any one of Claims 1 to 5,
wherein said receiving device (33) receives a second signal containing data

representing a second hemispherical image having a circular field of view and said
converter (6,7) converts the second signal into a second perspective corrected

image.
The surveillance system according to Claim 6, wherein said display (48) displays
said perspective corrected image and said second perspective corrected image of a

second image containing data representing a second hemispherical image having a
circular field of view during at least a common time interval.
The surveillance system according to Claim 7, wherein said display (48) displays
said perspective corrected image and said second perspective corrected image at

different times.
The surveillance system according to Claim 7 wherein said display (48) further
displays a third portion and optionally a fourth portion.
The surveillance monitoring system according to any one of Claims 1 to 9
wherein said system unconditionally includes recording apparatus.
The surveillance monitoring system according to Claim 7 wherein said receiving
device (33) receives a second signal containing data representing a second

hemispherical image having a circular field of view and a recorder (34,46) records
the second signal.
The surveillance monitoring system according to any one of Claims 1 to 11
further including a switch (36) and a switch monitoring device wherein, when said 

switch (36) is active, said switch monitoring device alters the operation of said
converter (6,7) to output a switch-specific portion of the hemispherical image.
The surveillance monitoring system according to Claim 11, said switch (36) being
controlled by an operator of the monitoring system.
The surveillance monitoring system according to Claim 12 said switch (36) being
controlled by an event.
The surveillance monitoring system according to Claim 12, 13 or 14 wherein
when said switch (36) is active, said switch monitoring device activates one or

more of a display device (48), a recorder (46,34) or an alarm (44)
A surveillance method including displaying converted images comprising the
steps of:


receiving a signal containing data representing a hemispherical image having a
circular field of view;
selecting a portion of said image;
converting said selected portion of said image into a perspective corrected image
representing said portion of the hemispherical image;
displaying said perspective corrected image;
receiving data defining a new selected portion of the image from an activity sensor
switch (36), a remote control (11) or a computer control (13);
characterized by
 the following steps:

repeatedly calculating data defining a next portion of said image wherein said next
portion varies incrementally from said selected portion to said new selected

portion;
replacing the data defining said selected portion of said hemispherical image by
the data defining said next portion of said signal; 
selecting said next portion of said signal according to the data defining said next
portion;
converting said next portion of said signal into a next perspective corrected image
representing said next portion of the hemispherical image such that the effective

view of the camera system is moved incrementaly between two selected
points; and
displaying said next perspective corrected image.
The surveillance method according to Claim 16, wherein said
displaying step additionally displays a second perspective corrected image

representing a second selected portion of a second signal during at least a common
time interval.
The surveillance method according to Claim 16 or 17, wherein
said displaying step displays said perspective corrected image and a second

perspective corrected image representing a second selected portion of a second
signal at different times.
The surveillance method according to Claim 18, wherein said
displaying step additionally displays a third perspective corrected image

representing a third selected portion of a third signal and a fourth perspective
corrected image representing a fourth selected portion of a fourth signal during at

least a common time interval.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
