<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626182</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Device for analysis of the cardiac activity for determining whether or not a tachyarrythmia may be interrupted by stimulation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N139	A61N1362	A61B50452	A61B50452	A61N1362	A61N139	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	A61B	A61B	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	A61B5	A61B5	A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The number, called the autocorrelation peak, of the recent intervals between the cardiac signals detected in a first cardiac chamber and satisfying predetermined stability criteria is determined and the number, called the cross-correlation peak, of the recent cardiac signals detected in the first cardiac chamber which are preceded by cardiac signals detected in the second chamber under predetermined conduction time limits is determined. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELA MEDICAL SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELA MEDICAL (SOCIETE ANONYME)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENRY CHRISTINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBSON PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROISS DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENRY, CHRISTINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBSON, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROISS, DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A medical device for analysing a cardiac activity by detecting auricular and
ventricular signals corresponding to cardiac events in order to determine whether a

tachyarhythmia might be terminable by stimulation, characterised in that it provides
for:


- the determination of the maximal number, called auto-correlation peak, of the
recent intervals between the cardiac signals detected in a first cardiac chamber and

which meet determining stability criteria, and
- the determination of the maximal number, called cross-correlation peak, of the
recent cardiac signals detected in said first cardiac chamber and which correspond to

the same events as those previously mentioned, which are preceded by cardiac
signals detected in the second chamber, within determining conduction time limits.
The device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the determination of the
auto-correlation peak comprises the steps of:


maintaining an histogram, i. e. a histogram of the recent intervals in said first
chamber;
maintaining a auto-correlation total, i. e. the sum of total number of counts in the
auto-correlation histogram, and
sweeping the auto-correlation histogram with a predetermined window of stability
to determine the maximum number of counts in the window for all possible positions

of the window in the histogram.
The device as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the determination of the
cross-correlation peak comprises the steps of:


maintaining a cross-correlation histogram, i. e. a histogram of recent intervals of
conduction from said second chamber to said first chamber, corresponding to the

same events as those in the auto-correlation histogram,
maintaining a cross-correlation total, i. e. the sum of the total number of counts in
the cross-correlation histogram, and 
sweeping the cross-correlation histogram with a predetermined window of
conduction time to determine the maximum number of counts in the window for all

possible positions of the window in the histogram.
The device as claimed in claim 2 or 3, characterised in that the step of maintaining
said histogram of recent intervals comprises the following steps:


subtraction from the histogram of any count corresponding to an interval occurring
before a predetermined number of cycles, wherein a cycle corresponds to a signal

detected in said first chamber, and
addition to the histogram of a count corresponding to each interval having occurred
during the most recent cycle.
The device as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the number of
predetermined cycles is programmable.
The device as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the number of
predetermined cycles is approximately 16.
The device as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that in the auto-correlation
histogram, the recent intervals in the first chamber are sorted in bins according to

their lengths.
The device as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that in the cross-correlation
histogram, the recent intervals of conduction from the second chamber to the first

chamber are sorted in bins according to their lengths.
The device as claimed in claim 2 or 3, characterised in that said window consists
in a programmable number of contiguous bins.
The device as claimed in claim 2 or 3, characterised in that said window consists
in a number of contiguous bins corresponding to an interval variation of

approximately 64 ms.
The device as claimed in claim 7 or 8, characterised in that the width of a bin in a
histogram is approximately 16 ms.
The device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that said analysis is not
undertaken for intervals of the first chamber that are longer than a predetermined

limit. 
The device as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that said limit is
programmable.
The device as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that said limit is
approximately 600 ms.
The device as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that the histograms are reset
to zero if no event has been registered during a predetermined number of cycles in

said first chamber.
The device as claimed in claim 15, characterised in that said number of
predetermined cycles is programmable.
The device as claimed in claim 15, characterised in that said number of
predetermined cycles is approximately 16.
The device as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the auto-correlating
histogram comprises all intervals between approximately 125 ms and approximately

600 ms.
The device as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that the cross-correlating
histogram comprises all conduction intervals between approximately 16 ms and

approximately 500 ms.
The device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that it provides for sorting the
cardiac rhythms as a function of the auto-correlation peak, comprising the steps of:


determining that there is stability in the first chamber when the auto-correlation
peak, divided by the total auto-correction exceeds a predetermined stability quotient,

and
determining that the tachyarhythmia is not susceptible to be terminated by a
stimulation in the first chamber in the absence of stability in the first chamber.
The device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that provides for sorting the
cardiac rhythms as a function of the auto-correlation peak and the cross-correlation

peak, comprising the steps of:

defining a conduction instability when the cross-correlation peak divided by the
auto-correlation peak does not exceed a predetermined conduction quotient, and 
determining that the tachyarhythmia is susceptible to be terminated by stimulation
in the first chamber when there is stability in the first chamber and conduction

instability.
The device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that provides for sorting the
cardiac rhythms as a function of the relative values of the auto-correlation total and

the cross-correlation peak, comprising the steps of:

determining a conduction instability when the cross-correlation peak divided by the
auto-correlation total does not exceed a predetermined conduction quotient; and
determining that the tachyarhythmia is susceptible to be terminated by stimulation
in the first chamber when there is stability in the first chamber and conduction

instability.
The device as claimed in claim 21 or 22, characterised in that it further provides
for sorting the cardiac rhythms with a stability determined in the first chamber and 
a
determined conduction stability, by furthermore determining if there is a 1:1 ratio

when the cross-correlation peak divided by the total of cross-correlation exceeds a
predetermined quotient.
The device as claimed in claim 21 or 22, characterised in that it further provides
for sorting the cardiac rhythms with a stability determined in the first chamber, by

furthermore determining if there is conduction with a n:1 ratio when the total count
of events in the second chamber divided by the auto-correlation total exceeds a

predetermined quotient.
The device as claimed in any one of claims 20-24, characterised in that said
predetermined quotients are programmable.
The device as claimed in any one of claims 20-23, characterised in that said
predetermined quotients are approximately 75%.
The device as claimed in claim 24, characterised in that said predetermined
quotient is approximately 1.33.
The device as claimed in any one of claims 20-23, characterised in that it sorts
the cardiac rhythms only when the intervals in said first chamber are within a

minimum and a maximum predetermined limits. 
The device as claimed in claim 28, characterised in that said limits of the
intervals are programmable.
The device as claimed in claim 28, characterised in that the predetermined
minimum limit is approximately 375 ms and the predetermined maximum limit is

approximately 600 ms.
The device as claimed in any one of claims 20-24, characterised in that it
suspends sorting the rhythms until the histograms have been updated with regard to a

predetermined minimum number of cycles.
The device as claimed in claim 31, characterised in that the predetermined
number of cycles is programmable.
The device as claimed in claim 31, characterised in that the predetermined
number of cycles is approximately 8.
The device as claimed in claim 31, characterised in that it provides for further
sorting the cardiac rhythms when there is determined stability in the first chamber

and determined conduction stability, comprising the steps of:

identifying the occurrence of an acceleration of the frequency in the first chamber,
which is greater than a predetermined acceleration limit;
identifying the occurrence of a dissociation of conduction between the two
chambers during the detection of said acceleration, and
determining that the tachyarhythmia is susceptible to be terminated by a stimulation
in the first chamber when there is both acceleration and dissociation.
The device as claimed in claim 34, characterised in that it determines that the
tachyarhythmia is susceptible to be terminated by stimulation only when it is

determined by a 1:1 ratio.
The device as claimed in any one of claims 21-35, characterised in that gives a
stimulation when the tachyarhythmia has been defined as susceptible to be

terminated by stimulation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
