<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629853</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Capillary electrophoresis with tracking separation field.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N27447	G01N27447	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A capillary electrophoresis system (100) utilizes a square "ring" capillary 
(106). The capillary has a hair-pin bend (161) at each corner of the square. An 

opening (171) in each bend permits fluid and electrical coupling with a respective 
electrolyte-containing vial (141). A distributor (104) selectively routes the 

opposite terminals of a power supply (102) to opposing corners of the square so 
that a sample component of interest migrates continuously downstream. A 

detector (110) determines when the sample component a detection point along 
the capillary. This detection is used to determine a migration rate for the sample 

component. When the sample component is estimated to be midway between 
corners, the distributor switches from applying a voltage differential between a 

second upstream corner and the downstream corner to applying a voltage 
differential between the upstream corner and the second downstream corner. This 

permits the sample component to migrate downstream past the downstream 
corner. Distributor switching continues until a reading from the detector 

determines that satisfactory resolution has been achieved. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON GARY B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, GARY B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to chemical analytical 
systems and, more particularly, to such systems employing 
capillary electrophoresis to separate chemical sample 
components. A major objective of the present invention is 
to provide for convenient higher-resolution separations of 
sample components. Much of modern medical progress is due to advances in 
chemical analytical systems that permit an investigator to 
separate, identify and characterize various chemical 
moieties. A typical analytical procedure involves 
separating components of a sample mixture so that they can 
be individually identified and quantified, for example, 
using a form of spectroscopy. Electrophoresis, like other classes of separation 
techniques such as chromatography, separates sample 
components by causing them to migrate at moiety-specific 
rates along a path. Electrophoresis applies an electric 
field to cause sample components to migrate at rates 
related to their charge-to-mobility ratios. As the 
different components separate, the molecules of each 
component diffuse so that single components form in bands. 
Each band can be characterized by a peak, where the 
component concentration is maximal, and a width, being the 
distance between points on either side of the peak where 
the concentration falls below some threshold criterion. Roughly speaking, two sample components are resolved 
by a separation technique when their bands do not overlap. 
Accordingly, the resolving power of a separation technique 
is positively related with the peak separations it 
achieves and inversely related to the band spreading it  
 
incurs. To increase resolving power, peak separation must 
be increased proportionately relative to band width. Due to diffusion, the resolution of a capillary 
electrophoresis system cannot be improved simply by 
increasing the length of the separation path. For 
example, if path length is doubled while the voltage 
differential across the path is held constant, then the 
electric field strength is halved. Migration velocities, 
which are proportional to field strength, are thus also 
halved. Transit times are quadrupled since distance is 
doubled and migration velocities are halved. Peak 
separations are doubled since, although time is 
quadrupled, the separating field is halved. 
Concomitantly, band widths, which expand proportionately 
with the square root of the transit time, are also 
doubled. Since peak separations and band widths are both 
doubled, there is no net gain in resolving power. Increasing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A capillary electrophoresis system (100; 200; 300; 400) comprising: 
   capillary means (106; 206; 306; 406) for defining a separation path having a 

downstream direction, said separation path including at least three electrode 
points (1E1,1E2,1E3,1E4;2E1,2E2,2E3;3E1,3E2,3E4;4E1,4E2,4E3) said 

electrodes points including an intermediate electrode point (1E3; 2E2; 3E3; 4E2); 
   power supply means (102; 202; 302; 402) for supplying a voltage differential; 

and 
   distributor means (504; 204; 304; 404) for selectively routing said voltage 

differential to pairs of said electrodes points, said distributor means having at least 
two conditions including 

      a first condition in which said voltage potential is applied 
between said intermediate electrode point and ano
ther of said 
electrode points (1E1; 2E1; 3E1; 4E1 ) so that a sample 

component migrates downstream toward said intermediate 
electrode point, and 

      a second condition in which, before said sample component 
reaches said intermediate electrode point, said voltage 

differential can be applied between two of said electrodes points 
(1E2, 1E4; 2E1, 2E3; 3E2, 3E4; 4E1, 4E3) other than said 

intermediate electrode point so that said sample component 
migrates downstream past said intermediate electrode point, 

said distributor means being electrically coupled to said power supply means and 
to said capillary means. 
A capillary electrophoresis system (100) as recited in Claim 1 further 
comprising rate determination means for determining the migration rate of a 

sample component, said rate determination means including a controller (116) 
coupled to said distributor so that said controller commands said distributor 

means to switch said voltage differential between pairs of said electrodes points 
at times determined as a function of said migration rate so that said sample 

component migrates continuously in a downstream direction. 
A capillary electrophoresis system (100) as recited in Claim 2 wherein said 
rate determination means includes a detector (110) optically coupled to said 

capillary means so that said detector means outputs a detection signal in response 
to detection of said sample component, said detector means being coupled to said 

controller so that the detector output is received by said controller, said controller 
using said detector output to calculate said migration rate. 
A capillary electrophoresis system (100) comprising: 
   capillary means (106) for defining a closed separation path having a 

downstream direction; 
   four electrodes (131-134) arranged in a closed series at four respective 

electrode points (1E1-1E4) along said sample path; 
   power supply means (102) for supplying a voltage differential; 

   distributor means (504) for applying said voltage differential to pairs of 
nonadjacent ones (1E1, 1E3; 1E2, 1E4) of said electrodes; and 

   controller means (116) for driving said distributor means so that a sample 
component migrates continuously in said downstream direction under a constant 

electric field strength. 
A capillary electrophoresis system (100) as recited in Claim 4 further 
comprising detector means (110) for detecting said sample component, said 

detector means being optically coupled to said capillary means. 
A capillary electrophoresis system (100) as recited in Claim 5 wherein said 
detector means is coupled to said controller means, said controller means 

including migration rate means for calculating the migration rate of said sample 
component from the timing of sample component detections by said detector 

means, said controller means determining the rate at which said voltage 
differential is switched between said pairs of nonadjacent ones of said electrodes. 
A method (800) of separating sample components, said method comprising 
the steps of: 


a) injecting (801) a sample into a separation path having a downstream 
direction and at least three electrode points (1E1, 1E2, 1E3, 1E4), including an 

intermediate electrode point (1E3); 
b) applying (802) a voltage differential between said intermediate electrode 
point and another electrode point (1E1) so that a sample component migrates 

downstream toward said intermediate electrode point; and 
c) before said sample component reaches said intermediate electrode point, 
switching (805) the voltage differential to between two electrode points (1E2, 1E4) 

other than said intermediate electrode point so that said sample component 
migrates downstream past said intermediate electrode point. 
A method of separating sample components as 
recited in Claim 7 further comprising one or more of 

the following steps: 

(i) a step d of, after step c, switching (806) said 
voltage differential to between said intermediate 

electrode point and another of said electrode points 
(1E1) so that said sample component migrates downstream 

away from said intermediate electrode point, 
(ii) a step of determining (804) the timing for the 
voltage switch of step c, 
(iii) a step of, before step c, detecting (803) a peak 
associated with said sample component, 
(iv) a step of determining (804) the timing of voltage 
switch of step c as a function of the time of said 

detecting step (803) and a reference time. 
A method (800) of separating sample components comprising the steps of: 

a) injecting (801) a sample into a closed separation path having a 
downstream direction, a first electrode point (1E1), a second electrode point 

(1E2), a third electrode point (1E3) and a fourth electrode point (1E4), said first, 
second, third and fourth electrode points being downstream adjacent respectively 

to said fourth, first, second and third electrode points, said first electrode point 
and said third electrode point opposing each other, said second electrode point 

and said fourth electrode point opposing each other; 
b) applying (802) a voltage differential between said first electrode point and 
said third electrode point so that said sample component migrates downstream 

past said second electrode point; 
c) as said sample component approaches an electrode point from the 
immediately adjacent upstream electrode point, switching (805) the voltage 

differential from the pair including that electrode point and the opposing 
electrode point to the pair including the two electrode points adjacent to the 

approached electrode point so that said sample component can migrate 
downstream past said approached electrode point; and 
d) iterating step c for successive downstream electrodes point; 
 
whereby, sample components are progressively separated as they cycle said closed 

separation path. 
A method of separating sample components as recited in Claim 9 further 
comprising detecting (803) when said sample component passes a detection point 

along said separation path, and determining (804) the timing of the switching of 
iterated step d as a function of this migration rate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
