<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632163</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process of producing porous web materials used for making infusion packages for brewing beverages and the web materials thus produced
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8100	D21H2708	B65D85804	B65D8100	D21H2708	B65D85804	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	D21H	B65D	B65D	D21H	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D81	D21H27	B65D85	B65D81	D21H27	B65D85	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The integrity of mechanical seams in tea bags is 
enhanced by treating the material used for the tea bag 

over its entire extent with a latex dispersion of a 
hydrophobic agent. The infusion characteristics and 

porosity of the material are not adversely affected as 
the latex dispersions are absorbed into the fibers of 

the material. Strength imparting binders, such as alkyl 
acrylate hydrophobic binders, may be employed as well as 

silicones, fluorohydrocarbons, paraffin, alkyl ketene 
dimers and stearylated materials. The binder pick up on 

the fibrous web material is preferably at least 3-4 
percent by weight and may be up to as much as 15-20 

percent by weight. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEXTER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DEXTER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOTT PETER C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIAZMENSKY HELEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLCHECK NICHOLAS JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCOTT, PETER C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIAZMENSKY, HELEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOLCHECK, NICHOLAS, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to fibrous
web materials and more specifically is concerned with a
process of producing porous web materials used for
making infusion packages for brewing beverages, such as
tea, coffee and the like and with the web materials thus
produced.It has generally been the practice in making
individual cups of tea to either place the bag of tea or
the like in a cup containing boiling water, or
alternatively, to place the bag in an empty cup and
subsequently add the boiling water. In either event,
the tea bag generally tends to inflate and float to the
top of the water for a time despite the high porosity of
the infusion paper utilized in making the tea bags.
This inflation or "ballooning effect" is generally
attributable to entrapped gases and vapors within the
bag that are unable to escape due to a very thin film of
water surrounding the bag. The entrapped gases, both
condensible and non-condensible, tend to build up a
positive pressure within the bag, frequently causing
opening of the seams of mechanically sealed bags, thus
undesirably discharging the tea leaves into the brew and
defeating the purpose of using the bag. In the
mechanically sealed tea bags, the edges of the web
material are brought together, folded a number of times,
and the multiple fold is crimped to provide a mechanical
seam securing the two edges of the web material. The
mechanically sealed bags are to be distinguished from
heat sealed bags where a heat seal material, usually
present within the web, is subject to heat and pressure
to form a heat sealed seam.Although seam failure and leakage of tea leaves has
been evidenced for some time, it has been noticed that
the incidence of failure was higher when certain
strength imparting binder systems were used in the
infusion web material. For example, increased seam 
failure has been noted with binder systems using carboxy
methyl cellulose (CMC) and a reaction product of
epichlorohydrin and a polyamide sold under the trade
name Kymene as compared with the viscose (cellulose
xanthate) bonding system widely used prior thereto.
Changing the binder to latex binder materials that
impart comparable tensile strength to the web material,
such as ethyl vinyl acetate, cross linked polyvinyl
alcohol or polyvinyl chloride, appear to provide no
improvement in seam integrity and may even result in
significantly higher instances of seam failure and
leakage.The treatment of infusion web material in
discontinuous areas with water repellent material is
disclosed by Noiset et
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A porous fibrous web material, suited for making infusion packages which
are for brewing beverages and which exhibit improved resistance to the failure of a

mechanical seam therein, said web material being impregnated throughout its extent with
one percent or more by weight of a hydrophobic treating system, the impregnated web

exhibiting a water climb of not more than 0.5 inch (13 mm) over a period of 400 seconds
when measured using water at a temperature of about 100°C and no substantial loss of

infusion characteristics as measured by first-colour infusion time while providing less than
10 percent failure in the mechanical seam of tea bags constructed from the said web

material upon exposure to boiling water.
The web material of claim 1 wherein the hydrophobic treating system
includes a latex emulsion of a hydrophobic agent that completely impregnates the entire

web material and is comprised of at least 3 percent by weight of a strength imparting
binder.
The web material of claim 1 wherein the hydrophobic treating system
includes an alkyl acrylate hydrophobic binder.
The web material of claim 3 wherein the hydrophobic binder is selected
from the group consisting of ethyl acrylate and butyl acrylate polymers and copolymers.
The web material of claim 1 wherein the hydrophobic treating system
comprises up to 12 percent by weight of a hydrophobic agent and the mechanical seam

failure of the web is less than one percent.
The web material of claim 1 wherein the hydrophobic treating system
includes a strength imparting hydrophobic binder comprising a butyl acrylate copolymer.
The web material of claim 3 wherein the hydrophobic treating system
includes a latex emulsion of the hydrophobic binder completely impregnating the entire 

web material and imparting sufficient resistance to wetting to eliminate the water climb of
the fibrous web material, the latex emulsion of the hydrophobic binder exhibiting an

affinity for being readily absorbed into the fibers of the web.
The web material of claim 1 wherein the fibrous web material contains a
strength imparting binder and the hydrophobic treating system comprises a hydrophobic

agent.
The web material of claim 8 wherein the hydrophobic agent is selected from
the group consisting of silicones, fluorohydrocarbons, paraffin, alkyl keten
e dimers and
stearylated materials.
The web material of claim 8 wherein the amount of the hydrophobic agent is
from 0.3 to 30 percent by weight.
The web material of claim 7 wherein the hydrophobic treating
system is heat cured or otherwise insolubilised.
A process for producing porous web materials for making infusion packages
having enhanced mechanical seam integrity comprising the steps of providing a porous

absorbent web material suited for use as an infusion package, and treating the entire web
material with a hydrophobic treating system to provide a treated web that exhibits a water

climb of not more than 0.5 inch (13 mm) over a period of 400 seconds when measured
using water at a temperature of about 100°C and less than 10 percent failure in a

mechanical seam of tea bags constructed from the said web material when exposed to
boiling water.
The process of claim 12 wherein the hydrophobic treating system includes a
latex dispersion of a hydrophobic agent that exhibits an affinity for being readily absorbed

into the fibers of the web, the dispersion completely impregnating the web material, and
subsequently insolublizing the agent on the web. 
The process of claim 12 wherein the hydrophobic treating system
completely impregnates the web material and is comprised of a strength imparting

hydrophobic binder that imparts resistance to aqueous absorption as measured by water
climb, the hydrophobic agent exhibiting an affinity for being readily absorbed into the

fibers of the web, the binder being a latex dispersion applied as a saturating treatment and
subsequently dried.
The process of claim 14 wherein the binder is a latex dispersion of an alkyl
acrylate, the latex binder being present in an amount sufficient to provide a binder pick up

by the web of at least 3 percent by weight.
The process of claim 12 wherein the fibrous sheet material is soft, tissue
weight material, the process including the step of treating the web with a binder in addition

to the hydrophobic treating system, said system being comprised of a hydrophobic agent
that exhibits an affinity for being readily absorbed into the fibers of the web, said

hydrophobic agent being applied as a latex dispersion in an amount sufficient to impart a
hydrophobic agent pick up of 0.3 to 30 percent by weight.
The process of claim 12 wherein the hydrophobic treating system includes a
hydrophobic agent selected from the group consisting of silicones, fluorohydrocarbons,

paraffin, alkyl ketene dimers and stearylated materials.
The process of claim 12 wherein the fibrous sheet material is a prebonded,
light weight, highly wettable material and the hydrophobic treating system includes a

hydrophobic agent that imparts complete resistance to wetting as measured by water climb,
the hydrophobic agent exhibiting an affinity for being readily absorbed into the fibers of the

web and being applied by a size press.
The process of claim 12 wherein the hydrophobic treating system
completely impregnates the web material as the web material is being treated with a

strength imparting binder. 
The web material of claim 1 wherein the hydrophobic treating system
comprises a hydrophobic strength-imparting binder selected from acrylic polymers and

copolymers.
The process of claim 12 wherein the hydrophobic treating system comprises
a hydrophobic strength-imparting binder selected from acrylic polymers and copolymers.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
