<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658143</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRINTING AND LAMINATING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41F1700	B41F1702	B41J2940	B41J2940	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41F	B41F	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41F17	B41F17	B41J29	B41J29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for producing a sequence of printed articles, characterised by means for storing a range of backgrounds for images to be printed on the articles, means for selecting a background from the range, means for establishing a sequence of foregrounds for said sequence of articles, means for combining the selected background with at least selected ones of the sequence of foregrounds and printing substantially simultaneously the selected background and the particular foreground required for the article on each article in turn.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOURCE VISION TECH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SOURCE VISION TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONDS JOHN ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRICKLAND JAMES GERALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMMONDS, JOHN ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRICKLAND, JAMES GERALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PRINTING AND LAMINATINGThis invention relates to a system for producing articles .It is known to print articles with a variety of colours in turn.It is an object of this invention to greatly improve the speed of production and the quality of the finished article.According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided apparatus for producing a sequence of printed articles, characterised by means for storing a range of backgrounds for images to be printed on the articles, means for selecting a background from the range, means for establishing a sequence of foregrounds for said sequence of articles, means for combining the selected background ith at least selected ones of the sequence of foregrounds and printing substantially simultaneously the selected background and the particular foreground required for the article on each article in turn. According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a printing method characterised by selecting a desired background to be printed, establishing a sequence of foregrounds to be printed in turn, and substantially simultaneously printing the selected background repetitively with the foregrounds in turn to produce a sequence of printed images all comprised of the selected background and respectively comprised of the foregrounds of the sequence.Owing to these two aspects of the present invention, it is possible efficiently to produce images with a relatively standard background but varied foregrounds.According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of producing a laminated card, comprising advancing a first layer to a printing station, printing said first layer at one surface thereof, advancing said first layer and a second layer to a laminating station 

whereat said one surface faces said second layer, laminating said first and second layers, and severing from said laminate a section thereof including printed matter to provide said card, characterised in that the advancing of the first and second layers, the laminating and the severing are performed automatically.According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided apparatus for producing a laminated card, comprising a printing station whereat one surface of a first layer is to be printed, a laminating station whereat said first layer and second layers are to be laminated together with said one surface facing said second layer, and a severing means whereby a printed section of the laminate is severed from said laminate to provide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Apparatus for producing a sequence of printed articles, characterised by means ( 34 ) for storing a range of backgrounds for images to be printed on the articles (S) , means (35) for selecting a background from the range, means (32) for establishing a sequence of foregrounds for said sequence of articles (S) , means (10, 35) for combining the selected background with at least selected ones of the sequence of foregrounds and printing subst ant ially simultaneously the selected background and the particular foreground required for the article on each article in turn.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said articles (S) comprise substrates (S) for cards and said foregrounds comprise respective differing identifying means whereby respective individual users of the cards are identified.
3. Apparatus according to claim 2 , wherein said foregrounds comprise respective portraits of said users .
4. Apparatus according to claim 2 or 3 , and further comprising means (3) for advancing a first layer (S) in the apparatus, and a printing station (4) whereat said means (10, 35) for combining and printing is to print one surface of said first layer (S) .
5. Apparatus according to claim 4 and further comprising a laminating station (22) whereat said first layer (S) and second layers (0) are to be laminated together with said one surface facing said second layer (0) .
6. Apparatus according to claim 5, and further comprising a severing station (23) whereat a printed section of the laminate is to be severed from said laminate to provide such card.
7. Apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, and further comprising a blanks supplying station (1) upstream of said printing station (4) and whereby the first layers (S) of the cards are supplied, and a tacking station (16) intermediate said printing station (4) and said laminating station (22) and whereat the second layers (0) are tacked to the 


respective first layers (S) .
8. Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said tacking station (16) comprises feeding means (16A) for feeding a strip (0) and cutting means (19) for cutting said second layers (0) from said strip (0) .
9. Apparatus according to any one of claims 5 to 8, wherein said laminating station (22) comprises heating means for heating said first and second layers (S,0) to be laminated, first and second pressing heads for pressing the hot layers (S,0) between them, and external means (26) arranged externally of said pressing heads and serving to prevent the laminate produced from remaining adhered to either of the pressing heads.
10. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said external means (26) comprises at least one pair of grippers (26) .
11. Apparatus according to claim 9 or 10, and further comprising second heating means for heating said external means (26) .
12. Apparatus according to any one of claims 4 to 11, wherein said printing station (4) includes a shaft (5) a first portion (5') of the peripheral surface of which is of circular-cylindrical form and around which portion (5') said first layer (S) extends during printing, a layer-clamping device (6) anchored to the shaft (5) and extending along the shaft (5) at a second peripheral surface portion of the shaft (5) angularly displaced around the axis (A) of the shaft (5) relative to said first portion (5' ) and drive means arranged to oscillate said shaft (5) about its own axis. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said printing station (4) further includes a printing head (10) extending along said shaft (5) and approximately tangentially to said first portion (5' ) and serving to present a die membrane (R) to the first layer (S) , a separator (12) extending along said shaft (5) between said shaft (5) and said head (10) and serving to keep said first layer (S) and said membrane (R) 


out of contact with each other until said first layer (S) and said membrane (R) arrive at the zone where said head (10) approaches closest to said first portion (5' ) .
14. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said laminating station includes cutting means ( 44 ) whereby a printed section of the laminate (S, 0) is to be severed from said laminate (S,0) to provide such card.
15. Apparatus according to claim 14 , wherein said laminating station includes a laminating ram (43) encircled by said cutting means (44) .
16. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said laminating station includes an anvil (47) upon which said substrates (S) of card size are placed in turn, laminating means (43) whereby said second layer (0) is laminated with said substrates (S) in turn, and cutting means (44) whereby a substrate-covering portion of said second layer (0) is severed from said second layer (O) to provide such cards.
17. Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said anvil ( 47 ) is formed with suction bores (49) to enable the substrates (S) to be held by suction onto the anvil (47) .
18. A printing method, characterized by selecting a desired background to be printed, establishing a sequence of foregrounds to be printed in turn, and substantial ly simultaneously printing the selected background repetitively with the foregrounds in turn to produce a sequence of printed images all comprised of the selected background and respectively comprised of the foregrounds of the sequence.
19. A method according to claim 18 , wherein said foregrounds comprise differing identifying means whereby respective individual users of cards may be identified.
20. A method according to claim 19 , whe rein s aid foregrounds comprise respective portraits of said users .
21. A method according to claim 18, 19 or 20, and further comprising advancing a first layer (S) to a printing station (4) , at which one surface of said first layer (S) is printed with the selected background simultaneously with one of the 


foregrounds.
22. A method according to claim 21, and further comprising advancing said first layer (S) and a second layer (0) to a laminating station (22) whereat said one surface faces said second layer (0) , and laminating said first and second layers (S,0) .
23. A method according to claim 22 as appended to claim 19, and further comprising severing from the laminate a section thereof including printed matter to provide such card. 24. A method according to any one of claims 21 to 23, and further comprising clamping said first layer (S) to a support (5) at said printing station (4), and producing oscillatory relative motion between the support (5) and a printing head (10) to cause the first layer (S) to undergo a plurality of printing passes at said printing station (4) .
25. A method according to any one of claims 21 to 24, and further comprising advancing a die membrane (R) and said first layer (S) towards a printing location in said printing station (4), while keeping said membrane (R) and said first layer (S) separate until their bringing together at said printing location by separating means (12) therebetween extending to just short of said printing location.
26. A method according to claim 23, wherein said laminating and said severing are performed at said laminating station. 27. A method according to claim 22, and further comprising advancing said first layer (S) in the form of a substrate (S) of card size to said laminating station (22) and severing only said second layer (0) , thereby to provide a substrate-covering portion thereof laminated to said substrate (S) .
28. A method according to claim 27, wherein said substrate- covering portion is smaller in plan area than is said substrate (S) .
29. A method according to claim 22, 23, 26, 27, or 28, or claim 24 or 25 as appended to claim 22, wherein said first layer (S) is held by suction to a laminating anvil (47) at 


said laminating station (22) .
30. A method of producing a laminated card, comprising advancing a first layer (S ) to a printing station ( 4 ) , printing said first layer ( S ) at one surface thereof , advancing said first layer (S) and a second layer (0) to a laminating station (22) whereat said one surface faces said second layer (0) , laminating said first and second layers (S, 0) , and severing from said laminate a section thereof including printed matter to provide said card, characterised in that the advancing of the first and second layers (S, 0) , the laminating and the severing are performed automatically .
31. Apparatus for producing a laminated card, comprising a printing station (4) whereat one surface of a first layer
(S) is to be printed, a laminating station (22) whereat said first layer (S) and second layers (0) are to be laminated together with said one surface facing said second layer (S) , and a severing means (23, 44 ) whereby a printed section of the laminate is severed from said laminate to provide said card, characterised in that the advancing of the first and second layers (S, 0) through the printing station (4) and the laminating station (22) and past the severing means (23; 44) performed automatically.
32. Printing apparatus , including a shaft (5) a first portion (5 ' ) of the peripheral surface of which is of circular-cylindrical form and around which portion (5' ) a sheet ( S ) t o be printed extends during print ing , characterised by a sheet-clamping device ( 6) anchored to the shaft (5) and extending along the shaft (5) at a second peripheral surface portion of the shaft ( 5 ) angularly displaced around the axis (A) of the shaft (5) relative to said first portion ( 5' ) , and drive means arranged to oscillate said shaft (5) about its own axis (A) .
33. A printing method, comprising advancing an article (S) to be printed to a printing station (4) and, clamping the art i cle ( S ) t o a support ( 5 ) at s aid st at ion ( 4 ) , characterised by producing oscillatory relative motion 


between the support (5) and a printing head (10) to cause the article (S) to undergo a plurality of printing passes at said station (4) .
34. Printing apparatus including a shaft (5) at least a portion (5 ) of the peripheral surface of which is of circular-cylindrical form and around which a substrate (S) to be printed extends during printing, a printing head (10) extending along said shaft (5) and approximately tangentially to said portion (5') of said peripheral surface and serving to present a die membrane (R) to said substrate (S) and drive means for turning said shaft (5) about its own axis, characterised by a separator (12) extending along said shaft (5) between said shaft (5) and said head (10) and serving to keep said substrate (S) and said membrane (R) out of contact with each other until said substrate (S) and said membrane (R) arrive at the zone where said head (10) approaches closest to said portion (5' ) .
35. Apparatus according to claim 34, wherein said drive means serves to oscillate said shaft (5) . 36. A printing method, comprising advancing a substrate (S) to be printed and a die membrane (R) towards a printing location, characterised by meanwhile keeping the substrate (S) and the membrane (R) separate until their bringing together at said printing location by separating means (12) therebetween extending to just short of said printing location.
37. Laminating apparatus, comprising heating means for heating layers (S,0) to be laminated, and first and second pressing heads for pressing the hot layers (S,0) between them, characterised by external means (26) arranged externally of said pressing heads and serving to prevent the laminate produced from remaining adhered to either of the pressing heads.
38. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein said external means (26) takes the form of at least one pair of grippers
(26). 


39. Apparatus according to claim 38, and further comprising second heating means for heating the grippers (26) .
40. A laminating method, comprising applying an overlay (0) to a substrate (S) , forming a laminate of said overlay (0) and said substrate (S) using compression of said overlay (0) and said substrate (S) , and severing from said overlay (O) a substrate-covering portion in forming a card, characterised in that said substrate (S) is substantially of finished card size when said overlay (0) is applied thereto. 41. A method according to claim 40, wherein said substrate (S) is held by suction to an anvil during said forming and said severing.
42. A method according to claim 40 or 41, wherein said forming includes heating said overlay (0) and wherein the time/temperature relationship of said heating is such that no more than a few microns of the overlay-facing surface of said substrate (S) is melted.
43. A method according to any one of claims 40 to 42, wherein the plan area of said substrate-covering portion is less than -that of said substrate (S) .
44. A method according to claim 43, wherein said substrate- covering portion is just undersize relative to said substrate (S) .
45. A laminating method, comprising laminating together first and second layers (S,0) at a lamination station and severing a section of the laminate to provide a card, characterised in that said severing is also performed at said lamination station.
46. Laminating apparatus, comprising, laminating means (43
/
47) for laminating together first and second layers
(S,0), and severing means (44) for severing a section of the laminate to provide a card, characterised in that said laminating means (43,47) and said severing means (44) are at a station common to both. 47. Apparatus according to claim 46, wherein said severing means (44) encircles a ram (43) of said laminating means 


(43,47).
48. Apparatus according to claim 46 or 47, wherein said laminating means (43,47) includes an anvil (47) formed with suction bores (49) . 49. A laminating method, comprising applying an overlay (0) to a substrate (S) , laminating said overlay (0) and said substrate (S) and severing from said overlay (0) a substrate-covering portion of said overlay, characterised in that said substrate (S) is not severed but instead acts as an anvil for said severing of said overlay (0) .
50. A printing apparatus comprising a plurality of printing stations (114) positioned in series along an intended path of an article to be printed characterised by a control device (13) common to said plurality and electronically connected to said printing stations (114) for actuating said heads simultaneously.
51. Apparatus according to claim 50, wherein at least one of said printing stations (114) is a dry printing station.
52. Apparatus according to claim 50 or 51, wherein said each printing station (114) prints different matter.
53. A printing apparatus, comprising at least one printing station (114), two data processors (131) in parallel, to alternately receive and send data to said at least one printing station (114) . 54. Apparatus according to claim 53 with said processors
(131) fed by two stores (132, 133) one being a static store
(132) for containing recurrent non-variable data and the other being a dynamic store (133) for containing variable data. 55. Apparatus for electronically controlled printing with data being adjusted by at least one filter (134) . 56. Apparatus according to claim 55, wherein said at least one filter (134) serves to correct printing head intolerance. 57. Apparatus according to claim 55, wherein said at least one filter (134) serves to correct substrate (S) changes. 


58. Apparatus according to claim 55, wherein said at least one filter (134) serves to correct die changes.
59. A printing method comprising automatically advancing material to be printed through a series of printing stations (114), characterised in that one of said stations prints a substance only visible to the naked human eye when the substance is irradiated by UV light.
60. A method according to claim 59 where said at least one printing station (114) is a dry printing station. 61. A printing method comprising automatically advancing material to be printed through a series of printing stations (114), characterised in that one of said stations (114) prints an encodified mark particular to that material.
62. A method according to claim 61 where said mark is printed in a substance only visible to the naked eye when the substance is irradiated by UV light.
63. A method according to claim 61 or 62 where said at least one printing station (114) is a dry printing station. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
