<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616773</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Proofer with a special endless transport system and connected carriers.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21C1300	A21C1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21C	A21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21C13	A21C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention concerns a strong improved prover (1), which is 
very compact in size, wherein several horizontal endless 

transporters (3) are situated above each other, of which onto 
these vertical carriers (6) with tiltable proverbags (9) are 

mounted, of which the aforementioned carriers are supported 
and guided on the lower and topside in a track, of which the 

total construction of the proverbags (9) are equiped in such a 
way to the vertical carriers (6) of special turnover blocks 

(18) for a robust guiding and stabel turnover of the proverbags 
(9). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIJKAART LODEWIJK CORNELIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIJKAART, LODEWIJK CORNELIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIJKAART LODEWIJK CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIJKAART, LODEWIJK CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a prover/proofer containing a compartment 
with inside a transport system consisting of at least one 
endless transporter in a certain level/plane and which is 
driven over at least two turning points, of which the transporter 
is meant for the driving of at least one carrier, of 
which the centreline is mounted almost perpendicular on the 
mentioned plane, by which the carriers are supplied with axis 
on which means are mounted for the input of dough pieces, of 
which on the axis with containing unit means have been fitted 
for the positionrigid moving and the rotation of the mentioned 
containing units elements for taking up dough pieces with 
respect to the mentioned carriers. Such a prover is known from the Dutch Patent application 
number 9 002 579. At this known prover are two at horizontal 
distance running vertical endless transporters present and 
between them are the carriers for the dough pieces. By means 
of bearing pin structures and suchlike carriers with the dough 
pieces can be turned over. The dough pieces, in proverbags, in 
a large prover compartment make vertical up and down going 
movements on chains around return pulleys, of which the dough 
pieces stay in the same carrier during one complete circulation. 
Only at the bottom side of the transportsystem the carriers 
are turned over and the "finished" dough pieces are 
dropped out automatically. The dough pieces can, by means of 
the aforementiond special axis suspension structure of the 
proverbags only come out of the proverbags at the bottom side 
of the prover. Furtheron can be mentioned that at the bottomside of the 
prover the dough pieces always come out due to the necessary 
turning over of the proverbags. With this structure there is 
no possibility to turnover the proverbags separately and/or 
not turnover the proverbags at all, moving in at least a  
 
certain plane that is vertical in order to keep the dough 
pieces inside the prover for a longer treatment. Thus excluding 
adjustment facilities in a large prover, which represent 
objections when using in practice. The invention of the prover has the specific purpose to eliminate 
the objections and that the aforementioned plane, in 
which at least one mentioned endless transporter runs, is 
almost horizontal, whereby aforementioned containing units 
proverbags are mounted in one row above each other rotatable 
in a frame to aforementioned perpendicular position with 
respect to aforementioned plane with almost vertical carriers 
by means of an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Prover (1) consisting of a compartment with inside that a 
transport system (2) consisting of at least one endless 

transporter (3) in a certain plane (4) and which is 
transported over at least two turnover structures (5a, 

5b) with which the transport system (3) is driving at 
least one carrier (6) of which the centre-line is almost 

perpendicular situated on the mentioned plane (4) of the 
tansporter (3), whereby the carriers (6) are supplied 

with axis (7) with on them the containing units for the 
imput of dough pieces (8), of which containing units are 

mounted in the axis (7) in order to achieve the stable 
movement and rotation of the mentioned containing units 

for the imput of the dough pieces (8) with regard to the 
mentioned carriers (6) characterized in that the mentioned 

plane (4) with at least one mentioned endless transporter 
(3) is running, is almost horizontal, whereby on 

the mentioned containing units (24) proverbags (9) at the 
frame (16) are mounted in one row above each other rotatable 

onto the mentioned perpendicular mounted with 
regard to the mentioned plane (4) of almost vertical carrier 

(6) by means of an axis (7), whereby the axis (7) 
and inside of the compartment (1) facilities have been 

mounted for the stable stand and rotation of mentioned 
proverbags (9), and whereby several proverbags (9) can be 

mounted against each other in horizontal way. 
Prover as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one aforementioned 
endless transporter (3) is a chain (10) and 

that aforementioned two turnover structures (5a, 5b) are 
chain wheels. 
Prover as claimed in claim 2, wherein the aforementioned 
endless transporter (3) is equiped with take along units 

 
(11) for transporting the aforementioned almost vertical 

carriers (6). 
Prover as claimed in claim 1-3, wherein the aforementioned 
almost vertical carrier (6) is equiped with a vertical 

bearing roller (12) at the bottom side, which runs in 
a guiding track (13) and that the top side of the aforementioned 

vertical carrier (6) is equiped with a horizontal 
roller wheel (14), which also runs in a guiding track 

(15) with the same trace as the aforementioned guiding 
track and are situated vertical above each other. 
Prover as claimed in claim 4, wherein the vertical section 
of the aforementioned tracks (13, 15) are U-shaped or 

channel shaped. 
Prover as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aforementioned 
proverbags (9) are mounted at a rotating frame (16), 

mounted to aforementioned axis (7). 
Prover as claimed in claim 6, wherein the aforementioned 
rotating frame (16) seen from top view is round, oval, 

oblong, rectangular or square. 
Prover as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aforementioned 
axis (7) is mounted by means of a bearing (17) in aforementioned 

vertical carrier (6). 
Prover as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aforementioned 
position stable stand of the aforementioned proverbags 

(9) is made of turnover block (18) of a special structure 
that is guided through a L-profile (19) and is interrupted 

at certain places, by which the special constructed 
turnover blocks (18) can collide against axis (20) in 

order to turnover the proverbag (9). 
Prover as claimed in claim 9, wherein the aforementioned 
 

turnover block (18) has a vertical section of a diabolo, 
of which the side of the body is rounded up. 
Prover as claimed in claim 1, 6 and 7, wherein the aforementioned 
proverbags (9) are mounted sagging through to 

the aforementioned circulating frame (16) by means of an 
overturn (21) on mentioned frame (16) and are attached by 

means of, for example, velcro (22). 
Prover as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aforementioned 
proverbags (9) in a frame (16) can all be turned over 

separately and therefore the vertical centre-to-centre 
distance is bigger than half the width of the dimension 

of the frame (16) seen from top view. 
Prover as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aforementioned 
proverbags (9) in a frame (16) can be tilted over dependant 

on each other and therefore the vertical distance 
can be smaller than half the width dimension of the 

dimension of the frame (16) seen from top view. 
Prover as claimed in claims 1-2, wherein the aforementioned 
chain of the endless transporter (3) is driven by 

means of an electromotor. 
Prover as claimed in claims 1-5, wherein the horizontal 
centre-to-centre distance of the vertical carriers (6) is 

a bit larger than the width of the frame (16) with proverbags 
(9). 
Prover as claimed in claim 15, wherein the number of the 
almost vertical carriers (6) for a prover in preferable 

specification can be between 10 and 50. 
Prover as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aforementioned 
prover (1) is a rectangular parallelepiped and that the 

input of a dough piece (8) takes place through an opening 
 

in the topside and by means of a hopper (23). 
Prover as claimed in claim 17, wherein the side dimensions 
length x width x hight of the aforementioned prover 

compartment (1) in preferable specification are approximately 
1300 x 1000 x 2500 mm. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
