<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641283</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DESK-TOP ENVELOPE MAKER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31B1974	B31B2100	B31B1900	B31B1926	B41J301	B41J300	B31B2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31B	B31B	B31B	B31B	B41J	B41J	B31B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31B19	B31B21	B31B19	B31B19	B41J3	B41J3	B31B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is directed to an apparatus (120) and method for making an envelope from ordinary size, readily available, writing paper (10). Preferably, the apparatus is a compact desk-top size machine (220) that can be combined with any common office printer (99), such as a laser printer, or even be incorporated thereinto to form a single machine (240). The envelope is created by the apparatus by appropriate scoring (21) of fold lines (G, H, F, F'), as well as cutting the sides of the sheet of paper (A, A', B, B', D, D', E, E') to form side flaps (U, U'), for example, and the application of a suitable adhesive (9) to seal the bottom flap to the side flaps, for example, as well as the application of an adhesive (210) on the sealing flap for subsequent sealing by the user, for example, following the insertion of the typed letter, for example, into the thus created envelope.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
G D INVENTION LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
G.D. INVENTION, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIDOV GIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIDOV, GIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and
apparatus for making envelopes from ordinary size, readily
available, sheets of writing paper. In a preferred
embodiment, the apparatus can be combined with or
incorporated into a printer for printing on the paper prior
to its being made into an envelope.Most offices today are computerized, with typing done
on a computer, such as a word-processor, linked to a
printer. This considerably speeds-up the output of the
office. However, a bottleneck frequently occurs at the
stage of preparing the envelope for sending out material,
such as the mailing of a printed letter. Most printers are
not built to accept the infeed of envelopes for printing
thereof, and it becomes necessary to revert to the
typewriter for addressing the envelope. In the event that
more than a few letters must be sent, the addressing of the
envelopes can take a considerable amount of time.Presently, there are several ways in which this
problem can be overcome. These include the use of: (1)
address labels; (2) envelopes with transparent windows; and
(3) special mechanisms for feeding envelopes into the
printer.All of these methods are expensive and/or
time-consuming. A way is therefore needed to simplify the
preparation of printed envelopes and to integrate their
addressing into the computerized processes of the modern
office in a simple and inexpensive manner. Furthermore, US 4,900,391 discloses a sheet recirculating,
folding and gluing system
comprising feeding means, supporting means, folding means,
sealing means and dispensing means. The system accepts sheets
from a conventional printer, folds them,
holds them at
a wait station and then inserts them into another sheet which
is folded and glued "online" to form an envelope. However,
this system requires different sizes of sheets of papers for
the ones serving as envelopes and the ones being inserted into
the envelopes. This results from the fact that both the envelopes
and the folded sheets inserted therein are folded at
folding lines parallel to the shorter side of the rectangular
sheets. It is an object of this invention to provide a compact
desk top machine for making an envelope from ordinary size,
readily available, writing paper suitable for use with letters printed
on paper having the same size.It is a further object of this invention to provide a
compact desk top envelope making machine that can be 
combined with any common office printer such as a laser
printer.Another object of the invention is to provide a method
of making,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for creating an envelope from a flat rectangular sheet of paper
having a long side (X) and a short side (Y), said sheet of paper forming the

unfolded envelope and including a plurality of flap sections (S, T, U, U) to be
folded and a rectangular central section (V) with a long side (G, H) and a short

side (F, F'), the plurality of flap sections at least including a bottom flap section (T)
and a sealing flap section (S), wherein the long side of the central section (G, H) is

greater than the short side of the sheet (Y),

said apparatus comprising:

a supporting mechanism for maintaining the sheet in a predetermined position;
a feeding mechanism for feeding the sheet of paper in the predetermined position;
an adhesive applying mechanism for applying adhesive to at least one of the
plurality of flap sections;
means for folding at least the bottom flap section, whereby the folding line
between the central section and the bottom flap section (H) is parallel to the long

side of the sheet (X);
means for sealing at least the bottom flap section; and
means for dispensing the envelope from the apparatus;

whereby the passing of the sheet of paper through the apparatus results in the
conversion from the flat sheet of paper to an envelope suitable for use with letters

printed on other sheets of paper having the same size as the flat sheet of paper.
The apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in
 that the apparatus
(120) is a desk-top apparatus.
The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized
 in that the apparatus
further comprises a cutting mechanism (15
,
 16, 17, 19; 750, 760, 770,
780; A, B, BB) for cutting the sheet of paper into a

predetermined shape while the paper sheet is maintained in
the predetermined position, whereby the cut sheet of paper

constitutes the unfolded envelope, the predetermined shape of
the unfolded envelope including the central section (V) and

the plurality of flap sections (S, T, U, U') to be folded,
the plurality of flap sections to be folded at least

including the bottom flap section (T) and the sealing flap
section (S). 
The apparatus according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the
plurality of flap sections further comprises two side flap sections (U, U') and the

means for folding means comprises means for folding the bottom flap section (5,
12, 57) and means for folding the two side flap sections (3, 4). 
The apparatus according to claim 4, 
characterized in
 that the means for
folding the two side flap sections comprise two oppositely

disposed members (3, 4) and means for moving the two
oppositely disposed members for engagement with the two side

flap sections (U, U') for folding the two side flap sections
toward the central section (V).
The apparatus according to claim 4, 
characterized in
 that the means for
folding the two side flap sections comprises two oppositely

disposed wedge shaped platforms (3, 4) adapted to pivot
vertically and reciprocate horizontally.
The apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in that the means for folding
and the means for sealing effect

simultaneously folding and sealing the side flaps and the
bottom flap. 
The apparatus
according to one of the preceding claims,


characterized in
 that the feeding
mechanism comprises two separate means (18, 18') for feeding the

sheet of paper to the supporting mechanism
The apparatus
according to one of the preceding claims,


characterized in
 that the
supporting mechanism comprises a folding table (30) upon

which the sheet of paper is to be supported and a pressure
plate (6) located above the sheet of paper while supported on

the folding table, whereby the sheet of paper is held firmly

between the folding table (30) and the pressure plate (6).
The apparatus according to claim 3, 
characterized in
 that the cutting
mechanism comprises a plurality of knife edges (17, 19) and

means for moving the knife edges in a predetermined manner
for cutting the sheet of paper, and that the supporting

mechanism comprises a folding table (30), the folding table having
slits (44, 45) for receiving the knife edges as the knife

edges move and cut the sheet of paper into the
predetermined shape of the unfolded envelope.
The apparatus
according to one of the preceding claims


characterized in
 that the apparatus
further comprises means (20, 21) for impressing

fold lines in the sheet of paper.
The apparatus according to claim 11, 
characterized in
 that the means
for impressing fold lines in the sheet of paper comprises

a pair of wheels (20, 21) having a generally sharp edge for
engagement with the sheet of paper as the sheet of paper is

fed to the predetermined position by the feeding mechanism.
The apparatus according to one of the preceding claims 
characterized in
 that the means for folding
further comprises means (68, 69,) for dispensing

glue. 
The apparatus according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in
 that the
adhesive applying mechanism comprises means for dispensing

double-sided adhesive tape (8, 9) and means (10a, 11a) for
sticking an adhesive side of the tape to one or more of the

flap sections, with release tape on the adhesive tape
protecting the adhesive side of the adhesive tape. 
The apparatus according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in
 that the
apparatus includes an embossing device (108, 108') for

embossing the envelope.
The apparatus according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in
 that the
apparatus includes a postage franking device (109) for

affixation of postage to the envelope.
The apparatus according to one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in
 that the
apparatus is configured and arranged for creating an

envelope from a rectangular sheet of paper having a size
selected from the group consisting of 21.6 cm by 27.9 cm

(8½ inches by 11 inches), 21.6 cm by 35.6 cm (8½ inches by
14 inches), and 21.0 cm by 29.7 cm. 
The apparatus according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the
apparatus further comprises means for actuation of two or more of the supporting

mechanism, the feeding mechanism, the adhesive applying mechanism, the
means for folding and sealing, the means for dispensing in accordance with a

predetermined operational sequence.
The apparatus according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the
operation of the apparatus is controlled by a computer.
A combined printer and envelope maker comprising a printer (99) and an
apparatus for creating an envelope according to one of claims 1 - 19.
A combined printer and envelope maker according to claim 20, characterized in that
the apparatus for creating an envelope comprises means for modularly integrating

the apparatus with the printer.
A combined printer and envelope maker according to claim 21, characterized in that 
the means for modularly integrating the apparatus comprises, means for physically

connecting the apparatus to the printer, wherein the feeding mechanism,.
comprises means for receiving a sheet of paper as the sheet of paper is being

discharged from the printer and for feeding the same sheet of paper to the
apparatus.
A combined printer and envelope maker according to one of the claims 20 - 22,
characterized in that the printer is in operative association with the apparatus, and

that the apparatus further comprises means for initiating actuation of the feeding
mechanism, said initiating means comprising means (131) for recognizing a

predetermined sheet of a plurality of sheets of paper discharged by the printer for
feeding to the apparatus.
A combined printer and envelope maker according to claim 23, characterized in that
the means (131) for recognizing the predetermined sheet of the plurality of sheets

of paper discharged by the printer comprises means for recognizing a bar code
affixed to the predetermined sheet and for causing the predetermined sheet to be

fed to the apparatus.
A combined printer and envelope maker according to claim 20, wherein the
apparatus for creating an envelope is incorporated into the housing of the printer

as to form a single unit (240).
A Method of passing of a flat rectangular sheet of paper through an apparatus and
converting the sheet of paper into an envelope suitable for use with letter printed

on another sheet of paper having the same size as the flat sheet, whereby the flat
sheet having a long side (X) and a short side (Y) constitutes an unfolded envelope

including a plurality of flap sections (S, T, U, U') to be folded and a rectangular
central section (V) with a long side (G, H) and a short side (F, F'), the plurality of

flap sections at least including a bottom flap section (T) and a sealing flap section
(S), wherein the long side of the central section is greater than the short side of

the sheet (Y)

the method comprising the steps of

feeding the sheet of paper to a predetermined position in the apparatus;
applying adhesive to at least one of the plurality of flap sections;
folding at least the bottom flap section, whereby the folding line between the
central section and the bottom flap section (H) is parallel to the long side of the

sheet (X);
sealing at least the bottom flap section with respect to at least another section of
the envelope;
dispensing the envelope from the apparatus.
The method according to claim 26, 
characterized in
 that
the method comprises cutting the

sheet of paper into a predetermined shape, including at
least the central section (V) and a plurality of flap

sections (S, T, U, U') to be folded, the plurality of flap
sections at least including a bottom flap section (T) and

a sealing flap section (S). 
The method according to claim 26 or 27, 
characterized in
 that the method
includes the step of impressing fold lines on the sheet of

paper.
The method according to claim 28, 
characterized in
 that the step of
impressing fold lines is performed during the step of

feeding the sheet of paper.
The method
according to one of the claims 27-29,


characterized in
 that the step of
cutting further comprises the step of cutting the sheet of

paper to form the two side flap sections (U, U').
The method according to one of claims 26-30, 
characterized in
 that the steps of
feeding and applying adhesive

are performed simultaneously.
The method according to one of claims 26-31,

characterized in
 that the steps of
folding and sealing are performed simultaneously.
The method according to one of claims 26-32

characterized in
 that it comprises 
the step of directly receiving the sheet of paper from a

printer prior to the step of feeding the sheet of paper to
the apparatus.
The method according to claim 33, 
characterized in
 that the method
further comprises the step of printing information on the

sheet of paper by means of the printer (99) prior to the
step of directly receiving the sheet of paper from the

printer. 
A method of integrating letter printing and
envelope printing and making with the same device and with

the same paper source for both the letter printing and the
envelope printing and making, the method comprising the

steps of:

(a) feeding a number of sheets of paper of a
predetermined size from the paper source to the printing

device;
(b) printing information on at least one of the
number of sheets by means of the printing device;
(c) printing further information on a further sheet of
paper from among the number of sheets of paper fed in step

(a); and 
(d) converting the further sheet of paper into an
envelope according to the method of one of the claims 26-32.
The method according to claim 35, wherein step (c) of
printing further information on a further sheet of paper comprises

printing an address on the further sheet of paper.
The method according to claim 35 or 36, wherein the device
further comprises means for controlling the initiation of

steps (a), (b), (c) and (d), and wherein the method further
comprises the step of initiating steps (a), (b), (c) and

(d) with the means for controlling.
The method according to one of claims 35-37, further comprising the
steps of discharging from the device the at least one of

the number of sheets having had information printed thereon
in step (b) and discharging from the device the further

sheet of paper in the form of an envelope converted in step
(d).
The method according to one of claims 35-38, wherein the paper source
is a paper tray affixed to the device and wherein step (a)

comprises feeding a number of sheets of paper of a
predetermined size from the paper tray.
The method according to one of claims 35-39, wherein the step (c) of
printing further information on a further sheet of paper comprises

printing a predetermined mark on the further sheet of
paper, and wherein the method further comprises, prior to

step (d), the steps of:

sensing the predetermined mark on the further
sheet of paper; and
initiating step (d) of converting the further
sheet of paper into an envelope only in response to the

sensing of the predetermined mark.
The method according to claim 40, wherein the predetermined
mark is a bar code and the step of sensing the

predetermined mark comprises sensing the presence of a
predetermined bar code. 
The method
according to one of claims 26-41,


characterized in
 that the steps of
the method are performed with sheets of paper having a

size selected from the group consisting of 21.6 cm by 27.9
cm (8½ inches by 11 inches), 21.6 cm by 35.6 cm (8½ inches

by 14 inches), and 21.0 cm. by 29.7 cm.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
