<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621462</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Elastic wave sensing system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N29024	G01F186	G01F166	G01F166	G01H500	G01F23296	G01F23296	G01F176	G01D2100	G01N2900	G01H500	B64D1520	G01N2902	G01N2900	B64D1500	G01D2100	G01N900	G01N900	G01N2922	G01N2922	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01H	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01D	G01N	G01H	B64D	G01N	G01N	B64D	G01D	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N29	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01H5	G01F23	G01F23	G01F1	G01D21	G01N29	G01H5	B64D15	G01N29	G01N29	B64D15	G01D21	G01N9	G01N9	G01N29	G01N29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sensing system (10) detects elastic waves 
propagated along a sensing path in a sheet to detect a 

characteristic of material contacting the other side of the 
sheet. An acoustic load applied between transducers (12,14) 

discriminates characteristics in diverse environments. 
Different systems detect density, stiffness, presence, degree 

of coupling, thickness, or fill height of the material, with 
applications to areas as diverse as aircraft wing ice 

measurement, storage tank (2) fill height detection, and mass 
flow detection. In one preferred embodiment a protective 

housing (16) covers and protects the first side of the sheet 
over a region of the sheet encompassing the sensing path, and 

may secure transducers (12,14) in defined positions. The 
housing (16) preferably defines a closed reservoir (R) that is 

temporarily filled to determine a normative measurement such 
as transit time or change in phase velocity. The normative 

measurement provides an empirical calibration that, in turn, 
allows a final parameter or a detection threshold to be 

precisely determined. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to acoustic sensing and measurement systems, and
particularly to systems which detect the presence or a specific property of material bounded
by a wall. Examples include systems for sensing liquid level and interfaces in a tank, fluid
flow in a conduit, or the presence or thickness of ice built up on a hull, wing or fuselage.Extensive technologies have been developed to measure flow rate, mass flow
rate, or related parameters such as density or temperature, for fluids contained within
conduits, by propagating ultrasonic waves along a path through the fluid, and measuring
transit time, Doppler shift or other characteristic of the interaction of the signal with the fluid.In many of these applications, while certain corrections must be made in the
initial set up or subsequent signal processing to account for the effects of transducer
mounting and housing geometry, the basic processing involves the measurement and
comparison of ultrasonic signals propagating through a fluid. See, for example, U.S. patent
4, 787,252 of Saul A. Jacobson et al. In other systems, wave energy may be propagated
through a specially shaped wave guide, and the properties of the interrogating wave are
affected by an interaction of the wave guide with a fluid that fills or surrounds the wave
guide. U. S. patent 4, 893,496 of Haim H. Bau et al. shows a system of this latter type, in
which a polygonal or other specially shaped rod or cylinder is excited by a torsional wave,
and coupling of energy from the rod or cylinder into an adjacent fluid provides a direct
indication of the magnitude of the fluid's density or viscosity. In systems of this type, the
wave is guided by the solid body, and its propagation is affected by energy coupling with the
adjacent fluid.It has also been suggested to use specialized systems of various kinds with
flexural wave excitation to measure a static condition such as fluid height or ice covering.In particular, work has been done in France by Dieulesaint on a fluid sensor in
which a tube extends down into the fluid and is excited at one end with a flexural wave that is
reflected at the air/fluid interface and then detected. The relatively
slow propagation speed of a flexural wave in a long tube (or thin strip according to a method
reported by Ageeva in 1960) allows resolution of the fluid level height. U.S. patent 4, 461,178 of Jacques Chamuel shows a method of detecting ice
accumulations and the degree of attachment of ice formed on an aircraft wing. That system
uses acoustic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An acoustic measurement system for the determination of the presence or amount or a characteristic of a medium
contacting a sheet, wherein the sheet has first and second sides and possesses a plurality of

flexural wave modes that are functions of the physical properties of the sheet, and the
system includes a transducer arrangement of one or more transducers to launch and

receive a signal that is propagated as a guided wave signal along a sensing path in the
sheet and to produce a transducer electrical output signal therefrom, 
the system being

characterized in that
said transducer arrangement is configured to mount on the first side
of the sheet for launching and receiving said signal to propagate as

the lowest order asymmetric flexural wave, as,
in the sheet, and
a processor processes the transducer electrical output signal to determine the presence or amount or a characteristic of
the medium contacting the second side of the sheet adjacent to the path as a function of the phase

velocity of the guided wave signal along the sensing path.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 1, further
comprising means for establishing a reference condition on said first side over a region of

the sheet containing said sensing path so that the processor detects said material with
enhanced accuracy.
An acoustic measurement system according to any of claims 1 or 2,
wherein said sheet is the wall of a tank or conduit, and the material is a liquid

contained therein.
An acoustic measurement system according to any of the
preceding claims, wherein the transducer is mounted to appl
y a compressional wave at
normal incidence to the first side of said sheet to induce the flexural wave signal in the

sheet.
An acoustic measurement system according to any of the preceding
claims 2-4, wherein said means for establishing a reference condition includes a surface-mounted

cover extending over said region of the first side of the sheet, and including 
means for temporarily filling said enclosure structure to establish a loading on said first

side as the reference condition.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 1, wherein
said flexural wave signal energy is at a frequency below cutoff of the higher order modes

of said sheet.
An acoustic measurement system according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the sheet is a conduit wall, and the signals are acoustic signals having a

wavelength that is large compared to conduit diameter.
An acoustic measurement system according to any of the
preceding claims, wherein the sheet is a wall of a storage tank, and the sensing path

extends across a fill line of the tank.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 8, wherein
the sensing path extends substantially along a full fluid storage height of the tank.
An acoustic measurement system according to any of claims 1, 2, 4, or 6,
wherein the sheet is a skin of a vessel or vehicle, and the processor determines a

characteristic of ice built up on the second side of the sheet along the sensing path.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein the system includes both a transmitting transducer secured to one side of the

sheet and a receiving transducer secured to the same side of the sheet and spaced from the
transmitting transducer for defining the sensing path as a path which extends between the

transmitting and the receiving transducers, and said processor includes an interval
processor for determining a transit time measurement of the guided flexural wave signal

to detect the characteristic of the material contacting the second side of the sheet.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 11, wherein
the detected characteristic is one of fill height, density, thickness, integrated mass or a

phase transition of the material contacting the sheet. 
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 10 or 11,
wherein the means for establishing a reference condition places a material in contact with

the first side to determine a reference signal transit measurement.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 13, wherein
said material includes a solid block of material which is temporarily placed in contact

with said first side.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein said transducer produces audible sounds when actuated, and makes a pattern of

said audible sounds that varies with a sensed condition to provide an audible rhythmic
indication thereof.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 15, wherein
said sensed condition is an alarm condition.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein said system detects density of the material, and further comprising a flow

measurement assembly for measuring flow rate of the material contacting the sheet, the
processor combining density and flow for determining mass flow.
An acoustic measurement system according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein said system launches counterpropagating flexural waves in the sheet to detect

flow of the material contacting the sheet.
A measurement method for determining the presence or amount or a characteristic of a material contacting a second side of a
sheet having first and second sides, the method comprising the steps of:


configuring at least one transducer assembly on the first side of the sheet
to generate the lowest order asymmetrical flexural wave a
0
 that propagates as a guided wave measurement signal
along a sensing path in the sheet between its transmission and detection, and detecting said

flexural wave at the end of the sensing path to produce a detection signal, wherein the sensing path runs along a
region of the sheet adjacent to where the material may contact on the second side, and said flexural wave

has a phase velocity
which is less than the speed of compressional wave energy in the material ; and 
processing the detection signal received at an end of the detection path to determine the presence or amount or a characteristic of the material
on said second side of the sheet.
A measurement method according to claim 19, further comprising
the step of establishing a reference condition on the first side of the sheet over said

region.
A measurement method according to claim 19, wherein the
transducer assembly is driven by a tone burst to generate said flexural wave signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
