<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621003</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HANDLE AND WAND SYSTEM FOR VACUUM CLEANER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47L924	A47L924	A47L928	A47L928	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47L	A47L	A47L	A47L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47L9	A47L9	A47L9	A47L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A powered floor nozzle (50) is attached by a 
swivel elbow (40) to a 

wand (30) coupled by a second identical wand (30) 
to a handle (20) and thus to a hose 

(10). 
Suction is applied to the nozzle by way of 

the hose, handle, and wands. 
Electrical power is conveyed to the nozzle 

by conductors mounted in the hose, 
handle and wands and controlled by a switch (22) in the handle. 
The coupling between the hose (10) and the handle (20) allows free 
rotation without interrupting the flow of current. The connections between the 

wands (30), the handle (20) and the elbow (40) 
allow easy release while providing a 

vacuum seal and low resistance electrical contacts. The handle and wand may be 
used with other tools, including non-powered tools. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROLUX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROLUX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAY STEVEN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOEKSTRA PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN MICHAEL F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOYHER GEORGE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAY, STEVEN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOEKSTRA, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN, MICHAEL F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOYHER, GEORGE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to cleaning 
devices, and particularly cleaning devices employing a 
vacuum to clean floors and other surfaces. It is an object of this invention to provide 
a handle and wand system for use with a canister vacuum 
or a central vacuum cleaner system. The handle and 
wand system interfaces with a number of different 
cleaning tools, including a powered floor nozzle, a 
powered nozzle for use in above-the-floor cleaning, a 
dusting brush, a crevice tool and several non-powered 
floor nozzles. A further object of the present invention is 
to provide a handle and wand system for use with 
powered nozzles which do not have any externally 
visible electrical wires. In accordance with the present invention, a 
handle and wand system for a vacuum cleaner is provided 
which includes an internal electrical system which may 
be used to provide electrical power to a powered floor 
nozzle or other powered nozzles. In one embodiment, the system includes a 
handle and suction hose assembly which permits the  
 
hose, which includes conducting wires, to be freely 
rotated while attached to the handle. In another embodiment, means are provided for 
easily attaching, locking and detaching the components 
of the handle and wand system of the present invention 
while providing both a vacuum seal and a plurality of 
low resistance electrical contacts between the elements 
of the system of the present invention. In a further embodiment, a swivel elbow is 
provided to attach the handle and wand system of the 
present invention to a powered floor nozzle. The 
swivel elbow permits both pivoting and steering action 
while maintaining a plurality of reliable low 
resistance electrical contacts between the powered 
floor nozzle and the handle and wand system of the 
present invention. The steering action enables the 
powered floor nozzle to be more easily maneuvered. In another embodiment, an interface is 
provided easily for attaching, locking and detaching 
the handle and wand system of the present invention to 
and from non-powered cleaning tools. The above and other objects and advantages of 
the invention will be apparent upon consideration of 
the following detailed description, taken in 
conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which 
like reference characters refer to like parts 
throughout, and in which: 
FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment 
of the handle and wand system of the present invention, 
which is shown attached to a floor nozzle; FIG. 2 is an exploded view of an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A locking interface for use in a vacuum 
cleaner system to detachably join a first member of the 

system to a second member of the system, the locking 
interface comprising: 

   a suction conduit wall in the first 
member surrounding a suction conduit, the suction 

conduit wall having a slot opening therein near a 
female end of the first member, the first member 

also including an end wall at the first end of the 
first member, the end wall having a plurality of 

contact access openings therein; 
   a first plurality of conducting wires 

running generally parallel to the suction conduit 
and along the first member, each of the conducting 

wires terminating at the female end of the first 
member in an electrical contact, each of the 

electrical contacts being located adjacent a 
contact access opening in the end wall; 

   a latch including a button and a locking 
arm having a locking tooth, the latch being 

movably mounted on the first member to permit the 
locking tooth to move in the slot opening in the 

suction conduit wall; 
   a spring for biasing the latch such that 

the locking tooth of the latch is biased towards 
the suction conduit; 

   a cylindrical flange attached to the 
second member at a male end of the second member, 

the cylindrical flange fitting into the suction 
conduit at the female end of the first member; 

   a locking projection on the cylindrical 
flange of the second member;

 
   wherein, the second member is detachably 

joined to the first member with the cylindrical 
flange of the second member fitting into the 

suction conduit of the first member such that the 
locking projection extends into the slot opening 

in the suction conduit wall with the locking 
projection engaging the locking tooth to prevent 

the first member from being separated from the 
second member until the button is depressed to 

compress the spring and move the locking tooth 
away from the locking projection and permit the 

second member to be removed from the first member. 
2. The locking interface of claim 1 wherein 
the second member further includes a spacing wall 

protruding from the cylindrical flange which abuts the 
first member when the locking projection engages the 

locking tooth to prevent the first member and the 
second member from being moved closer toward one 

another. 
3. The locking interface of claim 2 wherein 
the spacing wall abuts the end wall of the first member 

to prevent the first member and the second member from 
being moved closer toward one another. 
4. The locking interface of claim 3 wherein 
the first member comprises a wand section. 
5. The locking interface of claim 4 wherein 
the second member further comprises a shielding wall 

protruding from the cylindrical.flange to shield at 
least one of the plurality of contact access openings. 
6. The locking interface of claim 5 wherein 
the second member comprises a cleaning tool. 
7. The locking interface of claim 5 wherein 
the second member comprises an adaptor for attaching a 

cleaning tool to the first member. 
8. The locking interface of claim 2 wherein 
the second member includes a plurality of electrically 

conducting pins, each of which is coupled to one of a 
second plurality of conducting wires running along the 

second member, 
   wherein, when the locking projection of the 

second member engages the locking tooth of the latch, 
each of the electrically conducting pins extends 

through a contact access opening in the end wall of the 
first member and contacts one of the electrical 

contacts located adjacent the contact access openings. 
9, The locking interface of claim 8 wherein 
the second member includes a key on the cylindrical 

flange, the key fitting inside the slot opening in the 
suction conduit wall of the first member. 
10. The locking interface of claim 9 wherein 
the second member includes two electrically conducting 

pins, with one electrically conducting pin being 
located on either side of the key. 
11. The locking interface of claim 10 
wherein the key is angled such that it is wider at the 

base of the spacing wall than at the opposite end of 
the key. 
12. The locking interface of claim 11 
wherein the key extends from the base of the spacing 

wall toward the locking projection, wherein the key 
extends past the ends of the electrically conducting 

pins. 
13. The locking interface of claim 8 wherein 
the second member comprises a wand section. 
14. The locking interface of claim 13 
wherein the first member comprises a handle section. 
15. The locking interface of claim 13 
wherein the first member comprises a wand section. 
16. The locking interface of claim 8 wherein 

the second member comprises a powered nozzle. 
17. The locking interface of claim 16 
wherein the first member comprises a wand section. 
18. A handle for use in a vacuum cleaner 
system including a suction hose having a hose cuff with 

a groove therein extending around the hose cuff, the 
hose cuff being attached to the suction hose at one end 

of the suction hose, the handle comprising: 
   a handle body having a suction conduit 

therein, the suction conduit extending from a 
front opening in the handle body to a forward 

opening in a bore located at the rear of the 
handle body, the bore having a rear opening and a 

slot opening is a side wall of the bore; 
   a handle cover constructed to join with 

the handle body, the handle cover including a tab 
at a rear end thereof;

 
   wherein, the suction hose is joined to 

the handle with the hose cuff being positioned in 
the bore in the handle body such that the groove 

in the hose cuff is aligned with the slot opening 
in the side wall of the bore, the tab of the 

handle cover protruding through the slot opening 
and into the groove in the hose cuff to prevent 

the suction hose and hose cuff from being removed 
from the handle while permitting the suction hose 

and hose cuff to rotate within the bore. 
19. The handle of claim 18 wherein the 
handle body further comprises a stop wall protruding 

from the side wall of the bore into the bore, the stop 
wall being positioned such that the groove in the hose 

cuff is aligned with the slot opening when the hose 
cuff contacts the stop wall. 
20. The handle of claim 19 wherein the 
handle body comprises a unitary piece of molded 

plastic. 
21. A swivel joint for joining a powered 
nozzle to a vacuum cleaner system, the swivel joint 

comprising: 
   a swivel member joined at a lower end 

thereof to a powered nozzle, the swivel member 
including tubular section at an upper end of the 

swivel member, the swivel member also having a 
suction conduit therein and first and second 

spacing rings protruding from the outside of the 
tubular section, with a pair of grooves in the 

outside of the tubular section being located 
between the spacing rings;

 
   a pair of snap ring contacts, each of 

which fits into one of the grooves in the tubular 
section of the swivel member such that each snap 

ring contact at least partially encircles the 
tubular section of the swivel member, each of the 

snap ring contacts being electrically connected to 
an electrical system in the powered nozzle; 

   an elbow body having a bore at a lower 
end thereof and a suction conduit extending from 

the bore to an upper end of the elbow body, the 
upper end of the elbow body including an interface 

for joining the elbow body to the vacuum cleaner 
system, the elbow body also having at least one 

contact opening therein; 
   a pair of swivel contacts mounted to the 

elbow body, each swivel contact extending through 
a particular contact opening into the bore, each 

swivel contact being electrically connected to the 
interface at the upper end of the elbow body; 

   wherein a portion of the tubular section 
of the swivel member is positioned in the bore of 

the elbow body with the spacing rings contacting 
the bore and such that each swivel contact makes 

electrical contact with a corresponding snap ring 
contact to permit the swivel member to rotate 

within the bore while electrical contact between 
each swivel contact the corresponding snap ring 

contact is maintained. 
22. The swivel joint of claim 21 wherein the 
swivel member further includes a third spacing ring. 
23. The swivel joint of claim 22 wherein the 
elbow body further includes a pawl opening and the 

swivel joint further comprises a locking pawl which 
 

fits into the pawl opening and extends into the bore 
between the second and third spacing rings of the 

swivel member to prevent the swivel member from moving 
further inward or outward with respect to the bore. 
24. The swivel joint of claim 23 wherein the 
elbow body further includes a bore stop wall extending 

into the bore from a side wall of the bore. 
25. The swivel joint of claim 24 wherein the 
third spacing ring is located at the upper end of the 

swivel member, and the swivel member further includes a 
pair of swivel member stop walls extending upward from 

the third spacing ring, the swivel member stop walls 
abutting the bore stop wall when the swivel member is 

rotated within the elbow body to limit the rotation of 
the swivel member within the elbow body. 
26. The swivel joint of claim 25 wherein the 
swivel member further includes a pivot mount at a lower 

end of the swivel member, wherein the pivot mount is 
joined to the powered nozzle so as to permit the swivel 

joint to pivot about the pivot mount. 
27. The swivel joint of claim 26 wherein the 
first spacing ring has a gap therein to permit the snap 

ring contacts to be electrically connected to the 
electrical system in the powered nozzle. 

ring gap 
28. A swivel interface for joining a suction 
hose having a plurality of conducting wires embedded 

therein to a handle, the swivel interface comprising: 
   a tube support having a first end, 

wherein an end of the suction hose covers the 
 

first end of the tube support, the tube support 
having an outer surface with a plurality of spring 

contact mounts located on the outer surface; 
   a plurality of spring contacts, each 

spring contact including a contact leaf, and each 
spring contact being mounted to one of the spring 

contact mounts such that the contact leaf on the 
spring contact extends radially outward from the 

outer surface of the tube support, with each 
spring contact being electrically connected to one 

of the plurality of conducting wires imbedded in 
the suction hose; 

   a hose cuff attached to the suction 
hose, the hose cuff having a groove extending 

around an exterior surface of the hose cuff; 
   a slip ring insulator surrounding a 

portion of the outer surface of the tube support, 
the slip ring insulator having a generally tubular 

configuration with a plurality of contact openings 
therein, the slip ring insulator being positioned 

on the tube support such that the contact leaf of 
each spring contact mounted to the tube support 

protrudes through one of the plurality of contact 
openings in the slip ring insulator; 

   a plurality of conducting slip rings 
mounted on the slip ring insulator such that each 

conducting slip ring is in contact with the 
contact leaf of one of the spring contacts; 

   a contact board mounted in the handle, 
the contact board including a plurality of board 

contacts, each board contact making electrical 
contact with a conducting slip ring and being 

electrically connected to an electrical system in 
the handle; and

 
   a tab in the handle extending into the 

groove in the hose cuff to permit the hose cuff 
and the suction hose to be rotated relative to the 

handle, 
   wherein electrical contact between the 

conducting wires embedded in the suction hose and 
the electrical system in the handle is maintained 

when the hose cuff and suction hose rotate with 
respect to the handle. 
29. The swivel interface of claim 28 further 
comprising a lead insulator separating the ends of the 

conducting wires embedded in the suction hose from the 
conducting slip rings. 
30. The swivel interface of claim 29 wherein 
the slip ring insulator has a
 gap therein, giving the 
slip ring insulator a generally C-shaped cross-section. 
31. The swivel interface of claim 30 wherein 
the outer surface of the tube support includes a key 

which fits into the gap in the slip ring insulator. 
32. The swivel interface of claim 28 wherein 
the slip ring insulator has an outer slip ring 

insulator surface including a plurality of slip ring 
grooves into which the conducting slip rings seat. 
33. The swivel interface of claim 28 wherein 
the electrical system in the handle includes an on/off 

power switch. 
34. The swivel interface of claim 28 wherein 
the tube support is plastic. 
35. A hose cuff to be attached to a suction 
hose, the hose cuff comprising two identical cuff 

halves, with each cuff half including a locking tooth 
at a first end and an indentation at a second end, 

wherein the locking tooth of one cuff half fits into 
the indentation of the other cuff half to lock the hose 

cuff in place around the suction hose. 
36. The hose cuff of claim 35 wherein each 
cuff half includes a plurality of locking teeth at the 

first end and a plurality of indentations at the second 
end, wherein the locking teeth of one cuff half fit 

into the indentations of the other cuff half. 
37. The hose cuff of claim 36 wherein the 
hose cuff includes an outer surface having a groove 

extending around the entire hose cuff. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
