<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618852</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC LINE TRIMMER HEAD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01D3473	A01D34412	A01D34416	B26B700	A01D3473	B26B700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01D	A01D	A01D	B26B	A01D	B26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01D34	A01D34	A01D34	B26B7	A01D34	B26B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A line trimmer head (10) for a vegetation cutter having an automatic line feed mechanism which replenishes the line (19) as a result of changes in centrifugal force. The line trimmer head (10) comprises a reel housing (14) which rotates with a shaft (12). A spool (18) containing a supply of line (19) is located within the housing (14). An indexer cam (16) is journaled on the shaft (12) and is axially and rotatably shiftable with respect to the shaft (12). The indexer cam (16) is periodically axially shifted and rotated by a reduction in the centrifugal force applied by the line (19) to the spool (18). A spring (20) is provided to bias the indexer cam (16) axially relative to the housing (14) away from an interlocked position. In the interlocked position, the indexer cam (16) and housing (14) are interlocked together so that the spool (18), indexer cam (16), housing (14) and shaft (12) rotate together. The indexer cam (16) is shifted axially to cause the indexer cam (16) to be disengaged from the housing (14) allowing the spool (18) and indexer cam (16) to rotate relative to the housing (14). As the spool rotates a predetermined incremental amount relative to the housing, an increment of line (19) is fed from the spool (18). Centrifugal force applied by the line (19) may be reduced by either a reduction in the length of the line (19) or by a reduction in the speed of rotation of the shaft (12).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RYOBI OUTDOOR PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RYOBI OUTDOOR PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVERTS ROBERT C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVERTS, ROBERT C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to line trimmers
for motor driven vegetation cutters. More particularly,
the invention relates to a head for a line trimmer which
includes automatic line feed.Line trimmers are used to cut vegetation such
as grass or weeds. Trimming with a line trimmer offers
advantages in that the line can cut vegetation against
walls or around stones without damage. However, the line
normally is abraded when vegetation is cut or when other
objects are contacted. The line may also break off close
to the housing if the trimmer abruptly contacts the ground
or another object. When the line breaks off, it is
necessary to feed a new increment of line from the spool,
and out of the housing.Various automatic feed mechanisms have been
contrived that have achieved the objective of providing
an automatic feed mechanism. However, several problems
are inherent in many of the designs. One problem is
controlling the length of line allowed to feed from the
spool. Another problem is providing an automatic line
feed which is easy to use.A line feed mechanism must be durable.
Automatic line feed mechanisms must be capable of enduring
wear and tear of high speed operation, as well as impacts
with objects. For this reason, line trimmer heads having
automatic feed mechanisms requiring close calibration or 
relying upon small spring elements and multiple piece
linkages present problems.Another aspect of automatic feed line trimmer
heads is that they should be easy to manufacture. Line
trimmer heads which require intricate assembly or
calibration complicate the manufacturing process.The line feed mechanism must be well suited to
provide limited line advance when the line is abraded and
becomes worn. It is also desirable to replenish the line
immediately upon breakage of the line.The most common type of automatic line feed
advance is commonly referred to as "bump feed" wherein the
head of the line cutter is bumped against the ground to
cause the spool to feed out a length of line. Examples
of bump feed devices include U.S. Patent No. 4,185,381 to
Palmieri, et al.; U.S. Patent No. 4,274,201 to Oberg, et
al.; and U.S. Patent No. 4,882,843 to Baba. Bump feed
line advance mechanisms have tended to be difficult to
control. Constantly bumping the head of the unit on the
ground to allow line to be advanced increases wear and
tear on the device.A different approach to automatic line feed is
to provide a bearing device which is shifted by
centrifugal force in response to change in the speed of
rotation of the casing. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A line trimmer head for attachment to a
rotatable shaft driven by a motor, said line trimmer head

comprising:

a generally cup-shaped housing (14) having depending
side walls defining an enclosure having a line outlet

opening, said housing being rotated by said shaft;
a spool (18) containing a supply of line disposed in
said housing, said spool being normally rotatable with said

housing in an interlocked position and selectively
disengageable from said housing to freewheel an incremental

amount in a disengaged position to allow an increment of
line to be fed from said spool through said opening in said

housing with a segment of said line extending outwardly
from said housing;
indexer means disposed between said spool and
said housing for disengaging said spool from said housing

allowing relative rotational movement therebetween, said
indexer means comprising an indexer cam (16) journaled on said

shaft, said indexer cam being axially and rotatably
shiftable with respect to said shaft and being periodically

axially shifted as a result of a reduction in centrifugal force
applied by said line to said spool, said indexer cam

including a circumferential side wall (28) having means disposed
between said side wall and an inner cylindrical surface of

said housing for axially shifting said indexer cam into
said interlocked position said

means for axially shifting comprising a cam track on said
circumferential side wall and a follower (37) on said inner

surface of said housing;
spring means (20) for biasing said indexer cam
away from said interlocked position; and
catch means (41, 42) for interlocking said spool and
said housing in said interlocked position, said spring means

allowing said catch means to be operatively engaged provided

that said segment of line extending outwardly from said 
housing exerts a sufficient centrifugal force on the spool

to maintain an interlock against the biasing force of said
spring means, said interlock of said catch means being

released by a reduction of the centrifugal force applied to
said spool.
The line trimmer head of claim 1, wherein
said spring means is adapted to move said indexer cam away from said

interlocked position when a reduction of the rotation
speed of said shaft causes said reduction of centrifugal

force.
The line trimmer head of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein
said spring means is adapted to move said indexer cam away from the

interlocked position when a reduction of the length of the
line extending from said housing causes a reduction of

centrifugal force.
The line trimmer head of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein
said cam track includes at least one ramp surface over

which said follower moves to shift said indexer cam axially
against the force exerted by said spring means and into

engagement with said housing when said catch means stops
rotational movement so said indexer cam, said catch means

releasably holding said follower until the centrifugal
force is reduced wherein said spring means releases said

follower from said catch and disengages said indexer cam
from said housing.
The line trimmer head of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein
catch means are provided on first and second facing planar

surfaces on said indexer means and said housing
respectively for locking said indexer cam and said housing

together in said interlocked position.
The line trimmer head of claim 5, wherein said
catch means comprises a web formed on said first planar 

surface of said indexer means and a plurality of stop
blocks are formed on said second planar surface of said

housing, said stop blocks being received within said web to
reduce the impact of any torque loads on said catch means.
The line trimmer head of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein
said spool and said indexer means are formed as separate

parts, and joined together so as to permit limited axial
displacement while limiting relative rotation therebetween.
A line trimmer head comprising:

a reel housing having an upper surface and a
depending side wall defining a partially enclosed space,

said housing having a line feed opening in said side wall;
a rotatable shaft engaging said reel housing to
rotate said reel housing;
an indexer cam having a circumferential side
wall, said indexer cam being journaled on said shaft and

being axially and rotatably shiftable with respect to said
shaft;
spring means for biasing said indexer cam
axially relative to said housing, said spring means being

disposed between said indexer cam and said housing;
a spool disposed in said housing and engaging
said indexer cam for rotation therewith;
a supply of line retained on said spool and
being periodically unwound in incremental lengths from said

spool through said line feed opening in said housing;
said indexer cam being rotated by engagement with said housing
and periodically axially shifted by said spring means when there is a

reduction in the centrifugal force applied by said line to said spool;
cam means disposed between said circumferential
side wall of said indexer cam and an inner surface of said

housing for axially shifting said indexer cam into said
interlocked position , said cam

means for axially shifting further comprising a cam track
on said circumferential side wall and a follower on said 

housing, said indexer cam and said housing being
interlocked together and wherein said spool, indexer cam,

housing and shaft rotate together in said interlocked
position, said indexer cam being selectively rotatable

relative to said housing and wherein said spool and indexer
cam rotate relative to said housing and said shaft a

predetermined incremental amount in its disengaged
condition thereby allowing said incremental length of line

to be fed from said spool.
The line trimmer head of claim 8, wherein
said cam track includes at least one ramp surface over

which said follower moves to shift said indexer cam axially
against the force exerted by said spring means and into

engagement with said housing, said cam track further
including at least one catch which stops rotational

movement of said indexer cam and releasably holds said
follower until the centrifugal force decreases wherein said

spring means disengages said follower from said catch and
said indexer cam is allowed to rotate relative to said

housing.
The line trimmer head of claim 8 or claim 9, further
comprises:


said indexer cam and said spool being
interlocked rotationally and axially shiftable to allow for

axial shifting of the indexer cam; and
a detente ridge provided on the inner surface
of said housing to prevent axial shifting of said spool

with the indexer cam.
The line trimmer head of any of claims 8 to 10, wherein
locking means are provided on first and second facing

planar surfaces of said indexer cam and said housing
respectively for locking said indexer cam and said housing

together in said interlocked position. 
The line trimmer head of claim 11, wherein
said locking means comprises a web formed on said first

planar surface of said indexer cam and a plurality of stop
blocks are formed on said second planar surface of said

housing, said stop blocks being received within said web to
reduce the effect of any torque loads on said cam means.
A line trimmer head comprising:

a reel housing having an upper surface and a
depending side wall defining a partially enclosed space,

said housing having a line feed opening in said side wall;
a rotatable shaft engaging said reel housing to
rotate said reel housing;
an indexer cam having a circumferential side
wall, said indexer cam being journaled on said shaft and

being axially and rotatably shiftable with respect to said
shaft;
spring means for biasing said indexer cam
axially relative to said housing, said spring means being

disposed between said indexer cam and said housing;
a spool disposed in said housing and engaging
said indexer cam for rotation therewith;
a supply of line retained on said spool and
being periodically unwound in incremental lengths from said

spool through said line feed opening in said housing;
said indexer cam being rotated by engagement with said housing
and periodically axially shifted by

said spring means into a disengaged condition when there is
a reduction in the

centrifugal force applied by said line to said spool;
cam means disposed between said circumferential
side wall of said indexer cam and an inner surface of said

housing for axially shifting said indexer cam into an
interlocked position , said

indexer cam and said housing being interlocked together; and
catch means for locking
said indexer cam and said housing together in said

interlocked position, and wherein said 
spool, indexer cam, housing and shaft rotate together in

said interlocked position, said indexer cam being rotatable
relative to said housing and wherein said spool and indexer

cam rotate relative to said housing and said shaft a

predetermined incremental amount in its disengaged
condition thereby allowing said incremental length of line

to be fed from said spool.
The line trimmer head of claim 13, wherein
the lock means are provided on first and second facing

planar surfaces of said indexer cam and said housing
respectively for locking said indexer cam and said

housing together in said interlocked position.
The line trimmer head of claim 14, wherein
said lock means comprises a web formed on the first planar

surface of said indexer cam and a plurality of stop blocks
are formed on the second planar surface of said housing, said

stop blocks being received within said web to reduce the
effect of any torque loads on said cam means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
