<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615493</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPOTLIGHT ASSEMBLY FOR VEHICLES AND METHOD OF INSTALLATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60Q102	B60Q124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60Q	B60Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60Q1	B60Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LINEAR SOLUTIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LINEAR SOLUTIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEYER BRUCE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEYER BRUCE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Title: Spotlight Assembly For Vehicles And MethodOf InstallationField Of The Invention:This invention relates to a spotlight assembly for vehicles and method of installation, and more particularly to such a spotlight assembly including a lamp unit having a low profile particularly if the spotlight is not in use. Background Of The Invention:Heretofore, spotlights have been mounted on vehicles, such as police cars and other emergency vehicles. Various types of mounting means have been used heretofore, such as a mounting member extending from the front corner post of the vehicle body. It is desirable to have a minimal projecting height from the top or roof of the vehicles as damage may occur from various sources, such as low overhead structures, for example.My prior U.S. Patent No. 4,725,238 dated February 16, 1988, shows a bracket for mounting a spotlight on the roof of a car with manual means on the inside of the roof for controlling the positioning of the spotlight. The lamp or spotlight unit is secured to the movable outer frame or socket assembly for movement therewith and is not mounted for any movement relative to the outer socket assembly. Thus, the lamp or spotlight unit is limited in its tilting movement to a total movement of around 45 degrees and may not be moved to a retracted position projecting a minimal height or distance from the roof of the vehicle so that it may be protected by the socket assembly. Summary Of The Invention:The present invention is directed to a spotlight assembly especially adapted for mounting on the roof of a vehicle, such as a police car or emergency vehicle, for example, and having a lamp or spotlight unit adapted to be selectively movable between a retracted position with the spotlight facing generally in a vertical direction and a predetermined projected position with the lamp unit being positioned to project a light beam in a desired direction including a downward direction with as much as a 30 degree declination. In the retracted position of the lamp unit, the 

 spotlight projects a minimal height or distance above the roof of the vehicle and is protected by fairing or shrouding in a forward direction.It is necessary to mount the spotlight unit for both a tilting movement and a rotating movement. The mounting means includes a fixed hemispherically shaped 5 mounting member on inner and outer sides of the roof, and a movable frame having a concave socket member fitting over each of the fixed hemispherically shaped mounting members. The lamp unit is mounted on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed Is:
1. A hand operated spotlight assembly adapted to be mounted on the roof of a vehicle for directing a light beam in a desired direction; said spotlight assembly comprising: a pair of fixed mounting members secured to opposed sides of the roof in opposed relation to each other to define inner and outer fixed mounting members with the roof having an opening therethrough between the mounting members; a movable inner frame mounted on said inner fixed mounting member and having a manually actuated handle thereon; a movable outer frame mounted on said outer fixed mounting member for relative tilting movement and for rotation; a lamp unit for said movable outer frame; means mounting said lamp unit on said movable outer frame for relative pivotal movement; and means extending between and connecting said inner and outer movable frames through said opening in said roof and operatively connected to said handle for movement thereof.
2. A hand operated spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said means mounting said lamp unit on said movable outer frame for relative pivotal movement comprises a link pivotally connected at one end about a horizontal axis to said lamp unit and pivotally connected at an opposite end about a horizontal axis to said movable outer frame.
3. A hand operated spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 2 wherein means extend between said movable outer frame and said lamp unit pivotally mounting said lamp unit about a second horizontal axis spaced horizontally from said first mentioned horizontal axis and movable with said movable outer frame when tilted in a vertical plane.
4. A hand operated spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein means restrict movement of said opposite end of said link upon tilting movement of said movable outer frame in a vertical plane.
5. A hand operated spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fixed mounting members are of a hemispherical shape and have a central bore therein in axial alignment with said hole in said roof; 


 a sleeve mounted within said central bore of said outer fixed mounting member for relative rotative movement; a pair of fasteners mounted on said sleeve and extending outwardly therefrom; and means extending between said fasteners and said lamp unit mounting said lamp unit for pivotal movement about a horizontal axis.
6. A hand operated spotlight as set forth in claim 5 wherein said pair of fasteners are electrical conductors to supply electrical energy to said lamp unit.
7. A hand operated spotlight as set forth in claim 5 wherein said movable frame has elongate slots receiving said fasteners to permit tilting movement of said movable frame relative to said lamp unit.
8. A hand operated spotlight as set forth in claim 5 wherein a rod extends within said central bores of said mounting members and connects said handle to said movable outer frame for effecting tilting and rotative movements of said lamp unit upon selective manual actuation of said handle.
9. A hand operated spotlight assembly adapted to be mounted on the roof of a vehicle for directing a light beam in a desired direction; said spotlight assembly comprising: inner and outer fixed hemispherically shaped mounting members adapted to be secured to opposed sides of the roof and having a central bore therethrough; a movable inner frame mounted on said inner fixed mounting member and a movable outer frame mounted on said outer fixed mounting member; a lamp unit positioned adjacent said movable outer frame; a sleeve mounted within said central bore of said outer fixed mounting member for selective rotative movement; a pair of fasteners mounted on said sleeve; means extending between said fasteners and said lamp unit mounting said lamp unit for pivotal movement about a horizontal axis; a handle operatively connected to said movable inner frame; and connecting means extending between said inner and outer movable frames through said central bores in said mounting members to effect predetermined movement of said inner and outer movable frames upon manual actuation of said handle. 


 10. A hand operated spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 9 wherein said pair of fasteners comprises electrical contacts for said lamp unit.
11. A hand operated spotlight assembly adapted to be mounted on the roof of a vehicle for directing a light beam in a desired direction; said spotlight assembly comprising: inner and outer hemispherically shaped mounting members adapted to be secured to opposed sides of the roof and having a central bore therethrough; a movable inner frame mounted on said inner fixed mounting member and a movable outer frame mounted on said outer fixed mounting member; a lamp unit positioned adjacent said movable outer frame; linkage means between said lamp unit and said movable outer frame mounting said lamp unit for relative pivotal movement in a vertical plane and permitting said lamp unit to move in a vertical plane between a retracted low profile position closely adjacent the roof of the vehicle with the light beam directly generally vertically upwardly to a projected position in which the light beam is directed in a generally horizontal direction; a handle operatively connected to said movable inner frame; and connecting means extending between said inner and outer movable frames through said central bores in said mounting members to effect a predetermined movement of said outer movable frame and lamp unit upon manual actuation of said handle.
12. A hand operated spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 11 wherein a fairing is mounted on said movable frame forwardly of the lamp unit and extending at a height generally the same as the projecting height of the light unit when in a retracted position thereby providing a protecting shield for the lamp unit from a forward position.
13. A hand operated spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 12 wherein said fairing is formed of a translucent material and filters a low portion of the light beam from the lamp unit in a projected position of the lamp unit. -14. A hand operated spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 11 wherein a pair of bulbs are mounted in said lamp unit; and mounting means for said bulbs permit movement and adjustment of said bulbs along a longitudinal axis to permit focusing of said bulbs. 


 15. A hand operated spotlight assembly adapted to be mounted on the roof of a vehicle for directing a light beam in a desired direction; said spotlight assembly comprising: inner and outer fixed hemispherically shaped mounting members 5 adapted to be secured to opposed sides of the roof and having a central bore therethrough; a movable inner frame mounted on said inner fixed mounting member and a movable outer frame mounted on said outer fixed mounting member; a lamp unit positioned adjacent said movable outer frame; 10. means mounting said lamp unit on said movable outer frame for rotative movement with said outer frame and permitting tilting movement of said movable outer frame relative to said lamp unit; connecting means extending between said inner and outer movable frames through said central bores in said fixed mounting member for connecting 5 said movable frames to each other; and means operatively connected to said movable inner frame for effecting movement of said outer movable frame and lamp unit upon actuation thereof.
16. A hand operated spotlight assembly adapted to be mounted on the roof of a vehicle for directing a light beam in a desired direction; said spotlight 0 assembly comprising: inner and outer fixed hemispherically shaped mounting members adapted to be secured to opposed sides of the roof and having a central bore therethrough; a movable inner frame mounted on said inner fixed mounting member 5 and a movable outer frame mounted on said outer fixed mounting member; a lamp unit positioned adjacent said movable outer frame; means mounting said lamp unit on said movable frame permitting said lamp unit to tilt in a generally vertical plane and to rotate about a longitudinal axis; said movable inner and outer frames each including a concave member forming a socket fitting over and in contact relation with the associated fixed hemispherically shaped mounting member; and means connecting said inner and outer frames to each other including manually operable means for varying frictional contact between said movable concave members and said fixed associated hemispherically shaped mounting 


 members, said manually operable means movable between a position permitting movement of said inner and outer frames relative to said fixed members and a position restricting movement between said movable frames and said fixed mounting members. 17. A spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 16 wherein a rod extends between and is connected to said movable frames; and a handle is secured to said inner movable frame for actuation of said movable frames and lamp unit.
18. A spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein cam means is operatively connected to said rod to selectively tension said rod for urging said concave members of said movable frames into tight frictional contact with said hemispherically shaped fixed members to prevent movement of said movable frames relative to said fixed mounting members.
19. A spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein said rod is externally splined and receiving means on said movable inner frame is internally splined to receive said rod in an interfitting telescoping relation.
20. A spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 18 wherein said handle includes a manually depressible link operatively connecting to said cam means for moving said cam means between a releasably locked position of the spotlight in which movement of the movable frames is prevented and an unlocked position of the spotlight in which movement of the movable frames and lamp unit is permitted.
21. A spotlight assembly adapted to be mounted on a support for directing a light beam in a desired direction; said spotlight assembly comprising: a pair of fixed mounting members secured to opposed sides of the support in opposed relation to each other to define inner and outer fixed mounting members with the support having an opening therethrough between the mounting members; a movable inner frame mounted on said inner fixed mounting member and having an actuating member thereon; a movable outer frame mounted on said outer fixed mounting member for relative tilting movement and for rotation; a lamp unit for said movable outer frame; means mounting said lamp unit on said movable outer frame for relative pivotal movement; and 


 means extending between and connecting said inner and outer movable frames through said opening in said support and operatively connected to said actuating member for movement thereby.
22. A spotlight assembly adapted to be mounted on a support for directing a light beam in a desired direction; said spotlight assembly comprising: inner and outer hemispherically shaped mounting members adapted to be secured to opposed sides of the support and having a central bore therethrough; a movable inner frame mounted on said inner fixed mounting member and a movable outer frame mounted on said outer fixed mounting member; a lamp unit positioned adjacent said movable outer frame; linkage means between said lamp unit and said movable outer frame mounting said lamp unit for relative pivotal movement in a vertical plane and permitting said lamp unit to move in a vertical plane between a retracted low profile position closely adjacent said support with the light beam directly generally vertical upwardly to a projected position in which the light beam is directed in a generally horizontal direction; an actuating member operatively connected to said movable inner frame; and connecting means extending between said inner and outer movable frames through said central bores in said mounting members to effect a predetermined movement of said outer movable frame and lamp unit upon a predetermined actuation of said actuating member.
23. A spotlight assembly adapted to be mounted on a support for directing a light beam in a desired direction comprising:
... a fixed mounting member secured to said support; a movable outer frame mounted on said fixed mounting member for relative tilting movement and for rotation; a lamp unit for said movable outer frame; linkage means between said lamp unit and said movable outer frame mounting said lamp unit for relative pivotal movement and permitting said Jamp unit to move in a predetermined plane between a retracted low profile position and a projected position; and 


 actuating means connected to said movable outer frame to effect a predetermined movement of said outer movable frame and lamp unit upon a predetermined actuation of said actuating means.
24. A spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 23 wherein said linkage means comprises a pair of spaced links pivotally connected to said lamp unit about a pair of spaced pivot axes, said links providing a mechanical advantage between said lamp unit and said actuating means for tilting of said lamp unit.
25. A spotlight assembly as set forth in claim 24 wherein said lamp unit includes a pair of spaced bulbs and a reflector; and means mounting said bulbs for movement toward and away from said reflector.
26. A method of installing a hand operated spotlight assembly on the roof of a vehicle comprising the following steps: providing an opening in said roof; securing a pair of hemispherically shaped members over said opening on opposite side of said roof to provide fixed inner and outer mounting members; providing an outer movable subassembly for said fixed outer mounting member including a movable outer frame, a lamp unit on the movable outer frame, and a connecting shaft extending from said movable outer frame; mounting said outer movable subassembly on said fixed outer mounting member with said shaft extending through said opening; providing an inner movable subassembly for said fixed inner mounting member having a movable inner frame including a manually actuated handle, and a receiver for receiving said shaft in a telescoping relation; positioning said inner movable subassembly on said fixed inner mounting member with said shaft being received within said receiver in interfitting telescoping relation for rotation therewith; and securing said shaft to said inner movable subassembly with said manually actuated handle effecting rotation and tilting of said lamp unit upon predetermined movement of said handle. 27. The method as set forth in claim 26 including the step of mounting said lamp unit on said movable outer frame for relative pivotal movement about a generally horizontal axis.
28. The method as set forth in claim 27 including the step of mounting said lamp unit on said movable outer frame for pivotal movement about a pair of spaced 


horizontal axes for providing a mechanical advantage between said handle and said lamp unit to permit an increased tilting movement of said lamp unit from a lesser movement of said handle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
