<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614622</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pressure-compensating compositions and pads made therefrom
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B504	A61G7057	A43B504	A61G7057	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A61G	A43B	A61G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B5	A61G7	A43B5	A61G7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Pressure-compensating pads such as seats or cushions used in 
wheelchairs, can be filled with a flowable, pressure-compensating 

composition comprising a major portion of silicone fluid, a minor 
portion of amide thickener which is essentially insoluble in said 

silicone fluid and microballoons. The resulting compositions are 
particularly characterized by their ability to flow in response to 

a continuously applied pressure, yet to maintain their shape and 
position in the absence of applied pressure, and are further 

characterized by stable viscosity at temperatures generally 
associated with the presence of the human body and excellent fire 

retardant properties. The composition may also contain flame-retardant. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIK MEDICAL L L C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIK MEDICAL, L.L.C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICKERSON LINCOLN PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICKERSON, LINCOLN PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to deformable, 
pressure-compensating padding devices such as seats, cushions, boot 
liners, mattresses etc., which are used in situations where the 
human body is in prolonged, abutting contact with a mechanical 
device. More specifically this invention relates to flowable, 
pressure-compensating compositions contained in such padding 
devices. A wide variety of viscous, flowable, pressure-compensating 
compositions (often referred to as "thixotropic compositions") have 
been developed for use in seats, cushions, mattresses, fitting 
pads, athletic equipment (e.g., ski boot liners), prosthetic 
devices and similar mechanical apparatus which are placed in 
prolonged contact with the human body. Such compositions 
provide both firm support and comfort because they have the 
capacity to flow in response to continuously applied pressure, but 
they also have the ability to maintain their shape and position in 
the absence of continuously applied pressure. Pads designed for 
use with such compositions allow the pressure-compensating 
compositions contained in them to flow in response to continuously 
applied pressure and thereby adapt to the contour of a particular 
part of the human body. Representative pressure-compensating 
compositions and/or padding devices are described in several patent 
references.  
 The document JP-A-4117903 teaches a stress cushion structure 
which fits to the protective sections of shoes, where 
microspherical bodies having intrinsic elasticity and made by 
plastics are incorporated into a bouncy putty consisting in a 
mixture of silicone fluids and thickeners including silicon 
dioxide and 1% of higher fatty acids. Apparently the structure of JP-A-4117903 has rheopexive 
properties, rather 
than thixotropic, in that it exhibits high resistance to a fast 
stress change and changes softly to a slow stress change. JP-A-4117903 is mentioned here as suggesting a material which is 
flowable under certain conditions and comprises a mixture of 
silicone fluids and higher fatty acid as thickener, the mixture 
incorporating microspherical bodies. U.S. Patent 4,588,229 to Jay teaches a seat cushion which 
comprises a flexible envelope filled with a pressure-compensating, 
fluid material. The Jay patent refers, inter alia, to U.S. Patents 
4,038,762; 4,144,658; 4,229,546; 4,243,754; and 4,255,202 to Swan 
which disclose a variety of viscous, flowable, pressure-compensating 
compositions which consist essentially of a major 
portion of petroleum-based
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pressure-compensating pad comprising: 

a flexible envelope containing a flowable, pressure-compensating 
composition, said envelope having a structure that 

allows said composition to flow within said envelope in response 
to pressure continuously applied to said pad, said composition 

comprising a mixture of a major weight portion of silicone fluid, 
and a minor weight portion of thickener which is essentially 

insoluble in said silicone fluid and microballoons uniformly 
dispersed in said mixture, characterised in that said thickener 

is an amide thickner comprising between about 3 percent and about 20 
weight percent of the overall composition, whereby said composition 

flows in response to continuously applied pressure, but resists 
flow and tends to maintain its shape and position in the absence 

of continuously applied pressure. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein said silicone 
fluid has a viscosity between about 50 and 10,000 centipoise. 
The pressure-compensating pad of claim 1 wherein said silicone 
fluid in the composition comprises between about 55 and about 90 

weight percent of said composition. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein said 
silicone fluid is a combination of at least two silicone fluids 

having different viscosities. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein said silicone 
fluid is comprised of a first silicone fluid having a viscosity 

between about 50 and 10,000 centipoise and a second silicone 
fluid having a viscosity greater than 10,000 centipoise, but less 

than 100,000 centipoise.  
 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein the amide 
thickener comprises between about 3 percent and about 12 weight 

percent of said composition. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein said amide 
thickener comprises mono amides or diamides derived from fatty 

acids having from about 12 to 32 carbon atoms in the fatty acid 
chain. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 7 wherein said amide 
thickener comprises mono amides or diamides derived from a fatty 

acid selected from the group consisting of stearic acid, oleic acid 
and mixtures thereof. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein said 
microballoons comprise between about 50 and about 60 volume percent 

of said composition. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein said 
microballoons are selected from the group consisting of glass 

microballoons, phenolic microballoons, plastic microballoons, and 
mixtures thereof. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein said 
microballoons are glass microballoons and comprise between 30 and 

40 weight percent of said composition. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 1 wherein said 
composition further comprises a fire retardant. 
The pressure-compensating pad of Claim 12 wherein said fire 
retardant comprises a powdered, halogenated, plastic resin fire  

 
retardant which does not dissolve in the silicone fluid. 
The pressure-compensating pad of claim 12 wherein said fire 
retardant is selected from the group comprising PVC 

(polyvinylchloride), CPVC (chlorinatedpolyvinylchloride) and PVDC 
(polyvinylidenchloride). 
The pressure-compensating pad of claim 1 comprising: 

a flexible envelope containing a flowable, pressure-compensating 
composition, said envelope having a structure that 

allows said composition to flow within said envelope; 
said composition comprising a mixture of from about 55 to 
about 90 weight percent of silicone fluid, and from about 3 to 

about 12 weight percent of amide thickener which is essentially 
insoluble in said silicone fluid and from about 0.5 to about 40 

weight percent of microballoons, uniformly dispersed in said 
mixture;
 
   wherein said composition flows in response to continuously 

applied pressure, but resists flow and tends to maintain its shape 
and position in the absence of continuously applied pressure. 
The pressure-conpensating pad of claim 1 comprising: 

a flexible envelope containing a flowable, pressure-compensating 
composition, said envelope having a structure that 

allows said composition to flow within said envelope; 
said composition comprising a mixture of from about 55 to 
about 69 weight percent of silicone fluid, and from about 3 to 

about 10 weight percent of amide thickener which is essentially  
 

insoluble in said silicone fluid and from about 28 to about 40 
weight percent of glass microballoons dispersed in said mixture;
 
   wherein said composition flows in response to continuously 

applied pressure, but resists flow and tends to maintain its shape 
and position in the absence of continuously applied pressure. 
A flowable, pressure-compensating composition, for pressure 
compensating pads as recited in any of Claims 1 to 16, 

said composition 
comprising a mixture of a major weight portion of silicone fluid, 

and a minor weight portion of thickener which is essentially 
insoluble in said silicone fluid and microballoons uniformly 

dispersed in said mixture, wherein said thickener 

is an amide thickener comprising between about 3 percent and about 20 
weight percent of the overall composition, whereby said composition 

flows in response to continuously applied pressure, but resists 
flow and tends to maintain its shape and position in the absence 

of continuously applied pressure. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
