<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655393</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stackable and nestable crate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D2102	B65D2102	B65D2106	B65D2106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D21	B65D21	B65D21	B65D21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Generic goods-containing crate that can be stacked 
during use and can be partially interlocked to form a pack 

during storage, which has the particularity that it 
comprises a central tray-like body (1) which has a bottom 

(2) that is delimited, along its perimeter, by inner side 
walls (10) which are tilted outwards from the bottom (2) 

towards the upper edge. At least portions of outer side 
walls (11) extend from the upper edge, surround the inner 

side walls (10), and are inclined outwards from the upper 
edge towards the free edge. Stacking and reinforcement 

blocks (40) are furthermore provided which can be arranged in an 
active position, in which they join the lower ends of the 

inner side walls (10) and of the at least portions of outer 
side walls (11), and in a packing position, in which they 

arrange themselves below the bottom (2). The crate is 
configured so that it has the same overall dimensions both 

during use and when the crates are packed together. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROGE PLAST ENGINEERING S R L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROGE PLAST ENGINEERING S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE MARIA GIUSEPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE MARIA, GIUSEPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a generic goods-containing 
crate which can be stacked during use and can be 
partially mutually interlocked to form packs during storage. As is known, crates for containing and carrying goods, 
such as for example for the transport of fruit, vegetables, 
meat, fish, food products in general, and so forth, are 
currently used in many fields. These crates must have sufficient mechanical rigidity 
so that they can be stacked, and must also be suitable to be 
fitted inside each other to reduce space occupation both 
during storage and when the crates return empty. Currently commercially available solutions are 
constituted by wood crates, which cannot be mutually packed, 
or by cardboard crates, which have the advantage that they 
are assembled when they are to be used and accordingly do 
not occupy a lot of space during transport when empty. However, cardboard crates have the drawback that they 
are not always capable of bearing the weights that occur 
especially when multiple crates are stacked. In order to solve the problem, Italian patent 
application no. MI93A 000180 proposed a crate obtained by 
means of a thermoformed sheet-like element made of synthetic 
material which has a central tray-like body provided, at two 
opposite edges, with L-shaped tabs that can be tilted down 
with respect to the central body so as to be arranged to the 
side of the lateral face and to engage beneath the bottom, 
when the crates are mutually stacked, or so that they are 
turned over towards the outside of the central body, so as 
to pack together several empty crates.  This solution is very effective both from a practical 
and from a mechanical point of view, but it has the drawback 
that it produces non-standard space occupations for packed 
crates, since the wings that protrude with respect to the 
central body lead to dimensions that are not compatible with 
the dimensions of the pallets that are normally used. A principal aim of the present invention is indeed to 
solve the above described problem by providing a generic 
goods-containment crate that allows to mutually pack the 
empty crates both for storage and for transport, without 
however altering the overall external dimensions of said 
crates, with respect to the dimensions that said crates have 
when they are used and are mutually stacked. Within the scope of this aim, a particular object of 
the invention is to provide a generic goods-containing crate 
that can absorb side impacts and furthermore has excellent 
torsional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Generic goods-containing crate that can be stacked 
during use and can be partially interlocked to form a pack 

during storage, characterized in that it comprises a central 
tray-like body (1) which has a bottom (2) that is delimited, 

along its perimeter, by inner side walls (10) which are 
tilted outwards from the bottom (2) towards the upper edge, 

at least portions of outer side walls (11) extending from 
said upper edge, said outer side walls (11) surrounding said 

inner side walls (10) and being inclined outwards from said 
upper edge towards the free edge, stacking and reinforcement 

blocks (40) being furthermore provided which can be arranged 
in an active position, in which they join the lower ends of 

said inner side walls (10) and of said at least portions of 
outer side walls (11), and in a packing position, in which 

they arrange themselves below said bottom (2). 
Crate according to claim 1, characterized in that it 
comprises, at the peripheral region of said bottom (2), a 

depressed hollow (3) which protrudes towards the outer or 
lower face of said bottom (2). 
Crate according to the preceding claims, 
characterized in that it comprises, on said bottom (2), a 

reinforcement grid formed by mutually intersecting hollows 
(4). 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said inner side walls (10) and 

said outer side walls (11) have substantially symmetrical 
inclinations which are opposite with respect to the median 

vertical plane. 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said outer side walls (11) 

have, at their median portions, recesses (20) which are 
delimited in an upward region and at their vertical edges by 

L-shaped wings (21) whose outermost portions lie within the 
footprint delimited by the base edge of the crate. 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said outer side walls (11) 

have, at their corner regions (30), recesses which are 
delimited by protruding regions (32) that have a 

substantially trapezoidal shape. 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the upper end of said 

protruding regions (32) is spaced from said free edge. 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said stacking and 

reinforcement blocks (40) have a substantially plate-like 
shape with a substantially square profile having a chamfered 

corner where there is a pivot (41) that can be coupled in 
corresponding pivoting seats (42) formed on the lo
wer face 
of said bottom (2) at the corner regions (30). 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said stacking and 

reinforcement blocks (40) form, on one face, an angled 
groove (43) proximate to said pivot (41) and a perimetric 

engagement edge (44) which is formed at the peripheral 
region of the block (40), an angularly extended packing 

groove (45) being formed on the other face of said blocks. 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said angled groove (43) of 

 
said blocks (40) engages said depressed hollow (3) when said 

block (40) is in active position and said perimetric 
engagement edge (44) couples to the free end of the lower 

edge of said outer side walls (11). 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said lower free edge of the 

outer side walls (11) is provided with a coupling tooth 
(47). 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the upper edge of an 

underlying crate can be coupled in said packing groove (45) 
of said stacking and reinforcement block (40). 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said perimetric engagement 

edge (44) has discontinuities (44a) for the passage of said 
protruding parts (32) formed in the corner regions (30). 
Crate according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises spacer partitions 

(50) which are formed between said inner (10) and said outer 
(11) side walls at said upper edge, said partitions (50) 

being engageable by contact with the upper edge of the 
underlying crate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
