<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615762</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dosing seringe
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M531	A61M524	A61M5315	A61M531	A61M524	A61M5315	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A medication dispensing device (20) comprising a cartridge (24) 
for containing an injectable product therein and an injector (22) 

attached to the cartridge. The injector includes a drive 
mechanism comprising a dosage sleeve (78,81) having a dosage knob (88) at 

the proximal end thereof and a threaded rod (72) coupled to the 
sleeve and axially advanceable into the cartridge upon 

clockwise rotation of the knob for dialing up a desired 
dosage to be injected. A ratchet mechanism (150) is disposed in 

the injector housing and includes a rotatable piece (152) secured 
to the dosage sleeve for rotation therewith and a locking 

seat (168) in engagement with the rotatable piece. The ratchet 
mechanism permits rotational movement of the sleeve (78) in the 

clockwise direction only. A disengaging mechanism (200) is secured 
to the housing of the LCD assembly (70) and includes a pin (206) that 

extends into and engages the rotatable piece (152) of the ratchet 
mechanism such that axial movement of the pin causes 

corresponding axial movement of the stationary piece. Upon 
depressing the outer surface (204) of the disengaging mechanism, 

the pin and the rotatable piece are moved axially away from 
the seat sufficiently enough to permit a user to rotate the 

dosage knob (88) in a counterclockwise direction to accurately 
dial back an accidental overdose measurement without 

removing the cartridge from the injector. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LILLY CO ELI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELI LILLY AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHEL PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MICHEL, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The field of the present invention relates generally
to medical dispensing devices and, more particularly, to
an injector pen that permits selectively measured doses
to be dispensed.Patients suffering from diseases such as diabetes
must inject themselves several times each day with an
insulin solution. Since the volume of insulin solution to
be injected varies from injection to injection, it is
necessary for such patients to be able to measure a
precise volume of insulin. Diabetics have conventionally
used a typical syringe for injection of insulin. However,
it is difficult to control the operation of the syringe
as well as the quantity of drug injected.In order to permit a diabetic to measure and administer
a more accurate and controlled dosage, injector pens have
been developed, which enable a particular dosage to be
accurately and conveniently measured. Generally, these pens
are threaded into a cartridge having a particular quantity of
liquid medication sealed therein. The cartridge includes a
plunger and a mechanism for advancing the plunger in the
cartridge in such a manner to dispense the medication.One such pen that has functioned very adequately is
the OptiPen®, which is manufactured by Disetronic AG, of
Burgdorf, Switzerland, and which is commercially available
through Hoechst of Frankfurt, Germany. To use this pen, a
new insulin cartridge is threaded onto the injector
housing. The dosage knob is then turned, which
sequentially increases the number appearing on the dose
display. Each number on the display represents a
predetermined dosage volume, and each turn of the dosage
knob causes an audible "click" sound to be heard. Each turn
of the dosage knob causes a threaded rod to move forward in 
the cartridge. Once the desired dosage is obtained, the
needle attached to the end of the cartridge is injected
into the skin, and the dosage knob is pressed in slowly
until the desired dosage of insulin has been injected.Another dispensing assembly is disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,936,833, issued to Sams. This dispenser
includes a disengageable drive mechanism, such as a pair of
jaws, that is controlled by a rotatable section of the
housing that houses the engagement mechanism. This
"sleeve", when rotated, disengages the pair of jaws from
the plunger to permit the plunger to be moved in its "zero"
position. The plunger is then set to the desired dosage,
causing a push button to become extended. The drive
mechanism is then re-engaged with the plunger, and the push
button is depressed to administer the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A medication dispensing device (20) comprising
a cartridge (28) for containing and sealing an injectable

product therein, said cartridge including a plunger (56)
therein, and injector means attached to said cartridge

for delivering a desired dosage of product into a
patient, said injector means including knob means (88)

for engagement by a user and a rod (72) coupled to said
knob means for axially advancing into said cartridge upon

rotation of said knob means in a first direction, and
clutch means in engagement with said rod for

restricting rotation of said rod in a second and opposite
direction characterized in that said dispensing device further comprises

a clutch disengaging means for selectively
disengaging said clutch means thereby permitting manual

rotation of said knob means in said second direction
while said cartridge is attached to said injector means

to cause said rod to move axially toward said injector
means without delivering any of the injectable product

from said cartridge.
The device of Claim 1 characterized in that
said clutch means is in the form of a rachet device

(150).
The device of Claim 1 or Claim 2 characterized
in that said injector means comprises a housing (68), a

drive mechanism disposed in said housing and including a

dosage sleeve (78, 81) having the knob (88) at the proximal
end thereof and the rod is coupled to said sleeve such that

upon rotation of said knob said rod is axially
advanceable into said cartridge for engaging and axially

advancing said plunger within said cartridge. 
The device of Claim 3 characterized in that
said clutch means comprises a rotatable piece (152) that

is secured to said dosage sleeve for rotation therewith
and a locking seat (168) in engagement with said

rotatable piece and being configured to restrict rotation
of said rotatable piece, and hence said dosage knob, to a

first direction only, and said clutch disengaging means
selectively disengages said locking seat from said

rotatable piece.
The device of Claim 4 characterized in that
said rotatable piece includes a grooved surface (162)

therein defining an adjacent lip (164), and said clutch
disengaging means comprises a pin (206) disposed in said

grooved surface in such a manner that axial movement of
said pin causes said pin to engage said lip, thereby

causing axial movement of said rotatable piece away from
said locking seat.
The device of Claim 5 characterized in that
said clutch disengaging means includes a user actuated

element (204) that is connected to said clutch means to
disengage said seat and rotatable piece when said element

is actuated.
The device of Claim 6, including means for
disengaging said clutch means when the cartridge is

removed from said injector.
The device of any one of Claims 1 through 7,
including a display means (70) operatively coupled to

said knob for providing a visual dosage indication that
increments and decrements as said knob rotates

respectively in the first and second directions. 
The device of Claim 8, wherein the display
means comprising an LCD housing (106), secured to said

injector housing, which contains an LCD assembly therein
including an integrated circuit (112), a contact for

periodically inputting a signal to the circuit (116, 118,
120) and a display window (108) for providing a visual

display of the output delivered by the circuit, wherein
the contact is configured to be periodically engaged by

said dosage knob to cause a dosage indicia to appear in
the display window.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
