<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658073</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plasma generating apparatus and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L21205	C23F400	H01J3732	H05H146	H01L213065	H01L21302	H01J3732	C23F400	H05H146	H01L2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	C23F	H01J	H05H	H01L	H01L	H01J	C23F	H05H	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	C23F4	H01J37	H05H1	H01L21	H01L21	H01J37	C23F4	H05H1	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plasma generating apparatus includes a 
vacuum chamber (1), an inductive-coupling coil (2) 

wound around the vacuum chamber, a pair of parallel-planar 
electrodes (3, 4), each of which electrode has a 

center on a central axis of the inductive-coupling coil 
within the vacuum chamber, and is disposed vertically 

against the central axis, a radio-frequency power 
supply (6), and a radio-frequency matching circuit (5) 

coupled to the radio-frequency power supply. The 
radio-frequency matching circuit is coupled to at least 

one of the inductive-coupling coil and the pair of 
parallel-planar electrodes. The pair of parallel-planar 

electrodes and the inductive-coupling coil 
driven by the radio-frequency power supply carry out 

capacitive-coupling and inductive-coupling so as to be 
associated with each other, so that capacitively-coupled 

plasma and inductively-coupled plasma are 
generated within the vacuum chamber. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
USUI KAORO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
USUI, KAORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a
plasma generating apparatus and method, and more
particularly, to a plasma generating apparatus and
method which can be suitably applied to semiconductor
process technologies.In recent semiconductor process technologies
using a plasma generator, there is a need for plasma
etching under a high-vacuum condition, namely
anisotropic etching capable of establishing a fine
structure in semiconductor devices. However, as the
degree of vacuum becomes higher, it becomes more
difficult to generate high-density plasma. For
generating a stable and high-density plasma, an
auxiliary apparatus generating a magnetic field is
required in addition to a plasma source. Such an
additional apparatus may cause complexity of the plasma
generator, and may increase the cost of the plasma
generator. Thus, the semiconductor devices
manufactured by using the above generator may be very
expensive.On the other hand, as a wafer size is
increased, a larger volume of a plasma generator
chamber is required. However, in such a large-volume
chamber, power supplied to the plasma is dropped by
reflection, etc., caused by the plasma generating
process, whereby the plasma immediately dies out.
Therefore, it is hard to generate uniform and stable,
high-density plasma throughout the large volume of the
chamber. Thus, it is desired to realize a superior
plasma generator which can easily generate and maintain
uniform and high-density plasma throughout the large
volume of the chamber under the high-vacuum condition. Conventionally, there are two major methods
for plasma generation: 1) a capacitive-coupling method
(RIE); and 2) an inductive-coupling method (ICP, etc.).In the capacitive-coupling method, an
electric field generated between electrodes enables
superior uniformity of plasma density within a
generator chamber. Thus, this method is suitable for
anisotropic etching. However, in order to generate
stable, high-density plasma under a high-vacuum
condition with a larger-sized wafer and a larger-volume
chamber, a significantly high voltage needs to be
maintained across the electrodes. Therefore, dropping
of power supplied to the plasma, which is caused by
reflection, etc., during processing, causes the plasma
to immediately die out. Thus, a high-power RF (radio
frequency) power supply is required. To satisfy this
requirement, heat sink control for external devices and
reinforcement for generator construction are necessary,
and thus the total cost of the plasma generator may
increase.On the other hand,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A plasma generating apparatus including:

a vacuum chamber (1); and
a load circuit having an inductive-coupling
coil (2) and a pair of parallel-planar electrodes (3,4)

provided in said vacuum chamber;

   characterized in that there is provided a
single power supply means (5,6), coupled to said

inductive-coupling coil and said pair of parallel-planar
electrodes in said load circuit, for supplying

radio frequency power in said load circuit so that the
inductive-coupling coil and the pair of parallel-planar

electrodes carry out inductive-coupling and capacitive-coupling
so as to be associated with each other,

whereby inductively-coupled plasma and capacitively-coupled
plasma are generated within the vacuum chamber.
The plasma generating apparatus as claimed in
claim 1, wherein said inductive-coupling coil and said

pair of parallel-planar electrodes constructs a
resonance circuit.
The plasma generating apparatus as claimed in
claim 1 or 2, wherein:


said inductive coupling coil (2) is wound
around said vacuum chamber;
said pair of parallel-planar electrodes (3,4)
each has a centre on a central axis of said inductive-coupling

coil within said vacuum chamber, and is
disposed perpendicular to the central axis;
said single power supply means (5,6)
comprises a radio-frequency power supply (6) and a

radio-frequency matching circuit (5) coupled to said
radio-frequency power supply and to at least one of the

inductive-coupling coil (2) and the pair of parallel-planar
electrodes (3,4).
The plasma generating apparatus as claimed in
claim 3, wherein said pair of parallel-planar

electrodes (3,4) and said inductive-coupling coil (2)
are coupled in series to said radio-frequency matching

circuit (5).
The plasma generating apparatus as claimed in
claim 4, wherein:


said pair of parallel-planar electrodes (3,4)

includes first and second electrodes (4,3);
said first electrode (4) and said radio-frequency
power supply (6) are grounded;
one end of said inductive-coupling coil (5)
is coupled to said radio-frequency matching circuit;
the other end of the coil is coupled to said
second electrode (3); and
a substrate (9) for plasma processing is
positioned on the second electrode.
The plasma generating apparatus as claimed in
claim 4, wherein:


said pair of parallel-planar electrodes (3,4)
includes first and second electrodes (4,3);
said first electrode (4) is coupled to said
radio-frequency matching circuit (5);
said second electrode (3) is coupled to one
end of said inductive-coupling coil (2);
the other end of the coil (2) and said radio-frequency
power supply (6) are grounded; and
a substrate (9) for plasma processing is
positioned on the first electrode.
The plasma generating apparatus as claimed in
claim 3, wherein said pair of parallel-planar

electrodes (3,4) and said inductive-coupling coil (2)
are coupled in parallel to said radio-frequency 

matching circuit.
The plasma generating apparatus as claimed in
claim 7, wherein:


said pair of parallel-planar electrodes (3,4)
includes first and second electrodes (4,3);
said first electrode (4), an end of said
inductive-coupling coil (2), and said radio-frequency

power supply (6) are grounded;
the other end of said inductive-coupling coil
(2) is coupled to said radio-frequency matching circuit

(5) and to said second electrode (3); and
a substrate (9) for plasma processing is
positioned on the second electrode (3).
The plasma generating apparatus as claimed in
any preceding claim, wherein a condition and

characteristics of the generated plasma are
controllable by way of a winding of the inductive-coupling

coil (2) such as a number of turns, clockwise
or counter-clockwise.
A plasma generating method comprising a step
of carrying out capacitive-coupling and inductive-coupling

so as to be associated with each other by
means of a pair of parallel-planar electrodes (3,4) and

an inductive-coupling coil (2) both driven by the same
radio-frequency power supply, so that capacitively-coupled

plasma and inductively-coupled plasma are
generated within a vacuum chamber (1).
The plasma generating method as claimed in
claim 10, wherein a condition and characteristics of

the generated plasma are controllable by way of a
winding of the inductive-coupling coil (2). 
The plasma generating method as claimed in
claim 10, characterized in that said inductive-coupling

coil and said pair of parallel-planar electrodes
constructs a resonance circuit.
The plasma generating method as claimed in
claim 11, wherein a magnetic field generated by the

inductive-coupling coil (2) and an electric field
generated by the pair of the parallel-planar electrodes

(3,4) are in the same position, and have the same
operation cycle.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
