<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647122</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REUSABLE ENDOSCOPIC SURGICAL INSTRUMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1900	A61B1804	A61M3902	A61B1732	A61B100	A61B1700	A61B1814	A61B1728	A61B1814	A61B1732	A61M3906	A61B100	A61B1900	A61B1804	A61B1728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61M	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61M	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B19	A61B18	A61M39	A61B17	A61B1	A61B17	A61B18	A61B17	A61B18	A61B17	A61M39	A61B1	A61B19	A61B18	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reusable endoscopic surgical instrument includes a tool assembly retained within a detachable handle assembly. The tool assembly consists of an outer sleeve, an inner extension within the outer sleeve, and surgical jaws such as scissors or graspers. The inner extension and outer sleeve are longitudinally translatable with respect to each other to pivot the jaws. In one embodiment, the extension can be translated out of engagement with the jaws to permit disassembly of the instrument for cleaning and changing jaw assemblies. Relative rotation between a thumb loop and a finger loop on the handle assembly longitudinally translates the extension relative to the sleeve, and thus opens and closes the jaws. The handle assembly can have a pair of ports or a single rotatable port which allows the user to select between instrument orientations configurations.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Since the late 1980s, endoscopic surgery has been
growing in popularity at a very high rate. More and
more, procedures which have customarily been performed
by making large incisions in the patient's body are now
being performed by "minimally invasive" or endoscopic
methods. It has been estimated that by the year 2000,
40 to 50 percent of all surgeries will be done
endoscopically.Endoscope is the generic term for a viewing tube
which can be inserted into the body. In endoscopic
surgery, the surgeon makes a hole or portal in the
patient's body with a sharp punch-like device called a
trocar which is inserted through a sleeve or cannula.
The trocar is then removed, leaving the cannula in the
portal. The surgeon then inserts desired instruments
into the body via the cannula. In many endoscopic
procedures, therefore, portals are used to accommodate
the instruments needed. These generally include a
light source, a TV camera, and surgical tools such as
scissors, graspers, dissectors and the like.With the increase in endoscopic procedures has
come an increase in demand for surgical instruments
adapted for endoscopic applications. These instruments
must be controllable from outside of the body through
an extended length.Also, it is desirable to have multiple-use/disposable
instruments to avoid the expense of
maintenance. For example, rather than sharpening a
dull tool such as a surgical scissors, it can be cost
effective to simply replace it periodically. Since 
only the tool itself needs to be replaced on a regular
basis and not the entire instrument which controls it,
it may be even more cost effective to provide a tool
which can be separated from the instrument and replaced
with a new one.Cleaning of endoscopic instruments can also be a
time consuming and expensive procedure. Typically, the
instrument must be disassembled to allow cleaning of
each of the individual parts. This process is cost
effective only in the most expensive surgical
instruments. Some low and medium priced surgical
instruments which could otherwise be used again must be
discarded for want of an efficient cleaning process.US-A-4522206 discloses a cutting-suctioning
instrument
according to the preambles of Claims 1, 20,
having an elongated support and first and
second, opposed distal jaws, at least one of which is
pivotable about a transverse axis and adapted to be
closed by an actuator, and a suction throat defined
between proximal portions of the two jaws. Preferably,
a sliding inner tube which defines the suction passage,
serves as a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical instrument (10) comprising:

a tool assembly (12) comprising:

jaws (70, 72) pivotable relative to each
other;
a sleeve (18);
an extension (16) within the sleeve, the
extension and the sleeve being coupled to the jaws

and being longitudinally translatable relative to
each other to pivot the jaws toward open and

closed positions; and
a handle assembly (14) comprising:

a base (50) having a port (17) in which
the tool assembly is retainable; and
an actuation trigger member (52)
pivotably mounted to the base comprising:
a tab (56) protruding into the port for
engaging the tool assembly to translate the

extension and the sleeve relative to each other
upon rotation of the actuation trigger member;
a shoulder protruding into the port
during insertion of the tool assembly for engaging

the tool assembly as it is inserted into the port
to provide rotational movement to the actuation

trigger to rotate the tab into engagement with the
tool assembly; characterized in that:
the tool assembly further comprises a rotator (42)
coupled to the sleeve for rotating the tool

assembly to a desired position; and 
the handle assembly further comprises a
spring-biased retaining member (60) for receiving an

end of the tool assembly as it is inserted into
the port and engaging the tool assembly to retain

the tool assembly in the port as it is inserted.
The surgical instrument of Claim 1 wherein the
sleeve is retained against longitudinal movement

and the extension is translated to pivot the jaws.
The surgical instrument of Claims 1 or 2 wherein
the jaws comprise open-ended slots (82, 84)

engageable by the extension to pivot the jaws.
The surgical instrument of Claim 3 wherein the
extension is translatable out of engagement with

the open-ended slots such that the jaws are
detachable from the sleeve and replaceable on the

sleeve.
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
wherein the distal end of the sleeve comprises an

elastic material such that the distal end of the
sleeve is spreadable to allow the jaws to be

removed from the sleeve and replaced on the
sleeve.
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
wherein the tool assembly further comprises a

compressible pivot (701) for removably mounting
the jaws to the distal end of the sleeve. 
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
wherein the jaws are removable from the tool

assembly and replaceable on the tool assembly.
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
wherein the tool assembly further comprises a

cleaning port (40) for allowing a cleaning fluid
to be introduced into the tool assembly.
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
further comprising:


a pivot pin (68) coupled to the distal end of
the sleeve for mounting the jaws; and
a drive pin (86) coupled to the extension,
said drive pin being engageable with open-ended

slots in the jaws to pivot the jaws.
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
wherein the rotator (42) rotates the tool assembly

about a longitudinal axis of the tool assembly.
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
further comprising means for providing an

electrical connection (48) to the tool assembly.
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
wherein the base of the handle comprises a second

port (1018, 1019) in which the tool assembly is
retainable, relative translation between the

extension and the sleeve being providable by the
actuation trigger member as the tool assembly is

retained in either port. 
The surgical instrument of any preceding claim
wherein the port is rotatable relative to the base

such that the relative orientation between the
longitudinal axis of the tool assembly and the

base of the handle is changeable.
The surgical instrument of Claim 13 wherein the
base of the handle assembly further comprises a

finger member (550) pivotably mounted to the base,
said finger member being releasably fixable in one

of a first rotational orientation and a second
rotational orientation relative to the port, the

actuation trigger member being pivotable relative
to the finger member to actuate the tool assembly.
A surgical tool assembly (12) for attachment to a handle
assembly (14) comprising:


a sleeve (18);
an extension (16) within the sleeve and
longitudinally translatable relative to the sleeve; and
jaws (70, 72) pivotable relative to each other, the
jaws being pivotably mounted by a pivot (68) to a distal

end of the sleeve;
each jaw having a slot (82, 84) at a proximal end of
the jaw, sides of each slot being defined by inner walls

(87, 88, 90, 92) of the slot, engagement of the extension
with the inner walls of the slots as the extension is

translated relative to the sleeve serving to open and
close the jaws;

   characterized in that the slots are open-ended, the
extension being translatable in and out of the open-ended

slots to permit engagement and disengagement of the
extension.
The tool assembly of Claim 15 wherein the pivot is
compressible such that the jaws are removable from

the sleeve.
The tool assembly of one of Claims 15-16 wherein
the extension is translatable out of the open-ended

slots in the jaws such that the jaws are
removable from the sleeve and replaceable on the

sleeve.
The tool assembly of one of Claims 15-17 wherein:

the extension is translatable out of the

open-ended slots in the jaws; and
the distal end of the sleeve comprises an
elastic material such that the distal end of the

sleeve is spreadable to allow the jaws to be
removed from the sleeve and replaced on the

sleeve.
The tool assembly of one of Claims 15-18 further
comprising:


a pivot pin (68) coupled to the distal end of
the sleeve for mounting the jaws; and
a drive pin (86) coupled to the extension,
said drive pin being engageable with the inner

walls of the open-ended slots in the jaws to pivot
the jaws.
A handle assembly for removable attachment to an
elongate surgical tool assembly (12) which extends

along a longitudinal axis, the handle assembly
comprising:


a base (502) having a longitudinal port (517)
in which the tool assembly is retainable; and
a finger member (550) and a thumb member
(552) mounted to the base, one of the finger

member and thumb member being held stationary
relative to the base at an angular orientation

relative to the longitudinal axis of the tool
assembly while the other of the finger member and

thumb member is rotated relative to the base about
a pivot (554) to provide translation motion to the

tool assembly within the port to actuate the tool
assembly; and
a retainer (560) coupled into the port to
engage the tool assembly to retain the tool

assembly at its proximal end within the port;
characterized in that
the handle assembly further comprises:

means for changing the angular orientation
between the longitudinal axis of the tool assembly

and the one of the finger member and thumb member.
The handle assembly of Claim 20 wherein the base
comprises a second longitudinal port (1019) for

retaining the tool assembly, relative rotation
between the finger member and thumb member

actuating the tool assembly as it is retained in
one of the ports.
The handle assembly of one of Claims 20-21 further
comprising a releasable second retainer (627) at

which the one of the finger member and thumb
member is pivotably mounted to the base, the

second retainer being releasable to allow the one
of the finger member and thumb member to be

rotated relative to the base.
The handle assembly of one of Claims 20-22 wherein
the thumb and finger members comprise rigid loops

rotatable with respect to the base between a first
releasably fixed position and a second releasably

fixed position.
The handle assembly of one of Claims 20-23
wherein:


the finger member is pivotably mounted to the
base and is releasably fixable in one of a

plurality of angular orientations relative to the
base; and
the thumb member is pivotable relative to the
finger member to actuate the tool assembly as the

finger member is fixed in a releasably fixed
angular orientation relative to the base.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
