<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627243</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Laser phototherapy.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1820	A61B1820	A61N506	A61N506	A61N5067	H01S3101	H01S3101	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61N	A61N	A61N	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B18	A61B18	A61N5	A61N5	A61N5	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A phototherapy system and method for providing light therapy to 
reduce the 

bilirubin level in infants wherein a laser (78) is used as the source of 
light 

radiation. The light radiation from the laser is transmitted at a 
predetermined wavelength through an optical fiber (82) to a fiberoptic 

pad where 
it radiates toward the infant. In one embodiment, a plurality of infants 

may be treated through a plurality of fiberoptic pads (88), all 
receiving the 

light radiation from a common laser. In such embodiment, a control 
means (94,96,98,100) 

is also provided to detect the intensity of light impinging upon the 
infant 

and using that value of intensity to control the light radiation 
transmitted to the fiberoptic pad. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OHMEDA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OHMEDA INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREMENCHUGSKY VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREMENCHUGSKY, VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a system for providing phototherapy to an infant, 
and, more particularly, to a fiberoptic light pad that is used to provide 
light to the infant and which has, as its source of light radiation, a 
laser. Hyperbilirubinemia is an affliction of new-born infants typified by an 
elevated level of a toxic molecule known as bilirubin in the infant's 
blood. Bilirubin is normally conjugated by the liver and excreted in the bile, 
however, at the period immediately after birth, the new-born's liver is not 
sufficiently active to conjugate bilirubin and the level of bilirubin 
therefore, builds up in the blood causing a form of jaundice. Treatment is needed and if the bilirubin is extremely high, that treatment 
may require a blood exchange transfusion. At lower hyper-levels, however, 
the typical treatment is by phototherapy which is believed to cause a 
photochemical reaction in the bilirubin by changing the bilirubin to 
lumirubin which is eliminated by the infant through excretion in the urine 
and bile. Most phototherapy at present is by means of banks of lights that are 
directed toward the infants skin. While effective, the lights are somewhat 
cumbersome in that they interfere with personnel attending to the infant 
and generate undesirable heat surrounding those personnel. A more recent commercial means of combating hyperbilirubinemia is by means 
of a light blanket, typical of which is made of woven fiberoptics as shown 
and described in Daniel U.S. Patent 4,234,907. Certain wavelengths of 
light are considered to be optimum for phototherapy and those wavelengths 
fall within the range generally of 440-540 nanometers. Accordingly, 
current fiberoptic blankets are powered from a conventional light source, 
such as a halogen resistance type bulb and which includes a reflector to 
concentrate the beam of light generally in the proper direction and further  
 
includes an optical glass filter to filter the beam of light to the desired 
wavelength range i.e. 440 - 540nm. range. One of the difficulties of such an arrangement, however, is that 
conventional light bulbs degrade with time and therefore the dosage of 
light therapy given to the infant may vary over the lifetime of the bulb. 
Also, the emission of the bulb drifts with time and therefore frequent 
recalibration of bulb emission is required. Typically, lifetimes of 
resistance type bulbs are also fairly short and may range from about 500 to 
800 hours. Obviously, therefore, the resistance bulbs need frequent 
replacement
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A phototherapy system for providing light radiation to an infant 
having at least one fiberoptic pad (22) adapted to be placed near the 

infant to allow light emitted from the pad (22) to impinge upon the 
patient, a light source (16) for emitting light radiation and a 

fiberoptic coupling means (18) for transmitting light from said light 
source (16) to said fiberoptic pad 22, characterised in that said 

light source (16) comprises a laser (16) producing a monochromatic 
light at a known wavelength. 
A system for providing phototherapy to infants, said system being 
characterised by: 


a) a laser (78) providing coherent light radiation at a 
predetermined wavelength; 
b) a plurality of fiberoptic light pads (88) adapted to be placed 
near the infant; 
c) a plurality of optical fibers (86) connecting said laser (78) to 
each of said plurality of fiberoptic light pads (88) such that 

the light radiation from said laser (78) is transmitted outwardly 
from said fiberoptic light pads (88) to impinge upon the infants; 
d) light sensors (94) for detecting the intensity of light emitted 
by each of said fiberoptic light pads (88) toward the infants and 

to produce an electrical signal representing such light 
intensities; and 
e) control means (104) adapted to respond to the electrical signal 
from each of said light sensors (94) to control the intensity of 

light transmitted individually to each of said plurality of 
fiberoptic pads (88) to thereby control the intensity of light 

impinging upon the infants from the fiberoptic pads (88) for 
providing phototherapy. 
A system for providing phototherapy to infants as claimed in Claim 2, 
comprising transducer means (98) for receiving the light signals from 

said light sensors (94) and to transmit electrical signals indicative 
of such light signals; input means (106) to receive information from a 

user and to produce an electrical signal indicative of the amount of 
light radiation desired to be emitted from each of said fiberoptic 

light pads (88) to impinge upon an infant; and a central processing 
unit (104) receiving signals from said transducer means (98) and said 

input means (106), said central processing unit (104) comparing said 
signals to control the light emitted from each of said fiberoptic 

light pads (88) in accordance with the amount of light radiation 
desired for each infant. 
A system as claimed in Claim 3, including a variable attenuator (92) 
adapted to receive signals from said central processing unit (104) to 

control the amount of light radiation impinging upon an infant. 
A system as claimed in Claim 3 or 4, wherein said input means (106) 
produces an electrical signal indicative of the light intensity to 

impinge upon an infant from a fiberoptic light pad (88). 
A system as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 5, wherein the light 
sensors (94) are located adjacent each of said plurality of fiberoptic 

pads (88) to sense the intensity of light radiation emitted from said 
fiberoptic pads (88) to impinge upon the infants. 
A control system as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 6, wherein said 
means (104) to control the intensity of the light output from said 

laser (78) comprises means to control the electrical power (120) to 
said laser (78). 
A method of providing light therapy to an infant characterised by the 
steps of: 
a) providing a light emitting fiberoptic pad; 
b) locating the fiberoptic pad adjacent an infant such that light 
eminating from the pad impinges upon the infant; 
c) directing light radiation from a laser into the fiberoptic pad to 
cause it to emit light radiation of a predetermined monochromatic 

wavelength upon the infant. 
A method of providing light radiation to a plurality of infants for 
phototherapy, characterised by the steps of: 


a) providing a plurality of fiberoptic woven phototherapy pads; 
b) placing each of said plurality of phototherapy pads in position 
in close proximity to an infant; 
c) directing light from a single laser having a known monochromatic 
wavelength into each of said plurality of phototherapy pads to 

cause light radiation to be emitted from each of the phototherapy 
pads to impinge upon the infants; 
d) sensing the intensity of the light radiation emitted from each of 
said plurality of phototherapy pads and impinging upon the 

infants; and 
e) controlling the intensity of the light emitted from each of said 
plurality of phototherapy pads in response to the intensity 

sensed in step d). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
