<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654043</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR PREPARING A METAL-RADIONUCLIDE-LABELLED PROTEIN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3900	A61K3900	A61K39395	A61K39395	A61K5100	A61K5100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K39	A61K39	A61K39	A61K39	A61K51	A61K51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method of preparing a metal-radionuclide-labelled protein or proteinaceous material, which is intended for diagnostic or therapeutic application, by reacting a protein or a proteinaceous material with a bifunctional agent for coupling the radionuclide to the protein or proteinaceous material, a protein conjugate being formed by reaction between bifunctional agent and free amino groups or mercapto groups in the protein or proteinaceous material, and then complexing the radionuclide with the conjugate thus formed to a radionuclide complex. The invention further relates to the labelled protein or proteinaceous material thus obtained, and to a kit for preparing a radiopharmaceutical composition, which kit comprises the above-mentioned polyfunctional agent or a protein conjugate formed by reaction of a protein or proteinaceous material with said polyfunctional agent.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MALLINCKRODT MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MALLINCKRODT MEDICAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERBRUGGEN ALFONS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VERBRUGGEN, ALFONS M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Method for preparing a metal-radionuclide-labelled proteinThe invention relates to a method of preparing a metal-radionuclide-labelled protein or proteinaceous material which is intended for diagnostic or therapeutic application.Radionuclide-labelled compounds may be used for diagnostic examination, for example, into deviations in shape and function of internal organs and into the presence and location of pathological processes in the body. For this purpose, a composition in which the radioactive compound is present, is administered to the patient, for example, in the form of an injectable liquid. By means of suitable detection apparatus, for example, a gamma camera, pictures of, e.g., the organ or the pathological process in which the radioactive compound has been incorporated can be obtained by recording the emitted radiation ("scanning"). Radioactive-labelled biological materials, in particular proteins and proteinaceous materials, e.g., blood cells, serum albumin, immunoglobulins, glycopeptides, monoclonal antibodies like antimyosin and monoclonals against tumour antigens, peptides, aminofunctions-containing hormones like somatostatin and ACTH, and other proteins suitable for this purpose, such as plasmin and plasmin derivatives, e.g., miniplas in and tissue plasminogen activator, present interesting perspectives for diagnostic application. Certain proteins have a very large target organ specificity and, after having been introduced into the patient's body, can 

react very selectively with biological macro-molecules present therein; a good example thereof is the selective reaction of antibodies or antibody fragments with antigens present in the body. Various metal-radionuclides, provided they are bound to tumour-selective biological macromolecules, such as the glycopeptide bleomycin, can be used successfully for controlling tumours, and thus form a powerful tool in radiotherapy. The macromolecules used thus serve as vehicles for the transportation of the desired radiation dose, i.e., the metal-radionuclide, to the tumour to be exposed to radiation.The direct labelling of a protein or a proteinaceous material with a metal-radionuclide has two disadvantages. First, the biologically active site of the protein necessary for a good target organ specificity or selectivity, may easily be blocked by this reaction, so that the normal behaviour of the biological macromolecule is disturbed. In addition, the affinity between metal-radionuclide and macromolecule often is insufficient, as a result of which the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A method of preparing a metal-radionuclide labelled material which is intended for diagnostic or therapeutic application, by reacting a protein or a proteinaceous material with an agent for coupling the radionuclide to the protein or proteinaceous material, a protein conjugate being formed by reaction between said agent and free amino groups or mercapto groups in the protein or the proteinaceous material, and by by then complexing the radionuclide with the conjugate thus formed to a radionuclide complex, characterised in that the coupling reaction is carried out with a polyfunctional agent of the general formula: Y-R-(SX)
n
 (I) wherein X is a halogenated or non-halogenated alkanoyl group having 2-5 carbon atoms or a substituted or non-substituted benzoyl group; R is a multivalent saturated aliphatic hydrocarbyl radical, having 2-20 carbon atoms and wherein the main chain, if desired, may be interrupted by a nitrogen atom or/and a carbonyl group; Y is at least one terminal reactive group which is capable of reacting with a free amino group or mercapto group in the protein or the proteinaceous material; and π is 2-6; and by then, if needed after deprotection of the protected mercapto groups, reacting the formed protein conjugate with the radionuclide.
2. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that the coupling reacton is carried out with a polyfunctional agent of the general formula
Y'-R-(SX)
n
 (II) wherein X, n and R have the meanings given in Claim 1; and Y' is an isocyanate group, a foππyl group, a 


diazonium group, an isothiocyanato group, an epoxyethylene group, a trichloro-s-triazinyl group, an ethylene imino group, a halocarbonyl group, a halosulphonyl group, a maleimido group, a sulphonated or non-sulphonated alkylcarbonyloxycarbonyl group, a sulphonated or non-sulphonated alkylcarbonyliminocarbonyl group, a 2,4-dinitrophenoxycarbonyl group, or a sulphonated or non-sulphonated nitrogen-containing heterocyclic five- or six-membered ring which is bound to R with the ring nitrogen via a carbonyl group or oxycarbonyl group and which is substituted in the ortho position with an oxo function or a thioxo function.
3. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that the coupling reacton is carried out with a polyfunctional agent of the general formula
0 0 II 
(
I y"-C-R-(SCCZ
3
)
n
 (IV)
wherein Z is a hydrogen atom or a fluorine atom; R has the meaning given in Claim 1; and Y" is a sulphonated or non-sulphonated succinimido-oxy group or a 2-thioxo-thiazolidin-3-yl group.
4. A method as claimed in Claim 3, wherein the multivalent radical -R-CO- is selected from the group of:
(1) -CH
2
-CH-CO- (V)
(2) Rj-CH-Rj-CH-Ra-CO- (VI)

 wherein:
R
x
 is hydrogen or Ci-C
4
 alkyl;
R
2
 is C
0
-C
3
 alkylene;
R
3
 is Ci-Cs alkylene; R
4
, R
5
 and R
6
 are each individually straight or branched Ci-Cβ alkylene;
A and Ai are hydrogen or (CH
2
)
m
-CO-, wherein m= 0-5, with the proviso, that A = H if A
x
 is (CH
2
)
m
-CO-, and that A
1
 = H if A is (CH
2
)
B
-CO-.
5. A metal-radionuclide-labelled protein or proteinaceous material obtained by using the method as claimed in any of the preceding claims 1-4.
6. A protein conjugate, prepared by reacting a protein or proteinaceous material with a polyfunctional coupling agent as defined in any of Claims 1-4.
7. A radiopharmaceutical composition which comprises, in addition to a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid carrier material, a metal radionuclide-labelled protein or proteinaceous material, characterised in that the composition comprises a protein or a proteinaceous material labelled with a metal-radionuclide, obtained by using the method as claimed in any of the Claims 1-4.
8. A method of performing a radiodiagnostic examination, characterised in that a composition as claimed in Claim 7, if desired after dilution with a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid, is administered to a warm-blooded living being in a quantity from 100 μCi to 30 mCi, preferably from 0.5 to 10 mCu, per 70 kg of 


bodyweight, and the radioactive radiation emitted by the being is then recorded.
9. A method as claimed in Claim 8, in particular for radionuclide ventriculography, characterized in that a composition is administered, containing as the active ingredient albumin labelled with technetium-99m, obtained by using the method as claimed in any of Claims 1-4.
10. A method of subjecting a warm-blooded living being to a radiotherapeutic treatment, characterised in that the composition as claimed in Claim 7, if desired after dilution with a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid, is administered to said being in a quantity effective for combating or controlling tumours.
11. A kit for preparing a radiopharmaceutical composition, comprising, (1) in an optionally dry condition a composition of a protein conjugate formed by reaction of a protein or proteinaceous material with a polyfunctional agent of the general formula I, wherein the symbols have the meanings given in Claim 1, (2) a solution of a salt or chelate of a metal-radionuclide, and (3) instructions for use with a prescription for reacting the ingredients present in the kit.
12. A kit for preparing a radiopharmaceutical composition, comprising, (1) in an optionally dry condition, a composition of a protein conjugate formed by reaction of a protein or proteinaceous material with a polyfunctional agent of the general formula I, wherein the symbols have the meanings given in Claim 1, (2) a chelator and a reducing agent, ingredients (1) and (2) optionally being combined, and (3) instructons for use with a prescription for reacting the ingredients of the 


kit with technetium-99m in the form of a pertechnetate solution, or with rhenium-186 or rhenium-188 in the form of a perrhenate solution.
13. A kit for preparing a radiopharmaceutical composition comprising, (1) in an optionally dry condition, a polyfunctional agent of the general formula I, wherein the symbols have the meanings given in Claim 1, as well as a chelator and a reducing agent, and (2) instructions for use with a prescription for reacting the ingredients mentioned sub (1) with a protein or proteinaceous material and then, after deprotection, with technetium-99m in the form of a pertechnetate solution or with rhenium-186 or rhenium-188 in the form of a perrhenate solution.
14. A kit for preparing a radiopharmaceutical composition comprising, (1) in an optionally dry condition, a polyfunctional agent of the general formula I, wherein the symbols have the meanings given in Claim 1, (2) a solution of a salt or chelate of a metal-radionuclide, and (3) instructions for use with a prescription for reacting the ingredient mentioned sub (1) with a protein or proteinaceous material and then, after deprotection, with the ingredients mentioned sub (2).
15. A kit as claimed in any of the claims 11-14, comprising a polyfunctional agent of the general formula II or a protein conjugate, formed by reaction of a protein or proteinaceous material with said polyfunctional agent, respectively, wherein X, n and R have the meanings given in Claim 1 and Y' has the meaning given in Claim 2. 


16. A kit as claimed in any of the Claims 11-14, comprising a polyfunctional agent of the general formula IV or a protein conjugate, formed by reaction of a protein or proteinaceous material with said polyfunctional agent, respectively, wherein R and n have the meanings given in Claim 1 and Y" and Z have the meanings given in Claim 3. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
