<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658863</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Memory card for use with a digital information system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07F710	G07F710	G07F1700	G07F1716	H02J700	H02J700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07F7	G07F7	G07F17	G07F17	H02J7	H02J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A memory card (1001) having a playback function is adapted 
for connection with a digital signal source of a digital 

information system in receiving/delivery of a digital signal 
and has a memory for storing a specified digital signal and 

reproducing a digital signal stored independently. A secondary 
battery is built in the memory card, which is charged by 

a power supply on the side of a terminal device (100) when 
the memory card is connected to the terminal device. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a digital 
information system, a digital audio signal processor and 
a signal converter, such as a digital information system 
for realizing sale or supply of specified audio data or 
the like by transmitting it to a specified person in the 
form of electrical signal, an audio signal processor and 
a signal converter suitable for the system, and a 
technique effectively used for a data compressing and 
expanding circuit. As a conventional example of commercialized 
information, there is a newspaper or magazine on which 
characters or the like are printed by use of paper as a 
medium. The paper used in this way may be replaced by 
various types of software sold through a memory medium 
such as floppy disk, or IC card. Another example is 
communication means such as cable television or 
satellite broadcasting for supplying news or broadcast 
programs to specified subscribers. Further, a portable computer, which unlike the 
conventional notebook-type personal computer or 
"electronic notebook", can easily send a message to 
another person, access a data base, or process information 
without being restricted by time or place, has been 
suggested in "Nikkei Electronics", November 26, 1990,  
 
pp.116 to 124. This system proposes data transmission 
to a portable terminal through public telephone or FM 
broadcasting or sale of IC cards at bookstores or 
station booths. Also, a system for transmitting and receiving 
information is disclosed in JP-A-63-61391. Furthermore, JP-A-61-236222 suggests a 
digital-to-analog converter that can be realized by a 
digital circuit. In the case where information is commercialized 
and sold by use of paper as a medium as in newspapers 
or magazines, the printing and transportation 
take long time, which not only makes the system unsuitable 
for timely sale of information, but also 
adversely affects the earth environment by deforestation 
for making paper and discharging information garbage. 
In the case where a IC card or floppy disk is used as a 
medium as in the electronic notebook or the like, a 
terminal device such as the electronic notebook or 
personal computer is needed. In addition, these 
terminal devices presuppose information processing such 
as in the electronic notebook, so that the operation 
thereof is comparatively complicated and difficult in 
application, thereby preventing general extension of the 
use thereof. Also, in the case where a great amount of 
data are distributed through FM broadcasting, it is  
 
troublesome to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A memory card for use with a digital information system 
comprising a digital signal source, said memory card (1001) 

having a playback function being adapted for connection with 
a digital signal source in receiving/delivery of a digital 

signal and having a memory for storing a specified digital 
signal, said memory card reproducing a digital signal stored 

independently, said memory card having a secondary battery 
built therein, said secondary battery being charged by a 

power supply on the terminal device side when connected with 
the terminal device (100). 
The memory card of claim 1, comprising a playback circuit 
(101) for outputting a digital audio signal read out of 

a memory by being converted into an analog audio signal. 
The memory card of claim 2, which is separable or removable 
as a thin card-like storage medium. 
The memory card of claim 2, comprising an ID code (1308), 
wherein the playback conditions are automatically designated 

in accordance with the contents of the ID code. 
The memory card of claim 4, wherein the playback conditions 
include at least one of the stereo/monaural playback, a 

resolution of 8 and 16 bits and a sampling frequency. 
A memory card for use with a digital information system 
comprising a digital signal source, said memory card having a 

playback function and being adapted for connection with the 
digital signal source in receiving/delivery of a digital signal, 

said memory card having a memory (1102) for receiving 
and storing a specified digital signal and reproducing a 

digital signal stored independently, said memory storing and 
controlling the digital signal, a connector for receiving/delivering 

a signal from an external source, and an operating 
section for controlling the playback. 
The memory card of claim 6, wherein said connector for 
receiving/delivery of a digital signal conforms to the JEIDA 

standard or an equivalent standard. 
A memory card for use with a digital information system 
comprising a digital signal source, said memory card (1001) 

having a playback function and being adapted for connection 
to the digital signal source in receiving/delivery of the 

digital signal, said memory card having a memory for receiving 
and storing a specified digital signal, said memory card 

reproducing a digital signal stored independently, wherein 
said memory has a security function of inverting at least 

one-bit digital signal of the input and/or output section of 
the memory in accordance with a password or a password coincidence 

detection signal or replacing the digital signal with 
 

another bit thereby to prevent the user from reproducing a 
correct digital signal. 
The memory card of claim 8, comprising a security function 
wherein at least a one-bit digital signal of the address 

input section of the memory is subjected to inversion or replacement 
with another bit in accordance with a password or a 

password coincidence detection signal thereby preventing the 
user from reproducing a correct digital signal. 
The memory card of claim 8, comprising a security function 
for nullifying at least one-bit digital signal of the 

output section of the memory or replacing that bit with another 
bit in accordance with a password or a password coincidence 

detection signal thereby to prevent a correct digital 
signal from being read out from the memory card with playback 

function. 
The memory card of claim 8, comprising a security function 
for nullifying at least one bit of digital signal at the 

address input section of the memory and replacing that bit 
with another bit in accordance with a password or a password 

coincidence signal thereby to prevent a correct digital signal 
from being read out from the memory card with playback 

function. 
The memory card of claim 8, which is divided into given 
storage capacities thereby to store a plurality of different 

types of information wherein the user can select a given type 
of information from the stored information at the time of 

playback. 
The memory card of claim 8, comprising a storage area or 
a contents memory (5801) for storing contents information 

having storage addresses corresponding to a plurality of 
digital signals, and a data area or a data memory accessible 

from the storage addresses. 
The memory card of claim 13, wherein said operating section 
designates a plurality of types of operating mode by at 

least once turning on a single key switch (5101). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
