<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649342</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRICAL APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR GENERATING ANTIBIOTIC.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L202	A61L214	B01J1908	B01J1908	C01B1311	C01B1311	C01B1314	C01B1314	F02M2500	F02M2512	H01T2300	H01T2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	B01J	B01J	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	F02M	F02M	H01T	H01T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L2	A61L2	B01J19	B01J19	C01B13	C01B13	C01B13	C01B13	F02M25	F02M25	H01T23	H01T23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENT PROD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENT PRODUCTS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBBONEY JAMES W JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBBONEY JAMES W JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR GENERATING ANTIBIOTICBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention:The present invention relates to electrical apparatus for generating an antibiotic. In particular, the present invention relates to methods and apparatus for generating, using DC current, negatively charged molecules of the form [MOx]% where M is a positive ion, O is oxygen, and x is a number at least 3, which compounds are useful for disinfecting, deodorizing and sanitizing. 2. Discussion of Background:Ozone is recognized as a substance that can be used for oxidizing many substances and also for disinfecting, deodorizing and sanitizing since ozone reacts with water to form hydrogen peroxide, a well known antibiotic. Industrial demand for ozone as an oxidant is strong. However, ozone and other disinfectants, deodorants and sanitizers, such as household cleansers, detergents, sprays, air fresheners, air filters, and the like, have a great many applications for business and private use. A number of ozone generators exist, most of them operating on alternating current. There are two known to use direct currrent, that is, a current that does not change polarity, namely, those described in US 4,417,966 issued to Krauss, et al. and in US 4,048,668 issued to Von Bargen et al, but these both use a time-varying current level. The former 

patent describes a device with a current chopped at a frequency of about 350 Hz; the latter describes a pulsed current having a frequency of ten to sixteen kHz.Many of these ozone generators require cooling mechanisms to dissipate the quantities of heat produced in the generation of ozone, or systems that operate at an elevated pressure. Notwithstanding the number of these types of generators, there is a continuing need for a generator of an antibiotic that will disinfect, sanitize and deodorize quickly, completely, effectively and do so without the inconvenience of spraying liquids, washing or other fluid treatments that require an undue time for surfaces to dry or for volatile chemicals to dissipate.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAccording to its major aspects and broadly stated, the present application is an apparatus for making an antibiotic from diatomic oxygen. The antibiotic is of the form 

 where M is a positive ion, O is oxygen, and x is a number having a value equal to or greater than three. The apparatus generates a magnetic field and a plasma field using a substantially constant voltage. The magnetic field causes the diatomic oxygen to separate into oxygen ions
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for making an antibiotic from a source of diatomic oxygen, said apparatus comprising: first means for generating a magnetic field when said first generating means is connected to a substantially constant voltage; second means for generating a plasma field when said second generating means is connected electrically to said substantially constant voltage, said first generating means adapted to orient said magnetic field so that said diatomic oxygen are accelerated toward said plasma field while being ionized into oxygen ions, said plasma field positioned and shaped for capturing said ionized oxygen ions and confining said oxygen ions until at least a portion of said oxygen ions can combine with each other to form said antibiotic and thereby exit said plasma field.
2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein a source of positive ions is placed in said plasma field so that said oxygen ions can bind with said positive ions to form charged molecules of the for m [MO
x
]-, where M is a positive ion, O is oxygen, and x is a number at least 3.
3. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said second generating means further comprises: an anode, said anode being made of a first electrical conductor material; and a cathode spaced apart from said anode, said cathode being made of a second electrical conductor material, 


 said accelerated oxygen ions releasing ions of said first and said second electrical conductor materials when struck by said accelerated oxygen ions, said conductor ions combining with said oxygen ions in said plasma.
4. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said second generating means further comprises a cathode, said cathode having a plurality of throughholes so that said antibiotic and said combined oxygen ions can pass therethrough from said apparatus.
5. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said second generating means further comprises an anode, said anode having a plurality of electrodes, each of said electrodes having a first end and a second end, said plurality of electrodes joined at said first end and separated at said second end.
6. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said second generating means further comprises an anode, said anode having a plurality of electrodes, each of said electrodes having a first end and a second end, each of said electrodes being wider at said first end and narrower at said second end, said plurality of electrodes joined at said first end and separated at said second end.
6. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said second generating means further comprises: an anode; and 


 a cathode spaced apart from said anode so as to define a gap therebetween, said apparatus further comprising means for adjusting said gap.
8. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said first generating means generates said magnetic field to enclose said plasma field.
9. Apparatus for making an antibiotic from a source of diatomic oxygen, said apparatus comprising: an anode; a cathode spaced apart from said anode so as to define a gap therebetween, said anode and said cathode cooperating to form a plasma field therebetween when a substantially constant voltage is applied across said anode and said cathode, said plasma field generating a magnetic field adapted to ionize said diatomic oxygen into oxygen ions and accelerate said oxygen ions toward said plasma field, said magnetic field enclosing said plasma field, said plasma field positioned and shaped for capturing said accelerated, ionized oxygen ions and confining said oxygen ions until at least a portion of said oxygen ions can combine with each other to form said antibiotic and thereby exit said plasma field.
10. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said anode further comprises a plurality of electrodes, each of said electrodes having a first end and a second end, said plurality of electrodes joined at said first end 


and separated at said second end, said anode oriented so that said second end is closer than said first end to said cathode.
11. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said anode has a plurality of electrodes, each of said electrodes having a first end and a second end, each of said electrodes being wider at said first end and narrower at said second end, said plurality of electrodes joined at said first end and separated at said second end
12. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, further comprising means for adjusting said gap.
13. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said cathode has a plurality of throughholes so that said antibiotic and said combined oxygen ions can pass therethrough from said apparatus.
14. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein a current flows between said anode and said cathode when said voltage is appied thereto and further comprising means for adjusting said current, said adjusting means carried by said cathode.
15. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein a source of positive ions is placed in said plasma field so that said oxygen ions can bind with said positive ions to form charged molecules of the for m [MO
x
]-, where M is a positive ion, O is oxygen, and x is a number at least 3. 



 16. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said anode is made of a first electrical conductor material, said cathode is made of a second electrical conductor material, and said accelerated oxygen ions release ions of said first and said second electrical conductor materials when struck by said accelerated oxygen ions, said conductor ions combine with said oxygen ions in said plasma.
17. Method for making charged molecules of the form [MOχ]-, where M is a positive ion of an electrically conducting material, O is oxygen, and x is a number at least 3, said molecules made from diatomic oxygen, said molecules useful as an antibiotic, said method comprising the steps of: forming a plasma field; separating said diatomic oxygen into oxygen ions; accelerating said oxygen ions toward a plasma field; confining said oxygen ions in said plasma field where said electrically conducting material is located so that said oxygen ions strike said electrically conducting materials, releasing said positive ions from said material, whereby at least a portion of said oxygen ions become bound to said positive ions to form said charged molecules that can escape said plasma.
18. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein said forming step further comprises the steps of: providing an anode and a cathode, said anode separated from said cathode by a gap, said anode comprising a plurality of electrodes attached 


together at one end and separated at an opposing end, said opposing end oriented toward said cathode; and applying a substantially constant voltage between said anode and said cathode.
19. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein said voltage is approximately 20,000 volts.
20. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein said accelerating step further comprises the steps of: establishing a magnetic field; and orienting said magnetic field so that said oxygen ions accelerate toward said plasma field. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
