<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643692</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH CIS BETA-CAROTENE COMPOSITION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L1275	A23L130	A23L1303	A23L130	A23L127	A23L1302	A23L1302	C07C40324	A61K3101	C07C40300	A61K31015	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	C07C	A61K	C07C	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	C07C403	A61K31	C07C403	A61K31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A carotenoid composition derived from a natural source wherein at least 50 % by weight of the carotenoid content of the composition is cis beta-carotene and preferably 9 cis beta-carotene. Typically, the beta-carotene content of the composition is predominantly 9 cis beta-carotene.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a carotenoid composition derived from a natural
source, with a high cis beta-carotene concentration and its preparation from
natural sources, and more preferably a high 9 cis beta-carotene composition
and its preparation from natural sources.In this specification it is to be understood that the natural sources of carotene
include fruits, vegetables and other plant tissue, and animal tissue. A
particularly commercial source of carotene is certain types of algae.Beta-carotene occurs in a number of different chemical isomer forms. Some
of these are geometrical isomers which have a different orientation around
one of the double bonds in the conjugated double bond structure of the
molecule.This can occur in a number of positions along the conjugated backbone to
make a range of different geometrical isomers. In some cases there can
even be more than one double bond where change of orientation occurs. The most common geometrical isomer is the all trans isomer with a
structure occurring as shown as follows where the main carbon chain of
the molecule occurs in a trans (across) or straight configuration.
However, there are cis forms of beta-carotene which occur naturally,
and can be produced by chemical synthesis, or formed by physical
processes like heat on the all trans isomers, where the main carbon chain
of the molecule takes a bend (cis) or sideways configuration. Naturally
occurring cis forms of beta-carotene are not known to occur over a
weight percentage of approximately 30% to less than 50% of the total
carotenoid content.Associated with the different geometric isomers are different properties
and possible functions and for this reason there are potential benefits in
relatively concentrated forms of the cis isomers. In natural products such as fruit, vegetables, algae and other plant and
animal material the carotenoids are stabilized as part of the cell structure
in small micron or sub-micron sized particles in the cell organelles or
even by association with other molecules which stabilize the isomeric forms
produced by the biochemical pathways of the organism. However, in the
preparation of concentrated forms of these materials for commercial
products desired from the natural sources, the natural stabilising
capacity of the cellular structure may be removed or reduced in the
extraction and concentration of the carotenoids.In addition, as the carotenoid products are concentrated to increase their
beta-carotene concentrations and to remove the other cell material which
is not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of producing a carotenoid composition derived from a
natural source, wherein at least 50% by weight of the carotenoid content of

the composition is naturally-occurring cis beta-carotene, the method including
the steps of:


(a) forming a carotenoid-containing preparation from the natural source,
wherein the preparation is capable of being treated by using density

differentiation means so as to separate cis-isomer carotenoids it
contains from trans-isomer carotenoids; and
(b) treating the preparation by using density differentiation means, so as
to separate cis-isomer carotenoids from trans-isomer carotenoids

contained in the preparation.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the density differentiation
means include centrifugation.
A method of producing a carotenoid composition derived from a
natural source wherein at least 50% by weight of the carotenoid content of

the composition is naturally-occurring cis beta-carotene, the method including
the steps of:


(a) forming a carotenoid-containing preparation from the natural source,
wherein the preparation is capable of being treated by filtration means

so as to separate cis-isomer carotenoids it contains, from trans-isomer 
carotenoids it contains; and
(b) treating the preparation by using the filtration means so as to separate
the cis-isomer carotenoids from the trans-isomer carotenoids

contained in the preparation.
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the filtration means include a
filter press, a drum filter, a filter bed, a filter cartridge system, a membrane

filter or combinations of the foregoing.
A carotenoid composition derived from a natural source, wherein at
least 50% by weight of the carotenoid content of the composition is naturally-occurring

cis beta-carotene and wherein the composition is produced by the
method of any one of claims 1 to 4.
A carotenoid composition according to claim 5, wherein the naturally-occurring
cis beta-carotene content of the composition is between at least

50% and 80%.
A carotenoid composition according to claim 5, wherein the naturally-occurring
cis beta-carotene content of the composition is between 60% and

70%.
A carotenoid composition according to claim 5, wherein the naturally-occurring
cis beta-carotene content of the composition is between 60% and

85%.
A carotenoid composition according to any one of claims 5 to 8,
wherein the composition is predominantly naturally-occurring 9 cis beta-carotene. 
A carotenoid composition according to any one of claims 5 to 9,
wherein the composition comprises about 70% naturally-occurring 9 cis beta-carotene.
A carotenoid composition according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the
source of the 9 cis beta-carotene is selected from plant products including

apricots, flowers of certain species of the Acacia genus, cucurbitaceae and
Dunaliella salina and mixtures thereof.
A carotenoid composition according to any one of claims 9 to 11,
wherein the source of the 9 cis beta-carotene is Dunaliella salina.
A carotenoid composition according to any one of claims 5 to 12,
wherein the composition is dispersed in a natural carrier oil selected from

animal, vegetable and/or mineral origins.
A carotenoid composition according to claim 13, wherein the oil carrier
is selected from olive, corn, soya bean, essential oils, terpene based oils, fish

derived oils and mixtures thereof.
A carotenoid composition according to any one of claims 5 to 14,
wherein the composition further comprises small quantities of oil soluble anti-oxidants

in the range of 0.01% to 1.0% by weight of pure anti-oxidant.
A carotenoid composition according to any one of claims 5 to 14,
wherein the composition further comprises small quantities of oil soluble anti-oxidants

in the range of 0.01% to 0.5% by weight of pure anti-oxidant.
A carotenoid composition according to claim 15 or claim 16, wherein
the anti-oxidant is selected from butylated hydroxy anisole, butylated 

hydroxytoluene, propyl gallate, ethoxyquin and ascorbyl palmitate plus other
natural antioxidant extracts which may be derived from herbs and preferably

natural tocopherols, and mixtures thereof.
A carotenoid composition derived from a natural source by physical
means wherein at least 50% by weight of the carotenoid composition is

naturally-occurring cis beta-carotene, the composition also comprising
naturally-occurring carotenoids other than cis beta-carotene.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
