<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620822</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HYBRIDIZATION OF POLYNUCLEOTIDES CONJUGATED WITH CHROMOPHORES AND FLUOROPHORES TO GENERATE DONOR-TO-DONOR ENERGY TRANSFER SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09B6910	G11B724	G11B7005	G01N33533	C09K1106	G11B7244	G01N33566	C09K1106	G11B724	G11C1302	G11B70045	G01N33566	C12Q168	C07H2100	C09B6900	G01N33533	G11B700	G11C1302	C07H2100	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09B	G11B	G11B	G01N	C09K	G11B	G01N	C09K	G11B	G11C	G11B	G01N	C12Q	C07H	C09B	G01N	G11B	G11C	C07H	C12N	C12N	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09B69	G11B7	G11B7	G01N33	C09K11	G11B7	G01N33	C09K11	G11B7	G11C13	G11B7	G01N33	C12Q1	C07H21	C09B69	G01N33	G11B7	G11C13	C07H21	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention contemplates chromophore-containing polynucleotides having at least two donor chromophores operatively linked to the polynucleotide by linker arms, such that the chromophores are positioned by linkage along the length of the polynucleotide at a donor-donor transfer distance, and at least one fluorescing acceptor chromophore operatively linked to the polynucleotide by a linker arm, such that the fluorescing acceptor chromophore is positioned by linkage at a donor-acceptor transfer distance from at least one of the donor chromophores, to form a photonic structure for collecting photonic energy and transferring the energy to an acceptor chromophore, and methods using the photonic structures.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NANOTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NANOTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELLER MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELLER, MICHAEL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to design and synthesis of
modified synthetic nucleic acid polymers/oligomers
with directly incorporated electronic/photonic
transfer properties. In particular, it relates to the
property of extended directional non-radiative energy
transfer. These unique components can be programmed
to self-assemble and organize into larger more complex
structures. The directly incorporated
electronic/photonic functional properties allow
connections and novel mechanisms to be formed within
the organized structures. The combination of the
properties allows ultimately for the creation of
useful photonic and photovoltaic devices, DNA bio-sensors,
and DNA diagnostic assay systems.The fields of molecular electronics/photonics and
nanotechnology offer immense technological promise for
the future. Nanotechnology is defined as a projected
technology based on a generalized ability to build
objects to complex atomic specifications. Drexler,
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA, 78:5275-5278, (1981).
Nanotechnology means an atom-by-atom or molecule-by-molecule
control for organizing and building complex
structures all the way to the macroscopic level.
Nanotechnology is a bottom-up approach, in contrast to
a top-down strategy like present lithographic
techniques used in the semiconductor and integrated
circuit industries. The success of nanotechnology 
will be based on the development of programmable self-assembling
molecular units and molecular level machine
tools, so-called assemblers, which will enable the
construction of a wide range of molecular structures
and devices. Drexler, in "Engines of Creation",
Doubleday Publishing Co., New York, NY (1986). Thus,
one of the first and most important goals in
nanotechnology is the development of programmable
self-assembling molecular construction units.Present molecular electronic/photonic technology
includes numerous efforts from diverse fields of
scientists and engineers. Carter, ed. in "Molecular
Electronic Devices II", Marcel Dekker, Inc, New York,
NY (1987). Those fields include organic polymer based
rectifiers, Metzger et al., in "Molecular Electronic
Devices II", Carter, ed., Marcel Dekker, New York, NY,
pp. 5-25, (1987), conducting conjugated polymers,
MacDiarmid et al., Synthetic Metals, 18:285, (1987),
electronic properties of organic thin films or
Langmuir-Blogett films, Watanabe et al., Synthetic
Metals, 28:C473, (1989), molecular shift registers
based on electron transfer, Hopfield et al., Science,
241:817, (1988), and a self-assembly system based on
synthetical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A polynucleotide having a terminal donor chromophore, at
least one intermediate donor-acceptor chromophore spaced from the terminal donor chromophore at a donor-donor transfer distance, and at

least one acceptor chromophore spaced from the donor-acceptor chromophore at a donor-acceptor transfer distance, all said chromophores are
linked to said polynucleotide by linker arms, wherein the

distance between said terminal donor chromophore and one
said acceptor chromophore is greater than 5 nm and there

is at least one said intermediate donor chromophore
within said distance.
The polynucleotide of Claim 1, wherein at least one said
acceptor chromophore is able to re-emit light without

quenching.
The polynucleotide of Claim 2, wherein light transferred
from at least one said donor chromophore beyond 5 nm

produces an increase in acceptor re-emission.
The polynucleotide of Claim 2, wherein said donor
chromophores are selected from the group consisting of

4,4'-diisothiocyanatodihydro-stilbene-2,2'-disulfonic
acid,

4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanato-stilbene-2,2'-disulfonic
acid, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid,

succinimidyl pyrene butyrate, acridine isothiocyanate,

4-dimethylaminophenylazophenyl-4'-isothiocyanate, Lucifer
Yellow vinyl sulfone, fluorescein isothiocyanate,

Cibacron Brilliant Red 3B-A, Rhodamine X isothiocyanate,
Sulforhodamine 101 acid chloride, Malachite Green

isothiocyanate and IR1446.
The polynucleotide of Claim 2, wherein said terminal
donor chromophore and said at least one intermediate

donor chromophore are non-fluorescing chromophores. 
The polynucleotide of Claim 2, wherein said terminal
donor chromophore and said at least one intermediate

donor chromophore comprise 2 to 100 chromophores.
The polynucleotide of Claim 2, wherein the acceptor
chromophore is a fluorescing acceptor chromophore spaced from

the donor-acceptor chromophore at a donor-acceptor transfer distance.
The polynucleotide of Claim 7, wherein said fluorescing
chromophore is selected from the group consisting of

pyrene, Lucifer Yellow vinyl sulfone, acridine
isothiocyanate, riboflavin, fluorescein isothiocyanate,

rhodamine X isothiocyanate, Sulforhodamine 101 acid
chloride and IR 144.
A diagnostic assay system for photonic detection of a
preselected nucleotide sequence comprising, in an amount

sufficient for at least one assay, a polynucleotide
having a terminal donor chromophore, at least one

intermediate donor-acceptor chromophore, and at least one
acceptor chromophore, all said chromophores are linked to

said polynucleotide by linker arms, wherein the distance
between said terminal donor chromophore and one said

acceptor chromophore is greater than 5 nm and there is at
least one said intermediate donor chromophore within said

distance.
The diagnostic system of Claim 9, wherein at least one of
said terminal donor chromophore, said intermediate donor

chromophore, and said acceptor chromophore is a
fluorescing chromophore operatively linked to said

polynucleotide by a linker arm, wherein said fluorescing
chromophore is positioned by said linkage at a

donor-acceptor transfer distance from at least one of
said non-fluorescing chromophores. 
The diagnostic system of Claim 9, further comprising a
second polynucleotide containing at least one fluorescing

polynucleotide linked to said second polynucleotide by a
linker arm.
A method for detecting the presence of a preselected
nucleic acid target sequence in a nucleic acid-containing

sample comprising the steps of:

(a) admixing;

(i) a polynucleotide having a terminal donor
chromophore, at least one intermediate

donor-acceptor chromophore spaced from the terminal donor chromophore at a donor-donor transfer distance, and at least one
acceptor chromophore spaced from the donor-acceptor chromophore at a donor-acceptor transfer distance, all said chromophores

are linked to said polynucleotide by linker
arms, wherein the distance between said

terminal donor chromophore and one said
acceptor chromophore is greater than 5 nm and

there is at least one said intermediate donor
chromophore within said distance, and
(ii) said nucleic acid-containing sample to form a
hybridization reaction admixture, said

polynucleotide having a preselected nucleic
acid sequence adapted to hybridize to said

target sequence;
(b) subjecting said hybridization reaction admixture
to hybridization conditions for a time period

sufficient for said polynucleotide to hybridize
to said preselected nucleic acid base sequence

and form a donor chromophore containing- and
acceptor chromophore containing-hybridized

nucleic acid duplex;
(c) exciting said donor chromophores in said nucleic
acid duplex formed in step (b) by exposing said 

donor chromophores to sufficient photonic energy
to induce emission of photonic energy from said

acceptor chromophore; and
(d) detecting the presence of photonic energy
re-emitted from said acceptor chromophore using a

photon sensing means, thereby detecting the
presence of said preselected nucleic acid target

sequence in said sample.
A method for detecting the presence of a preselected
nucleic acid target sequence in a nucleic acid-containing

sample comprising the steps of:

(a) admixing;

(i) a first polynucleotide having a terminal
donor chromophore and at least one

intermediate donor chromophore spaced from the terminal donor chromophore at a donor-donor transfer distance and linked to said
first polynucleotide by linker arms; and
(ii) a second polynucleotide having at least one
acceptor chromophore linked to said second

polynucleotide by a linker arm, and
(iii) said nucleic acid-containing sample to form a
hybridization reaction admixture, said first

and second polynucleotides having preselected
nucleic acid sequences adapted to hybridize

to said target sequence and thereby position
said terminal donor chromophore on said first

polynucleotide and one said acceptor
chromophore on said second polynucleotide at

a distance which is greater than 5 nm, and
wherein there is at least one said

intermediate donor chromophore, and wherein said acceptor chromophore is spaced from the intermediate donor chromophore at a donor-acceptor transfer distance;
(b) subjecting said hybridization reaction admixture
to hybridization conditions for a time period 

sufficient for said polynucleotide to hybridize
to said preselected nucleic acid base sequence

and form a donor chromophore containing- and
acceptor chromophore containing-hybridized

nucleic acid duplex;
(c) exciting said donor chromophores in said nucleic
acid duplex formed in step (b) by exposing said

donor chromophores to sufficient photonic energy
to induce emission of photonic energy from said

acceptor chromophore; and
(d) detecting the presence of photonic energy
re-emitted from said acceptor chromophore using a

photon sensing means, thereby detecting the
presence of said preselected nucleic acid target

sequence in said sample.
The method of Claim 12, wherein said terminal donor
chromophore and said at least one intermediate donor

chromophore are excited by photonic energy at a
wavelength corresponding to the excitation maximum of the

donor, and wherein the photonic energy re-emitted from
said acceptor is detected at its emission wavelength.
The method of Claim 13, wherein said donor chromophores
are excited by photonic energy at a wavelength

corresponding to the excitation maximum of the donor, and
wherein the photonic energy re-emitted from said acceptor

is detected at its emission wavelength.
The method of Claim 12, wherein at least one of the
polynucleotide and the nucleic acid target sequence is

attached to a solid support or matrix. 
The method of Claim 16, wherein the solid support or
matrix is selected from the group consisting of glass,

metals, silicon, organic polymers, membranes, and
bio-polymers.
The method of Claim 16, wherein the photon sensing means
is closely associated with said solid support or matrix.
The method of Claim 13, wherein at least one of the first
polynucleotide, the second polynucleotide, and the

nucleic acid target sequence is attached to a solid
support or matrix.
The method of Claim 19, wherein the solid support or
matrix is selected from the group consisting of glass,

metals, silicon, organic polymers, membranes, and
bio-polymers.
The method of Claim 19, wherein the photon sensing means
is closely associated with said solid support or matrix.
A biosensor for detecting the presence of an analyte in
solution, said analyte comprising a target DNA sequence,

said biosensor comprising:

(i) an excitation source for delivering emitting photonic
energy;
(ii) a donor sequence comprising a first polynucleotide
having a terminal donor chromophore and at least one

intermediate donor chromophore, spaced from the terminal donor chromophore at a donor-donor transfer distance and linked to said first
polynucleotide by linker arms, wherein said first

polynucleotide is complementary to a first region of said
target DNA sequence;
(iii) an acceptor sequence comprising a second
polynucleotide having at least one acceptor chromophore

linked to said second polynucleotide by linker arms, 
wherein said second polynucleotide is complementary to a

second region of said target DNA sequence; and
(iv) an associated photon sensing means to detect
photonic energy emitted from said acceptor;

wherein said first polynucleotide and said second
polynucleotide are able to hybridize with said target DNA

sequence to form a complex wherein the distance between
said terminal donor chromophore and one said acceptor

chromophore is greater than 5 nm and there is at least
one said intermediate donor chromophore, and wherein said acceptor chromophore is spaced from the intermediate donor chromophore by a donor-acceptor transfer distance.
The biosensor of Claim 22, wherein said analyte, upon
hybridization, is associated in close proximity to said

photon sensing means.
The biosensor of Claim 22, wherein at least one of said
first polynucleotide, said second polynucleotide, and

said target DNA sequence is bound to a solid support or
matrix that is insoluble in the analyte solution.
The biosensor of Claim 24, wherein said solid support or
matrix is selected from the group consisting of glass,

metals, silicon, organic polymers, membranes, and
bio-polymers.
The biosensor of Claim 22, wherein said associated photon
sensor means is selected from the group consisting of a

photodiode, photodiode array, photomultiplier tube, and a
fiber optic detection system.
A duplex nucleic acid structure capable of extended
photonic energy transfer, said structure comprising:


(i) a first polynucleotide;
(ii) a second polynucleotide hybridized to said first
polynucleotide; 
(iii) a terminal donor chromophore linked by linker arms
to one of said first polynucleotide and said second

polynucleotide;
(iv) at least one intermediate donor chromophore spaced from the terminal donor chromophore at a donor-donor transfer distance linked
by linker arms to one of said first polynucleotide and

said second polynucleotide; and
(v)at least one acceptor chromophore spaced from the donor-acceptor chromophore at a donor-acceptor transfer distance linked by linker
arms to one of said first polynucleotide and said second

polynucleotide;

wherein the distance between said terminal donor
chromophore and one said acceptor chromophore is greater

than 5 nm and there is at least one said intermediate
donor chromophore spaced from said terminal donor

chromophore by a donor-donor transfer distance; and
wherein said donor and said acceptor chromophores are

alternately positioned on said first polynucleotide and
said second polynucleotide such that said photonic energy

transfer crosses between said first and said second
polynucleotides of said duplex.
The structure of Claim 27, wherein said donor-donor
transfer distance is 1.4 to 6.1 nm.
The structure of Claim 27, wherein said donor
chromophores are selected from the group consisting of

4,4'-diisothiocyanatodihydro-stilbene-2,2'-disulfonic
acid,

4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanato-stilbene-2,2'-disulfonic
acid, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid,

succinimidyl pyrene butyrate, acridine isothiocyanate,

4-dimethylaminophenylazophenyl-4'-isothiocyanate
(DABITC), Lucifer Yellow vinyl sulfone, fluorescein

isothiocyanate, Reactive Red 4 (Cibacron Brilliant Red
3B-A) rhodamine X isothiocyanate, sulforhodamine 101, acid chloride

Malachite Green isothiocyanate and IR1446. 
The structure of Claim 27, wherein said donor
chromophores are non-fluorescing chromophores.
The structure of Claim 27, wherein said at least one
intermediate donor chromophore comprises 1 to 99

chromophores.
The structure of Claim 27, further comprising at least
one fluorescing acceptor chromophore operatively linked

by linker arms to one of said first polynucleotide and
said second polynucleotide, wherein said at least one

fluorescing accepting chromophore is positioned by said
linker arms at a donor-acceptor transfer distance from at

least one of said donor chromophores.
The structure of Claim 32, wherein said donor-acceptor
transfer distance is 0. 1 to 1.7 nm.
The structure of Claim 32, wherein said fluorescing
acceptor chromophore is selected from the group

consisting of pyrene, Lucifer Yellow, acridine,
riboflavin, fluorescein, rhodamine, sulforhodamine 101,

and IR 144.
The structure of Claim 27, wherein at least one of said
first polynucleotide and said second polynucleotide is

linked to a solid support.
The structure of Claim 35, wherein the solid support is
selected from the group consisting of glass, metals,

silicon, organic polymers, membranes, and bio-polymers.
An electronic device comprising:

an extended energy transfer system comprising a
polynucleotide having a terminal donor chromophore, at 

least one intermediate donor chromophore spaced from the terminal donor chromophore at a donor-donor transfer distance, and at least
one acceptor chromophore spaced from the intermediate donor chromophore at a donor-acceptor transfer distance linked to said polynucleotide by

linker arms, wherein the distance between said terminal
donor chromophore and one said acceptor chromophore is

greater than 5 nm and there is at least one said
intermediate donor chromophore; and wherein said

polynucleotide is linked to a solid support.
The electronic device of Claim 37, wherein the solid
support is selected from the group consisting of glass,

metals, silicon, organic polymers, membranes, and
bio-polymers.
The electronic device of Claim 37, wherein said device is
a photonic energy collector.
The electronic device of Claim 37, wherein said device is
a light amplifier.
The electronic device of Claim 37, wherein said device is
an energy transfer conduit.
The electronic device of Claim 37, wherein the solid
support is adapted to provide a complimentary function.
The electronic device of Claim 42, wherein the function
is to donate energy to the extended energy transfer

system.
The electronic device of Claim 42, wherein the function
is to detect emitted photonic energy.
The electronic device of Claim 42, wherein the function
is to receive emitted photonic energy. 
The electronic device of Claim 42, wherein the function
is to convert emitted photonic energy.
The electronic device of Claim 42, wherein the function
is to transmit emitted photonic energy to a second

circuit.
The electronic device of Claim 42, wherein the function
is to translate emitted photonic energy.
The electronic device of Claim 47, wherein the second
circuit is a photosensor.
The electronic device of Claim 47, wherein the second
circuit is a photovoltaic cell.
An extended photonic energy transfer system able to
communicate with an electronic circuit, said transfer

system comprising:

a polynucleotide having a terminal donor chromophore,
at least one intermediate donor chromophore spaced from the terminal donor chromophore at a donor-donor transfer distance, and at

least one acceptor chromophore spaced from the intermediate donor chromophore at a donor-acceptor transfer distance and linked to said
polynucleotide by linker arms;
wherein the distance between said terminal donor
chromophore and one said acceptor chromophore is

greater than 5 nm and there is at least one said
intermediate donor chromophore; and
wherein at least one said chromophore is adapted to
convert electronic energy to photonic energy.
The transfer system of Claim 51, wherein the chromophore
adapted to convert electronic energy to photonic energy

is selected from the group consisting of luminescent
compounds, ruthenium complexes, and photovoltaic cells. 
An extended photonic energy transfer system able to
communicate with an electronic circuit, said transfer

system comprising:

a polynucleotide having a terminal donor chromophore,
at least one intermediate donor chromophore, and at

least one acceptor chromophore linked to said
polynucleotide by linker arms;
wherein the distance between said terminal donor
chromophore and one said acceptor chromophore is

greater than 5 nm and there is at least one said
intermediate donor chromophore; and
wherein at least one said chromophore is adapted to
convert photonic energy to electronic energy.
The transfer system of Claim 53, wherein the chromophore
adapted to convert photonic energy to electronic energy

is selected from the group consisting of luminescent
compounds, ruthenium complexes, and photovoltaic cells.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
