<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657603</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self-propelled underwater electromechanical apparatus for cleaning the bottom and walls of swimming pools
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04H400	E04H416	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04H	E04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04H4	E04H4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Self-propelled underwater electromechanical apparatus for cleaning 
the bottom and the walls of swimming pools, comprising an electric motor 

(2) which operates, on one hand, a propeller turbine (3) for circulating 
the water and, on the other hand, a driving unit for transmitting movement 

to a roller travel system (R). At least said electric motor and/or said 
driving unit are made with an open structure inside which the swimming-pool 

water freely circulates. The electric motor is of the brushless type 
and both the winding of its rotor (22) and that 

of its stator (25) are embedded in 
an impermeable resin. The driving unit comprises a reduction unit (4) 

with an 
output shaft (10) operating two 

roller travel systems mounted on opposite sides 
of the apparatus. Movement reversal means, consisting of a shaft 

extension (12) oscillating between two different working positions, are 
arranged between the output shaft and said two travel systems. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRATTINI ERCOLE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRATTINI, ERCOLE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRATTINI ERCOLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRATTINI, ERCOLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a self-propelled underwater
apparatus, commonly called a cleaning robot, designed to function
underwater so as to clean the bottom and walls of swimming pools, in
particular a robot which is operated electromechanically.These cleaning robots are normally able to perform two separate
functions:
on the one hand, suck in the swimming-pool water, pass it through
a filtering and, where necessary, disinfecting system, and expel it again;on the other hand, move along the end wall and, if necessary,
along the side walls of the swimming pool, with brush systems which remove
the substances deposited on these walls, facilitating suction thereof
towards the filtering system.The mode of operation of these robots may be of the hydraulic or the
electric type: the invention relates to the latter type. The electrically
operated cleaning devices which are currently available on the market all
have at least the following basic technical characteristics:
at least two electric actuating motors contained inside a
watertight chamber housed in the body of the robot and connected to an
electric power cable passing in a leakproof manner through a hole in the
wall of the chamber (see for example EP-A-0314259). This cable is connects up outside the swimming pool
and is long enough to follow the movements of the robot along the whole of
the swimming pool itself;a turbine for sucking in and delivering the water through the
filtering system, which is rotated by a transmission shaft connected to
one of said actuating motors, said shaft passing, in turn, in a leakproof
manner through a hole in the wall of the motor housing;a drive system, of the wheel or belt type, in turn operated by one
or two of said actuating motors via an associated transmission shaft and
at least one reducer; a control system, originally of the electric type and currently
preferably of the electronic type, for effecting, with appropriate timing,
the forwards and backwards movements of the robot and changes in
direction. This system is in turn contained inside the watertight chamber
of the motor.A structure of cleaner more simple than the one of the EP-A-0314259
is described in GB-A-1.199.886, where there is a sole motor for operating the
water propeller and the wheels; however also in this patent a waterproof
structure both for the motor and for the transmission gear case is provided. These robots have - as can be easily understood since they
constantly function underwater - a relatively complex and hence costly
liquid-tight
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Self-propelled underwater electromechanical apparatus for cleaning the
bottom and walls of swimming pools, comprising electric motor means

operating, on one hand, a propeller turbine (3) for circulating water and, on
the other hand, a driving unit for transmitting movement to a roller travel

system (R), characterised in that at least said electric motor means (2) and /or
said driving unit are made with an open structure inside which the swimming-pool

water freely circulates, the stator and rotor of the electric motor being
both perfectly impermeable and each part of the driving unit, i.e. the housing

(4), gears (8, 9) shafts (10, 12) bearing (11), being made of water resistant
materials. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, in which said electric motor is
of the brushless type, known per se, designed to operate even underwater.
Apparatus according to Claim 2, in which said electric motor has
both the electric winding of its rotor and that of its stator embedded in

an impermeable resin, a water passage also being formed in the air gap
between the stator and rotor.
Apparatus according to Claims 1, 2 or 3, in which the rotor of
said electric motor is mounted on a through-shaft, the two opposite ends

of which, emerging from the body of the motor, respectively operate said
water circulating turbine and said driving unit.
Apparatus according to Claim 4, in which said through drive
shaft is made of stainless steel.
Apparatus according to Claim 4, in which said circulating
turbine is formed by a propeller enclosed in a tube and directly keyed

onto the drive shaft, the propeller and tube body of the turbine being
made of plastic.
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 2 to 6, in which said
motor is a low voltage, preferably 12V motor with a speed of rotation of

2700 to 3000 rpm, the propeller of the turbine rotating at this same
speed.
Apparatus according to Claim 1, in which said driving unit
comprises a reduction unit formed by a housing with an essentially open 

structure and by a train of gears with a high reduction ratio, the
individual gears being made of plastic and keyed and/or rotatably mounted

on stainless-steel shafts, the first gear being directly keyed onto said
drive shaft.
Apparatus according to Claim 7 or 8, in which said train of
gears forms a reduction ratio of the order of 60:1 to 100:1, the speed of

the output shaft of said reduction unit being of the order of 30 to 50
rpm.
Apparatus according to Claim 5 or 8, in which said shafts have,
at least partly, a polygonal, in particular square cross-section, and said

propeller and at least some of said gears have a hole with an identical
cross-section, for keying onto said shafts by being simply mounted with a

slight forcing action.
Apparatus according to Claim 1, in which said driving comprises
a reduction unit with an output shaft having two opposite ends for

operating two roller travel systems mounted on opposite sides of the body
of the apparatus.
Apparatus according to Claim 11, in which movement reversal
means are arranged between said output shaft and said two roller travel

systems.
Apparatus according to Claim 12, in which said output shaft is
formed by a substantially rigid central section, to which there are

hingeably joined two extension sections which are locked in rotation with
the central shaft, but the ends of which are able to oscillate between two

different working positions, each extension shaft carrying at its end at
least one gear, which forms said movement reversal means du
e to its
engagement with a forward travel pinion or respectively a reverse travel

crown gear in one or respectively the other of said two oscillating
positions.
Apparatus according to Claim 13, in which each of said two
extension shafts has, keyed on its respective end, two coaxial gears, a

first gear meshing with said forward travel pinion in a first oscillating
position, and a second gear meshing with said reverse travel crown gear in 

a second oscillating position.
Apparatus according to Claim 14, in which said forward travel
pinion forms the hub of a drive wheel and said reverse travel crown gear

is formed inside the cylindrical, peripheral wall of said drive wheel,
outside this cylindrical wall there being formed teeth for driving a

toothed belt of the drive.
Apparatus according to Claim 13 or 14, in which the oscillating
end of each of said extension shafts cooperates with a control cam, so as

to be displaced towards one or other of said two oscillating positions.
Apparatus according to Claim 16, in which the two control cams
associated respectively with each of said extension shafts are keyed onto

a common control shaft.
Apparatus according to Claim 17, in which said control shaft of
said two cams receives the movement from the through shaft of said main

electric motor via a reduction unit with a high reduction ratio.
Apparatus according to Claim 17, in which said control cams
have identical and angularly offset profiles or respectively different

profiles, so as to cause oscillation of said extension shafts in a
staggered time sequence.
Apparatus according to Claim 11, in which each of said two
roller travel systems comprises a pair of rollers, a front one and a rear

one, driven in parallel by one of said toothed belts.
Apparatus according to Claim 20, in which the two front rollers
of each of the two travel systems are mounted, in a freely and

independently rotatable manner, on a common front support shaft, the two
rear rollers being mounted likewise on a common rear shaft.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
