<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649513</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MONITORING AND CONTROLLING THE WIDTH OF A PRODUCT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1104	G01B1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B11	G01B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system (10) for monitoring and controlling the width of a product such as a sheet, film or tube includes, in the preferred embodiment, a line scan camera (36) having a one-dimensional array of charge-coupled devices ("CCD's") (56) for monitoring the width of the product. The CCD's develop an analog charge value which is proportional to the intensity of any light falling thereon; the analog nature of the CCD's allows subelement interpolation based on the voltage charge of two adjacent elements. This permits product width to be measured more accurately than was heretofore possible with electromechanical or photoelectric type systems.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNION CAMP CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNION CAMP CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLLINS STEVEN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLLINS, STEVEN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MONITORING AND CONTROLLING THE WIDTH OF A PRODUCTFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a system and a method itoring and controlling the size of a product such as , film or tube during a manufacturing process. A according to the invention provides a higher degree racy with a given number of sensing elements than was ore possible.10DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ARTOne known process for manufacturing polymeric s such as sheet, film or tube involves forcing a polymer or resin under pressure through an extrusionIn some instances, the liquid polymer or resin is 15 d through a circular or oval die orifice to form a oduct, which may subsequently be formed into a flat sheet by rolling or pressing.Commonly, a gas such as air is then introduced e tube extrusion, most often through the die itself, 20 ion of the tube, accompanied by stretching of the tube xial or longitudinal direction, biaxially orients the r molecules to maximize the mechanical properties of sulting film. If desired, the opposite or leading end inflated tube is then passed through a pair of 25 ating rotatable rollers to form a flat film or sheet, this process, the eventual width of the flat film is y determined by the amount of air that is introduced he tube at the die orifice. 

 Various systems are disclosed in the prior art for monitoring the width of the film and adjusting the amount of air which is introduced into the tube in response to the measured width. One early example of such a system is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,459,941 to Seiler. That system utilized a mechanical lever sensor to monitor the width of the film product. A subsequent system is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,192,637 to Chong. The Chong system used photodetectors, which were arranged along one or both edges of the film product to detect fluctuations in its width. Systems such as the one disclosed in the Chong patent usually rely on a linear array of photo-diodes or photo-transistors, which switch between a conducting ("on") and a non-conducting ("off") condition depending upon the amount of light that falls thereon. Unfortunately, those systems can only be as accurate as the spacing between adjacent photodetectors. For a system that requires a high degree of accuracy, a high concentration of photodetectors is required. In some applications, it is difficult to achieve the required concentration of photodetectors. In any event, the cost of such a system increases according to the number of photodetectors that is required.It is clear that there has
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is;
1. A system for monitoring and controlling the width of a product such as a sheet, film or tube during a manufacturing process, comprising: a sensor for monitoring the width of a product, said sensor comprising a plurality of sensing elements for detecting a property which can be associated with a presence or an absence of the product; and a controller in communication with said sensor for adjusting the manufactured width of the product in response to information which is provided to said controller from said sensor; wherein said sensing elements in said sensor are of the type which can measure an analog value of the detected property instead of an on/off or digital value, thereby permitting said system to obtain a higher degree of accuracy with a given number of sensing elements than was heretofore possible.
2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said sensor is a line-scan camera.
3. A system according to claim 1, wherein at least a number of said respective analog-type sensing elements comprise a charge-coupled device, which accumulates a charge according to an amount of light incident thereon.
4. A systems according to claim 3, wherein said charge-coupled devices are arranged in a one-dimensional array in said sensor.
5. A system according to claim 1, further comprising means for receiving said analog values from said respective sensing elements and for analyzing said analog values interpolatively, whereby the precise width of the product can be determined, even if the edges of the product are between adjacent sensing elements. 


 6. A system according to claim 5, wherein at least a number of said sensing elements comprise a charge- coupled device which accumulates a charge according to an amount of light which is incident thereon.
7. A system according to claim 6, wherein said charge-coupled devices are arranged in a one-dimensional array in said sensor.
8. A system according to claim 1, wherein said sensor is adapted to send an array signal to said controller which is proportional to the width of the product .
9. A system according to claim 8, wherein the current of said signal is varied in proportion to the sensed width of the product.
10. A lay flat width control system for monitoring and controlling the width of an extruded polymeric product, comprising: an extrusion die for forming a polymeric substance supplied to said die under pressure into a tubular product defining an interior space; pressure control means associated with said extrusion die for controlling gas pressure within the interior space, thereby controlling expansion of the tubular product after the tubular product is formed by said extrusion die; a roller for flattening the tubular product into a flat sheet having a width; and means for monitoring and controlling the width of said flat sheet, said monitoring and controlling means comprising: a sensor for monitoring the width of a product, said sensor comprising a plurality of sensing elements for detecting a property which can be associated with a presence or an absence of the product; and 


 a controller in communication with said sensor for adjusting the manufactured width of the product in response to information which is provided to said controller from said sensor; wherein said sensing elements in said sensor are of the type which can measure an analog value of the detected property instead of an on/off or digital valve, thereby permitting said system to obtain a higher degree of accuracy with a given number of sensing elements than was heretofore possible.
11. A system according to claim 10, wherein said sensor is a line-scan camera.
12. A system according to claim 10, wherein at least a number of said respective analog-type sensing elements comprise a charge-coupled device, which accumulates a charge according to an amount of light incident thereon.
13. A systems according to claim 12, wherein said charge-coupled devices are arranged in a one-dimensional array in said sensor.
14. A system according to claim 10, further comprising means for receiving said analog values from said respective sensing elements and for analyzing said analog values interpolatively, whereby the precise width of the product can be determined, even if the edges of the product are between adjacent sensing elements.
15. A system according to claim 14, wherein at least a number of said sensing elements comprise a charge- coupled device which accumulates a charge according to an amount of light which is incident thereon.
16. A system according to claim 15, wherein said charge-coupled devices are arranged in a one-dimensional array in srid sensor. 


 17. A system according to claim 10, wherein said sensor is adapted to send an array signal to said controller which is proportional to the width of the product.
18. A system according to claim 17, wherein the current of said signal is varied in proportion to the sensed width of the product .
19. A method for monitoring and controlling the width of a product such as a sheet, film or tube during a manufacturing process, comprising:
(a) sensing a property which can be associated with a presence or an absence of the product at spaced intervals along a path where the product is expected to be, said sensing being of an analog value of the detected property;
(b) calculating the width of the product based on said sensed analog values; and
(c) adjusting the manufactured width of the product in response to said calculated width.
20. A method according to claim 19, wherein step
(a) is performed by sensing light level.
21. A method according to claim 20, wherein the light level sensing is performed by using an array of charge-coupled devices.
22. A method according to claim 19, wherein step
(b) comprises interpolating the analog values which are sensed at adjacent locations along the path having spaced intervals, said interpolation permitting width to be measured to a higher degree of accuracy then was heretofore possible. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
