<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0989723</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for enterprise internet protocol telephony
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M3487	H04M3493	H04M350	H04M351	H04M700	H04M700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M7	H04M7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a system and method for enterprise internet protocol
telephony and more particularly to end-to-end voice activated financial processing

over the internet or a private data network. The invention utilizes embedded
equipment in an architectural solution that meshes with current telephony networks,

allowing transmission of voice over the internet or a private data network for the use
in such applications as financial transactions and call center business.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CITIBANK NA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CITIBANK, N.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FETTA MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAKIM STEVE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOROWITZ EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAUFMAN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBINSON DAVID K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, ROBERT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FETTA, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAKIM, STEVE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOROWITZ, EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAUFMAN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBINSON, DAVID K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
60/101,368, titled "METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ENTERPRISE INTERNET
PROTOCOL TELEPHONY", which was filed September 22, 1998.This present invention relates to a system and method for enterprise internet
protocol telephony and more particularly to end-to-end voice-activated financial
processing over the internet or private data networks. The present invention further
relates to a method and system that utilizes equipment in an architectural solution that
meshes with current telephony networks, allowing transmission of voice over the
internet or private data networks for use in such applications as financial transactions
and call center business.At the present time, U.S. businesses incur tremendous costs in the servicing of
toll free numbers, such as 800 numbers. Most corporations have been encouraging
automated access to their systems through utilities such as integrated voice response
systems (IVRs), call centers, private data networks, and the internet. As electronic
commerce expands, people and corporations will continue to have greater incentive to
use these systems if access rates are substantially lower than current rates.All the utilities described in the previous paragraph are based on voice
transport utilizing the current telephone networks, local and long distance.
Unfortunately, this transport is generally expensive nationally and almost
prohibitively expensive internationally. There is a need for a method and system for communication nationally and
internationally such that customers may be served by telephones without businesses
incurring tremendous costs of phone charges, and particularly long-distance charges.It is an object of the present invention to solve the problems of the existing art
by providing low cost voice and other communication for businesses nationally and
internationally.It is a further object of the present invention to provide voice and other
communication services via a network, such as the internet or a private data network.It is a further object of the present invention to use voice communication over
the internet or a private data network in conjunction with call center services.It is a further object of the present invention to allow businesses to provide
international call services, such as call center services, at a cost comparable to that
currently provided nationally.It is further object of the present invention to provide a method for providing
voice transport over an internet protocol (IP) network
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for providing voice transport over an internet protocol (IP)
network between a host and an access location, comprising:


receiving a voice call from a caller at the access location;
routing the call to the IP network;
routing the call from the IP network to a local switching network of the host;
and
routing the call from the local switching network to a destination maintained
by the host.
The method of claim 1, wherein the destination is a call center of the host.
The method of claim 1, wherein the host is a financial institution.
The method of claim 1, wherein routing the call from the local switch
network to the destination comprises routing the call to one of a plurality of customer

service agents of the host located at the destination.
The method of claim 1, wherein the local switch network comprises a
private branch exchange (PBX) maintained by the host.
The method of claim 1, wherein routing the call to the IP network
comprises:


routing the call to a first IP switch of the IP network;
converting the call from voice format to IP format;
routing the call in IP format from the first IP switch to a second IP switch of
the IP network; and
re-converting the IP-formatted call received at the second IP switch to voice
format.
The method of claim 1, further comprising routing the call from the access
location to a server system maintained by the host.
The method of claim 7, further comprising:

the server system accessing information about the call upon receipt of the call;
and
downloading the accessed information to the destination maintained by the
host.
The method of claim 1, further comprising routing the call from the access
location to a server system maintained by the host.
The method of claim 9, further comprising:

the server system accessing information about the call upon receipt of the call;
transferring the accessed information to a call processing center of the host;

and
the call processing center coordinating with the PBX to download the accessed
information to the destination in concurrence with routing the call from the local

switching network to the destination.
The method of claim 10, wherein the destination is staffed by an agent of
the host.
The method of claim 1, wherein routing the call to the IP network
comprises:


routing the call to a first IP switch of the IP network;
routing the call from the first IP switch to a separate level of call routing; and
returning the call from the separate level of call routing to a second IP switch
of the IP network.
The method of claim 12, wherein routing the call from the IP network to
the local switching network comprises routing the call from the second IP switch of

the IP network to the local switching network.
The method of claim 1, wherein routing the call to the IP network
comprises:


routing the call from the access location to a telephone network; and
routing the call from the telephone network to the IP network.
The method of claim 14, wherein routing the call to the telephone
network comprises:


routing the call from the access location to a first toll switch of the telephone
network.
The method of claim 15, wherein routing the call from the telephone
network to the IP network comprises:


routing the call from the first toll switch of the telephone network to a first IP
switch of the IP network;
sending the call through the IP network from the first IP switch of the IP
network to a second IP switch of the IP network;
routing the call from the second IP switch of the IP network to a second toll
switch of the telephone network;
routing the call from the second toll switch of the telephone network to a call
response system;
accessing information of the caller from the call response system;
validating the caller information; and
sending the validated caller information to the destination maintained by the
host.
The method of claim 16, wherein the host is a financial institution.
The method of claim 17, wherein sending the validated caller information
to the destination comprises:


sending the validated caller information to a computer staffed by an agent of
the financial institution.
The method of claim 17, wherein routing the call from the local switching
network to the destination comprises routing the call from the local switching network

to a voice terminal staffed by the agent of the financial institution.
The method of claim 16, wherein routing the call from the telephone
network to the IP network further comprises:


routing the call from the call response system to the IP network.
The method of claim 16, wherein routing the call from the telephone
network to the IP network further comprises:


routing the call from the call response system back to the second toll switch of
the telephone network;
sending the call from the second toll switch to another call response system;
returning the sent call from the another call response system; and
routing the returned call to the IP network.
A method for providing voice-to-voice communication over an internet
protocol (IP) network between a host and an access location, comprising:


receiving a telephone call from a caller at the access location;
routing the call to a telephone network;
providing a first transferring of the call from the telephone network to the IP
network;
re-routing the call from the IP network back to the telephone network;
providing a second transferring of the call from the telephone network to a
network integrated voice response system (NIVR);
accessing information about the caller from the NIVR based on the call;
downloading the accessed information to a call center maintained by the host;
re-routing the call from the NIVR to the IP network; and
transferring the call from the IP network to the call center maintained by the
host.
The method of claim 22, wherein the host is a financial institution.
The method of claim 22, wherein the telephone network is a public
switched telephone network (PSTN).
The method of claim 22, wherein the IP network is an internet.
The method of claim 22, wherein the IP network is a private data network
maintained by the host.
The method of claim 22, wherein:

transferring the call from the IP network to the call center comprises
transferring the call to a voice transport terminal at the call center; and
downloading the accessed information to the call center comprises
downloading the accessed information to a computer at the call center associated with

the voice transport terminal.
The method of claim 27, wherein the voice transport terminal is a
telephone staffed by a customer service agent (CSA) of the host.
The method of claim 28, wherein the computer at the call center is
serviced by the same CSA of the host.
The method of claim 29, wherein the CSA is able to concurrently answer
the call and view the accessed information on the computer.
A system for providing voice-to-voice communication with an access
location over an internet protocol (IP) network, comprising:


a first network system coupled to the IP network;
a telephone network coupled to the IP network and the host system;
an access location coupled to the telephone network; and
a second network system coupled to the telephone network;
wherein the access location is capable of voice-to-voice communication with a

host via a coordination between the telephone network and the IP network.
The system of claim 31, wherein the voice-to-voice communication
between the access location and the host comprises:


a telephone call sent from the access location to a telephone number provided
by the host.
The system of claim 32, wherein the telephone network comprises:

a first toll switch for routing the telephone call through the telephone network;
and
a second toll switch for routing the telephone call from the telephone network

to the second network system of the host.
The system of claim 33, wherein the IP network comprises:

an IP switch system for receiving and sending the telephone call to the second
toll switch of the telephone network; and
a terminating IP access switch associated with the first network system.
The system of claim 34, wherein the IP switch system comprises:

a first IP switch for receiving the telephone call from the first toll switch via
the telephone network and converting the telephone call from a voice format to an IP

format; and
a second IP switch associated with the second network system for receiving
the IP format of the telephone call and re-converting the IP format back to the voice

format.
The system of claim 34, wherein the IP access switch system comprises:

a first IP access switch for receiving the telephone call from the first toll
switch of the telephone network, converting the telephone call from voice format to IP

format, and routing the IP-formatted call through the IP network; and
a second IP access switch for receiving the IP-formatted call from the first IP
access switch via the IP network, re-converting the IP format of the telephone call

back to voice format, and sending the re-converted telephone call to the second toll
switch of the telephone network.
The system of claim 33, wherein the second network system comprises:

a voice response system for accessing information about the telephone call and
dialing the telephone number upon receipt of the telephone call from the second toll

switch system of the telephone network;
a database for receiving the accessed information from the voice response
system and validating the accessed information; and
a processor for receiving the validated information and, in conjunction with the
database, downloading the validated information to a computer staffed by an agent of

the host.
The system of claim 37, wherein the processor is a voice enhanced service
processor (VESP).
The system of claim 37, wherein the database is a global customer
information facility (GCIF).
The system of claim 37, wherein the voice response system is a network
integrated voice response system (NIVR).
The system of claim 33, wherein the first network system comprises:

a private branch exchange (PBX) maintained by the host and coupled to the IP
network for receiving the telephone call and routing the telephone call to an agent of

the host.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
