<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638182</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ERGONOMIC AND ADAPTABLE MANIPULATION/CONTROL SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F300	G06F300	G06F301	G06F301	G06F3023	G06F3023	G06F3048	G06F3048	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The ergonomic and adaptable control system, which is especially applicable to pushbutton/key- or control column guided machines and apparatus, and which makes it possible for the operator to be able to manipulate the control device without glancing at this or that distraction. At an entry level configuration, the control system is made up of an adjustable work chair (1); a main keyboard section (2A) and a secondary keyboard section (2B) the functions of which can be redefined; a main camera (4A) and a secondary camera (4B) which photograph the two keyboard sections (2A, 2B); a monitor connected to a computer (6) on which is displayed the image information (9) from the two cameras (4A, 4B). On a screen (7) a composite image (11) is displayed, made up of combined image information (9) and a computer (6) generated virtual image (10), showing how the operator's hands and fingers are positioned. The virtual image (10) can be keyboard signs or menues of a computer program.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARVIDSSON TORBJOERN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARVIDSSON, TORBJOERN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARVIDSSON TORBJOERN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARVIDSSON, TORBJOERN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ERGONOMIC AND ADAPTABLE MANIPULATION/CONTROL SYSTEMThe invention embraces an ergono ic and adaptable manipulation/control system that is especially applicable to key/pushbutton- or control column controlled/guided machines and apparatus whose operator should never need to observe the part/s of the body with which the controls are manoeuvred.Key/pushbutton or stick-controlled machines an apparatus, such as computers, telephone exchanges, control room panels, vehicles and electrical keyboard instruments, are normally manipulated via manually operated controls such as keyboards, control columns, trackballs, lightpens or similar devices. So as to be able to handle these devices, the operator usually has to glance at where and how he places his hands and fingers. This is especially evident when the operator uses a conventional keyboard such as that attached to a computer. Even if the operator has had extensive training, he or she often directs attention to his/her hands while working on such a keyboard. This involves a significant disadvantage to the operator as, while more or less simultaneously manipulating the keyboard, he/she has to watch the object of the manipulation, that is to say, the computer screen or the industrial process. Thus the operator's concentration on the objective or procedure will be interrupted, which in many circumstances is undesirable.Even when the functions of a conventional control device are rearranged, for example when one redefines the keys on a keyboard by changing to a different alphabet and by installing special keys, the operator must still glance at the keyboard. Usually the keys are only marked with the functions normally assigned to these keys such as the input of alphanumeric characters or the like. Thus the operator must memorise or in some other way determine which function is assigned to which key.Moreover, the majority of conventional control devices require that the operator adopt only one or two 

 working postures, which sooner or later gives rise to stress-related injuries resulting in aches and pains, pulled muscles and eyestrain. A typical example is the static posture which one is forced to adopt when working with a computer equipped with a conventional keyboard. Adjustable work chairs and desks give only slightly more freedom of choice in working posture.The aforementioned disadvantages with manual control devices apply correspondingly to controls operated by other parts if the body such as the arms, legs, shoulders and head.The invention described in this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
PATENT CLAIM
1. An ergonomic and adaptable control/guidance system, which is designed for operation in such a way that detectable positions and movements of an operator's body parts which contribute to such a manipulation are assigned fixed and adjustable connections with definite and adaptable control functions which enable the operator to be given continuously, and at each point in time accurate information, preferably visual, audio or tactile, regarding in a definite way combined combination, or combined combinations, of data concerning the mentioned position, movement, control functions and connections, simultaneously so that the operator can observe without interruption, or in other ways take in information about the object or objects of the manoeuvre and/or which processes the control system is designed to manoeuvre, characterized by being equipped with instruments which continuously sense position and/or movement for the designated part of the body within one or more demarcated spaces.
2. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 1, characterized by the position and/or movement detecting instruments which sense the position and movement of the body parts referred to, in relation to nodes within a two or three dimensional matrix, preferably with the assistance of visible light beams, laser beams, inductive sensors, capacitive sensors or three dimentional image processing, the latter being effected with the help of stereo-cameras, where each of the nodes mentioned is allotted one or more defined and adaptable manoeuvering functions, images of actual objects or of computer (6) generated virtual images.
3. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 1, characterized by the position and/or movement detecting instruments continuously detecting position and/or movement of the body parts referred to, within one or more demarcated areas of a 


 plane and which preferably are made up of one or more contact sensing media; a reproduction system (4) , which generates image information (9) showing the relevant body part's aspect and/or relative position and/or movement; a system for processing the image information (9) , a computer (6) with associated monitor, a device for transferring (5) image information (9) to the relevant monitor or other display device; such device could be equipped with signal amplification and signal correcting device, such a control system is designed to be utilized by the operator placing his/her guiding body parts, preferable the hands, on the contact sensing medium, and in so doing the image information (9) is processed so that a particular designated fingertip or fingertips is identified and shown on the associated monitor or display system as one or more appropriately shaped markers at the same time as the operator can or cannot see a depiction of his/her own hands on the monitor or display device, and at the same time some form of program data or other information is displayed, from which the operator through moving his/her hands alters the position of the markers on the monitor or display system and when certain markers are found in certain defined locations attributes to this location, the applicable function through pressing the corresponding finger or fingertip, or other part of the body against the contact sensitive medium or other instrument.
4. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 1, characterized by being made up of one actual control, of one or more of the operator's body parts, and of one or more parts combined, and an imaging system (4) , which generates image information (9) , that shows the aforementioned actual manipulation instrument, and which indicates the designated body part/s appearance and/or position and/or movement in relation to the specified manipulation instrument; a medium for the transfer (5) of image information (9) , which can be 


provided with signal amplification and signal correcting devices and also one or more clarifying device/s, which receive the relevant image information (9) and which clarifies for the operator the pertinent image information (9) , at which either the image information (9) in the case of the display/screen combines with that of the computer (6) generated virtual image (10) of a virtual control device into a composite image (11), which is such that it simultaneously shows those functions the specified actual control unit for the time being is defined for and the designated body part/s position/s and/or movements in relation to the designated actual control, or solely the image information (9) is shown on the display system.
5. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 4, characterized by the the actual control system being equipped with a movable main keyboard section (2A) and a movable secondary keyboard section (2B) , which preferably are operated by each of the operator's hands and together discharge the same functions as a unitary keyboard and whose keys have or have not function markings, and that the virtual control instrument is a virtual keyboard which in appearance accords with keyboard sections (2A) and (2B) .
6. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 4, characterized by the actual control device being provided with one or more virtual images of a control device which preferably are shown on one or more monitors or TV-screens, at which the operator places and moves each of his/her hands directly against the image/s on the designated monitor/s.
7. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 4 to 6, characterized by the imaging system (4) consisting of one or more cameras, which preferably are monochromatic or polychromatic TV-cameras, infrared cameras or stereo cameras, and which have disconnectable or detachable colour separation filters, together with, in the case of the reproduction 


 taking place in of visible light, one or more lighting units which illuminate the actual control device together with the bodyparts which are used at the management of the actual control device. 8. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 4 to 6, characterized by the imaging system (4) comprising one or more low-emission short-distance radar units.
9. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 5, characterized by the imaging system (4) consisting of a primary camera (4A) and a secondary camera (4B) , which preferably are monochromatic or polychromatic TV-cameras, infrared cameras or stereo cameras, and which evenly photograph the main keyboard section (2A) and the secondary keyboard section (2B) respectively; equally the operator's hands and/or fingers when placed upon these keyboards' sections (2A,2B), also in the case of the reproduction taking place with the help of visible light, a main lighting unit (3A) and a secondary lighting unit (3B) illuminating keyboards (2A) and (2B) respectively, equally any hands or fingers placed upon these keyboard sections (2A,2B).
10. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 4 or 5, characterized by the imaging system (4) being equipped with one or more presence detector/s (12) affixed to the actual control unit and which register the designated body part/s position and/or movements in relation to the said actual control unit and which in that connection relay data from which, combined with retrieved information describing the appearance of the actual control unit, is generated the said imaging information (9) .
11. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 10, characterized by the presence detectors (12) fitted to the actual control unit, consisting of ultrasound transmitters and ultrasound receivers which measure the distance to the nearest 


object, such as any of the designated body parts, and in doing so, preferably after filtering out distances lying outside predetermined intervals, obtain the image information (9) which indicates how the designated body parts are positioned in relation to the actual control unit.
12. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 10, characterized by the presence detectors (12) being comprised of transmitters and receivers working with infrared or visible light.
13. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 10, characterized by the presence detectors (12) designed so that they indicate position and/or movement of the designated body parts through the measurement of electric tension or magnetic fields at most points of the actual control unit and/or at the body parts in contact with it; at which the actual control unit is provided with metal surfaces with overlaid voltage and/or magnetic fields, and/or the body parts that manipulate the actual control unit have one or more metalicised surfaces with latent voltage and/or magnetic fields respectively.
14. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 10, characterized by the presence detectors (12) being affixed to the actual control unit and are designed so that these detect position and/or movement of the designated body parts through measuring the natural radioactivity in the designated body part/s or by detecting those tracer substance/s which have been adhered to the mentioned body parts. 15. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 10, characterized by the presence detectors (12) being designed as one or more contact registering membrane/s, preferably transparent and not rough, affixed to the actual control unit, the membrane/s is/are formed so that it/they can be pressed by the body part, such as a fingertip, or by designated body parts to which are affixed resilient data pens. 


 16. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 10, characterized by the presence detectors (12) consisting of resilient data pens attached to the operator's fingers, which are utilized with or without specially designed position and contact sensing devices.
17. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with Claim 10, characterized by the presence detectors (12) being designed for mechanical detection of position and/or movement of the designated body part/s, and they can be set up around one or more fixed points, can be arms which are movable or foldable length wise and attached to the manipulating parts of the body and in doing so the designated arm/s' length and/or static angle and/or turning position can be continuously monitored and converted to data concerning the relevant body part's position and movement in relation to the actual control unit.
18. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 2 and 4 to 17, characterized by the display system consisting of a transparent screen (7) between the computer (6) and the operator, preferably near the computer (6) , this screen can be split or integral,
'
 or can consist of a number of freestanding units and is preferably a matt glass or plastic disc, a partly translucent LCD-screen, a translucent LCD-screen or a plasma screen, also a projection device (8) , which preferably consists of a projection lens system, cathode ray tubes or a device for projecting laser beams and which generates the aforementioned image information (9) on the screen (7) , when the image information (9) on the screen (7) is combined with the virtual image (10) to form the composite image (11) .
19. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 2 and 4 to 17, characterized by the display device being comprised of one or more computer (6) matching monitor/s, to which the image 


information (9) is transferred and on which can be displayed simultaneously the composite image (11) and other data from the computer (6) .
20. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 2 and 4 to 17, characterized by the display system consisting of computer goggles worn by the operator which are connected to the computer (6) , to which the image information (9) is transferred to these computer goggles which can simultaneously display the composite image (11) and other data from the computer (6) .
21. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 2 and 4 to 17, characterized by the display system consisting of an opaque surface, for example a wall or projection screen, against which is projected, or displayed in some other way, such image information (9) as the virtual image (10) , that the operator can look at the composite image (11) on the such a surface.
22. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 2 and 4 to 21, characterized by the system being equipped with devices for the processing of image information (9) , which image processing preferably is such that the composite image (11) simultaneously and distinctly shows the virtual image (10) and position and/or movement of the operator's hands and/or fingers in relation to the actual control unit.
23. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 2 to 22, characterized by the functions of the actual control unit being able to be redefined with the help of the system; that the existing functions of the actual control device are shown in the virtual image (10) , and that said existing functions are displayed to the operator by means of the composite image (11). 24. The ergonomic and adaptable control system in accordance with any of Claims 1 to 22, characterized by the angles between the composite images of the existing 


functions relative to the image/images of the body part/s and the actual control device being able to be altered through image processing or by mechanical means, and that the existing functions also are displayed precisely in the case of the altered angles. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
