<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641652</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sheet reversing apparatus for sheet-fed rotary press
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41F2100	B41F2110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41F	B41F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41F21	B41F21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sheet reversing apparatus for a sheet-fed 
rotary press with a reversing mechanism includes a paper 

convey cylinder, gaps, a reversing mechanism, a paper 
holding unit, a gripper moving unit, and a gripper pad 

moving unit. The gripper moving unit moves the gripper 
member of the paper holding unit from the gap to an 

outer surface of the paper convey cylinder in accordance 
with a pivotal movement of the paper convey cylinder. 

The gripper pad moving unit moves, in accordance with 
the pivotal movement of the paper convey cylinder, the 

gripper pad member (80,81) of the paper holding unit between an 
operating position and a retreat position. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOMORI PRINTING MACH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOMORI CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIDA KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGIYAMA HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIDA, KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGIYAMA, HIROYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a sheet 
reversing apparatus for a sheet-fed rotary press with a 
reversing mechanism, which has upstream and downstream 
cylinders with respect to a paper convey direction and a 
paper convey cylinder disposed therebetween to be in 
contact with each other and reverses a paper sheet upon 
gripping and conveyance of the paper sheet between the 
upstream cylinder and the paper convey cylinder, thereby 
performing perfecting printing. Various sheet-fed rotary presses with 
reversing mechanisms each capable of performing 
single-sided printing and perfecting printing have been 
proposed and put into practice along with a variety of 
printing techniques. An example of such a rotary press 
is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,448,125. This rotary 
press has double-diameter impression cylinders on the 
upstream and downstream with respect to a paper convey 
direction and a reversing cylinder disposed therebetween 
to serve as a double-diameter paper convey cylinder. 
This apparatus will be described below.  
 Figs. 18 to 23 show a sheet-fed rotary press 
with a reversing mechanism disclosed in this prior art. 
Fig. 18 shows the cylinder arrangement. Fig. 19 shows a 
paper holding unit and a paper trailing end holding 
unit. Fig. 20 corresponds to Fig. 19 and shows the 
paper holding unit and the paper trailing end holding 
unit in a state wherein the paper trailing end holding 
unit holds the trailing end of a paper sheet to transfer 
the paper sheet to the paper holding unit. Fig. 21 
shows the cylinder arrangement for a single-sided 
printing operation. Figs. 22 to 24 show the cylinder 
arrangements for a perfecting printing operation. Referring to Fig. 18, in each of adjacent 
printing cylinders, i.e., in each of first and second 
printing units 1 and 2, a plate cylinder 3 having a 
plate mounted thereon and a blanket cylinder 4 having a 
blanket wound thereon are arranged to be pressed against 
each other. A double-diameter impression cylinder 5 as 
an upstream cylinder with respect to the paper convey 
direction is in contact with the blanket cylinder 4 of 
the printing unit 1. A double-diameter impression cylinder 6 as a 
downstream cylinder with respect to the paper convey 
direction is pressed against the blanket cylinder 4 of 
the printing unit 2. A double-diameter reversing 
cylinder 7 is arranged between the impression cylinders 
5 and 6 to be pressed against each other.  
 A plurality of sets of gripper units 8 each 
having grippers and gripper pads and serving as a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sheet reversing apparatus for a sheet-fed 
rotary press with a reversing mechanism, 

comprising: 

a paper convey cylinder (65) disposed between 
an upstream cylinder (63) and a downstream cylinder (64) 

with respect to a paper convey direction to be in 
contact with each other; 
a gap (65a) formed along an axial direction of 
said paper convey cylinder at a position which divides a 

circumference of said paper convey cylinder into halves 
in a circumferential direction; 
a reversing mechanism (100, 129), disposed in 
said gap, for holding a trailing end of a paper sheet 

passing through a contact point between said paper 
convey cylinder and said upstream cylinder and wound on 

said upstream cylinder, and then reversing and 
transferring said paper sheet to said downstream 

cylinder, said reversing mechanism having a paper 
holding unit (100), having a gripper member and a 

gripper pad member for receiving and holding said 
reversed paper sheet, for transferring said paper sheet 

held between said gripper member and said gripper pad 
member to said downstream 
cylinder; 
a gripper moving unit (96, 97, 172) for moving 
said gripper member of said paper holding unit from said  

 
gap to an outer surface of said paper convey cylinder in 

accordance with a pivotal movement of said paper convey 
cylinder; and 
a gripper pad moving unit (70 - 73, 75, 76) 
for moving, in accordance with the pivotal movement of 

said paper convey cylinder, said gripper pad member of 
said paper holding unit between an operating position at 

which a distal end of said gripper member presses a 
paper grip surface of said gripper pad member to grip 

said paper sheet and a retreat position at which a space 
is formed to entirely receive said gripper member moved 

by said gripper moving unit from said outer surface of 
said paper convey cylinder into said gap. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein, 
immediately before said paper holding unit reaches a 

contact point between said paper convey cylinder and 
said upstream cylinder, said gripper pad moving unit 

moves said gripper pad member to the retreat position, 
and thereafter, said gripper moving unit moves said 

gripper member into said gap, and after said paper 
holding unit passes through the contact point between 

said paper convey cylinder and said upstream cylinder, 
said gripper moving unit moves said gripper member from 

said gap to said outer surface of said paper convey 
cylinder, and thereafter, said gripper pad moving unit 

moves said gripper pad member to the operating position.  
 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said gripper member is arranged to a support shaft (90) 

having two ends pivotally supported, and said gripper 
moving unit is constituted by a first cam mechanism 

(172) operated in accordance with the pivotal movement 
of said paper convey cylinder to pivot said support 

shaft such that said gripper member is retreated into 
said gap, and a first pivoting mechanism (96, 97) for 

pivoting said support shaft in accordance with an 
operation of said first cam mechanism. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein 
said first cam mechanism has a gripper moving cam member 

(95) having a first cam surface for moving said gripper 
member, a gripper closing cam member (172) having a 

second cam surface, continuously extending from said 
first cam surface, for opening/closing said gripper 

member, and a cam follower (97) in contact with said 
gripper moving member and said gripper closing member 

and coupled to said first pivoting mechanism, said 
gripper closing cam member and said gripper moving cam 

member opening/closing and moving said gripper member in 
accordance with a phase of said pivoting paper convey 

cylinder. 
An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein 
said gripper moving cam member and said gripper closing  

 
cam member overlap each other in a direction of width of 

said cam follower and are selectively brought into 
contact with said first and second cam surfaces in 

halved regions of said cam follower in the direction of 
width, respectively. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said gripper pad member is arranged to a support bar 

(80) having two ends pivotally supported, and said 
gripper pad moving unit is constituted by a second cam 

mechanism (72, 73) operated in accordance with the 
pivotal movement of said paper convey cylinder, and a 

second pivoting mechanism (70, 71, 75, 76) for pivoting 
said support bar in accordance with an operation of said 

second cam mechanism. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said reversing mechanism has a plurality of paper 

trailing end holding members (129), arranged near said 
paper holding unit and aligned in said gap along the 

axial direction of said paper convey cylinder at a 
predetermined interval, for drawing and holding said 

trailing end of said paper sheet, and, when said paper 
holding unit retreats in said gap, said paper trailing 

end holding members draw and hold said trailing end of 
said paper sheet wound on said upstream cylinder.  

 
An apparatus according to claim 1, further 
comprising a regulating member (77), arranged in said 

gap on a line of action of a pressing force which acts 
on said paper grip surface of said gripper pad member at 

the operating position, for regulating a movement of 
said gripper pad member in a radial direction of said 

paper convey cylinder. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
