<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617772</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SURFACE EFFECT DAMPERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F702	F16F709	F16F1304	F16F1304	F16F700	F16F708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F7	F16F7	F16F13	F16F13	F16F7	F16F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORD CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORCORAN PATRICK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORN RICHARD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORCORAN, PATRICK, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORN, RICHARD, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to improvements in dampers. 
More particularly, the present invention is directed to surface effect 
dampers that produce a damping force which includes both hysteretic and 
frictional components. This development is related to the invention described and claimed 
in U.S. patent application serial no. 07/811,758, entitled "Dual-Rate Surface 
Effect Dampers" filed contemporaneously herewith. The principle of operating a hysteresis damper is that translational 
or rotational energy is dissipated by working an elastomeric element (e.g., a 
rubber element) to convert that kinetic energy into heat energy. In the past, 
in order to function properly as a hysteresis damper, the amount of energy 
dissipated through hysteresis had to be significantly greater than the 
energy dissipated through friction, or the durability of the elastomeric 
element would be inadequate to warrant usage. By minimizing friction 
damping, the damping capabilities of the device were significantly limited. The key patent in the development of hysteresis dampers is U.S. 
Patent No. 3,232,597, issued to Gaydecki. Many different conceptual aspects 
of hysteresis dampers are dealt with in the Gaydecki patent, which 
discloses a large number of embodiments in its specification and includes 
twenty-six figures. Still, in the over twenty-five years since Gaydecki 
initiated development of the concept of hysteresis dampers, very little has 
been done with them. .This dirth of activity is in spite of the tremendous 
potential of such devices have to overcome the problems associated with 
hydraulic dampers and gas springs. Hydraulic dampers and gas springs 
have elements that are required to function as both seals and bearings. As 
the bearing element wears, it will necessarily lose the close tolerance it 
originally had with the slidable member, resulting in its inability to seal 
properly and, eventually, loss of hydraulic or pneumatic pressure. Once 
wear has progressed to that point, the useful life of such a damper is ended 
and costly replacement is necessary.  
 The invention consists in a surface effect device 
capable of producing damping force having both a hysteresis 
and a frictional component, including a housing, a piston 
mounted upon a piston rod and adapted to move with respect 
to said housing, a rubbing member associated with the and 
mounted for movement with a first one of said housing and 
said piston, a rubbee member associated with and mounted for 
movement with another one of said
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surface effect device (10) capable of producing a surface 
effect damping force having both a hysteresis and a frictional 

component, including a housing (30), a piston (12) mounted upon 
a piston rod (20) and adapted to move with respect to said 

housing, a rubbing member (14) associated with and mounted for 
movement with a first one of said housing and said piston, a 

rubbee member (32) associated with and mounted for movement 
with another one of said housing and said piston, means for 

moving at least a first portion of said piston relative to said 
housing a sufficient distance to generate a surface effect damping 

force as said first portion of said piston moves in at least one 
direction, said surface effect device being characterized by 


a) means for increasing said surface effect force in a non-linear 
manner over at least a portion of the stroke of said piston; 
b) means for decoupling at least a portion of said piston from 
said piston rod over at least a segment of said stroke so as to exert 

a non-surface effect damping force upon said piston for at least 
said segment; 
 
whereby said surface effect force is of significantly greater magnitude 

than said non-surface effect damping force. 
The surface effect device of Claim 1 further characterized by 
said means for increasing said surface effect damping force in a non-linear 

manner comprising elastomeric material (16;34) having a generally tubular configuration and means (23; 33, 35) for 
engaging and axially compressing an end of said elastomeric material 

causing it to radially expand. 
The surface effect device of Claim 1 further characterized by 
said means for decoupling said piston acting in each of two opposed 

directions. 
The surface effect device of Claim 3 further characterized by 
said means for decoupling comprising centering spring means (25) 

engaging portions of opposite ends of said piston.  
 
The surface effect device of Claim 1 further characterized by 
said surface effect damping force being amplified in one of two axial 

directions by means (23) while said means for decoupling exerts a minimal 
damping force in each of said two axial directions. 
The surface effect device of Claim 1 further characterized by 
said means for increasing said surface effect damping force in a non-linear 

manner comprising an elastomeric material (11, 16) contained within at 
least a portion of said piston. 
The surface effect device of Claim 6 further characterized by 
said means for increasing said surface effect damping force in a non-linear 

manner comprising at least one compression bushing (23) for engaging an 
end of said elastomeric material. 
The surface effect device of Claim 7 further characterized by 
said compression bushing exerting a variable force on said elastomeric 

material resulting in variability of said surface effect damping force. 
The surface effect device of Claim 8 further characterized by 
said elastomeric material comprising an elastomeric bushing (16) 

extending through at least a portion of a central section of said piston, 
each end of said elastomeric bushing being alternately or simultaneously 

engaged by an end of a first and a second compression bushing (23, 23), 
respectively. 
The surface effect device of Claim 6 further characterized by 
said elastomeric material comprising a flowable material (11) within at 

least a portion of a central section of said piston. 
The surface effect device of Claim 1 further characterized by 
said decoupling means comprising a lost-motion connection between said 

piston and said piston rod. 
The surface effect device of Claim 11 further characterized by 
means (22) to cause radial expansion of said rubbing member to thereby 

increase said surface effect damping force. 
The surface effect device of Claim 12 further characterized by 
said lost-motion connection directly causing radial expansion of said  

 
rubbing member to increase contact with said member mounted for 

movement with said housing. 
The surface effect device of Claim 1 further characterized by 
a ratio of hysteresis damping to friction damping is in the range between 

0.25 and 4.0. 
The surface effect device of Claim 1 further characterized by 
said rubbing member comprising a stack of annular elements (34; 41), 

portions of which are confined between parallel surfaces (20, 49; 43, 44). 
The surface effect device of Claim 15 further characterized by 
said parallel surfaces being defined by substantially rigid plate members 

(43, 44) which have concentric bores (45) extending axially therethrough, 
said axial bores having generally spherical recesses (46) formed 

thereabout, said spherical recesses receiving spherically shaped pivot 
means (47, 49) permitting angular misalignment of said piston with 

respect to said piston rod. 
The surface effect device of Claim 16 further characterized by 
one of said spherical pivot means comprising a head of a shoulder bolt 

(48), said shoulder bolt head snubbing against an elastomer protrusion 
(54) formed on a bottom inner surface of said housing. 
The surface effect device of Claim 15 further characterized by 
said means for non-linearly increasing said damping force comprising a 

snubber (54) positioned at one end of said housing which is contacted by 
the head of said shoulder bolt (48). 
The surface effect device of Claim 15 further characterized by 
said stacks of annular elastomeric elements being confined between a 

floating piston (49) and a piston rod (20). 
The surface effect device of Claim 19 further characterized by 
at least two floating pistons (49, 49) positioned on either side of a central 

piston (12), said central piston exerting a first initial level of surface effect 
damping. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
