<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637323</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COPOLYMERS AND NON-POROUS, SEMI-PERMEABLE MEMBRANE THEREOF AND ITS USE FOR PERMEATING MOLECULES OF PREDETERMINED MOLECULAR WEIGHT RANGE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D7100	C08G1800	C08G1848	C08J518	C07K100	C12N1100	B01D6908	B01D6900	C07K134	B01D7154	C08G1812	C08J518	C08G1865	C12N1108	C08G1866	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	C08G	C08G	C08J	C07K	C12N	B01D	B01D	C07K	B01D	C08G	C08J	C08G	C12N	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D71	C08G18	C08G18	C08J5	C07K1	C12N11	B01D69	B01D69	C07K1	B01D71	C08G18	C08J5	C08G18	C12N11	C08G18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a biocompatible, hydrophilic, segmented block polyurethane copolymer which comprises 5 to 45 wt% of a hard segment, preferably a reaction product of an organic diisocyanate, a diamine and a polyol, and 95 to 55 wt% of a soft segment selected from a hydrophilic, hydrophobic and amphipathic oligomer such as aliphatic polyols, aliphatic and aromatic polyamines and mixtures thereof; the copolymer being capable of forming a non-porous, semi-permeable film of a tensile strength greater than 300 and up to 10,000 psi, an ultimate elongation greater than 300 % and up to 1,500 %, and a water absorption such that the sum of the volume fraction of absorbed water and the hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment exceeds about 100 % and up to about 2,000 % of the dry polymer volume and being permeable to cell nutrients and waste molecules of up to about 6,000 to 600,000 molecular weight and substantially impermeable to cells and particulate matter. A non-porous, semi-permeable, biocompatible film is formed from the block copolymer of the invention in the form of a flexible sheet or a hollow fiber. The present invention also relates to a method of permeating molecules of a predetermined molecular weight range while preventing the passage of larger molecular weight molecules, cells and condensed phases of matter between two fluids comprising interposing between the two fluids the non-porous film of the invention.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYMER TECHNOLOGY GROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE POLYMER TECHNOLOGY GROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARD ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE KATHLEEN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARD, ROBERT, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE, KATHLEEN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a biocompatible,
hydrophilic, segmented block copolymer that comprises
hard and soft segments in a predefined proportion.
The copolymers have hydrophilic or amphipathic soft
segments that provide permeability to films and
membranes prepared therefrom due to their
lyophilicity, hydrophilicity and molecular weight,
and hard segments that provide high cohesive energy
reinforcement. The polymers of the invention may be
cast into flexible sheets and/or hollow membrane
shapes. The copolymers of this invention form
strong, optically-clear, dense membranes which are
selectively permeable to gases, ions, proteins and
other macromolecules. The molecular weight cut-off
of the membrane is controlled by varying the soft
segment content, soft segment polarity/hydrophilicity
and soft segment molecular weight.In general, polyetherurethane block or segmented
copolymers exhibit good biocompatibility along with
high strength and elastomeric properties. This
unique combination of properties is due in part to
the two-phase morphology of the polyurethane
molecule. In a typical polyurethane, aggregated
aromatic or aliphatic urethane or urea segments
constitute a hard glassy or semicrystalline phase,
while low glass transition temperature (Tg)
oligomeric segments comprise the liquid-like, rubbery
soft phase or segment. The morphology of a
polyurethane depends on many factors, including hard
and soft segment chemistry, segment polarity 
differences, hard segment content, and hard and soft
segment molecular weights.In both polyurethaneureas and polyurethanes, the
chemistry of the soft segment affects the degree of
phase separation in the polymer, which in turn
affects its bulk and surface properties and
subsequent biocompatibility. Polyurethaneureas,
similar to the ones disclosed in this patent only as
to their hard segment compositions, have been shown
to be resistant to degradation in several
applications (Paynter, et al., "The Hydrolytic
Stability of Mitrathane, a Polyurethaneurea - An
X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy Study", J. Biomed.
Mater. Res. 22:687-698 (1988); Szycher, et al. "Blood
Compatible Polyurethane Elastomers", J. Biomater.
Appl. 2:290-313 (1987)).The application of natural and synthetic polymer
membranes to the separation of gaseous-and liquid
mixtures of low molecular weight has been reported in
a number of reviews. Many studies of membrane
permeability to simple low molecular weight (NW)
permeants have been reported in which the composition
of glassy-rubbery or crystalline-rubbery
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A biocompatible, hydrophilic, segmented block
polyurethane or polyurethane urea copolymer,

   comprising 5 to 45 wt% of at least one hard
segment; and

   95 to 55 wt% of at least one soft segment
comprising at least one hydrophilic, hydrophobic or

amphipatic oligomer selected from the group consisting
of


(a) linear, branched or graft polyalkylene and
polyalkenyl oxide polyols and random and block

copolymers thereof with one another,
(b) polycarbonate polyols and hydroxyl-terminated
silicones and copolymers thereof with polyalkylene

oxides, polyalkenyl polyols, and polyalkylene
polyols,
(c) amine-terminated linear, branched or graft
polyalkylene oxides and random and block copolymers

thereof with one another,
(d) amine-terminated silicones and random or block copolymers thereof
with polyalkylene oxides, and
(e) mixtures thereof,
 
the copolymer being capable of forming a non-porous

semipermeable film having a tensile strength greater
than 2.41 MPa (350 psi) and up to 68.95 MPa 10,000 psi)

determined according to the method recited in Example 7 of the description,
an ultimate elongation greater than 300% and up to

1,500 % determined according to the method recited in Example 7 of the
description and a water absorption determined according

to the method recited in Example 8 of the description such that the sum of
the volume fraction of absorbed water and the

hydrophilic volume fraction of the soft segment exceeds
100 % and up to 2,000 % of the dry polymer volume and

exceeds 50 % and up to 95 % of the wet polymer volume
and being permeable to molecules of up to 600,000

molecular weight and substantially impermeable to
particulate matter, wherein permeability is measured

according to the method recited in Example 13 of the description, and
wherein the volume fraction of absorbed water is 50 %

or greater than the total volume of the water swollen
polymer. 
The copolymer of claim 1, having a molecular weight of
5,000 to 150,000.
The copolymer of claim 1 or 2, wherein the
polyols of the soft segment are selected from the group

consisting of linear, branched and graft 
polyalylene and polyalkenyline oxides, random and block

copolymers thereof, polycarbonate polyols, hydroxyl-terminated
silicones, random and block copolymers

thereof with polyalkylene oxides, linear and branched
polyalkenyl, and polyalkylene polyols, and mixtures

thereof.
The copolymer of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
soft segment is selected from the group consisting of

amine-terminated polyalkylene oxides and random, block
and graft copolymers thereof, amine-terminated polydialkylsiloxanes,

random and block copolymers thereof
with polyalkylene oxides and mixtures thereof.
The copolymer of any one of claims 1 to 4, further
comprising an end group selected from the group

consisting of monofunctional aliphatic polyols, aliphatic
or aromatic amines and mixtures thereof.
The copolymer of claim 5, wherein

(a) the monofunctional aliphatic polyols of the end
group are selected from the group consisting of

monofunctional polyalkylene oxides, siloxanes and
mixtures thereof; and
(b) the monofunctional amines of the end group are
selected from the group consisting of dialkylamines,

amine functionalized siloxanes, amine
terminated polyalkylene oxides and mixtures

thereof.
The copolymer of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
hard segment is selected from the group consisting of

reaction products of an organic diisocyanate with a
polyamine and a polyol.
The copolymer of claim 7, wherein the organic diisocyanate
of the hard segment is selected from the group 

consisting of alkyl diisocyanates, arylalkyl diisocyanates,
alkyl-cycloalkyl diisocyanates, alkylaryl diisocyanates,

cycloalkyl diisocyanates, aryl diisocyanates,
and cycloalkylaryl diisocyanates, which may

be further substituted with oxygen, and mixtures
thereof.
The copolymer of claim 7 or 8, wherein the polyol of
the hard segment is selected from the group consisting

of alkylene, cycloalkylene and arylene diols, triols,
tetraalcohols, pentaalcohols and mixtures thereof.
The copolymer of any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the
polyamine of the hard segment is selected from the

group consisting of alkyl, cycloalkyl, and aryl amines,
which may be further substituted with N, 0 or halogen,

complexes thereof with alkali metal salts, and mixtures
thereof.
The copolymer of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the
soft segment comprises a polyethyleneoxide of molecular

weight greater than 3,000 daltons.
The copolymer of claim 11, wherein the polyethyleneoxide
has a molecular weight of 8,000 or greater.
The copolymer of claim 6, wherein the soft segment
comprises a blend of polyols selected from the group

consisting of a polyethyleneoxide of molecular weight
greater than 3,000 daltons, a polyethyleneoxide-polytetramethyleneoxide

copolymer and a polyethyleneoxide
homopolymer, a polyethyleneoxide-polytetramethyleneoxide

copolymer and an ethyleneoxide-capped
polyethyleneoxide copolymer, a polyethyleneoxide-polypropyleneoxide

copolymer and a polyethyleneoxide homopolymer,
a polyethyleneoxide-polypropyleneoxide copolymer

and a polypropyleneoxide homopolymer, a polyethyleneoxide 
homopolymer and a polytetramethyleneoxide

homopolymer, a polyethyleneoxide copolymer and a polycarbonate
homopolymer, a polyethyleneoxide copolymer

and a polybutadiene homopolymer, and a polyethyleneoxide
copolymer and a polyisobutylene homopolymer.
The copolymer of claim 13, wherein the soft segment
comprises a blend selected from the group consisting of

a polyethyleneoxide-polytetramethyleneoxide copolymer
and polyethyleneoxide homopolymer, a polyethyleneoxide-polytetramethyleneoxide

copolymer and a polyethyleneoxide-polypropyleneoxide
copolymer, a polyethylene-oxide-polytetramethyleneoxide

copolymer and an
ethyleneoxide-capped polypropyleneoxide polymer, a

polyethyleneoxide-polypropyleneoxide copolymer and a
polyethyleneoxide homopolymer, and a polyethyleneoxide-polypropyleneoxide

copolymer and a polypropyleneoxide
homopolymer.
The copolymer of claim 13, wherein the soft segment is
a blend of a polyethyleneoxide homopolymer and a polytetramethyleneoxide

homopolymer providing the copolymer
having a lesser tensile strength and elongation in the

wet state than in its dry state.
The copolymer of claim 13, wherein the soft segment is
a blend selected from the group consisting of a polyethyelenoxide-containing

copolymer and a polycarbonate
homopolymer, a polyethyleneoxide-containing copolymer

and a polybutadiene homopolymer, and a polyethyleneoxide-containing
copolymer and a polyisobutylene homopolymer.
A non-porous, semi-permeable, biocompatible film formed
from the block copolymer of any one of claims 1 to 16. 
The non-porous film of claim 17, in the form of a
flexible sheet or a hollow membrane.
The non-porous film of claim 17, being attached to a
substrate.
The non-porous film of claim 19, in the form of a
coating deposited onto a substrate.
The non-porous film of claim 19 or 20, wherein the
substrate is a woven or knitted substrate or a porous

polymer.
The non-porous film of any one of claims 17 to 21,
having a thickness of 1 to 150 micrometer.
The non-porous film of claim 22, having a thickness of
5 to 10 micrometer.
A method of permeating molecules of a predetermined
molecular weight range while preventing

the passage of cells and particulate matter between two
fluids comprising interposing between the two fluids

the non-porous film of any one of claims 17 to 23.
The copolymer of claim 1, wherein
at least one hard segment is

selected from the group consisting of reaction products
of an organic diisocyanate and a polyamine and a

polyol; and
the hydrophilic soft segment

comprises a blend of a polyethyleneoxide-polytetramethyleneoxide
copolymer and a polyethyleneoxide homopolymer. 
The block polyurethane copolymer of claim 25, wherein
the organic diisocyanate comprises 4,4'-diphenylmethane

diisocyanate.
The block polyurethane copolymer of claim 25, wherein
the organic diisocyanate comprises hydrogenated diphenylmethane

diisocyanate.
The block polyurethane copolymer of any one of claims
25 to 27, wherein the hard segment polyol comprises an

alkylenediol.
The block polyurethane copolymer of claim 28, wherein
the hard segment polyol comprises butanediol.
The block polyurethane copolymer of any one of claims
25 to 29, wherein the hard segment polyamine comprises

an alkylenediamine.
The block polyurethane copolymer of claim 30, wherein
the hard segment polyamine comprises ethylenediamine.
A non-porous film made from the polymer of any one of
claims 25 to 31.
The film of claim 32, being attached to a substrate.
The copolymer of claim 1, wherein
at least one hard segment is

selected from the group consisting of reaction products
of an organic diisocyanate and a polyamine and a

polyol; and 
the hydrophilic soft segment

comprises a blend of polyethyleneoxide-polytetramethyleneoxide
copolymer and a polyethyleneoxide-polypropyleneoxide

copolymer.
The block polyurethane copolymer of claim 34, wherein
the organic diisocyanate comprises 4,4'-diphenylmethane

diisocyanate (MDI) or hydrogenated diphenylmethane diisocyanate
(HMDI).
The block polyurethane copolymer of claim 34 or 35,
wherein the hard segment polyol comprises an alkylenediol.
The block polyurethane copolymer of claim 36, wherein
the hard segment polyol comprises butanediol.
The block polyurethane copolymer of any one of claims
34 to 37, wherein the hard segment polyamine comprises

an alkylenediamine.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
