<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613222</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor diode laser and method of manufacturing such a diode
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S5026	H01S512	H01S516	H01S500	H01S510	H01S5227	H01S500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a semiconductor diode laser whose strip-shaped 
active region is limited by a end face which is curved for forming a lens of a given 

strength. 
A diode according to the invention is characterized in that the curved end 
face is covered with a covering layer of a material having a refractive index different 

from that of the active layer, and the refractive index of the covering layer and the 
curvature of the end face are so chosen that the scattering of the generated radiation is a 

minimum for the given strength of the lens. The scattering is a minimum through a 
choice of the smallest possible difference in refractive index between the covering layer 

and the active layer, preferably below 0.5. Preferably, the radius of curvature of the 
end face is smaller than 2.5 µm. 
The covering layer preferably comprises a semiconductor material, for 
example, the same material as a cladding layer. In diode lasers with a lateral cladding 

layer, the latter layer and the covering layer may be provided in a single deposition 

step, which is very favourable. The invention, accordingly, also relates to a method of 
manufacturing diode lasers according to the invention. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WETERINGS JOSEPHUS PETRUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WETERINGS, JOSEPHUS PETRUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a semiconductor diode laser comprising a 
semiconductor body with a substrate of a first conductivity type and a semiconductor 
layer structure situated thereon and having an active layer arranged between two 
cladding layers and a pn junction by which electromagnetic radiation can be generated 
in a strip-shaped active region of the active layer given a sufficient current strength in 
the forward bias direction, an end face of the strip-shaped active region being curved so 
as to form a lens of a given strength. The invention also relates to a method of 
manufacturing such diode lasers. Such diode lasers are used inter alia as components in read and/or write 
heads of information processing equipment such as laser printers, bar code readers, and 
read and/or write devices for optical registration carriers such as CD (Audio) and 
CDROM (Data) discs, and as transmitters in systems for optical glass fibre 
communication. In the latter systems, the semiconductor diode laser may also be 
constructed as an amplifier. Accordingly, the term laser in the present Application is 
explicitly understood also to cover a laser amplifier. Such a diode laser is known from JP(A) 3-119.782 published in Patent 
Abstracts of Japan, vol. 15, no. 323 (E-1101) [4851] 16th August 1991. The strength 
(P) of the lens is determined by the equation P = Δn/R in which Δn is the difference in 
refractive index between the active region 3 and the surrounding medium, i.e. air, and 
R is the radius of curvature of the curved end face. The said difference in refractive 
index is approximately 2.5, namely approximately 3.5 - 1. A lens strength which is 
usual in practice corresponds to a radius of curvature R which lies between 
approximately 10 and approximately 300 µm, often between 20 and 50 µm. A disadvantage of the known device is that an increase in the starting 
current is often observed with the use of lasers having an active region with a curved 
end face as compared with similar lasers having a plane end face. Such an increase is 
obviously undesirable.  
 The present invention has for its object inter alia to provide a 
semiconductor diode laser which does not have the said disadvantage, or at least to a 
much lesser extent, and which accordingly exhibits no or substantially no increase in the 
starting current when a curved face is used as the end face of the active region. According to the invention, a semiconductor diode laser of the kind 
mentioned in the opening paragraph is for this purpose
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor diode laser comprising a semiconductor body (10) with a 
substrate (1) of a first conductivity type and a semiconductor layer structure situated 

thereon and having an active layer (3) arranged between two cladding layers (1, 4) and 
a pn junction by which electromagnetic radiation can be generated in a strip-shaped 

active region (3A) of the active layer (3) given a sufficient current strength in the 
forward bias direction, an end face (20) of the strip-shaped active region (3A) being 

curved so as to form a lens of a given strength, characterized in that the curved end 
face (20) is covered with a covering layer (9) of a material having a different refractive 

index from that of the active region (3A), and the refractive index of the material of the 
covering layer (9) and the radius of curvature of the end face (20) are so chosen that the 

scattering of the generated electromagnetic radiation at the curved end face (20) is a 
minimum at the given lens strength. 
A semiconductor diode laser as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that 
the end face (20) is curved in lateral direction and the covering layer (9) comprises a 

semiconductor material having a refractive index smaller than the refractive index of the 
active region (3A). 
A semiconductor diode as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the difference in refractive index between the active region (3A) and the covering layer 

(9) is below 2, and the radius of curvature of the curved end face (20) is smaller than 
10 µm. 
A semiconductor diode laser as claimed in Claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized 
in that the difference in refractive index between the active region (3A) and the 

covering layer (9) is smaller than 1, and the radius of curvature of the curved end face 

(20) is smaller than 5 µ. 
A semiconductor diode laser as claimed in Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, 
characterized in that the difference in refractive index between the active region (3A) 

and the covering layer (9) is smaller than 0.5, and the radius of curvature of the curved  
 

end face (20) is smaller than 2.5 µm. 
A semiconductor diode laser as claimed in any one of the preceding 
Claims, characterized in that the semiconductor diode is a laser of the buried ridge type 

or of the buried hetero type, and the material of the covering layer (9) is the same as 
the material of a further lateral cladding layer (5). 
A semiconductor diode laser as claimed in any one of the preceding 
Claims, characterized in that the semiconductor diode is a laser of the DFB type and the 

active layer (3) and a radiation-guiding cladding layer (2) comprise InGaAsP, in that the other cladding 
layers (1, 4, 5) and the covering layer (9) comprise InP, and in that the covering layer 

(9) is bounded at the side most remote from the diode by a cleaving surface (50) provided with 
an anti-reflection coating (51). 
A method of manufacturing a semiconductor diode laser whereby a 
semiconductor layer structure is provided on a substrate (1) of a first conductivity type 

with an active layer (3) situated between two cladding layers (1, 4) and with a pn 
junction with which electromagnetic radiation can be generated in a strip-shaped active 

region (3A) of the active layer (3) given a sufficient current strength in the forward bias 
direction of the pn junction, while an end face (20) of the strip-shaped active region 

(3A) is curved so as to form a lens of a given strength, characterized in that the curved 
end face (20) is covered with a covering layer (9) of a material having a different 

refractive index from that of the active region (3A), and the refractive index of the 
material of the covering layer (9) and the curvature of the end face (20) are so chosen 

that the scattering of the generated electromagnetic radiation at the curved end face (20) 
is a minimum for the given strength of the lens. 
A method as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that a strip-shaped mesa 
(11A) is formed in the semiconductor layer structure by means of etching after the 

provision of a mask (11), which mesa comprises at least the upper cladding layer (4) 
and the active layer (3), the end face (20) is formed and provided with a curvature, 

after which in a single deposition step a further cladding layer (5) is provided to either 
side of the strip-shaped mesa (11A) and the covering layer (9) is provided against the 

curved end face (20), and finally separate diodes are obtained through cleaving, a 
cleaving surface (50) being made through the covering layer (9). 
A method as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that a strip-shaped mesa  
 

(11A) is formed in the semiconductor layer structure by etching after the provision of a 
first mask (11), which mesa comprises at least a portion of the upper cladding layer (4), 

after which in a deposition step a further cladding layer (5) is provided on either side of 
the mesa (11A), and subsequently after the provision of a second mask (31) 

an opening is etched into the semiconductor layer structure at the area of the mesa 
(11A), whereby at least the upper cladding layer (4) and the active layer (3) are 

removed and the end face (20) of the mesa is shaped and provided with a curvature, 
after which the covering layer (9) is provided against the end face (20) by means of a 

further deposition step, and finally separate diodes are obtained through cleaving, a 
cleaving surface (50) being effected through the covering layer (9). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
