<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631483</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOOD TEMPERATURE MAINTENANCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J3902	A47J3900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J39	A47J39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An insulated food storage system comprising a heat insulating base (11) and a heat insulating cover (12) together defining a cavity (13). A thermal plate (20) fits within the cavity, the thermal plate having a chamber (21) containing wax (22) which solidifies in the temperature range 75  DEG C to 95  DEG C so that food (15) located within the cavity together with the thermal plate (20) is maintained substantially within that temperature range as the wax which has been previously heated and liquefied cools and solidifies. The wax (22) in one embodiment is in a metal tray (32) closed by a metal lid (33) within the chamber (21) in the thermal plate. The chamber (21) is in a central region of the thermal plate and the edges (23) have no wax within the space between the top and the bottom walls (25, 26) of the edges. A plastics material with very low thermal conductivity is used for the thermal plate (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEAN DOUGLAS COLIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEAN, DOUGLAS COLIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEAN DOUGLAS COLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEAN, DOUGLAS COLIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to maintaining temperature of cooked food e.g in 
hospitals, nursing homes and the like so that food is kept above food 
infection temperatures while it is being transported from a preparation area 
to the consumer such as a patient. Various systems are known for attempting to maintain heated food prepared 
at a remote location at a suitable temperature for serving. For example, it is 
known to preheat the food plates so that the stored heat in the plate 
maintains the food placed thereon at an elevated temperature for a longer 
time. It is also known to cover a plate on which food has been placed with a 
cover member so as to reduce the rate of heat loss. It is also known to provide an insulating cover and cooperating base both 
made of a heat insulating material so that a food plate with food thereon can 
be placed on the base and the cover placed over the plate so as to rest on the 
perimeter of the base. The base and cover in combination define a closed 
insulating vessel for the plate and the food thereon. It is also known to provide an additional auxiliary heat storing member, 
known as a "thermal plate" which is preheated and placed on the insulating 
base so that the food plate rests on top of the thermal plate. The insulating 
cover is placed over the top. The thermal plate in use is heated to an 
elevated temperature, e.g about 120°C, so that the thermal plate holds 
considerable heat when the food plate with food thereon is initially placed on 
the thermal plate and within the enclosure defined by the cover and the base.  
 In patent specification no DE-A-3639415 there is disclosed an insulated food 
storage system according to the preamble of claim 1, having an insulated base and an insulated lid defining a cavity. 
Within the cavity, there is provided a meal plate in which there is a meltable 
material which is liquefied to provide a source of heat for food placed on the 
plate within the insulated vessel. The liquefiable material can be a meltable 
adhesive (Schmelzkleber). There are shortcomings with all of the systems of maintaining food hot that 
are outlined above. The simpler systems are of limited effectiveness. The 
closed vessel defined by the insulating cover and base, together with the pre-heated 
thermal plate and pre-heated food plate, also suffers from some 
shortcomings. For example, with all of the systems outlined, the temperature 
of the food plate and the food thereon will continuously decrease towards 
ambient temperature. This in turn means that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A heat storage insert for use in an insulated food storage system which comprises a 
thermally insulating enclosure (10) comprising a heat insulating base (11) and a heat insulating 

cover (12), the base (11) and the cover (12) cooperating together so as to define a cavity (13), 
the heat storage insert (20) being adapted to fit within the cavity (13), the heat storage insert 

(20) having a chamber (21) therein, and a liquefiable substance (22) is located within the heat 
storage insert (20), the substance (22) having the property of being liquefiable by heating and 

of solidifying at a temperature or at temperatures within a predetermined temperature range, 
the temperature or temperature being at or above food spoilage temperatures and at an 

acceptable temperature for consumption of hot food, whereby in use food (15) located within 
the cavity (13) together with the heat storage insert (20) is maintained substantially at said 

temperature or at temperatures within said range as the liquefiable substance (22) which has 
been previously heated and liquefied cools and solidifies, characterised in that a container (32, 

33) is located within the chamber (21) in the heat storage insert (20) and the liquefiable 
substance (22) is located within the container (32, 33), the container (32, 33) being made of a 

dissimilar material to the composition of the liquefiable substance (22) to resist leaching or 
migration of the liquefiable substance therethrough. 
An insert as claimed in Claim 1 characterised in that the container (32, 33) is made of 
metal and the liquefiable substance (22) is a wax and the liquefiable substance fills the metal 

container. 
An insert as claimed in Claim 2 characterised in that the metal container comprises a 
tray (32), the liquefiable substance (22) being received in solid phase with a close fit within the 

tray (32), and a metal lid (33) covering both the tray (32) and the liquefiable substance (22)  
 

therein, the metal lid (33) having peripheral edges (34) sealed to the peripheral edges of the 
tray. 
An insert as claimed in Claim 1, 2 or 3 characterised in that the insert (20) has a 
peripheral edge region (23) into which the container (32, 33) does not extend so that the edge 

region (23) does not contain the liquefiable substance (22) and can therefore be manually 
handled without insulating gloves being worn.  

 
An insert as claimed in Claim 4 characterised in that the 
insert (20) is in the form of and has the function of a thermal 

plate, the thermal plate comprising an upper face (25) and a lower 
face (26) which are spaced apart and further comprising a partition 

(27) defining a perimeter of the chamber (21) within which the 
container (32, 33) is contained, the thermal plate (20) being in the 

general form of a circular disc, the upper and lower faces (25, 26) 
being joined together at the edges of the disc, the partition (27) 

being located around the general centre of the circular disc and 
spaced inwardly from the peripheral edges (28) of the circular disc 

so as to define a circular chamber (21) containing the container (32, 
33) at the general central region of the circular disc and an annular 

edge region (23) where the upper and lower faces (25, 26) are spaced 
apart, none of the liquefiable substance (22) being contained in the 

edge region (23). 
An insert as claimed in Claim 5 characterised in that the 
thermal plate (20) is generally complementary in shape to the under 

surface of a food plate (30) so that, in use, the food plate rests on 
the thermal plate (20), the chamber containing the container (32, 33) 

being generally equal in area to the area of the central part of the 
food plate (30) on which food (15) is in use placed and located 

directly beneath the central area of the food plate. 
An insert as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 
characterized in that the substance (22) solidifies at a temperature 

or at temperatures within the range 75°C to 95°C. 
An insert as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 
characterized in that the heat storage insert (20) is composed of a 

low heat conductivity plastics material so as to promote slow heat 
loss through the insert as the liquefiable substance (22) solidifies 

and consequently promote formation in the liquefiable substance (22) 
of a solid phase having a lower energy state than if rapidly 

solidified. 
An insulated food storage system comprising a thermally 
insulating enclosure (10) comprising a heat insulating haze (11) and 

a heat insulating cover (12), the haze (11) and the cover (12) 
cooperating together so as to define a cavity (13), the system 

further including a heat storage insert (20) as claimed in any one of the  
 

preceding claims and fitting within the cavity (13), whereby 
food (15) located within the cavity (13) together with the heat 

storage insert (20) is maintained substantially at said temperature 
or at temperatures within said range as the liquefiable substance 

(22) which has been previously heated and liquefied cools and 
solidifies. 
A system as claimed in Claim 9 characterised in that the heat 
insulating base (11) is in the general form of a drum into which a 

number of heat storage inserts (20) can be stacked, the heat 
insulating cover (12) comprising a lid for the drum, whereby the 

enclosure (10) formed by the drum and the lid can contain a stack 
sequentially composed of a heat storage insert (20), a food plate 

(30) having food (15) thereon, and a spacer for supporting a 
superimposed heat storage insert without contacting food (15) on the 

food plate (30), the stack further comprising a number of similar 
sequentially arranged inserts, food plates, and spacers throughout 

the height of the drum. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
