<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611573</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bioactive conjugates of cellulose with amino compounds.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K3843	A61K3846	A61K4500	A61K4500	A61K4748	A61K4748	A61L1516	A61L1540	A61L1544	A61L2600	A61L2600	A61P4300	A61P4300	C08B1500	C08B1506	C08B3700	C08B3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61P	A61P	C08B	C08B	C08B	C08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K45	A61K45	A61K47	A61K47	A61L15	A61L15	A61L15	A61L26	A61L26	A61P43	A61P43	C08B15	C08B15	C08B37	C08B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Polymers containing a plurality of free hydroxy groups, such as 
cellulose, agarose or polyvinyl alcohol, are contacted in absence of 

reactants for hydroxy groups, with at least one N-heterocyclic compound, 
e.g. pyridine, pyrrole, pyridazine, their partially or fully hydrogenated 

analogs and any of these which may be substituted, in a pre-activation step 
prior to reaction with reactant for free hydroxy groups in the polymer, 

the polymer-bound residue of which reactant may be thereafter reacted in 
turn with amino compounds containing at least one unsubstituted N-attached 

hydrogen atom, e.g. proteins, thereby to form amine-polymer conjugates. 
The invention further relates to a powder, bandage, patch or like cover for 

application to wounds which has been manufactured from polymer containing a 
plurality of hydroxy groups by a process which includes the step of 

providing an amine conjugated to the polymer; the amine may be, e.g., 
trypsin, chymotrypsin, lysozyme, collagenase, albumin and hyaluronidase. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV BAR ILAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAR ILAN UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARGEL SHLOMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STURCHAK SOPHIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARGEL, SHLOMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STURCHAK, SOPHIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Covalent coupling of amines, which may be bioactive 
compounds, e.g. proteins, onto functionalized polymeric surfaces, 
is commonly accomplished by interacting amine groups of the 
proteins with desired functional groups of the polymers. In particular, the binding of amino ligands, e.g. 
proteins, to polymers containing aldehyde groups (polyaldehyde 
polymers) is depicted in Fig. 1. The Schiff base products are 
unstable in aqueous solution since they are in equilibrium with 
the interacting reagents, but they may be stabilized, e.g. by 
reduction of the Schiff base bonds with an appropriate reducing 
agent, e.g. NaBH4. Dialdehyde dextran and dialdehyde cellulose are 
examples of polyaldehyde polymers commonly used for 
immobilization of proteins through the formation of Schiff base 
products. These polymers are commonly obtained by periodate 
oxidation of vicinal hydroxyl groups of the parent polymers, 
dextran and cellulose, respectively, see J. Turkova, et al, Can. 
Pat. 1217134 (1987). The aldehyde content of these polymers can 
be controlled by oxidation conditions, i.e. periodate 
concentration. The backbone of these dialdehyde polymers has a 
completely different structure than that of the parent polymers 
(Fig. 2 ). This difference results in a more open structure,  
 
higher porosity, increased water solubility, increased 
biodegradability and decreased mechanical strength of the 
dialdehyde polymers relative to its parent polymers. For example, 
cellulose is considered to be a non-biodegradable polymer while 
dialdehyde cellulose is a biodegradable polymer, a property which 
is desired for controlled release studies (see M. Singh, P. 
Vasudevan, T.J.M. Sinha, A.R. Ray, M.M. Misro and K. Guha, J. of 
Biomed. Mat. Res. 15, 655 (1981)), but undesired for other 
biomedical applications, e.g. wounds treatment. The Schiff base bonds formed by the interaction of 
dialdehyde polymers with proteins are not stable in aqueous 
solution (Figs. 1 and 2), resulting in a leakage of the bound 
protein. Furthermore, the reaction of proteins with polyaldehyde 
polymers is usually incomplete, 
approximately .5%-1 
% of free 
aldehyde groups participating, see S. Margel and E. Wiesel, J. 
Polym. Sci., Chem. Ed. 22, 145 (1984). Therefore, residual 
aldehyde may intramolecularly interact with amino groups of the 
bound protein, thus significantly decreasing its activity, see 
S. Margel, J. of Chromatography, 462, 177 (1989). Blocking of 
residual aldehyde groups and stabilization of Schiff base bonds 
may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A method for preactivating at least one polymer which is 
selected from cellulose, polysaccharides other than cellulose, and 

polymers containing a plurality of free hydroxy groups other than 
polysaccharides, which comprises contacting it in absence of reactants 

for hydroxy groups, with at least one N-heterocyclic compound, which is 
preferably selected from pyridine, pyrrole and pyridazine, partially 

hydrogenated analogs thereof, fully hydrogenated analogs thereof, and 
any of the foregoing which contain at least one substituent selected 

from C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₁₋₆ alkoxy, fluorine, chlorine, bromine and 
trifluoromethyl. 
2. A method for making a derivative of hydroxy groups in at least 
one polymer as defined in claim 1, which comprises first preactivating 

said polymer according to the method of claim 1, and then reacting the 
preactivated polymer with at least one reactant for free hydroxy groups 

in said polymer, said reactant being additionally characterized by the 
fact that it contains, at least potentially, at least one functional 

group capable of reacting with amino groups containing unsubstituted 
hydrogen atoms. 
3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said at least one 
reactant is selected from cyanogen halides, carbonate esters, 

halogenated s-triazines, haloformates, sulfonyl halides and N-heterocyclic 
compounds containing nuclear-bound active halogen atoms. 
4. In a process for making conjugates of at least one amino 
compound containing at least one unsubstituted N-attached hydrogen atom, 

with at least one polymer as defined in claim 1, which process 

 
comprises at least steps (a) and (b) of the following steps (a), (b) and 

(c), namely: 
   (a) derivatizing the at least one polymer by reaction with at 

least one reactant for free hydroxy groups in said polymer, such 
reactant being additionally characterized by the fact that it contains, 

at least potentially, at least one functional group capable of reacting 
with said at least one amino compound, (b) reacting the thus-derivatized 

polymer with the at least one amino compound, and optionally 
(c) reconverting to hydroxy groups by known methods any polymer-bound 

groups which are the product of reacting polymer-bound hydroxy groups 
with such reactant; 

   the improvement which comprises effecting a preactivation step 
prior to step (a) according to the method defined in claim 1, in order 

to increase the capacity of the at least one polymer for reaction with 
such at least one reactant. 
5. A process according to claim 4, wherein said at least one 
reactant is selected from cyanogen halides, carbonate esters, 

halogenated s-triazines, haloformates, sulfonyl halides and N-heterocyclic 
compounds containing nuclear-bound active halogen atoms. 
6. In a process for making conjugates of at least one amino 
function in a protein, with at least one polymer as defined in claim 1, 

said polymer being in a form selected from powders and textile webs, 
which process comprises at least steps (a) and (b) of the following 

steps (a), (b) and (c), namely: 
   (a) derivatizing the at least one polymer by reaction with at 

least one reactant for free hydroxy groups in said polymer, such 
reactant being additionally characterized by the fact that it contains, 

 
at least potentially, at least one functional group capable of reacting 

with said at least one amino function, (b) reacting the thus-derivatized 
polymer with the at least one amino function, and optionally (c) 

reconverting to hydroxy groups by known methods any polymer-bound groups 
which are the product of reacting polymer-bound hydroxy groups with such 

reactant; 
   the improvement which comprises effecting a preactivation step 

prior to step (a) according to the method defined in claim 1, in order 
to increase the capacity of the at least one polymer for reaction with 

such at least one reactant. 
7. A process according to claim 6, wherein: 
   said at least one reactant is selected from cyanogen halides, 

carbonate esters, halogenated s-triazines, haloformates, sulfonyl 
halides and N-heterocyclic compounds containing nuclear-bound active 

halogen atoms; and/or 
   said at least one protein is selected from trypsin, 

chymotrypsin, lysozyme, collagenase, albumin and hyaluronidase; and/or 
   said at least one polymer is in the form of a textile web 

which is adapted for use as a bandage, patch or like wound cover. 
8. A powder, bandage, patch or like cover for application to 
wounds which has been manufactured from at least one polymer as defined 

in claim 1, by a process which includes the step of providing at least 
one amine, e.g. in the form of a protein such as trypsin, chymotrypsin, 

lysozyme, collagenase, albumin and/or hyaluronidase, conjugated to said 
at least one polymer. 
9. A cover for application to wounds according to claim 8, 
wherein said at least one polymer is selected from cellulose and 

polyvinyl alcohol. 
1. A 
polymer as defined in claim 1, which has been subjected to 

preactivation by treatment with an N-heterocyclic compound, and 
conjugates of such preactivated polymer with at least one amino compound 

containing at least one unsubstituted N-attached hydrogen atom. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
