<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613392</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR BENCH STEPPING EXERCISE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B2304	A63B2304	F16B2100	F16B2108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B23	A63B23	F16B21	F16B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREEN JOURNAL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GREEN JOURNAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDGERLEY DAVID ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LE ROUX PHILIPPE ANTHONIE DAVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDGERLEY, DAVID, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LE ROUX, PHILIPPE, ANTHONIE, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
DESCRIPTION OF INVENTIONAPPARATUS FOR BENCH STEPPING EXERCISETHE PRESENT INVENTION relates to an exercise apparatus and more particularly relates to a step apparatus for use when carrying out stepping exercises.It has long been known that stepping up and down, so that the body is alternately raised and lowered, is an excellent form of aerobic exercise. In the past such stepping exercises have been carried out using benches or the like. The present invention, in one aspect, seeks to provide an apparatus for use in carrying out stepping exercises.When inter-connecting two elements which are formed of a moulded plastics material, it is desirable to utilise connectors which are spaced apart. However, when elements are moulded of a plastics material different examples of the element may have different dimensions due to, for example, slight alterations in various parameters during the moulding process. These parameters may include the temperature of the mould and the precise composition of the plastic. Thus, if connectors are provided which require to be accurately aligned, it is frequently impracticable to have such connectors spaced apart by a significant distance. However, if the connectors are close together, two elements of plastics material cannot be securely fastened together. Thus, in another aspect, the invention seeks to provide a connector that may be utilised to inter- 

connect two elements, where, due to the nature of the elements, the connector components on the two elements may not be precisely aligned.According to one aspect of this invention there is provided an exercise apparatus, the apparatus comprising a bridge element, the bridge element being of elongate form and having two end regions, and two supporr elements, each support element being adapted to engage a respective end region of the bridge, the bridge and the support elements being so configured that the support elements can engage the bridge in different relative positions, thus supporting the bridge at different heights.Preferably the support elements can engage the bridge in three different positions thus supporting the bridge at three different heights.Conveniently each support element comprises means defining a base to engage the ground and an upper surface having two portions, namely a lower portion and an upper portion, each end of the bridge having an under-surface defining at least two levels which are spaced apart vertically, and adapted selectively to engage said portions of the upper surface of the support
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS :
1. • An exercise apparatus, the apparatus comprising a bridge element, the bridge element being of elongate form and having two end regions, and two support elements, each support element being adapted to engage a respective end region of the bridge, the bridge and the support elements being so configured that the support elements can engage the bridge in different relative positions, thus supporting the bridge at different heights.
2. An apparatus according to Claim 1 wherein the support elements can engage the bridge in three different positions thus supporting the bridge at three different heights.
3. An apparatus according to any one of the preceding Claims wherein each support element comprises means defining a base to engage the ground and an upper surface having two portions, namely a lower portion and an upper portion, each end of the bridge having an under-surface defining at least two levels which are spaced apart vertically, and adapted selectively to engage said portions of the upper surface of the support element.
4. An apparatus according to Claim 3 wherein connector means are provided for releasably connecting each support to the bridge, the connector means being located on the upper-most part of the upper surface of each support.
5. An apparatus according to Claim 4 wherein the connector means comprise co-operating elements present on the bridge and on the support, the elements on the bridge 


 comprising projections, each projection having connector means adapted to engage co-operating surfaces provided on the bridge.
6. An apparatus according to Claim 5 wherein the co¬ operating surfaces on the bridge comprise inclined surfaces which bound apertures formed in a recess formed in the under-surf ce of the bridge.
7. An apparatus according to Claim 5 or 6 wherein each connector means comprises a connector element located within the projection, the connector element having a permitted degree of freedom of movement, comprising a base and an upstanding web, the web being engaged by two parallel ribs formed within the recess, the engagement between the web and the ribs defining the direction of the permitted movement of the connector element.
8. An apparatus according to Claim 7 wherein the connector element is provided with means adapted to retain the connector element within the projection.
9. An apparatus according to Claim 8 wherein the means adapted to retain the connector element within the recess comprise resilient arms provided with projections thereon, the projections engaging apertures provided in the recess.
10. An apparatus according to any one of the preceding Claims wherein the bridge is formed of a principal moulding defining at least one axially extending channel therein there being a cover which is secured to the said moulding on either side of the channel, thus defining a box-beam structure. 

11
. An apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein the moulding defines two axially extending channels, the channels being separated by an axially extending partition, the cover being secured to the partition.
12. An apparatus according to Claim 10 or 11 wherein the channel or each channel is provided with transversely extending webs.
13
. An apparatus according to any one of Claims 10 to 12 wherein the cover is provided with a recess which receives a mat of high friction material.
1
4
. An exercise apparatus comprising an elongate bridge member, the bridge member having two depending edge regions to support the bridge member, the bridge member being formed of a principal moulding defining at least one channel extending axially of the bridge, there being a cover secured to the moulding on both sides of the channel, thus forming a box-beam structure.
15. An apparatus according to Claim 14 wherein two channels are provided extending axially of the bridge, there being a partition between the channels, the cover being secured to the moulding at the outer edges of the channels and also being secured to the partition between the channels.
16. An apparatus according to Claim 15 wherein the said channel or channels are provided with transverse re¬ inforcing webs.
17. An apparatus according to any one of Claims 14 to 16 wherein the bridge is provided with support elements 


 adapted to support the bridge at different heights above the ground.
13. An apparatus according to Claim 17 wherein the support elements are adapted to support the bridge at three different heights above the ground.
19. An apparatus according to any one of Claims 14 to 13 wherein connector means are provided to connect together the supports and the bridge, the connector means comprising connector projections provided on the supports and co¬ operating recesses provided on the bridge, each connector projection containing a connector element, each connector element comprising a base and a central upstanding web, the web being guided by spaced apart parallel ribs formed within the projection, the connector element further presenting two resilient arms each carrying a cam head located to extend through apertures formed in the side of the projection, the connector element presenting two opposed retaining arms, each comprising a resilient arm carrying an outwardly directed projection, the said projections being received within apertures formed in the projection to retain the connector element within the projection whilst permitting axial movement thereof, each recess defined by the bridge being dimensioned to receive the said projection on the support and presenting surface areas adapted to be engaged by the cam heads of the connector element.
20. An apparatus according to Claim 19 wherein the under-surfaces of the cam heads are inclined and the surfaces engaged by the cam heads are similarly inclined so that a significant downward force may separate the support from the bridge. 


 21. A connector arrangement for inter-connecting two parts, the connector arrangement comprising a projection on one part containing a connector element, and a co-operating aperture or recess on the other part, the connector element comprising a base carrying a first pair of resilient arms and a second pair of resilient arms, the first pair of arms being diametrically opposed and carrying, at their free ends, outwardly directed cam heads, the second pair of arms comprising locating arms and also being diametrically opposed, being further located on a line extending transversely to the axis defined . by the first pair of resilient arms, the locating arms each having, adjacent their free end, outwardly directed engaging means, the said projection receiving the said connector element, the locating arms extending into apertures or recesses provided for that purpose, with the engaging means engaging a surface to prevent the connector element being moved from the recess, the first pair of arms carrying the cam heads projecting through apertures formed in the projection for that purpose, the cam heads being adapted to engage surfaces defined in the recess, the connector being movable, relative to the projection, along said axis.
22. A connector arrangement according to Claim 21 wherein the base has a central axially extending upstanding web in alignment with said axis, the web being received between guide means formed within the projection to guide movement of the connector along said axis.
2 . A connector arrangement according to Claim 22 wherein the guide means comprise parallel spaced apart ribs formed within the projection. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
