<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639132</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A LOADING/UNLOADING BUOY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63B2202	B63B2734	B63B2700	B63B2226	B63B2200	B67D900	B67D900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63B	B63B	B63B	B63B	B63B	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63B22	B63B27	B63B27	B63B22	B63B22	B67D9	B67D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A buoy for use in loading or unloading of a flowable medium, especially oil, comprising an outer buoyancy member (2) arranged to be introduced and secured in a submerged downwardly open receiving space in a floating vessel, and a central member (3) which is rotatably mounted in the outer member and is intended for anchoring to the sea bed and arranged for passage of medium between a transfer line (57) which, in operation, is coupled to the lower end of the central member (3) and a tube system on the vessel. The central member (3) is provided with a lower extension body (8) having an outer peripheral portion (9) abutting on and essentially corresponding to the outer periphery of the adjacent end (10) of the outer buoyancy member (2), and having a lower portion (11) which is downwardly tapering from the outer peripheral portion (9). A number of fastening means (12) for fastening of the upper ends of anchoring lines (13) for anchoring of the buoy (1) are fastened at intervals along the periphery of the outer peripheral portion (9) of the extension body (8), and the extension body (8) comprises at least one buoyancy chamber (56) for buoyancy or ballast material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a buoy for use in 
loading or unloading of a flowable medium, especially oil, 
comprising an outer buoyancy member arranged to be introduced and 
secured in a submerged downwardly open receiving space in a 
floating vessel, and a central member rotatably mounted in the 
outer member, which central member is intended for anchoring to 
the sea bed and is arranged for passage of medium between a 
transfer line which, in operation, is coupled to the lower end 
of the central member and a tube system on the vessel. A buoy of the above mentioned type is disclosed in the 
international patent application no. PCT/NO92/00056 (WO 
95/11033). This document forms part of the state of the art in 
relation to this application under Article 54(3) EPC. With the 
buoy according to this prior application, the floating vessel, 
when the buoy is placed in the receiving space thereof, is 
rigidly attached to the outer buoyancy member of the buoy and is 
rotatable about the central member which is anchored to the sea 
bed by means of a suitable anchoring system, and the buoy itself 
thus constitutes a rotating body (turret). When connecting the 
buoy, this is pulled up into the receiving space of the vessel 
by a winch means on the vessel and an associated pick-up line 
which is connected to the submerged buoy to carry out the 
pulling. Thereafter the buoy is secured by means of a locking 
mechanism in the receiving space. This buoy structure entails a number of substantial 
advantages in relation to previously known buoy loading 
systems. Thus, connection and disconnection between vessel and 
buoy can be carried out in a simple and quick manner, even in bad 
weather with relatively high waves. Further, the buoy may remain 
connected to the vessel in all weathers, a quick disconnection 
being able to be carried out if a weather limitation should be 
exceeded. The buoy according to the prior application broadly has 
a flat underside, something which results in that the buoy 
becomes more movement sensitive than necessary, under the 
influence of wave and current forces in the water. Said buoy 
shape also results in that the fastening points for the transfer 
line and for the anchoring lines of the buoy are located adjacent  
 
to the flat underside of the buoy, something which has appeared 
to be less favourable in practice. Thus, it is an object of the invention to provide a 
buoy of the stated type which has improved hydrodynamic and 
hydrostatic properties, and which is simultaneously
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A buoy for use in loading or unloading of a 
flowable medium, especially oil, comprising an outer 

buoyancy member (2) arranged to be introduced and secured 
in a submerged downwardly open receiving space in a 

floating vessel, and a central member (3) rotatably 
mounted in the outer member, which central member is 

intended for anchoring to the sea bed and is arranged for 
passage of medium between a transfer line (57) which, in 

operation, is coupled to the lower end of the central 
member (3) and a tube system on the vessel, the central 

member (3) being provided with a lower extension body (8) 
having an outer peripheral portion (9) abutting on and 

essentially corresponding to the outer periphery of the 
adjacent end (10) of the outer buoyancy member (2), and 

having a lower portion (11) which is downwardly tapering 
from the outer peripheral portion (9). 
A buoy according to claim 1, wherein the outer 
buoyancy member (2) has an essentially circular peripheral 

shape and an at least partly upwardly tapering conical 
shape, and wherein the lower portion (11) of the extension 

body (8) is downwardly conically tapering. 
A buoy according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a 
number of fastening means (12) for fastening of the upper 

ends of anchoring lines (13) for anchoring of the buoy (1) 
are fastened at intervals along the periphery of the outer 

peripheral portion (9) of the extension body (8). 
A buoy according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the 
outer buoyancy member (2) at its lower end has an 

essentially axially extending extension portion (10) 
extending between an adjacent conical portion (29) of the 

outer member (2) and the outer peripheral portion (9) of 
the extension body (8).  

 
A buoy according to any one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein the extension body (8) comprises at least one 

buoyancy chamber (56) for buoyancy or ballast material. 
A buoy according to claim 5, wherein the 
buoyancy chamber (56) is arranged to be able to be filled 

with or emptied of buoyancy or ballast material according 
to requirement. 
A buoy according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the 
extension body (8) is segmented, for division into several 

water-tight chambers (56). 
A buoy according to any of the preceding 
claims, wherein the outer buoyancy member (2) is provided 

with a fender means (59) on at least the upper portion of 
its outer surface. 
A buoy according to claim 8, wherein the 
fender means (59) consists of a layer of an elastic 

material, such as rubber, which is applied to said portion 
of the surface of the outer member (2). 
A buoy according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the 
fender means comprises a number of longitudinally 

extending guiding edge elements which are placed at 
intervals along the periphery of the surface of the outer 

member (2), and which are covered by fender-forming 
material. 
A buoy according to any of the preceding 
claims, comprising a central replaceable bearing support 

member (5) carrying a lower radial bearing (6) and an 
upper axial bearing (7) for the central member (3), the 

central member (3) comprising an upper and a lower hollow 
stem member (4 resp. 45) which, at the transition to the 

extension body (8), are interconnected through a flange 
element (46) which is arranged for support of the central 

member (3) on the outer buoyancy member (2) when the 
bearing support member (5) is removed from the buoy (1). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
