<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654373</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Loading and unloading system for motor vehicle transporter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60P306	B60P308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60P	B60P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60P3	B60P3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for loading motor vehicles onto, and 
unloading motor vehicles from, a transporting vehicle (10) 

enables motor vehicles (26, 28) to be supported one above 
the other on a frame (24), after which the frame (24) with 

its supported motor vehicles is moved as a unit onto the 
transporting vehicle (10) at a loading location. After 

transport of the frame (24) and its motor vehicles (26, 28) 
from the loading location to a destination, the motor 

vehicles are unloaded from the transporting vehicle (10) 
not as a unit but rather individually while the frame (24) 

remains on the transporting vehicle. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
G 
&
 G INTELLECTUAL PROPERTIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
G 
&
 G INTELLECTUAL PROPERTIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEARIN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEARIN, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, DAVID J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the transporting of 
motor vehicles and, more particularly, to the loading of 
motor vehicles onto, and the unloading of motor vehicles 
from, a transporting vehicle which carries the motor 
vehicles from a loading location to a destination. In U.S. patent 4,957,407, which is incorporated 
by reference herein, a system is shown for loading and 
unloading motor vehicles into and out of standard cargo-carrying 
containers or other enclosures which are then 
transported from the loading location to a destination 
where they are unloaded. The loading process is 
accomplished by using high-volume loading equipment to 
load the vehicles one at a time onto a frame, which 
supports the vehicles in respective upper and lower 
positions one above the other, while the frame is 
exterior of the enclosure. Once the frame has been 
loaded, it is inserted together with its supported 
vehicles as a unit into the enclosure for transport. The 
unloading process is the reverse of the loading process, 
that is, the frame with its supported vehicles is removed 
as a unit from the enclosure and then the vehicles are 
unloaded one at a time from the frame. The benefit of 
this system over previous comparable systems, such as 
that shown in U.S. patent 4,768,916 which is also 
incorporated by reference herein, is that at no time must 
a motor vehicle be driven into or out of the frame or 
into or out of any enclosure, thereby preventing damage 
to the vehicle which could otherwise occur by opening the 
door in a confined space to permit the driver to get out 
of the vehicle. The system shown in the aforementioned 
U.S. patent No. 4,957,407 is a less expensive alternative 
to a related system shown in U.S. patent 4,919,582 which 
also avoids the necessity for driving the vehicles into 
or out of the frame or an enclosure.  The system shown in U.S. patent 4,957,407 has 
one possible drawback in that equipment similar to that 
required to load the motor vehicles onto the frame and 
into the enclosure at the loading location must also be 
provided to unload the vehicles at their destination. 
Where the destination point is not a high-volume freight 
terminal but rather a vehicle dealer, it is not 
economically feasible to provide the described high-volume 
unloading equipment. Accordingly, using the 
system of the '407 patent, it has heretofore been 
necessary to transport the motor vehicles over the last 
leg of their journey, i.e. from a freight terminal to an 
individual dealer's location, by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of loading motor vehicles onto, 
and unloading said vehicles from, a transporting vehicle, 

said method comprising: 

(a) providing a vehicle-supporting frame 
capable of supporting a plurality of motor 

vehicles in respective upper and lower 
positions vertically spaced one above the 

other; 
(b) positioning and supporting said motor 
vehicles upon said frame in said 

respective upper and lower positions; 
(c) at a loading location moving said frame, 
with said motor vehicles supported thereon 

in said upper and lower positions, as a 
unit onto an elongate transporting 

vehicle; 
(d) transporting said frame, with said motor 
vehicles thereon, from said loading 

location to a destination on said 
transporting vehicle; and characterized by 
(e) unloading said motor vehicles at said 
destination from said transporting vehicle 

while said frame remains on said 
transporting vehicle. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said 
transporting vehicle includes an elongate enclosure, and 

wherein step (c) comprises inserting said frame and motor 
vehicles as a unit longitudinally into said enclosure and 

step (e) comprises unloading said motor vehicles from 
said transporting vehicle while said frame remains within 

said enclosure. 
The method of claim 1 wherein step (e) 
comprises transferring said motor vehicles from their 

respective positions supported upon said frame to 
respective positions supported independently of said 

frame upon a portion of said transporting vehicle, and 
thereafter tilting said portion of said transporting 

vehicle longitudinally downwardly. 
The method of claim 3, including tilting 
said portion of said transporting vehicle downwardly in a 

forward direction relative to said transporting vehicle. 
The method of claim 1 wherein step (e) 
comprises transferring said motor vehicles from their 

respective positions supported upon said frame to 
respective positions supported independently of said 

frame upon a portion of said transporting vehicle and 
moving said motor vehicles longitudinally along said 

portion of said transporting vehicle without positioning 
any person within said motor vehicles. 
The method of claim 1 wherein step (e) 
includes lowering at least one of said motor vehicles 

with respect to said frame and moving said one of said 
motor vehicles longitudinally along said transporting 

vehicle without positioning any person within said one of 
said motor vehicles. 
The method of claim 1 wherein step (b) 
comprises supporting at least a pair of said motor 

vehicles in respective upper positions on said frame, and 
at least a pair of said motor vehicles in respective 

lower positions on said frame. 
A method of loading and unloading motor 
vehicles, said method comprising: 


(a) providing respective vehicle-supporting 
frames each capable of supporting a 

plurality of motor vehicles in respective 
upper and lower positions vertically 

spaced one above the other; 
(b) positioning and supporting motor vehicles 
upon said frames in said respective upper 

and lower positions; 
(c) moving at least one of said frames, with 
motor vehicles supported thereon in said 

upper and lower positions, as a unit both 
into and out of a standard cargo-carrying 

container; and characterized by 
(d) moving at least one of said frames, with 
motor vehicles supported thereon in said 

upper and lower positions, as a unit onto 
a transporting vehicle and unloading the 

motor vehicles from said transporting 
vehicle while the frame thereon remains on 

said transporting vehicle. 
The method of claim 8 wherein step (d) 
includes lowering at least one of the motor vehicles with 

respect to the frame on said transporting vehicle and 
moving said one of the motor vehicles longitudinally 

along said transporting vehicle without positioning any 
person within said one of the motor vehicles. 
The method of claim 8 wherein step (d) 
comprises transferring the motor vehicles from their 

respective positions supported upon the frame on said 
transporting vehicle to respective positions supported 

independently of the frame upon a portion of said 
transporting vehicle, and moving the motor vehicles along 

 
said portion of said transporting vehicle without 

positioning any person within the motor vehicles. 
The method of claim 10 including tilting 
said portion of said transporting vehicle downwardly. 
The method of claim 11 including tilting 
said portion of said transporting vehicle downwardly in a 

forward direction relative to said transporting vehicle. 
The method of claim 8 wherein step (d) 
comprises inserting the frame and motor vehicles as a 

unit into an enclosing structure on said transporting 
vehicle and unloading the motor vehicles from said 

transporting vehicle while the frame thereon remains 
within said enclosing structure. 
The method of claim 8 wherein step (b) 
comprises supporting at least a pair of said motor 

vehicles in respective upper positions on each of said 
frames, and at least a pair of said motor vehicles in 

respective lower positions on each of said frames. 
A system for loading motor vehicles onto, 
and unloading said vehicles from, a transporting vehicle, 

said system comprising: 

(a) a vehicle-supporting frame capable of 
supporting a plurality of motor vehicles 

in respective upper and lower positions 
vertically spaced one above the other; 
(b) an elongate transporting vehicle 
comprising an elongate enclosure capable 

of removably receiving said frame while 
said plurality of motor vehicles are 

supported on said frame in said upper and 
lower positions; and characterized by 
(c) an assembly mounted within said elongate 
enclosure for unloading said motor 

vehicles from said transporting vehicle, 
while said frame remains on said 

transporting vehicle, by transferring said 
motor vehicles from their respective upper 

and lower positions on said frame to 
positions supported independently of said 

frame upon a portion of said transporting 
vehicle and moving said motor vehicles 

longitudinally along said portion of said 
transporting vehicle without positioning 

any person within said motor vehicles. 
The system of claim 15 wherein said 
portion of said transporting vehicle is tiltable 

longitudinally downwardly. 
The system of claim 16 wherein said 
portion of said transporting vehicle is tiltable 

downwardly in a forward direction relative to said 
transporting vehicle. 
The system of claim 15 wherein said 
assembly includes means for lowering at least one of said 

motor vehicles with respect to said frame without 
positioning any person within said one of said motor 

vehicles. 
The system of claim 18 wherein said 
assembly includes means independent of said frame for 

lowering said one of said motor vehicles. 
The system of claim 15 wherein said 
enclosure includes a selectively raisable top. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
