<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646622</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plastic foam material composed of thermoplastic resin and silane-modified thermoplastic resin and method for making same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L5106	C08L2310	B29C4402	B29C4412	C08L2306	C08L5100	C08J900	C08J910	C08L2300	C08L2312	C08L2500	C08L2504	C08L2302	C08J900	B29C4402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	C08L	B29C	B29C	C08L	C08L	C08J	C08J	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08J	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L51	C08L23	B29C44	B29C44	C08L23	C08L51	C08J9	C08J9	C08L23	C08L23	C08L25	C08L25	C08L23	C08J9	B29C44	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plastic foam material composed of a blended resin composition 
which includes at least two thermoplastic resins and a silane-modified based 

resin. The blended resin composition consists essentially of 100 parts by 
weight of at least two thermoplastic resins, from about 1 to about 50 parts 

by weight of a silane-modified, cross-linked, thermoplastic resin; from about 
0.001 to about 2.5 parts by weight of a cross-linking catalyst for use in a 

silane compound and from about 1 to about 20 parts by weight of a 
foaming agent. According to one embodiment of the present invention, the 

thermoplastic resins include at least two substantially incompatible and 
substantially uncross-linked thermoplastic resins, while in another 

embodiment the two thermoplastic resins need not be substantially 
incompatible. The blended resin composition may further include 

reinforcers such as glass fibers and filler. The thermodecomposition 
foaming agent decomposes at sufficiently high temperatures to yield a 

plastic foam material. The resultant plastic foam material, in turn, exhibits 
superior resilience, improved compression strength and superior heat-insulating 

properties. A method to produce the plastic foam material from 
foamable tubes and foamable pieces is also disclosed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKISUI CHEMICAL CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEKISUI KAGAKU KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOBAYASHI TOMOYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAZAKI KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA MASANORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOBAYASHI, TOMOYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYAZAKI, KENJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAMURA, MASANORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a plastic foam material. More specifically,
this invention relates to a plastic foam material composed of a blended
resin composition containing thermoplastic resins and a silane-modified
resin (hereinafter referred to as "plastic foam material") and products
derived therefrom. The present invention is also directed to a method of
making the plastic foam material.The present invention is also directed to a plastic foam material
which has resin walls which include lattice-shaped or honeycomb-shaped
cross-sections with foam inside. The present invention also relates to a
method for making the same.The plastic foam material of the present invention and products
derived therefrom exhibit improved softness and superior heat-insulating
properties. They are thus capable of being used as heat-insulating
materials. Because of their softness, superior heat-insulating properties and
lightness, products derived from the plastic foam material of the present
invention, can be used extensively in many applications in different fields.Products composed of the plastic foam material of the present
invention are well suited for use as building materials. Such building
materials include ceilings and installment panels. Due to their superior
heat- insulating properties, the plastic foam material will find widespread
use as aircraft, train and automobile components such as panels and 
seating. Various plastic foam material composed of resin compositions
are commercially available but almost all of them are inferior in either heat
resistance or foam generation. Most prior resin compositions which form
prior an plastic foam materials exhibit excessive gel fractions and inner
stresses imparting inferior qualities to conventional plastic foam materials
and their derived products.Notwithstanding increased heat resistance properties of conventional
plastic foam materials, prior art plastic foam materials are well known for
generating less foam and yielding foam materials that have inadequate
compression strength. Accordingly, conventional plastic foam materials and
their derived products are not suited for use inside buildings, as building
materials or as materials for use inside automobiles, trains, and aircraft.Many attempts have been proposed to overcome the
aforementioned drawbacks. Unfortunately, to date the proposed
improvements have been insufficient.One such attempt at improving the overall quality of prior art plastic
foam materials, disclosed In Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication S

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A plastic foam material comprising:

100 parts by weight of an uncross-linked polymer mixture containing
at least two substantially incompatible thermoplastic resins selected from

the group consisting of polyethylene, polypropylene, ethylene-propylene
copolymer, ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer, polystyrene;
from about 1 to about 50 parts by weight of a silane-modified
thermoplastic resin of the same polymer type as at least one of said two

substantially incompatible resins;
from about 0.001 to about 2.5 parts by weight of a cross-linking
catalyst effective to cross-link said silane-modified thermoplastic resin and which initiates cross-linking reaction by

water treatment; and
from about 1 to about 20 parts by weight of a foaming agent.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said polypropylene
includes at least one member selected from the group consisting of a

homopolypropylene, block polypropylene, and random polypropylene.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said at least two
substantially incompatible resins are selected from the group consisting of

polyethylene, polypropylene, and polystyrene.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein:

said polyethylene includes a degree of polymerization of from about
500 to about 6000;
said polypropylene includes a degree of polymerization of from
about 800 to about 12,000; and
said polystyrene includes a degree of polymerization of from about
250 to about 5,000.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said at least two
substantially incompatible thermoplastic resins have a melt index of from

about 0.1 to about 50 g per 10 minutes.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein a density of said
polyethylene is at least 0,91 g/cm
3
; and

a density of said polypropylene is at least 0.89 g/cm
3
.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein a density of said
ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer is from about 0.92 g/cm
3
 to about 0.95
g/cm
3
; and

said density of polystyrene is at least 1.04 g/cm
3
 to about 1.60 g/cm
3
.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein a difference in melt
index between said two substantially incompatible thermoplastic resins is

from about 3 to about 15 g per 10 minutes.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein a gel fraction of
said silane-modified thermoplastic resin, after cross-linking, is from about

60 to about 85 parts by weight. -
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said silane-modified

thermoplastic resin is at least one member selected from the
group consisting of silane-modified thermoplastic resin of polyethylene,

silane-modified thermoplastic, resin of polypropylene, silane-modified
thermoplastic resin of an ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer, and silane-modified

thermoplastic resin of polystyrene.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said silane-modified
thermoplastic resin includes at least one member selected from

the group consisting of silane-modified thermoplastic resin of polyethylene,
polypropylene and polystyrene. 
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said silane-modified
thermoplastic resin includes a thermoplastic resin modified by an

unsaturated silane compound by graft polymerization.
The plastic foam material at claim 12, wherein said unsaturated
silane compound includes one represented by the following formula:


R'SiR''
m
Y
3-m
.

   where,

R'
 includes at least one member selected from the group consisting
of an alkenyl group, a glycidyl group, an amino group, a methacrylic group

and a halogenated alkyl group;
R''
 includes at least one member selected from the group consisting
of an alkyl group and an aryl group and similar groups;
m
 represents one of 0, 1, or 2; and
Y
 includes an organic group capable of being hydrolyzed.
The plastic foam material of claim 13, wherein said unsaturated
silane compound includes one represented by the following formula:


CH
2
=CHSi(OA)
3

   where,

A
 includes a hydrocarbon group with 1 to 8 carbon atoms.
The plastic foam material of claim 14, wherein said 
A
 includes
a hydrocarbon group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms.
The plastic foam material of claim 14, wherein said unsaturated
silane compound is at least one member selected from the group consisting

of vinyl trimethoxysilane, vinyl triethoxysilane, and vinyl triacetoxysilane.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said cross-linking
catalyst includes at least one member selected from the group consisting of 

a dibutyl tin diacetate, dibutyl tin dilaurate, dioctyl tin dilaurate, tin
octanoate, tin oleate, lead octanoate, 2-ethyl hexane zinc, cobalt octanoate,

lead naphtenate, zinc caprylate, and zinc stearate.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said foaming
agent is capable of decomposing at sufficiently high temperatures.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said foaming
agent includes at least one member selected from the group consisting of

an azodicarbonamide (1,1'-azobisformamide), azobisisobutylonitrile, N,N'-dinitrosopentamethylene
tetramine, 4,4-oxybis(benzens sulfonyl hydrazide)

barium azodicarboxylate, trihydrazinotriazine, benzene sulfonyl hydrazide and
toluene sulfonyl hydrazide.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said foaming
agent includes azodicarbonamide,
The plastic foam material of claim 1 further comprising:
from about 1 to about 20 parts by weight of a glass fiber effective

to improve strength and dimensional stability of said plastic foam material.
The plastic foam material of claim 21, wherein said glass fiber
has a diameter of from about 5 µm to about 30 µm.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein said silane-modified
thermoplastic resin is present in an amount of from about 5 to

about 40 parts by weight. 
A method for preparing a plastic foam material comprising
thermoplastic resins, comprising the steps of:


preparing about 100 parts by weight of an uncross-linked polymer
mixture containing at least two substantially incompatible resins selected

from the group consisting of a polyethylene, polypropylene, ethylene-propylene 
copolymer, ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer, and polystyrene to

form a first mixture;
adding from about 1 to about 50 parts by weight of a silane-modified
thermoplastic resin of the same polymer type as at least one of said two

substantially incompatible resins to said first mixture;
adding from about 0.001 to about 2.5 parts by weight of a cross-linking
catalyst effective to cross-link said silane-modified thermoplastic

resin and;
adding from about 1 to about 20 parts by weight of a foaming agent
to said first mixture to form a blended resin composition;
extruding said blended resin composition to form one of a
thermoplastic resin sheet material and a thermoplastic resin strand

material;
exposing said one of said resin sheet material and resin strand
material to a first cross-linking source to form a cross-linked one of said

resin sheet material and resin strand material wherein the said cross-linked
resin sheet and cross-linked resin strand includes only cross-linked silane-modified

thermoplastic resin; and
exposing said one of said cross-linked resin sheet and said cross-linked
resin strand to a foaming heat source to form said plastic foam

material.
A method for preparing a plastic foam material comprising
thermoplastic resins, comprising the steps of:


preparing from about 100 parts by weight of an uncross-linked
polymer mixture containing at least two resins selected from the group

consisting of polyethylene, polypropylene, and ethylene-propylene
copolymer to form a first mixture; 
adding from about 1 to about 50 parts by weight of a silane-modified
thermoplastic resin of the same polymer type as at least one of said two

resins to said first mixture;
adding from about 0.001 to about 2.5 parts by weight of a cross-linking
catalyst effective to cross-link said silane-modified thermoplastic

resin; adding from about 1 to about 20 parts by weight of a foaming
agent to said first mixture to form a blended resin composition;
extruding said blended resin composition to form a thermoplastic
resin sheet;
exposing said resin sheet to a cross-linking source to form a cross-linked
resin sheet wherein the cross-linked resin sheet includes only cross-linked

silane-modified thermoplastic resin; and
exposing said cross-linked resin sheet to a foaming heat source to
form a plastic foam material.
The plastic foam material of claim 1, wherein a weight ratio of
said two substantially incompatible thermoplastic resins is from about 2:8

to about 8:2.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
