<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624443</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dehumidifier for plastic materials in granules.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29B1300	B29B1306	F26B2106	F26B2108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29B	B29B	F26B	F26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29B13	B29B13	F26B21	F26B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a dehumidifier for 
plastic materials (11) in granules that comprises a 

container (12) for molecular sieves through which the moist 
air that arrives from a container (10) of plastic granules 

(11) must pass. The molecular sieves are arranged inside 
the container (12) along a ring (14) through which the air 

flows axially. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MORETTO P A SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MORETTO P.A. S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETTO RENATO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETTO, RENATO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a dehumidifier for 
plastic materials in granules. As it is known, one of the negative characteristics of 
plastic materials in granules is that they absorb moisture, 
accumulate it and contain it in their structures. This is a drawback for the subsequent steps for 
converting the granules into parts or extruded items. The moisture contained in the granules in fact 
unavoidably condenses on the walls of the mold, producing 
surface streaks that cause the rejection of the freshly 
transformed item. In industrial polymers, during injection or extrusion 
the uniformly distributed moisture concentrates in pockets, 
ridges, chokes or reinforcements, which are thus altered in 
their molecular structure. Consequently, a considerable reduction of mechanical 
strength occurs due to the breakage of the bonds among the 
molecules. In order to obviate these drawbacks, dehumidifiers 
have been known for several years that are based on the 
principle of filtering air through so-called "molecular 
sieves". The treated air has an extremely low moisture content, 
and when it is made to flow through the container of the 
plastic granules it can absorb their water until it 
saturates. Subsequent flow of the air through the molecular 
sieves transfers the moisture to the sieves. A closed circuit is thus formed that operates until  
 
the sieves are saturated. Accordingly, it is necessary to rid the molecular 
sieves of the absorbed water, in order to make them active 
again, by heating them to a high temperature. During this step, dehumidifiers do not perform their 
functions. Accordingly, dehumidifiers are generally provided with 
two containers for molecular sieves which work alternately 
so as to avoid downtimes for the reactivation of one sieve 
or the other. These dehumidifiers are termed "twin-tower 
dehumidifiers" due to the presence of the two molecular 
sieve containers. The process that uses molecular sieves is rather 
complicated, and therefore expensive, in production as well 
as in operation. Accordingly there is the need to obtain compact 
dehumidifiers that can have a satisfactory efficiency, 
small productions, modest consumptions and reasonable 
investment costs. Single-tower dehumidifiers have thus been produced that 
suspend their dehumidification work during the regeneration 
step. A principal aim of the present invention is to provide 
a dehumidifier for plastic materials in granules of the 
single-tower type in which the step for regenerating the 
molecular sieves
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Dehumidifier for plastic materials in granules, 
comprising a container (12) for molecular sieves through 

which the moist air arriving from a container (10) of 
plastic granules (11) must pass, characterized in that said 

molecular sieves are arranged along a ring (14) through 
which the air flows axially. 
Dehumidifier according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said molecular sieve container coaxially contains a 

cup-like element (13) that forms said annular ring (14) 
filled with molecular sieves. 
Dehumidifier according to claim 2, characterized in 
that said molecular sieves are also arranged at the bottom 

(15) of said cup-like element. 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the region (14,15) 

filled with said annular sieves is delimited by an annular 
partition (16) at the top and by a grille (17) at the 

bottom, an axially arranged annular grille (18) being 
located between the upper edge of said cup-like element and 

said annular partition. 
Dehumidifier according to claim 4, characterized in 
that said bottom grille (17) is pushed by springs (19) so 

as to compress said molecular sieves and is guided by rods 
(21) that pass through the region (14,15) of said molecular 

sieves and are fixed to said annular partition (16). 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that a coaxial tubular 

element (22) extends inside said cup-like element (13) and 
 

contains an appropriately powered electric resistor (23). 
Dehumidifier according to claim 6, characterized in 
that the inside of said tubular element that contains said 

resistor and the inside of the bottom of said container are 
connected to ducts (24,25) for the passage of the air being 

processed. 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that a distribution unit 

(26) is arranged between said hopper (10) and said 
container (12) of molecular sieves and comprises a tubular 

element (27) which is closed at its ends and in which a rod 
(28) is arranged axially, said rod supporting spaced disk-like 

shutters (29) and being associated with a pneumatic 
actuation cylinder (30), each one of said shutters being 

movable between pairs of annular elements (31) that are 
fixed to the inner wall of said tubular element (27) and 

divide said tubular element into regions (32-38). 
Dehumidifier according to claim 8, characterized in 
that said regions (32-38) into which said tubular element 

is divided are seven. 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that said rod (28) is 

internally hollow and has, at a first end region of said 
distribution unit, radial holes (39) for connection to the 

inside of said rod, the loose end of said rod, which is 
closed at its tip, being also provided with radial holes 

(42) that can move with it between a position that lies 
inside a bushing (43) or equivalent bush of said tubular 

element and a position that lies outside it. 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
 

preceding claims, characterized in that the seventh region 
(38) is provided with holes (50) for connection to the 

atmosphere. 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the bottom of said 

container (12) of molecular sieves is connected to said 
first region (32) of said distribution unit by means of a 

duct (25). 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that said tubular 

element (22) that contains said resistor is connected to 
the third region (34) of said distribution unit by means of 

a duct (24). 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that a duct (44) 

provided with a filter (45) and a pump (46) is arranged 
between the second region (33) and the sixth region (37) of 

said distribution unit (26). 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the bottom of said 

hopper (10) is connected to said fourth region (35) by 
means of a duct (47). 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that a duct (48) 

provided with a filter (49) is connected to the fifth 
region (36) of said distribution unit and leads into the 

upper region of said hopper (10). 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that in a first 

configuration of said distribution unit the first region 
 

(32) is connected to the second region (33), the third 
region (34) is connected to the fourth region (35), and the 

fifth region (36) is connected to the sixth region (37). 
Dehumidifier according to one or more of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that in a second 

configuration of said distribution unit the second region 
(33) is connected to the third region (34), the fourth 

region (35) is connected to the fifth region (36), the 
sixth region (37) is connected to the seventh region (38), 

and the first region (32) is connected to the atmosphere. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
