<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648393</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS TEST SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B726	H04B726	H04B1700	H04B1700	H04M1700	H04M1700	H04W2400	H04W2400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04M	H04M	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04B17	H04B17	H04M17	H04M17	H04W24	H04W24	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A testing system (28) for wireless communication networks, particularly cellular networks, having a test set (30, 36) located in a cell site which communicates through the cell's base station to a responder (32, 38) at the mobile telephone switching office (MTSO, 34). The test set (30, 36), which includes a measurement module (48), controller (44), modem (46), and cellular phone (50), initiates the call to the responder (32, 38), and directs the responder to transmit and receive certain test signals which are then measured by the measurement module. The test set (30, 36), which may be fixed or mobile, provides essentially continuous monitoring of voice channels within a given cell, and can send an alarm in near real-time to the network control center when a faulty voice channel is detected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNIPPELMIER GARY H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNIPPELMIER, GARY, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS TEST SYSTEMBackground of the Invention1. Field of the Invention The present invention generally relates to testing devices for communications systems, and more particularly to a system for testing voice transmission quality in a cellular communications network.2. Description of the Prior Art In the last several years, the telephony industry has seen a dramatic rise in the use of wireless forms of communication, particularly cellular networks. As most cellular subscribers know, however, signal quality in cellular networks is generally much poorer than that found in land-based systems (i.e., copper and fiber optic transmission) . Thus, more users are demanding the same quality (audio) in cellular connections as are found in landline connections. Such a parity has yet to be achieved, however, for several reasons. First of all, the causes of signal degradation in a cellular setting are quite different from those in a land-based system. In addition to possible problems in the landline or the public switched telephone network (PSTN) , problems can arise at any point in the remaining signal path, including the cellular base station, the radio wave path, and the mobile unit. Moreover, although some systems include means (such as antennas having VSWR and TX alarms) for detecting signal deterioration under certain conditions, there are many causes of reduced signal strength which will not be detected, including water in an antenna, partial lightning damage to an antenna or cable, recently created obstructions (new buildings) , a damaged feeder, or a damaged, faulty or waterlogged connector. The divergence between land-based and cellular transmission quality may also be due in part to the fact that no formal standards have been established for 

measuring the quality of cellular transmissions. By way of comparison, telephone companies presently use a series of measurements commonly referred to as "105" tests, in order to evaluate signal transmission on telephone trunk lines. The 105 tests have become a de facto standard throughout North America for measuring voice transmission quality. These tests (which are discussed further below in conjunction with Figure 1) are carried out by one of several available testing systems, such as the START or CAROT systems. START is a trademark of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. (3M) , assignee of the present invention; CAROT is not a trademark, but is an acronym for American Telephone and Telegraph Co.'s centralized automatic reporting on trunks
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. An apparatus for testing transmissions in a wireless communications network, comprising: phone means for providing wireless access to the network; measurement means, connected to said phone means, for detecting an incoming test signal transmitted to said phone means; processor means for controlling said phone means and said measurement means; and modem means, connected to said processor means and said phone means, for enabling said processor means to communicate with an external control center through said phone means. 2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said measurement means includes means for measuring one or more transmission characteristics selected from the group consisting of signal loss, return loss, noise, noise with tone, or 3-tone gain/slope. 3. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said processor means further includes means for: recording the value of at least one transmission characteristic of the incoming test signal; comparing said value to a predetermined pass/fail threshold; and informing the external control center if said value exceeds said threshold.
4. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein: said wireless communications network comprises a cellular system characterized by a plurality of cell sites, each of said cell sites having a base station which assigns one of a plurality of voice channels to a given wireless call, each of said voice channels having a unique voice channel number; and said phone means includes means for identifying said voice channel number associated with said call. 


 5. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein: the wireless communications network includes (i) a base station for providing wireless communication with said phone means, (ii) remote switch means connected to the base station, for directing calls from the base station to a subscriber line, and (iii) responder means connected to the switch means for transmitting the incoming test signal; and said processor means directs said phone means to dial a number associated with the responder means, and further directs the responder means to transmit the incoming test signal.
6. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein: the wireless communications network includes (i) a base station for providing wireless communication with said phone means, (ii) local switch means connected to the base station, for directing calls from the base station to a subscriber line, and (iii) responder means connected to the switch means for transmitting the incoming test signal; and said processor means directs said phone means to dial a number associated with the responder means, and further directs the responder means to transmit the incoming test signal. 7. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising portable means for supplying power to the apparatus.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said processor means further includes means for recording the received signal strength of the incoming test signal. 9. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said processor means includes: clock means for determining a reporting time; and means for downloading a status report to the external control center via said phone means.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said processor means includes: 


 clock means for determining an in-call time; and means for receiving program instructions, via said phone means, during said in-call time. 11. The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said controller means generates said predetermined thresholds based on samplings of the transmission characteristic values.
12. The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein said processor means further includes means for recording the elapsed time from initiation of said call to the moment said voice channel is assigned.
13. The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein: said measurement means further includes means for transmitting an outgoing test signal through said phone means; and the responder means further includes means for detecting the outgoing test signal.
14. The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein: the wireless communications network includes a plurality of the base stations, each connected to the switch means, the switch means further having a plurality of the responder means connected thereto, each of the responder means being associated with a particular base station; the apparatus is located at a given one of the base station; and said processor means further includes means for storing a telephone number of the particular responder means which is associated with the given base station. 


 15. A test system for a wireless communications network which includes a base station for providing wireless communications and switch means remote from the base station for directing calls from the base station to a subscriber line, the system comprising: responder means connected to the switch means for transmitting an incoming test signal; a test set having (i) phone means for providing wireless access to the base station, (ii) measurement means, connected to said phone means, for detecting said incoming test signal when transmitted to said phone means, (iii) processor means for controlling said phone means and said measurement means, said processor means directing said phone means to dial a number associated with said responder means, and further directing said responder means to transmit said incoming test signal, and (iv) modem means, connected to said processor means and said phone means, for enabling said processor means to communicate with an external control center through said phone means.
16. The system of Claim 15 wherein: said measurement means further includes means for transmitting an outgoing test signal through said phone means; and said responder means further includes means for detecting the outgoing test signal.
17. The system of Claim 15 wherein: the wireless communications network includes a plurality of the base stations, each connected to the switch means, the switch means further having a plurality of said responder means connected thereto, each of said responder means being associated with a particular base station; the test set is located at a given one of the base stations; and said processor means further includes means for storing a telephone number of the particular responder 


means which is associated with the given base station.
18. The system of Claim 15 wherein said test set is fixed locally at said base station.
19. The system of Claim 15 wherein said test set is mobile and remote from said base station. 

20. A test system for a cellular communications network which includes a plurality of base stations for providing wireless communications, remote switch means connected to each of the base stations by trunk lines, for directing calls from the base station to a subscriber line, and a network control center connected via a public switch telephone network to the switch means, the system comprising: a plurality of responder means, each connected to the switch means, for transmitting an incoming test signal, each of said responder means being associated with a particular base station; and a plurality of test sets, each associated with a particular base station, each of said test sets having: phone means for providing wireless access to the particular base station, measurement means, connected to said phone means, for detecting said incoming test signal when transmitted to said phone means, said measurement means including means for measuring one or more transmission characteristics selected from the group consisting of signal loss, return loss, noise, noise with tone, or 3-tone gain/slope, processor means for controlling said phone means and said measurement means, said processor means directing said phone means to dial a number of said responder means associated with the particular base station, and further directing said responder means to transmit said incoming test signal, and modem means, connected to said processor means and said phone means, for enabling said processor means to communicate with the network control center through said phone means. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
