<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655183</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF MANUFACTURING A MULTILAYER PRINTED WIRE BOARD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K346	H05K346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for manufacturing a multi-layer printed wire board, also referred to as a multilayer, comprising at least two electrically insulating substrates with electrically conductive traces or layers provided on at least three surfaces thereof, in which process, by means of lamination under pressure, a cured basic substrate based on a UD-reinforced synthetic material, provided on either side with traces, is combined with and bonded to a back-up substrate, wherein during the laminating process the back-up substrate is added to the basic substrate, the base substrate and the back-up substrate comprising a UD-reinforced cured core layer, the base substrate having been provided at least on the side facing the back-up substrate with a still plastically deformable (flowable) adhesive layer, and such a pressure is exerted on the laminate as to bring said back-up substrate into contact or practically into contact with the conducting traces of the basic substrate, and the space between these traces is filled with the adhesive material, so bonding the basic substrate and the back-up substrate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMP AKZO LINLAM VOF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMP-AKZO LINLAM VOF
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIDDELMAN ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZUURING PIETER HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIDDELMAN, ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZUURING, PIETER, HENDRIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method of manufacturing a multilayer 
printed wire board. Such a printed wire board comprises at least three 
conductive layers, of which usually at least two are copper-layers on 
the outer surfaces and at least one is an internal circuit. The method 
to which the invention pertains comprises bonding by lamination at 
least one hard base substrate provided with conductive traces on at 
least one side and at least one intermediate substrate, the bonding 
involving the use of an adhesive layer in between said two substrates. A method of the above type has been disclosed in IBM Technical 
Disclosure Bulletin Vol 32 No. 5B, pages 355-356. In the known method 
use is made of at least one intermediate substrate which comprises a 
hard core layer provided with an adhesive layer at least at the side 
facing the conductive traces of the base substrate. The method serves 
to substantially eliminate the dimensional instability that usually 
occurs in composite lamination processes. While this can be recognized 
as a substantial improvement in the manufacture of multilayer boards, 
the disclosure fails to address an even more important problem 
associated with multilayer boards, viz. that of providing a material 
displaying thermal coefficients of expansion (TCE) sufficiently low so 
as to match the TCE of electronic components (chips) used in 
conjunction with the multilayer board. A woven glass fabric (cloth) 
being used as the reinforcement material it is immediately apparent to 
the person of ordinary skill in the art that the TCEs obtained are 
relatively high. Further, the prior art substrates and the resulting 
multilayer boards require improved dimension stability. Similar considerations apply to US 3,756,891, which discloses a method 
of manufacturing multilayer PWBs involving the stacking of circuitized 
boards with adhesive coated sheets. The adhesive is chosen so as not 
to flow into the through-hole interconnection areas present in the 
boards.  
 A different approach towards multilayer PWBs is the sequential 
laminating technique disclosed in RCA review 29 (1968) pages 582-599, 
particularly pages 596-597. Although a base-substrate provided with 
circuitry on both sides is laminated with an adhesive coated 
dielectric layer, the adhesive coated layer is not an intermediate 
substrate in between base substrates in accordance with the invention, 
but serves as a substrate for a next printed circuit. The disclosure 
does not address the type of substrate used, let alone that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a multilayer printed wire board 
comprising bonding by lamination at least one hard-core base 

substrate which is provided with conductive traces and voids between said traces, on at least one 
side and at least one hard-core intermediate substrate, the 

bonding involving the use of an adhesive layer in between said two 
substrates, wherein the adhesive layer is coated 

onto the circuitized base substrate at the side facing the 
intermediate substrate, the adhesive being flowable and the 

lamination being conducted under a pressure 
bringing the intermediate substrate into contact or virtually 

into contact with the conductive traces of the base substrate, the 
adhesive filling the voids that are present between the traces, 

the base substrate and the intermediate substrate comprising a 
fibre-reinforced thermoset matrix material, the reinforcement 

being in the form of a crosswise arrangement of layers of 
unidirectionally oriented fibres. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that use is made 
of an uncoated intermediate substrate. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that an 
intermediate substrate is provided on both sides of the base 

substrate. 
A method according to claim 3, characterized in that use is made 
of one double-sided adhesive coated base substrate provided with 

conductive traces on both sides, and that the intermediate  
 

substrates on the side facing away from the base substrate are 
provided with conductive traces or have a surface rendered 

suitable for being provided with conductive traces. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that each 
intermediate substrate is sandwiched between adjacent base 

substrates each provided with a flowable adhesive layer at the 
side facing the intermediate substrate or substrates, and such 

pressure is exerted on the laminate during the laminating process 
as will bring said intermediate substrate or substrates into 

contact or virtual contact with the conductive traces of the base 
substrates and fill the void between these traces on either side 

of the intermediate substrate or substrates with the adhesive 
material. 
A method according to claim 5, characterized in that each of a 
plurality of n intermediate substrates, with n being an integer 

higher than 1, is sandwiched between adjacent base substrates, the 
number of base substrates thus being n + 1, followed by 

lamination. 
A method according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that 
lamination is conducted under increased pressure and elevated 

temperature. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the thickness 
of each flowable adhesive layer is of the same order of magnitude 

as that of the conductive traces. 
A method according to claim 8, characterized in that the thickness 
of each intermediate substrate is of the same order of magnitude 

as that of the base substrates.  
 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the base substrates are provided with 

electrically conductive vias. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that electrically conductive vias are formed in 

the substrates after each laminating step. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that for the flowable adhesive layer provided on 

one or both sides of a circuitized base substrate use is made of a 
glue based on an uncured or only partially cured thermosetting 

synthetic material. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the matrix of the core layers of the 

substrates is selected from the following group of thermosetting 
synthetic materials: cyanate resins, unsaturated polyester resins, 

vinyl ester resins, acrylate resins, BT-epoxy resin, bismaleimide 
resin, polyimide, phenol resins, triazines, polyurethanes, 

biscitraconic resins, and combinations of these resins. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the matrix of the core layers of the 

substrates also comprises a thermoplastic synthetic material. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the matrix of the core layers of the 

substrates comprises thermoplastic as well as thermosetting 
synthetic materials.  

 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the reinforcing fibre is selected from the 

following group of materials: A-glass, AR-glass, C-glass, D-glass, 
E-glass, R-glass, S1-glass, S2-glass, quartz, silica, 

paraphenylene terephthalamide, polybenzobisoxazole, 
polybenzobisthiazole, and polybenzoimidazole, polyethylene 

terephthalate, and polyphenylene sulphide. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the adhesive layer is comprised of a 

thermosetting synthetic material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
