<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642283</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data transmission in a radio telephone network
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1256	H04L1256	H04B726	H04B726	H04W7604	H04W7600	H04W8800	H04W7602	H04W7200	H04W7214	H04W9200	H04W9210	H04W8816	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04B	H04B	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04B7	H04B7	H04W76	H04W76	H04W88	H04W76	H04W72	H04W72	H04W92	H04W92	H04W88	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
For bidirectional transmission of packet data, a packet data service unit (Agent) 
is in a digital cellular system connected to be in association with a Mobile 

Switching Center, said unit connecting the cellular network to the data network. 
As a mobile station is connected to the packet data service unit, signalling 

related to connection formation characteristic of the network is first 
accomplished. As a result thereof, the mobile station and the data service unit 

are provided with a number of stored parameters of each other. Such situation 
is called virtual channel. When a mobile station wants to transmit or receive data 

packets, between the mobile station and the data service unit a packet data 
transfer channel is established making use of the data of the virtual channel and 

thereby, using substantially less signalling than the channel establishment 
signalling characteristic of the network, one part thereof being a radio channel 

and the other part a time slot in a digital trunk line. On terminated data packet 
transfer, at least said radio channel is disassembled but the virtual channel is 

maintained until the disconnection of the mobile station from the data service. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMALAINEN JARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOKIAHO TIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMALAINEN, JARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOKIAHO, TIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the transmission of data in a radio 
telephone network. An example of a radio telephone network, in this case a conventional digital 
cellular network, is shown in Fig. 1 A. The network comprises Base Station 
Controllers BSC, each of which control a number of Base Transceiver Stations 
(BTS). The BTS and the mobile stations are connected via a radio 
communications channel. The Base Station Controller and the base stations with 
which it is connected form a Base Station Subsystem. The BSCs are connected 
to Mobile Switching Centres (MSC) via digital trunk lines which control the base 
station subsystems. The MSCs route communication traffic to general PSTN or 
private networks (such as LAN). A Base Station Controller may also be physically 
located with the Mobile Switching Center. The service range of a base station 
forms a cell and a Mobile Station within the service range is typically served by 
the base station. The mobile station is able to move from one cell to another and 
roam from under the control of one base station controller to be under the control 
of another controller without losing a connection to the radio telephone network. In known cellular networks data information can be transmitted between the 
home network of a mobile station and a terminal or destination network. The 
terminal network can include a home network, another network of the same 
system, a fixed telephone network, or a data network. The network services 
typically include synchronous and asynchronous circuit-switched data transfer 
from the cellular network to the external telephone network PSTN, to a circuit-switched 
data network or an ISDN network. Suggestions have also been made 
on implementing asynchronous packet switching to an external packet switched  
 
data network. As shown in Fig. 1A, data transmitted by a mobile station enters a data Inter 
Working Functions unit, IWF, associated with the Mobile Switching Centre, from 
there via a modem to the Centre wherefrom it is further transmitted, e.g. via the 
PSTN, to a target means or target data network, such as a private LAN network. 
The transition network is thus the general telephone network. A typical method of data transmission between networks and also within a 
network is circuit switching, in which a transfer channel is established for the 
transfer of data. Establishing a channel is a time-consuming operation and 
requires a lot of signalling, such as sending a control channel request and 
assignment of a channel,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A radio telephone system comprising: 
a mobile station; and 

a fixed station, wherein a parameter of the mobile station for setting up a data 
communication channel is capable of being stored by the fixed station and a 

parameter of the fixed station for setting up a data communication channel is 
capable of being stored by the mobile station, for forming a virtual data 

communication channel between the mobile station and the fixed station, thereby 
expediting establishment of a real data communication channel. 
2. A system according to claim 1, adapted to form the virtual data 
communication channel if a mobile station having data communication capability 

registers with the fixed station. 
3. A system according to claim 1, adapted to form the virtual data 
communication channel if a mobile station registered with the fixed station 

requests the setting up of a data communication channel. 
4. A system according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the data 
communication channel is a channel usually reserved for speech communication. 
5. A system according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the data 
communication channel is a control channel. 
6. A system according to any preceding claim, wherein there is provided a 
control means for controlling communication between the mobile station, the 

fixed station and an external communication network. 
7. A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the data 
communication channel is adapted for transmitting packet data. 
8. A system according to any preceding claim comprising a digital time-division 
cellular network having a Mobile Switching Center, a base station 

controller connected thereto, and a plurality of base stations connected to said 
base station controller, and a plurality of mobile stations, whereby the radio 

channels between the mobile station and the base station comprise: 

a Traffic CHannel (TCH) for transfer of speech and data, and a control 
channel in association with said channel, 
a Random Access CHannel (RACH), whereon the mobile stations request 
a traffic channel, 
a common Paging CHannel (PCH), whereon a base station sends a paging 
signal to a mobile station, 
an Access Grant CHannel (AGCH), whereon the base station informs the 
mobile station of the traffic channel assigned thereto, wherein the control means 

is a packet data service unit and is connected to the Mobile Switching Center, 
(Agent) for connecting the cellular network to a data network. 
on switching a mobile station to the packet data service unit, signalling 
characteristic of the setting up of a connection to the network is performed, as 

a result of which the mobile station and the data service unit include stored a 
number of parameters of each other, said parameters including a Radio Link 

Protocol (RLP) and forming a virtual channel, 
when a mobile station wants to transfer or receive data packets, a packet 
data transfer channe
l is assembled between the mobile station and the data 
service unit, making use of the data of the virtual channel, and therethrough by 

a substantially lesser amount of signalling than in channel assembly signalling 
typical of the network, one part of said transfer channel being a radio channel 

 
and the other part a time slot in a digital trunk line, 
on terminated data packet transfer, at least said radio channel is 
disassembled whereas the virtual channel is maintained to the release of the 

mobile station from the data service. 
9. System according to claim 8, wherein the packet data service unit (Agent) 
comprises means for: 


registering all mobile stations connected to a packet data service 
under the control of the Mobile Switching Center, 
informing the mobile station of any data packets addressed thereto, 
transferring data packets from the mobile station addressed to the rest of 
the network, 
transferring messages to the mobile station entering from the rest of the 
network, 
buffering data packets, 
performing encrypting / decrypting, 
performing compression /decompression of the data to and from the 
mobile station, 
updating a data base of the location of the mobile stations, 
receiving the data packets addressed to the paging channel, 
removing the mobile station from the register after it is disconnected from 
the packet data service. 
10. System according to claim 8, or claim 9, wherein the packet data service 
unit (Agent) adapts the data packets from the network layer to virtual channel 

protocol packets, said virtual channel protocol packets being composed of one 
or more radio traffic protocol (RLP) frames. 
11. System according to claim 10, wherein the virtual channel protocol packet 
is provided with an identification part indicating whether the contents of a packet 

contain signalling data or upper layer data packet. 
12. System according to any of claims 8 to 11, wherein when a mobile station 
wants to transmit data packets, it sends on the random access channel a request 

for establishing a transfer channel, said request being a modification of the 
standard channel request of the network. 
13. System according to any of claims 8 to 12, wherein when data packets 
are transferred to the mobile station, the base station sends a message on the 

common paging channel to it about a data packet transfer to come, whereafter 
the mobile station sends on the random access channel a request to the base for 

establishing a transfer channel, said request being a modification of the standard 
channel request of the network. 
14. System according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the base station transmits 
the control channel data used in signalling to the mobile station, and transfer 

channel data. 
15. System according to claim 14, wherein after the signalling between the 
mobile station and the packet data service unit, a second part of the packet data 

transfer channel is established, whereby the entire packet data transfer channel 
is ready for packet transfer. 
16. System according to claim 15, wherein said signalling is carried out on a 
Dedicated Fast Access CHannel, FACCH of the network. 
17. System according to any of claims 8 to 16, wherein a second part of the 
transfer channel is a direct PCM connection from the controller of the base 

station to the packet data service unit, whereby said part of the transfer channel 
is active irrespective of the packet data transfer. 
18 System according to any of claims 8 to 16, wherein the second part of the 
transfer channel is a variable time slot on the PCM trunk line, whereby said 

second part is disassembled after the termination of the data packet transfer. 
19. System according to any of claims 8 to 18, wherein the first part of 
the packet data transfer channel is a traffic channel. 
20. System according to any of claims 8 to 18, wherein the first part of the 
packet data transfer channel is a random access channel when packet data are 

transferred from the mobile station to the packet data service unit, and the 
common paging channel when packet data are transferred from the packet data 

service unit to the mobile station. 
21. System according to any of claims 8 to 18, wherein in the course of a 
transfer of packet data, the first part of the transfer channel is alternatively the 

traffic channel and the random access channel and the common paging channel. 
22. System according to any of claims 8 to 21, wherein a paging message 
transmitted to all mobile stations (broadcast) of the cell and to certain mobile 

stations (multicast) is transmitted on the data section of the multicast and the 
broadcast protocol. 
23. A method of transmitting data in a radio telephone network comprising:
 

storing a parameter of a mobile station for setting up a data communication 
channel at a fixed station; and 

storing a parameter of the fixed station for setting up a data communication 
channel at the mobile station, for forming a virtual data communication channel 

between the mobile station and the fixed station, thereby expediting 
establishment of a real data communication channel. 
24. A method according to claim 23, further comprising forming the virtual 
data communication channel if a mobile station having data communication 

capability registers with the fixed station. 
25. A method according to claim 23, further comprising forming the virtual 
data communication channel if a mobile station registered with the fixed station 

requests the setting up of a data communication channel. 
26. A method according to any of claims 23 to 25, further comprising utilising 
a communication channel usually reserved for speech communication for data 

communication. 
27. A method according to any of claims 23 to 25, further comprising utilising 
a control channel as a data communication channel. 
28. A radio telephone adapted to store a parameter for setting up a 
communication channel of a fixed station for forming a virtual data 

communication channel with the fixed station thereby expediting establishment 
of a real data communication channel. 
29. A radio telephone according to claim 28, adapted to store said parameter 
 

if said radio telephone has a data communication ability and if said radio 
telephone registers with the fixed station. 
30. A radio telephone according to claim 28, adapted to store said parameter 
if said radio telephone is registered with the fixed station and requests the 

setting up of a data communication channel. 
31. A radio telephone adapted for use in a system according to any of 
claims 1 to 22. 
32. A radio telephone adapted for use in a method according to any of 
claims 23 to 27. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
