<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643832</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMMUNOASSAY METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33543	G01N33543	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is provided for determining false negative results in an immunoassay for an analyte of interest by determining the presence of sample in an immunoassay vessel in which the immunoassay is carried out. The method comprises using a sample monitor reagent or reagent system that is capable of producing a signal when sample is present, the sample monitor reagent or reagent system being different for the analyte-specific reagent or reagent system used in the immunoassay itself. A negative signal generated by the sample monitor reagent or reagent denotes a false negative result in the immunoassay itself.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT MUREX TECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL MUREX TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNCAN RICHARD JULIAN STUART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNCAN, RICHARD JULIAN STUART
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Immunoassay MethodThe present invention relates to an improvement in methods of carrying out immunoassays, especially on samples of body fluids and other samples obtained from humans and non-human animals.There are essentially two types of immunoassay format, one in which an antibody or antigen is captured selectively onto a solid phase from a sample under investigation, and another, a homogeneous phase assay format, in which the antibody or antigen under investigation is detected in solution. (Unless stated otherwise, the term "antigen" as used herein includes haptens.)It is particularly convenient to carry out immunoassays in small tubes or, especially, in the wells of microtitre plates(microwells) because of the automated systems available for handling such vessels. An automated system may simply be a spectrophotometric microplate reader, or the system may be more advanced and capable of performing such steps as washing, dispensing various reagents and incubating, and then reading the results of an assay, especially spectrophotometrically.In an immunoassay in which an antigen or antibody is captured from the sample under investigation and immobilised within an immunoassay vessel, the solid phase on which the capture occurs is, for example, beads of a polymeric substance, especially a synthetic plastics material, or particles, for example, so- called "latex" particles, stabilised blood or red blood cells, bacterial or fungal cells, spores, gold or other metallic sols, and proteinaceous colloids. The size of particles is generally from about 0.1 to 5 microns, and beads generally larger, for example, from about 2 mm to 10 mm. Alternatively, the solid phase on which the antibody or antigen is captured may be the coated wells of a microtitre plate, or a slide or "tile" having coated hollows. Slides, cards and tiles may be used as immunoassay vessels for agglutination assays.A further type of immunoassay is a flocculation assay, which involves an immunological interaction between two components 

resulting in flocculation that may be determined by eye and/or may be determined photometrically. Microparticles, for example, microparticulate carbon, may be used to enhance the visual difference between a positive and negative reaction.Microtitre plates and beads of polymeric material are particularly convenient for large-scale use since, as described above, automated systems are available for handling such test formats. The sample and a diluent, generally required in immunoassays, may be dispensed manually
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for determining the presence of a sample of body fluid or of a sample derived from a human or non-human animal body in an immunossay vessel in which an immunoassay or a specific binding pair assay for an analyte in the sample is carried out, which method comprises
(i)(a) in the immunoassay vessel, admixing the sample and a liquid that comprises a sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a signal when sample is present, or (i)(b) adding the sample to an immunoassay vessel that comprises, immobilized on a solid support, a sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a signal when sample is present, and (ii) detecting the signal, the sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a signal when sample is present being different from the analyte-specific reagent or reagent system used for detecting the analyte in the immunoassay or specific binding pair assay itself.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the signal produced by the sample monitor reagent or reagent system is a change in colour, chemiluminescence or fluorescence.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the sample monitor reagent or reagent system is capable of producing a signal in the presence of albumin, caeruloplasmin, transferrin, a serum or plasma enzyme, or another serum- or plasma-specific protein, or another high molecular weight component of serum or plasma.
4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the sample monitor reagent or reagent system is capable of producing a signal in the presence of albumin, and the reagent for the detection of albumin is bromocresol purple, bromocresol green, cyano-di(4- nitrophenyl)-methane or Coomassie Brilliant Blue. 


5. A method as claimed in claim l or claim 2, wherein the sample monitor reagent or reagent system is capable of producing a signal in the presence of a low molecular weight component of serum, plasma or any other body fluid.
6. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the low molecular weight component is glucose, calcium, magnesium, iron, urea or uric acid.
7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein a sample monitor reagent system for the detection of glucose comprises a glucose oxidase/peroxidase system.
8. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein a sample monitor reagent system for the detection of urea comprises a urease/glutamate dehydrogenase system, and a sample monitor reagent system for the detection of uric acid comprises a uricase/peroxidase system.
9. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the liquid comprising the sample monitor reagent or reagent system is a sample diluent.
10. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the sample is admixed with a sample diluent that little or no buffering capacity and the sample monitor reagent or reagent system comprises a component that generates a signal change as a result of the change in pH when the sample and the diluent are admixed.
11. A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the sample monitor reagent or reagent system comprises a pH indicator that changes colour when the pH changes from acid towards neutral or from alkaline towards neutral.
12. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the sample monitor reagent or reagent system is immobilized on the inner surface of the immunoassay vessel and/or on the 


surface of beads used in the immunoassay vessel.
13. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the immunoassay vessel is a microwell and is present with a plurality of other microwells in the form of a microtitre plate.
14. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the signal generated by the sample monitor reagent or reagent system is a colour change and the colour change is detectable by visual inspection and/or by spectrophotometric measurement.
15. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the immunoassay or specific binding pair assay is a homogeneous phase assay.
16. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the immunoassay or specific binding pair assay is a capture assay and wherein on the interior surface of the immunoassay vessel and/or on the surface of beads used in the immunoassay vessel is immobilized an antigen, antibody or one member of the specific binding pair.
17. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the immunoassay is a latex agglutination assay, a haemagglut- ination assay or a flocculation assay.
18. An immunoassay or a specific binding pair assay for an analyte in a sample, the analyte being an antibody or antigen or a member of a specific binding pair, the assay comprising a specific interaction between the analyte and a corresponding antigen or antibody or between the two members of the specific binding pair in an immunoassay vessel and the detection of that interaction, characterized in that the presence of the sample in the immunoassay vessel is detected by means of a sample monitor reagent or reagent system that is capable of producing a signal in the presence of sample, the sample monitor reagent or reagent system being different from the analyte-specific reagent or reagent system used in the detection of the analyte in the assay 



 itself .
19. An assay as claimed in claim 18, wherein the detection of sample is carried out as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17.
5
20. An assay as claimed in claim 18 or claim 19, carried out simultaneously in a plurality of immunoassay vessels using a fully or partly automated system.
10 21. Use of a sample monitor reagent or reagent system that is capable of producing a signal in the presence of a sample under investigation in an immunoassay or specific binding pair assay carried out on a sample of body fluid or of a sample derived from a human or animal body, to determine the presence in an
15 immunoassay vessel of the sample under investigation and/or to to determine a false negative result in an immunoassay or specific binding pair assay.
22. A sample diluent for use in an immunoassay or specific
20 binding pair assay, which comprises a sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a sample-specific signal in the presence of a sample under investigation in the assay.
23. A sample diluent as claimed in claim 22, wherein the sample 25 monitor reagent or reagent system is as defined in any one of claims 2 to 8, claim 10 or claim 11.
24. An immunoassay vessel or a bead for use in an immunoassay vessel, on which bead or on the interior surface of which vessel
30 is immobilized a sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a sample-specific signal in the presence of a sample under investigation.
25. An immunoassay vessel or bead as claimed in claim 24,
35 wherein the reagent or reagent system is as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 8, claim 10 or claim 11.
26. A plurality of immunoassay vessels as claimed in claim 24 


 or claim 25, in the form of an assembly of microwells.
27. A kit for carrying out an immunoassay or a specific binding pair assay on a sample under investigation, which kit comprises
5 (a) a liquid comprising a sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a signal in the presence of the sample and/or
(b) a plurality of immunoassay vessels or of beads for use in an immunoassay vessel, each vessel or bead comprising an immobil- 0 ized sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a signal in the presence of the sample.
28. A kit as claimed in claim 27, wherein the liquid is a sample diluent as claimed in claim 22 or 23 and/or the immunoas- 5 say vessels and beads are as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 26.
29. A kit as claimed in claim 27 comprising a plurality of immunoassay vessels and beads for use in the vessel, wherein one 0 of the components comprising the vessels and the beads has immobilized a sample monitor reagent or reagent system and the other component has immobilized a capture agent for the analyte of interest.
5 30. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17, an assay as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 20, or a kit as claimed in any one of claims 25 to 28, wherein the sample under investiga¬ tion is donated blood.
30 31. A method for determining a false negative result in an immunoassay, which comprises determining the presence of a sample of body fluid or of a sample derived from a human or non- human animal body in an immunossay vessel in which an immunoas¬ say or a specific binding pair assay for an analyte in the
35 sample is carried out, which method comprises
(i)(a) in the immunoassay vessel, admixing the sample and a liquid that comprises a sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a signal when sample is present, or 


(i)(b) adding the sample to an immunoassay vessel that comprises, immobilized on a solid support, a sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a signal when sample is present, (ii) detecting the signal generated by the sample monitor reagent or reagent system, the sample monitor reagent or reagent system capable of producing a signal when sample is present being different from the analyte-specific reagent or reagent system used for detecting the analyte in the immunoassay or specific binding pair assay itself, and
(iii) carrying out the immunoassay or specific binding assay for the analyte of interest, a negative signal generated by the sample monitor reagent or reagent system denoting a false negative result.
32. A method as claimed in claim 31, wherein the sample detection is carried out as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
