<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641243</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF COOLING AND CLEANING WASTE GAS FROM AN INDUSTRIAL PROCESS AND APPARATUS THEREFOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5306	B01D5308	B01D5314	B01D5314	B01D5334	B01D5334	B01D5350	B01D5350	B01D5356	B01D5356	B01D5370	B01D5370	B01D5381	B01D5381	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method of cooling and cleaning waste gas from an industrial process wherein the waste gas under pressure is caused to pass transversely through a series of pebble bed heat exchangers, the passage of the waste gas through a pebble bed being effective to cause both heat exchange between the gases and the pebbles of the pebble bed, and also removal of a contaminant carried in the waste gas, and wherein the heated pebbles are subsequently used to transfer heat to a cooler gas. The invention also relates to apparatus for operating this method, including apparatus for cooling and cleaning waste gas from a glass melting furnace. The invention helps reduce levels of metal volatiles, oxides of nitrogen, oxides of sulphur, dioxins and particulates in the waste gas. It also makes use of the heat from the waste gas.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VERT INVESTMENTS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VERT INVESTMENTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MC NEIL KEITH RUSSEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MC NEIL, KEITH RUSSEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A METHOD OF COOLING AND CLEANING WASTE GAS FROM AN INDUSTRIAL PROCESS AND APPARATUS THEREFORField of the InventionThis invention relates to a method of cooling and cleaning waste gas from an industrial process and to apparatus for carrying out the method.Background to the InventionMany industrial processes result in hot waste gas (which may include a mixture of gases) which must be discharged. Frequently it is desired to utilise the heat contained in the waste gas to raise the temperature of cold air which is to be fed as hot air to increase the efficiency of the process, and a variety of heat exchangers are known for this purpose.The waste gas from the industrial processes frequently contain contaminants, for example particulates, volatilised metal compounds, oxides of sulphur, oxides of nitrogen and dioxins, all of which should be substantially removed before the waste gas can be released into the atmosphere. Official Regulations are becoming progressively more severe regarding the limits placed on the output of these materials into the atmosphere.It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus in which heat exchange is obtained simultaneously with effective removal of many contaminants of the waste gas. That is, the quantities of the contaminants in the waste gas are reduced to levels which 

 are environmentally acceptable so that the cooled and cleaned gas may be discharged into the atmosphere.The method in accordance with the present invention is based on the use of a pebble bed heat exchanger such as that described by C L Norton Jnr in the Journal of The American Ceramic Society, Volume 29 (1946) No 7 Pages 187- 193. In my published UK Patent Application No 2,225,002 I have described my earlier proposal to use a pebble bed heat exchanger to filter sulphur and particulates from waste gas by passing the waste gas upwardly through a chamber through which pebbles or spherical balls are being moved downwardly. The waste gas was then further passed downwardly through a similar chamber in which spherical balls or pebbles are also being moved downwardly.In its broadest aspect, a pebble bed heat exchanger can be regarded as a chamber containing a number of heat absorbent pebbles through which a gas can be passed.Experience has shown that efficient heat exchange does not occur in pebble bed heat exchangers when gas is passed vertically through the pebble bed chambers, because the gas tends to follow the path of least resistance at the circumferential edge of the pebble bed with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method of cooling and cleaning waste gas from an industrial process wherein the waste gas under pressure is caused to pass transversely through a series of pebble bed heat exchangers, the passage of the waste gas through a pebble bed being effective to cause both heat exchange between the gas and the pebbles of the pebble bed, and also removal of a contaminant carried in the waste gas, and wherein the heated pebbles are subsequently used to transfer heat to a cooler gas.
2. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the pebbles of each pebble bed are continuously moving under gravity.
3. A method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein at least one pebble bed heat exchanger effects a temperature drop in the waste gas such that a specific component of the waste gas is removed during passage of the waste gas through the said one pebble bed heat exchanger.
4. A method according to Claim 3 wherein the component of the waste gas removed during the passage through the said one pebble bed heat exchanger is a metal volatile having a condensation temperature falling within the temperature range through which the waste gas is cooled in the said one pebble bed heat exchanger, whereby the metal volatile is deposited in the said one pebble bed heat exchanger.
5. A method according to Claim 3 wherein the pebbles of the said one pebble bed heat exchanger introduce into the said one pebble bed heat exchanger a chemical promoting removal of the specific component of the waste gas.
6. A method according to Claim 5 wherein the pebbles of the said one pebble bed heat exchanger introduce ammoniacal water into the said one pebble bed heat exchanger.
7. A method according to Claim 6 wherein the temperature drop in the waste gas passing through the said one pebble bed heat exchanger is in the range of 1090°C to 870°C.
8. A method according to Claim 5 wherein the pebbles of the said one pebble bed heat exchanger introduce lime. 


 caustic soda or magnesia into the said one pebble bed heat exchanger for reacting with acid gases.
9. A method of cooling and cleaning waste gas resulting from a glass-making process wherein there is provided a series of pebble bed heat exchangers in each of which the pebbles of the respective pebble beds may be moving continuously in a substantial vertical direction under gravity and wherein the waste gas under pressure is caused to pass horizontally through each pebble bed heat exchanger in the series, heat exchange between the gas and the pebbles comprising the pebble bed occurring in each pebble bed heat exchanger and specific contaminants carried in the waste gas being deposited in respective ones of the series of pebble bed heat exchangers through which the waste gas passes in succession, and wherein the heated pebbles are subsequently used to transfer heat to a cooler gas.
10. Apparatus for cooling and cleaning waste gas from an industrial process, the apparatus comprising a first housing and a second housing, each housing having first and second ends, a series of pebble bed heat exchangers horizontally separated from one another within the first housing, each pebble bed heat exchanger comprising a pair of porous screens each of which physically separates a portion of the first housing which is nearer to the first end of the first housing from another portion of the first housing which is nearer to the second end of the first housing, a multiplicity of pebbles filling the part of the first housing between each pair of porous screens, and means for introducing pebbles into the top of the parts of the first housing between each pair of porous screens and removing pebbles from the bottom of the said part of the first housing between each pair of porous screens, means for introducing waste gas into the portion of the first housing between the first end of the first housing and the first pebble bed heat exchanger of the series, means for permitting waste gas to escape from the portion of the first housing between the last pebble bed heat exchanger in the series and the second end of the first housing, and 


means for heating a cooler gas by means supplying a cooler gas to one of the housings through which heated pebbles can pass to heat the cooler gas.
11. Apparatus according to Claim 10 in which there is first housing and a second housing, and means for heating a cooler gas comprises reversing means for alternately directing waste gas into the first end of the first housing and cold air into the second end of the second housing or directing cold air into the second end of the first housing and waste gas into the first end of the second housing.
12. Apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein the first housing is one of three similar housings having a similar series of pebble bed heat exchangers similarly disposed in each housing, the three housings are arranged substantially vertically above one another, the means for heating a cooler gas comprises means for passing pebbles comprising a particular pebble bed in the series successively through the corresponding pebble beds in the uppermost, the middle and the lowermost housings before cleaning of the pebbles and returning for feeding into the relevant pebble bed of the uppermost housing, means is provided for passing hot waste gas into the first end of the uppermost housing and further means is provided for passing cold air into the first end of the lowermost housing and directing partially heated air from the second end of the lowermost housing into the second end of the middle housing.
13. Apparatus according to any one of Claims 10 to 12 wherein the pebbles forming the first pebble bed heat exchanger are comprised of refractory material.
14. Apparatus according to anyone of Claims 10 to 13 wherein at least one pebble bed heat exchanger is formed of pebbles of smaller diameter than the pebbles of another pebble bed heat exchangers.
15. Apparatus according to any one of Claims 10 to 14 wherein the pebbles of at least one pebble bed heat exchanger are comprised of a material for reacting with a contaminant of the waste gas to remove the contaminant from the waste gas within the pebble bed heat exchanger formed 


by the pebbles of the said material.
16. A method of cooling and cleaning waste gases from an industrial process substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to either Figure 1 or Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings.
17. An apparatus for cooling and cleaning waste gases from an industrial process constructed and arranged to operate substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to either Figure 1 or Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
