<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636253</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL CONNECTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B642	G02B642	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical connector includes a sleeve (14) extending from a flange. The sleeve has a wide zone adjacent to the flange (10) and a deformable zone, of smaller cross-sectional area, further from the flange. The deformable zone is conveniently constituted as a plurality of spring segments (16a, 16b) separated by a plurality of longitudinally extending slits (17a, 17b). The optical system is attached to the flange on the opposite side to the collar (15). During use, the ferrule of a terminated optical fiber is located in the sleeve for communication with the optical system. The connector is based on the theory that the sleeve repeatable locates a ferrule inserted therein and the optical member is adjusted to this repeatable position using an active technique which monitors the performance of a test optical system until optimal performance indicates that the optical system is located in the best position. The connector with a fibre ferrule (60) is located in the sleeve. The ferrule contains a fibre (61) and the ferrule (60) is part of the termination of this fibre which extends to whatever location is appropriate. The termination also includes a cap (62) which is spring loaded to the ferrule (60) by spring (63). The cap (62) includes a retaining lip (64) which is located in a retaining groove (43) of the tubular protective member (41). Because of this engagement of the cap (62) the spring (63) is compressed which urges the ferrule (60) into contact with the flange (10). This locates the flange in the longitudinal direction. Because the flange has a wider diameter than the deformable zone of the component (40) the spring members (16a) and (16b) are forced apart. Because they are springy they grip the ferrule and hold it in a reproducible location. Thus the insertion of the ferrule (60) into the component (40) produces a reproducible location of the tip of the fibre (61). The component is machined from a resilient material such as phosphor-bronze.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BT 
&
 D TECHNOLOGIES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BT
&
D TECHNOLOGIES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEADOWCROFT SIMON GEORGE PREST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEADOWCROFT, SIMON, GEORGE, PRESTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OPTICAL CONNECTORThis invention relates to an optical connector and, in particular, to an optical connector which is adapted to receive a terminated fibre and to locate said fibre for optical interaction with an optical device contained in the connector. A complete optical connector can be regarded as comprising two major items, namely a plug and a socket. Connection clearly involves bringing together the two separate items so as to establish optical communication between them. In the context of the present invention, the plug comprises a waveguiding structure, especially an optical fibre which has been suitably terminated. The termination usually comprises a ferrule, eg a brass ferrule, which is mounted on the end of the optical fibre. In many cases the termination also includes a cap which is spring loaded to the ferrule. The cap and spring serve to hold the ferrule in place after its insertion into the socket.This invention relates to the socket part of the connector and this part usually includes an optical device which maybe an active device or a passive device^ Active devices include signal generators, eg a semiconductor device which converts electric power into an optical signal. Examples of such semiconductor devices include light emitting diodes (LEDs), edge light emitting diodes (ELEDs), and a wide variety of semiconductor lasers. A signal generator often provides a divergent beam which is inconvenient for forming optical connections. In such circumstances it is usual for the source component to include lenses which either collimate the beam or cause it to converge to a focus.Alternatively, the active device may be an optical detector, eg a semiconductor device which converts an optical signal into an electrical signal. Examples of such devices include photodiodes and PIN diodes. As mentioned above, the optical component may be a passive device such as a waveguiding structure, eg a fibre which is permanently located in the connector.The purpose of a connector is to provide optical inter-connection between a (terminated) fibre temporarily inserted into the socket of the connector and another optical device which is permanently comprised in the connector. In order to achieve optical inter-connection it is important that the two optical components are accurately located so that a beam provided by one is captured by the other. For example, it may be important that a beam from a signal generator is accurately focused onto the end of a fibre temporarily located within the connector. Thus accurate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An optical connector comprising an optical device directly or indirectly mounted on the first side of a flange and a sleeve extending from the second side of the flange, said sleeve being adapted to receive and reproducibly locate a fibre ferrule containing the end of an optical fibre said location being suitable for optical interaction between the fibre and the optical device via an aperture in the flange, wherein said sleeve has a larger cross sectional area in an innermost zone adjacent to said second side of said flange than in a deformable zone further from said flange whereby the insertion of a fibre ferrule to abut the flange for reproducible longitudinal location expands the sleeve in its deformable zone whereby the deformable zone grips the ferrule whereby the ferrule is reproducibly located within the cross sectional area of the sleeve.
2. An optical connector according to Claim 1, wherein the sleeve, in its deformable zone, is divided into a plurality of spring segments by a plurality of longitudinally extending slits.
3. An optical connector according to Claim 2, wherein the number of spring segments is even and the spring segments are arranged in diametrically opposed pairs for gripping an inserted ferrule.
4. A connector according to Claim 3, wherein the number of segments equals the number of slits and said number is either 2, 4 or 6.
5. A connector according to any one of Claims 2-4, wherein the innermost zone takes the form of an undivided collar having a diameter greater than that of the tip of a ferrule to be inserted and the deformable zone takes the form of a plurality of spring members extending from said collar. 6. A connector according to any of the preceding claims wherein the optical device is either an active device selected from signal generators and optical detectors or a passive device comprising a waveguide connected or adapted for connection outside the connector.
7. A connector according to any of the preceding claims which also includes a tubular member which surrounds the sleeve whereby the sleeve is protected by the tubular member.
8. A connector according to Claim 7, which includes a fibre termination located for optical interaction with the optical device wherein said termination includes 


 a ferrule, a cap and a spring located between the cap and the ferrule, wherein said ferrule is located within the sleeve, and also wherein the tubular member has a lip portion releasably engaged with said cap whereby the spring is compressed so that it urges the ferrule into abutment with the flange whereby the fibre located within the ferrule is repeatably located for interaction with said optical device.
9. A method for making a connector according to any one of the preceding claims, which method includes positioning the optical member by an active technique, wherein said active technique comprises: (i) inserting a fibre ferrule into the sleeve to establish an operable optical system which includes the fibre in the ferrule, the optical device and a monitor for measuring the optical performance of said optical system;
(ii) adjusting the position of said optical device to achieve an optimal position indicated by optimal performance of the system as indicated by the monitor; and
(iii) securing said optical device in said optimal position.
10 A method according to Qaim 9, wherein the optimal performance is taken as maximum transmission of optical signals through the assembled connector as indicated by the monitor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
