<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640523</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Diving mask with lenses and method of fabricating the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63C1112	B63C1102	G02C702	G02B300	G02B300	G02C708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63C	B63C	G02C	G02B	G02B	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63C11	B63C11	G02C7	G02B3	G02B3	G02C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A diving mask having hemispherically-shaped lenses 
mounted on a flexible gasket or portion and fitted to the 

contours of a user's face. Laser scanning or topographic 
mapping is used to determine the contours of the user's 

face. Edges of the hemispherically-shaped lenses are then 
shaped to fit the contours of the face. As a result, the 

spherical center of the lenses substantially coincides with 
the optical nodal point of the user's eyes, or the center 

of rotation of the eyes. This virtually eliminates the 
phenomenon of underwater magnification-distortion caused by 

the difference in refractive indices of water and air. The 
diving mask may also have hemispherically-shaped lenses 

mounted on a support portion. The support portion, in turn, 
is mounted on a flexible gasket of selected size. A secure 

seal is provided between the diving mask and a user's face 
by the flexible gasket. The diving mask may be provided 

with at least one purge valve. The diving mask may be used 
with retractable corrective lenses, if desired. The diving 

mask may be used with bottom lenses which provide vision 
both above and below water. Hemispherically-shaped meniscus 

lenses may be used with the diving mask. The meniscus 
lenses are designed to provide optimal peripheral vision, 

while reducing weight and facilitating drainage of water 
from the mask. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRANHOUSE JON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRANHOUSE, JON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRANHOUSE JON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRANHOUSE, JON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to underwater
face masks and, more particularly, to underwater diving
masks having eyepieces or lenses mounted on a flexible
gasket.In the past, a variety of underwater face masks have
been used for sporting and other activities such as skin and
scuba diving. Early underwater face masks typically had
several common features, including a contiguous air space
shared by the diver's nose and eyes, generally flat, glass
or plastic windows, eyepieces or ports fixed approximately
perpendicularly to the wearer's straight-ahead viewing axis,
and a flexible rubber or plastic support structure for
holding the ports in position and trapping an air pocket
against the wearer's face. A contiguous air pocket over
both the wearer's nose and eyes, as opposed to a mask
covering the eyes only, allows for equalizing pressure
inside the mask with ambient water pressure as the wearer
ascends and descends in the water. Such equalization is
necessary to avoid injury to the wearer.Such conventional flat-window face masks share a
variety of shortcomings. The windows or eyepieces of
conventional flat-window masks must be supported out from 
the face. Above and below water, the wearer's horizontal
and vertical fields of view are severely limited by the
flexible rubber or plastic structures providing such
support, thereby creating a sense of "tunnel vision" and a
closed-in, claustrophobic feeling. Above water, conventional
flat-window masks provide no more than a 140 degree
horizontal by 90 degree vertical field of view. Below
water, because of the refraction-induced magnification
distortion of an air-water viewing system, discussed more
fully hereinbelow, this field of view is effectively reduced
to approximately 105 degrees horizontal by 67.5 degrees
vertical.Additionally, conventional flat-window masks suffer
quite significant magnification-distortion problems from the
difference in refractive indices between water and air.
Specifically, objects viewed on an axis perpendicular to the
window appear approximately 33% larger and 25% closer than
they actually are. The magnification-distortion of objects
viewed off-axis is even larger.Further, conventional flat-window masks create a
significant amount of hydrodynamic drag and present a
significant risk of slipping off the wearer's face if hit
by an unanticipated or oblique-angle wave or current.These and other flat-window mask problems have attempted
to be overcome, with less than satisfactory results, by
spherically-shaped eyepieces or lenses
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An underwater diving mask comprising:

two eye pieces each defined by a generally hemispherically-shaped lens (12);

and mounting means (14) for mounting said lenses on a face of a user so that a
spherical center of curvature of each of said lenses substantially coincides with

a corresponding eye of said user 
characterised in that
 at least one of the eye
pieces of the mask further includes a separate bottom zero diopter value lens

(190) which provides a separate line of sight which is outside the line of sight
provided by said hemispherically-shaped lens (12) of said one eye piece, the

bottom lens (190) being located at and outside the peripheral edge of said lens
(12) to provide the user with clear vision both above and below water.
A diving mask according to Claim 1 wherein the bottom lens (190) is
integrally formed with said hemispherically-shaped lens (12).
A diving mask according to Claim 1 or 2 further comprising an
additional lens (236) mounted inside said hemispherically-shaped lenses (12).
A diving mask according to Claim 1, 2 or 3 further comprising a curved
transparent wall (250) having uniform thickness mounted inside said

hemispherically-shaped lenses (12).
A diving mask according to Claim 3 further comprising a member (25)
attached to said additional lens (236) and one of said hemispherically-shaped

lenses (12) providing a trapped dry-air space (248).
A diving mask according to Claim 4 further comprising a member (252)
attached to said transparent wall (250) and one of said 

hemispherically-shaped lenses (12) providing a trapped dry-air space
(248).
A diving mask according to any preceding claim wherein said
bottom lens (190) includes a removable corrective lens (216).
A diving mask according to Claim 1 wherein said hemispherically-shaped
lenses (12) comprise meniscus lenses adapted to provide a zero

diopter value under water.
A diving mask according to any preceding claim wherein said
bottom lens (190) defines a water collecting area (198).
An underwater diving mask comprising:

two eye pieces each defined by a generally hemispherically-shaped
lens (12); and
mounting means (14) for mounting said lenses (12) on a face of a
user so that a spherical center of curvature of each of said lenses

substantially coincides with a corresponding eye of said user 
characterised
in that
 a translucent baffle (251) is attached between and inside said lenses
(12), the baffle being positioned so as to be parallel to a straight-ahead

field-of-view through the mask.
A diving mask according to Claim 10 wherein said lenses (12) have
end portions (253) bent inward toward said face.
An underwater diving mask comprising:

two eye pieces each defined by a generally hemispherically-shaped
lens (12);
a flexible face seal (298); 
a perimeter clamp (296) clamping said face seal to said mask; and
mounting means for mounting said lenses on a face of a user so that
a spherical center of curvature of each of said lenses substantially

coincides with a corresponding eye of said user 
characterised in that
 each
of said lenses (12) comprises a generally hemispherically-shaped meniscus

lens (256, 262) having substantially zero diopter value under water.
A diving mask according to Claim 12 further including a support
portion (169), said support portion including integrally formed housings

(300) for purge valves (126).
A diving mask according to Claim 12 wherein said perimeter clamp
includes integrally formed housings for purge valves.
An underwater diving mask comprising:

two eye pieces each defined by a generally hemispherically-shaped
lens (12); and
mounting means for mounting said lenses on a face of a user

characterised in that
 each lens (12) comprises a generally hemispherically-shaped
meniscus lens (256, 262) designed to provide a substantially zero

diopter value under water.
A diving mask according to Claim 15 wherein each meniscus lens
(256, 262) is designed to provide an in-focus peripheral vision of more

than 90 degrees.
A diving mask according to Claim 16 wherein said lenses (12)
provide an in-focus peripheral vision of about 180 degrees.
A diving mask according to Claim 15, 16 or 17 wherein each of 
said lenses (256, 262) has inner (260, 266) and outer (258) surfaces of

different curvature.
A diving mask according to Claim 18 wherein each of said inner
(260) and outer (258) surfaces have spherical centers of curvature located

behind centers of the eyes (24) of said user.
A diving mask according to Claim 18 or 19 wherein each of said
inner and outer surfaces have spherical centers of curvature located below

centers of the eyes of said user.
A diving mask according to Claim 18 wherein said outer surface
has an outer diameter in a range of from about 10.8 cm (4.25 inches) to

about 22.9 cm (9.0 inches).
A diving mask according to any of Claims 15 to 21 including purge
valves (126) mounted in said mask, one of said purge valves (126) being

located at each of said lenses (12).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
