<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624103</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYRINGE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M532	A61M532	A61M550	A61M550	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a needle receiving member adapted to separate a needle (5) from a syringe and to contain the said needle, the needle receiving member being characterised in that it comprises: a) an axially elongated member having an axially extending needle receiving chamber therein and having axial aperture in a wall thereof through which the needle can be inserted at least in part transversely; and in that b) the needle receiving member incorporates means (22, 23, 26) for separating the needle from a syringe body. The invention also provides a syringe in which the plunger (11) which drives the piston (10) of the syringe is formed so as to provide the needle receiving member, preferably in part of the plunger shaft which can be separated from the remainder of the plunger shaft by a frangible one use connection (14) o that the syringe can be disabled both by removal of the needle and breaking the plunger mechanism.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DUMMETT THOMAS IAN PETER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MERWE MARIUS V D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAN DER MERWE, MARIUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER MERWE MARIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER MERWE, MARIUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLE; SYRINGEThe present invention relates to a syringe, notably to a safety syringe in which the syringe plunger and needle are rendered inoperative after use of the syringe.BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION:ISyringes typically comprise a tubular body within which a piston head is moved axially by means of a plunger from a position at or adjacent the proximal end of the bore within the body to a position at or adjacent the distal end of the bore so as to dispense the contents of the space within the body ahead of the piston via a needle located at or adjacent the distal end of the body which is inserted into or under the skin of a person. Many forms of syringe are known, but they all have these general features and the term syringe will be used hereinafter to denote a dispensing device of this type.Once a syringe has been used to draw blood or other bodily fluid from a patient or to administer a medicament or other material to a patient, problems arise in the disposal of the used syringe. Whilst the syringe can be constructed so that it can be dis-assembled and the individual components cleaned and sterilised for subsequent re-use, this is time consuming and costly. It is therefore the common practice to dispose of the used syringe to waste, for example into a strong plastic container which is disposed of by incineration or burial. However, in handling the used syringe there is the risk that the handler may accidentally jab himself with the exposed end of the needle prior to or during insertion into the disposal container. Furthermore, the syringe is disposed of in an operative condition so that it can be retrieved from the disposal container for unauthorised re-use, for example to inject drugs or the like.In order to reduce the risk of accidental jabbing with the used 

needle, it has been proposed to cut or break the needle off the syringe using a mechanical cutter such as that described in for example US Patents Nos 4965426 or 4961541, or using a pair of manual cutters with hardened steel blades. However, this will usually leave a sharp stump of the needle exposed which can still injure a user and machines to cut or break the needle are usually expensive and cumbersome and cannot readily be used away from sources of electric power.It has also been proposed to supply the needle as a separate item enclosed in an axial sheath which must be removed once the needle has been mounted on the syringe before the syringe can be used. After use the sheath is re-applied axially to the needle to render the needle
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A needle receiving member adapted to separate a needle from a syringe and to contain the said needle, the needle receiving member being characterised in that it comprises: a. an axially elongated member having an axially extending needle receiving chamber therein and having an axial aperture in a wall thereof through which the needle can be inserted at least in part transversely: and in that b. the needle receiving member incorporates means for separating the needle from a syringe body.
2. A syringe comprising a body portion having an axial piston bore therein and journalled for axial movement therein a piston member, a plunger adapted to engage the piston member for axial movement of the piston member in the piston bore, said body portion caryying or being adapted to carry a needle through which the contents of the body portion are to be discharged upon axial movement of the piston member, characterised in that: a. the needle is mounted or is adapted to be mounted upon the body of the syringe by a breakable or demountable member whereby the needle can be detached from the syringe body; b. the syringe is provided with a needle receiving member having an axially extending needle receiving chamber therein and having an axial aperture in a wall thereof through which the needle can be inserted at least in part transversely: and c. the needle receiving member incorporates means for separating the needle from the syringe body.
3. A syringe as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the plunger of the syringe is one which incorporates a one use connection within the length of the plunger or between the operative (distal) end of the plunger and the piston member.
4. A syringe as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that the one use connection is provided by a member which provides a 


positive connection on the forward or discharge stroke of the plunger, but which can be broken or ruptured when the plunger is urged against the forward limit of its travel or is withdrawn.
5. A syringe as claimed in either of claims 3 or 4, characterised in that the one use connection is a frangible section in the length of the plunger or at the distal end thereof which is either foreshortened axially when the connection is broken and/or is configured so that relative rotation of the remaining portions of the plunger about their common longitudinal axis allows the opposing faces of the broken frangible section to nest within one another whereby the plunger can be foreshortened axially.
6. A syringe comprising a body portion having an axial piston bore therein and journalled for axial movement therein a piston member, a plunger adapted to engage the piston member for axial movement of the piston member in the piston bore, the plunger being provided with a one use connection in the length thereof or at or adjacent the distal end thereof whereby the drive between the plunger and the piston member can be disabled, characterised in that the one use connection is a frangible section in the length of the plunger or at the distal end thereof configured so that disabling of the one way connection by breaking the frangible section enables the axial length of the plunger to be decreased.
7. A syringe as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that the frangible section is configured so that relative rotation of the portions of the broken plunger about their common longitudinal axis allows the opposing faces of the broken frangible section to nest within one another whereby the plunger can be foreshortened axially.
8. A needle receiving member or a syringe as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the needle 


is mounted or is adapted to be mounted on the syringe body by means of a detachable mounting, and the needle receiving member incorporates means for moving the needle axially with respect to the syringe body as the needle is inserted transversely into the needle receiving member so as to separate the needle from the syringe body.
9. A needle receiving member or a syringe as claimed in claim 8, characterised in that the needle mounting is provided with one or more radial projections or recesses adapted to engage with one or more ramp members on the needle receiving member or vice versa so that the needle is moved axially off the syringe body when the needle is introduced into the needle receiving means.
10. A needle receiving member or a syringe as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the needle receiving member is formed in the plunger of the syringe.
11. A syringe as claimed in claim 10, characterised in that the plunger has a shaft with an axial bore therein which is to receive the needle and a side wall of the plunger shaft has an axial aperture through which at least part of the needle can be inserted transversely into the axial bore.
12. A syringe as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the plunger is formed with a one use connection whereby that part of the plunger provided with the axial bore can be separated from the body of the syringe and the needle inserted transversely into the axial bore in the plunger shaft via the axial aperture.
13. A syringe as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that locking means are provided between the plunger and the syringe body whereby the plunger shaft carrying the needle in the axial bore thereof can be retained within the piston bore. 


14. A needle retaining member or a syringe according to any one of claims 1, 2 or 6, substantially as hereinbefore described with respect to and as shown in any one of the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
