<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610403</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIQUID RESERVOIR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21D526	B01D1900	D21C300	D21C328	D21D500	B01D1900	B67D706	B67D776	B67D776	B67D706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21D	B01D	D21C	D21C	D21D	B01D	B67D	B67D	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21D5	B01D19	D21C3	D21C3	D21D5	B01D19	B67D7	B67D7	B67D7	B67D7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a fluid reservoir, chiefly a reservoir whose purpose is to constitute a buffer, wherein the liquid level varies substantially, comprising an inlet conduit (1) for liquid, an outlet conduit (2) for liquid, reservoir walls (3), a reservoir bottom (4) and a liquid outflow arrangement (5) located inside the said reservoir, which is connected to the said inlet conduit (1), the said outflow arrangement (5) comprising means (6) to ensure that its opening (7) follows the surface of the liquid (8) in the said reservoir (3, 4), the opening (7) preferably being located so that it discharges on a level with or immediately below the said liquid surface, which significantly reduces the risk that gas is included in the liquid flowing out via the outlet conduit.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a liquid reservoir, 
whose purpose is to provide a buffer for foaming-susceptible 
spent liquor and in which the level of liquid 
varies significantly. The main purpose of the invention 
is to reduce the risk that gas accompanies the liquid 
that is withdrawn from the reservoir. The problem which the invention is intended to 
solve is found for example in connection with cistern 
constellations containing cyclone separators. In a known 
cistern constellation of this type the cyclone separator 
is secured to the bottom of it. The liquid levels in such 
systems vary considerably, and at high level the gas 
bubbles in the incoming liquid/gas mixture are exposed to 
a static pressure as a result of which the bubbles become 
compressed. It is generally known that small gas bubbles 
rise significantly more slowly towards a liquid surface 
than larger bubbles, quite simply because small bubbles 
have a less favourable ratio between volume and cross-section 
than larger bubbles. It follows from this that at 
higher levels in liquid cisterns the residual gas which 
leaves the cyclone separator near the bottom of the 
cistern will rise so slowly towards the surface that one 
instead runs the risk that it will be drawn down towards 
the tank's outlet. For the same reason, the centrifugal separation 
in the cyclone separator will naturally itself be impaired 
at increased static pressure. The separation 
mechanism for liquid/gas mixture is the same in a cyclone 
as that which takes place in a tank. Another situation where problems can arise with 
gas being present in the liquid that is drawn from a 
reservoir is when the outflow from the inlet conduit is 
arranged relatively high up in the reservoir at the same 
time as the level of liquid is relatively low. This 
results in the gas being drawn down in the liquid stream  
 
that is falling into the liquid bath, which consequently 
can result in gas being drawn off together with the 
liquid that is being removed from the reservoir. An objective of the invention is at least to 
reduce the abovementioned problems, which objective is 
achieved by means of a liquid reservoir, the purpose of 
which is to provide a buffer for foaming-susceptible 
spent liquor from the cellulose industry, wherein the 
liquid level varies substantially, comprising an inlet 
conduit for liquid, an outlet conduit for liquid, 
reservoir walls, a reservoir bottom and a liquid outflow 
arrangement, located inside the said reservoir, that is 
connected to the said
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Liquid reservoir comprising an inlet conduit (1) 
for liquid, an outlet conduit (2) for liquid, reservoir 

walls (3), a reservoir bottom (4) and a liquid outflow 
arrangement (5), located inside the said reservoir, that 

is connected to the said inlet conduit (1), where the 
said outflow arrangement (5) comprises means (6) for 

ensuring that its opening (7A) follows the surface of the 
liquid 8 in the said reservoir (3, 4)
 
characterised in that the said reservoir constitutes a 

buffer for foaming-susceptible spent liquor from the 
cellulose industry, wherein the liquid level varies 

significantly and the said outflow arrangement (5) also 
comprises liquid/gas separating means (7) in the form of 

a cyclone separator. 
The liquid arrangement according to Claim 1, 
characterised in that the opening (7A) is arranged so 

that it opens on a level with or immediately below the 
said liquid surface, so that the cyclone separator 

operates at essentially optimum conditions. 
The liquid reservoir according to Claim 1, 
characterised in that between the said outflow 

arrangement (5) and an attachment point (11) for the 
inlet conduit (1) is located a conduit part (9) that is 

movable at least in the vertical direction. 
The liquid reservoir according to Claim 3, 
characterised in that the said conduit part (9) consists 

of an essentially rigid pipe which at least at the said 
attachment point (11) is flexibly connected to the said 

inlet conduit (1). 
The liquid reservoir according to Claim 4, 
characterised in that several conduits (9), preferably 

two, have been arranged so that reaction forces arising 
from the flowing liquid are essentially balanced out. 
The liquid reservoir according to Claim 1, 
characterised in that the said means (6) comprises a 

fluid-displacing body (6) which is essentially firmly 
connected to the opening (7A) and which exercises a net 

lift on the said outflow arrangement.  
 
The liquid reservoir according to Claim 1, 
characterised in that between said outflow arrangement 

(5) and the said inlet conduit (1) there is a telescopically 
movable, preferably sealed, device (12,13). 
The liquid reservoir according to Claim 7, 
characterised in that said device (12, 13) comprises a 

lower portion (12), which is fixed within the said casing 
and to which said inlet conduit (1) extends and preferably 

opens up within, and an upper portion (13) which is 
slidably arranged in relation to said baseportion (12) 

and that said upper portion contains the outlet of said 
outflow arrangement (5). 
The liquid reservoir according to Claim 7, 
characterised in that swirl-generating means (14) is 

arranged within said lower portion (12). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
