<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656693</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for operating a radio telephone
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B140	H04B116	H04B140	H04B116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides a method, and apparatus for performing the method, for 
reducing the power consumption of a radiotelephone. The method includes the 

steps of (a) receiving with a receiver of a radiotelephone at least a Word 
Synchronization pattern from a frame that is transmitted over a control channel; (b) 

receiving a first repeat of a control message that follows the Word Synchronization 
pattern within the frame; and (c) determining if the first repeat was correctly 

received. If the first repeat was correctly received, the method includes a further 
step of (d) determining if at least one reception-related criteria is met. If the 

reception-related criteria is determined to be met, the method includes a further 
step of (e) selectively removing operating power from one or more portions of the 

radiotelephone receiver for a predetermined time period during a remainder of the 
frame. The at least one reception-related criteria is a Message Error Rate (MER) that 

indicates a number of correctly received frames out of a total number of n last 
received frames. The reception-related criteria may also include a difference 

between a minimum Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) value and a 
maximum RSSI value that are detected during a predetermined interval of time. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIVARI RAIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIVARI, RAIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to cellular telephone power save modes, stand-by
modes, and signalling protocols for use on a control channel from a base station to
a mobile station. This invention also relates to receivers that are capable of
discontinuous operation.Fig. 1 is a simplified block diagram showing a signalling path of a cellular telephone
10. An antenna 12 is coupled to a radio frequency (RF) unit 14. The antenna 12
both receives and transmits RF-signals for accomplishing a telephone connection.
A baseband signalling unit (BBS) 16 is interposed between the RF unit 14 and a
controlling processor (MCU) 18, typically implemented as a microprocessor-based
controller (microcontroller). The baseband signalling unit 16 outputs an analog
signal (TX) to the RF unit 14, where TX is used to modulate a suitable RF carrier.
The BBS 16 receives an analog signal (RX) that represents a demodulated signal
that is received by the antenna 12. Communication between the BBS 16 and the
MCU 18 is by digital techniques, and includes an Interrupt signal line (INT), an m-bit
address bus, and an n-bit data bus. In operation, the BBS 16 and the MCU 18
implement a selected signalling protocol when transmitting and receiving a
telephone communication.A conventional AMPS signalling protocol and format is described in the EIA Interim
Standard IS-3-B, "Cellular System Mobile Station-Land Station Compatibility
Specification" (7/84), and in The Bell System Technical Journal, vol. 58, no. 1,
"Advanced Mobile Phone Service" (1/79). The AMPS signalling protocol is also
specified for use in the EIA/TIA Interim Standard IS-54-B, "Cellular System Dual-Mode
Mobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard (4/92). ATACS signalling
protocol is similar to the AMPS, differing primarily in the bit rate (AMPS 10 kbit/s,
TACS 8 kbit/s). In the AMPS protocol, and for a Forward Control Channel (FOCC, or FCC), the
signalling is a continuous bit stream from a base station (land station) to a mobile
station. The FOCC signalling message (data frame) is 463 bits long, and effectively
contains one information word of 28 bits. A data frame actually contains two data
streams designated A and B. However, only one of these streams is required by
any particular phone, and selection between the two data streams is determined
based on the phone's internally stored number. The 28 data bits (data word) are
further encoded with a Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH) cyclic code that
provides an encoded word of 40 bits (28 bits of data and 12 bits of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for reducing the power consumption of a radiotelephone,
comprising the steps of:


receiving at least a Word Synchronization pattern during a transmitted frame;
receiving a first repeat of a message that follows the Word Synchronization pattern
within the frame;
determining if the first repeat was correctly received;
if the first repeat was correctly received, determining if at least one reception-related
criteria is met; and
if the at least one reception-related criteria is determined to be met, selectively
removing operating power from one or more portions of the radiotelephone for a

predetermined time period during a remainder of the frame.
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the at least one reception-related
criteria is a Message Error Rate (MER) that indicates a number of correctly received

frames out of n last received frames.
A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein the at least one reception-related
criteria is met if the MER is below a predetermined threshold.
A method as set forth in claim 2 or 3 wherein one of the at least one
reception-related criteria includes a difference value between a minimum Received

Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) value and a maximum RSSI value that are detected
during a predetermined interval of time.
A method as set forth in claim 4 wherein the RSSI difference value is below 
a predetermined threshold.
A method as set forth in claim 1 and further including the
steps of:


at the end of the predetermined time period, restoring power to at least a portion
of receiver circuitry;
receiving with the receiver circuitry of the radiotelephone at least the Word
Synchronization pattern from a next transmitted frame;
receiving the first repeat of the message that follows the Word Synchronization
pattern within the next frame;
determining if the first repeat of the next frame was correctly received;
if the first repeat of the next frame was correctly received, determining if the at
least one reception-related criteria is met; and
if the at least one reception-related criteria is determined to be met, selectively
removing operating power from the one or more portions of the radiotelephone for

the predetermined time period during a remainder of the next frame.
A method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the step of restoring includes a
step of reloading frequency divider values into a frequency synthesizer means.
A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the radiotelephone includes a data
processor control unit, and wherein the step of reloading is accomplished by

circuitry that is external to the data processor control unit.
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the radiotelephone
includes a data processor control unit, and wherein the step of receiving at least 

a Word Synchronization pattern includes a step of generating an interrupt signal for
causing the data processor control unit to transition from a low power state to an

operational state.
A method as set forth in any preceding claim wherein the step of receiving
the Word Synchronization pattern includes a preliminary step of receiving a dotting

sequence that precedes the Word Synchronization pattern, and wherein the step
of receiving at least a Word Synchronization pattern includes a further step of

generating an interrupt signal for causing a data processor control unit of the
radiotelephone to transition from a low power state to an operational state, the

interrupt signal being generated only upon an occurrence of a reception of both the
dotting sequence and also the Word Synchronization pattern.
A method as set forth in any preceding claim and further including the steps
of:


at the end of the predetermined time period, restoring power to at least a portion
of receiver circuitry;
receiving at least the Word Synchronization pattern from a next transmitted frame;
receiving the first repeat of the control message that follows the Word
Synchronization pattern within the next frame;
determining if the at least one reception-related criteria is met; and
if the at least one reception-related criteria is determined not to be met, maintaining
operating power to the radiotelephone receiver for the remainder of the next frame.
A method as set forth in any preceding claim, wherein the radiotelephone
includes a data processor control unit, and wherein the steps of receiving the Word

Synchronization pattern and receiving the first repeat are accomplished with 
circuitry that is external to the data processor control unit.
A method as set forth in any preceding claim, wherein the step of
determining if the first repeat is correctly received includes the steps of:


BCH-decoding the received first repeat and generating at least one status signal;
generating an interrupt signal for causing a data processor control unit of the
radiotelephone to transition from a low power state to an operational state; and
reading the at least one status signal into the data processor control unit, the at
least one status signal indicating if the message was received with at least one bit

error or was received with no bit errors.
A method as set forth in any preceding claim, wherein the step of
determining if the first repeat is correctly received includes the steps of:


generating an interrupt signal for causing a data processor control unit of the
radiotelephone to transition from a low power state to an operational state;
reading the received first repeat into the data processor control unit; and
BCH-decoding the first repeat with the data processor control unit to determine if
the message was received with at least one bit error or was received with no bit

errors.
A method as set forth in any preceding claim wherein the step of determining
if at least one rec
eption-related criteria is met is executed without regard for an
identification of a destination for the message.
A radiotelephone, comprising: 

means for receiving at least a Word Synchronization pattern during a frame that is
transmitted over a control channel;
means for receiving a first repeat of a control message that follows the Word
Synchronization pattern within the frame;
means for determining if the first repeat was correctly received;
means, responsive to the first repeat being correctly received, for determining if at
least one reception-related criteria is met; and
means, responsive to the at least one reception-related criteria being determined
to be met, for selectively removing operating power from one or more portions of

a receiver of the radiotelephone for a predetermined time period during a remainder
of the frame.
A radiotelephone as set forth in claim 16 wherein the radiotelephone further
comprises:


means for accumulating and voting a plurality of repeats of the control message
within a frame;
means for BCH-decoding the voted result; and
means, responsive to a result of the BCH decoding, for error correcting, if required,
the voted result; and wherein
said means for determining if the first repeat was correctly received is comprised
of means for BCH-decoding only the first repeat.
A radiotelephone as set forth in claim 16 or 17 wherein one of the at least
one reception-related criteria is a Message Error Rate (MER) that indicates a number 

of correctly received frames out of n last received frames.
A radiotelephone as set forth in claim 18 wherein the one of the at least one
reception-related criteria is met if the MER is less than a predetermined threshold.
A radiotelephone as set forth in any one of claims 16 to 19 wherein one of
the at least one reception-related criteria is a difference value between a minimum

Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) value and a maximum RSSI value that are
detected during a predetermined interval of time.
A radiotelephone as set forth in claim 20 wherein the RSSI difference value
is less than a predetermined second threshold.
A radiotelephone as set forth in any one of claims 16 to 21 wherein said
means for selectively removing operating power further includes means for

restoring operating power, and further includes means for reloading frequency
divider values into a frequency synthesizer means.
A radiotelephone as set forth in claim 22 wherein the radiotelephone includes
a data processor control unit, and wherein said reloading means is comprised of

circuitry that is external to the data processor control unit.
A radiotelephone as set forth in any one of claims 16 to 23 wherein the
radiotelephone includes a data processor control unit, and wherein said means for

receiving at least a Word Synchronization pattern includes means for generating an
interrupt signal for causing the data processor control unit to transition from a low

power state to an operational state.
A method for reducing the power consumption of a radiotelephone,
comprising the steps of:


receiving with a radiotelephone at least a Word Synchronization pattern from a 
frame that is transmitted over an RF link;
receiving a first repeat of a message that follows the Word Synchronization pattern
within the frame;
determining if the first repeat was correctly received;
if the first repeat was correctly received, determining if a predetermined criteria is
met, the predetermined criteria being a function of at least a quality of the RF link;

and
if the predetermined-criteria is determined to be met, selectively removing operating
power from one or more portions of the radiotelephone for a predetermined time

period during a remainder of the frame.
A method as set forth in claim 25 wherein the predetermined criteria is also
a function of a signal strength of the RF link.
A method as set forth in claim 26 wherein the signal strength is determined
as a difference value between a minimum Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI)

value and a maximum RSSI value during a predetermined interval of time.
A method as set forth in any one of claims 25 to 27 and including
determining the quality of the RF link by the steps of:


for each frame wherein the Word Synchronization pattern is correctly received,
generating an interrupt in response to the Word Synchronization pattern being

correctly received to activate a control means so as to enable the control means
to determine if the message is correctly received during that frame, thereby

identifying that frame as a good frame, or is incorrectly received during that frame,
thereby identifying that frame as a bad frame; 
for each frame wherein the Word Synchronization pattern is not correctly received,
activating the control means in response to a time-out of a timer means so as to

enable the control means to identify that frame as a bad frame; and
determining the quality of the RF link to be a ratio of a number of good frames to
a number of bad frames.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
