<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613662</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spinal stabilization system and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1716	A61B1717	A61B1770	A61B1770	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spinal stabilization system (1) for fixing affected vertebrae 
having anterior and posterior aspects. The system (1) comprises a 

plurality of rods (3) or plates disposed over the affected 
vertebrae, at laest one rod (3) or plate disposed anteriorly and 

at least one disposed posteriorly, and a plurality of bolts 
and nuts (7;9) extending laterally through the affected vertebrae 

and attached to the rods (3). 
A method for installing a spinal stabilization system to fix 
vertebrae, comprising the steps of: exposing the spine 

anteriorly and posteriorly to reveal a level of vertebrae, 
inserting a pair of beam means (5) through the vertebrae; 

repeating the exposing and inserting steps for a next level 
of vertebrae; disposing column means (3) over the anterior and 

posterior aspects of the two levels of vertebra, and connecting 
the ends (29;31) of the beam means (5) at each vertebrae level to the 

column means (3). 
An alignment fixture for assisting in the installation of a 
spinal stabilization system, comprising first and second 

arms, each arm having first and second ends, a drill guide 
means and an aiming pin. The drill guide means and aiming pin 

are fixedly connected to the first end of the first and 
second arms, respectively. The second ends of the first and 

second arms are connected in sliding engagement with one 
another. The first and second arms, the drill guide means and 

the aiming pin are all disposed in the same plane. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOSPITAL FOR JOINT DISEASES OR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOSPITAL FOR JOINT DISEASES OR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARGULIES JOSEPH Y
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARGULIES JOSEPH Y
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of application 
Serial No. 07/973 294 filed November 9, 1992. This invention relates to a system of spinal stabilization, a 
method for fixing vertebrae and an alignment fixture used to 
install said system. Spinal stabilization is a common method to treat pathological 
processes in the spine and/or sacrum. Stabilization means 
eliminating movement between adjacent vertebrae, and therefore 
restoring structural integrity to the spine. Stabilization 
is achieved by fusing affected vertebrae to each 
other. The technical objective of stabilization is to achieve 
a solid bony fusion. This is usually done by creating a 
"fracture situation" between adjacent affected vertebrae, and 
fixating them mechanically with metal implants. Once fixation 
is accomplished, bone healing occurs, creating a fusion mass, 
which replaces the spanned vertebrae with one solid piece of 
bone. The task of the implanted instrumentation is to hold 
fractured or injured bone surfaces rigidly together until 
healing and fusion occur. Without bone fusion the stability of a mechanical construct 
is inadequate. The present surgical state of the art is a 
circumferential (anterior and posterior) approach, to rebuild 
the anterior and the posterior mechanical segments of the 
spinal column separately.  The disadvantages of the circumferential approach are 
several: too much metal in two different sets of devices, the 
construct may fail to promote stress sharing and may create 
stress shielding, and the construct may be too strong for 
osteogenic bone, and thus cut through it. A major problem of the present day approach is what to do 
with poor quality bone or with spines in which adequate 
attachment of the construct to the bone cannot be achieved. The present invention in its broadest aspect provides a 
single spinal stabilization system for fixing affected 
vertebrae having anterior and posterior aspects. The system 
comprises a plurality of substantially rigid, elongated 
column means disposed over the affected vertebrae. At least 
one of the column means is disposed over the anterior aspect 
of the affected vertebrae. At least another of the column 
means is disposed over the posterior aspect of the affected 
vertebrae. A plurality of substantially rigid, elongated beam 
means which extend through these affected vertebrae are 
attached to the column means. Additionally, the present invention is one of its broadest 
aspects provides a method of installing a spinal stabilization 
system to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spinal stabilization system for fixing affected 
vertebrae having anterior and posterior aspects, said 

system comprising: 
a plurality of substantially rigid, elongated column 

means for being disposed over the affected vertebrae, at 
least one of said column means for being disposed over 

the anterior aspect of said affected vertebrae and at 
least another of said column means for being disposed 

over the posterior aspect of said affected vertebrae, and 
a plurality of substantially rigid, elongated beam means 

having a longitudinal axis for extending through said 
affected vertebrae and for attaching said column means to 

said beam means. 
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein each of said 
beam means has an aperture extending along its 

longitudinal axis. 
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said beams 
extending through the same individual said affected 

vertebrae are disposed therein in different planes. 
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said beam means 
extend from the posterior aspect to the anterior aspect 

of said affected vertebrae. 
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein column means 
comprise rods or plates and wherein said plurality of 

column means comprise at least two column means. 
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said column 
means has a cross section and wherein the cross section 

of said column means through said beam means form a 
triangular configuration. 
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said vertebrae 
have superior and inferior rim portions and wherein 

individual beam means extend through said superior and 
inferior rim portions of a common said affected 

vertebrae. 
The system as recited in claim 1, wherein each said beam 
means comprises separate bolt and nut sections having 

longitudinal axes which sections join each other when 
said sections are inserted into and through an individual 

said affected vertebra. 
The system as recited in claim 8, wherein each of said 
bolt and nut sections has an aperture extending along the 

longitudinal axes thereof. 
The system as recited in claim 8, wherein each of said 
bolt and nut sections comprises a cutting end portion and 

a front portion having an externally threaded cylindrical 
periphery with cutting edges, said aperture of said nut 

section having an internally threaded cylindrical 
periphery for engaging said cutting edges of said 

externally threaded cylindrical periphery of said front 
portion of said bolt section. 
The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said bolt 
sections comprise a middle portion having an externally 

threaded periphery with cutting edges. 
The system as recited in claim 10, wherein each of said 
bolt and nut sections comprise a rear portion for 

attaching said rear portions of said bolt and nut 
sections to said column means. 
The system as recited in claim 10, further comprising 
wire means extending through said aperture of said beam 

means for attaching said column means to said beam means. 
The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the diameter 
of the cylindrical peripheries of the middle portion of 

said bolt section and said front portion of said nut 
section are substantially equal. 
The system as recited in claim 8, wherein said vertebrae 
have pedicle portions and said bolt sections extend 

through the pedicle portions of said affected vertebrae. 
The system as recited in claim 8, wherein said bolt 
sections and nut sections extend from the posterior and 

anterior aspects, respectively, of said affected 
vertebrae, and towards each other. 
A spinal stabilization system for fixing affected 
vertebrae having anterior and posterior aspects, said 

system comprising: 
at least two rods or plates being disposed over the 

affected vertebrae, at least one of said rods or plates 
being disposed over the anterior aspect of said affected 

vertebrae and at least one said rod or plate being 
disposed over the posterior aspect of said affected 

vertebrae, 
a plurality of elongated beam means having a 

longitudinally axis extending through said affected 
vertebrae and attached to said rods or plates, at least 

two of said beams extending through different planes of 
the same individual said affected vertebra, and 

each of said beam means comprising separate bolt and nut 
sections, said nut sections having longitudinal axes and 

an aperture, said aperture extending along its 
longitudinal axes, each said sections comprising a 

cutting end portion and a front portion having a 
cylindrical periphery externally threaded with cutting 

edges, the aperture of said nut section having a 
cylindrical periphery internally threaded for engaging 

said externally threaded cutting edges of said first 
portion of said bolt section. 
A method of installing a spinal stabilization system to 
fix affected vertebrae comprising the steps of: 

exposing the spine anteriorly and posteriorly to reveal 
a level of affected vertebra, 

inserting a pair of beam means through said affected 
vertebra, 

repeating the exposing and inserting steps for a next 
level of affected vertebra, 

disposing column means over the anterior and posterior 
aspects of the two levels of affected vertebrae, and 

connecting the ends of the beam means of each vertebra 
level to said column means. 
A method as recited in claim 18, wherein the step of 
exposing the spine reveals a level of vertebra including 

its pedicle portion. 
A method as recited in claim 19, wherein the step of 
inserting comprises inserting a pair of beams posteriorly 

through the pedicle portions of said vertebra and 
anteriorly through said vertebra. 
A method as recited in claim 20, wherein the beam means 
comprises pedicle bolt sections and nut sections. 
A method as recited in claim 21, wherein the beam means 
have cannulation. 
A method as recited in claim 22, wherein the column means 
comprise rigid elongated rod(s). 
A method of installing a spinal stabilization system to 
fix affected vertebrae comprising the steps of: 

exposing the spine anteriorly and posteriorly to reveal 
a level of affected vertebra including its pedicle 

portions,
 

inserting a pair of pedicle bolt sections posteriorly 
through the pedicle portion of said affected vertebra and 

a pair of nut sections having cannulations anteriorly 
through said sections, 

repeating the exposing and inserting steps for a next 
level of affected vertebra, 

disposing rigid elongated rods over the anterior and 
posterior aspects of the two levels of affected 

vertebrae, and 
connecting the ends of the bolt and nut sections at each 

affected vertebra to said rigid elongated rods. 
A method of installing a spinal stabilization system to 
fix affected vertebrae of a patient using an aligning 

fixture having a drill guide at one end and an aiming pin 
at the other end, comprising the steps of: 


a) surgically exposing at least one level of affected 
vertebra anteriorly and posteriorly, 
b) cleaning out the contents of the pedicle portions of 
the level of affected vertebra so as to permit 

sufficient movement of the drill guide within the 
cleaned out pedicle portions so that said aiming pin 

can be positioned at the desired exit points on the 
anterior aspect of said level of affected vertebra, 
c) inserting said drill guide within the cleaned out 
pedicle portions of the level of affected vertebra, 
d) positioning said aiming pin at the desired exit points 
on the anterior aspect of said level of affected 

vertebra, 
e) inserting a drilling means within the aligned drill 
guide disposed within said pedicle portions of the 

level of affected vertebra, and 
f) drilling holes through said aligned drill guide into 
said affected vertebra to said desired exit points. 
The method as recited in claim 25, further comprising the 
steps of: 


g) inserting a pair of beam means through said level of 
affected vertebra, 
h) repeating steps a) through g) for the other level of 
affected vertebra, 
i) disposing column means over the anterior and posterior 
aspect of the two levels of affected vertebrae, and 
j) connecting the ends of the beam means of each vertebra 
level to the column means. 
A method of installing a spinal stabilzation system to 
fix affected vertebrae of a patient using an aligning 

fixture having a drill guide at one end and an aiming pin 
at the other end, comprising the steps of: 


a) surgically exposing two adjacent level of affected 
vertebrae anteriorly and posteriorly, 
b) cleaning out the contents of the pedicle portions of 
the adjacent levels of affected vertebrae so as to 

permit sufficient movement of the drill guide within 
the cleaned out pedicle portions so that said aiming 

pin can be positioned at the desired exit points on 
the anterior aspect of said adjacent levels of 

affected vertebrae, 
c) inserting said drill guide within the cleaned out 
pedical portions of the adjacent levels of affected 

vertebrae, 
d) positioning said aiming pin at the desired exit points 
on the anterior aspect of said adjacent levels of 

affected vertebrae, 
e) inserting a drilling means within the aligned drill 
guide disposed within said pedicle portions of the 

adjacent levels of affected vertebrae, and 
f) drilling holes through said aligned drill guide into 
said affected vertebrae to said desired exit points. 
A method as recited in claim 27, further comprising after 
step c): 


1) making an incision in the lateral aspect of a patient 
of sufficient size to permit the aiming pin and a 

portion of its attached arm entry therethrough, and 
2) inserting said aiming pin and a portion of its 
attached arm through said incision and disposing the 

aiming pin adjacent said anterior aspect of said 
adjacent levels of affected vertebrae. 
A method as recited in claim 27, wherein said cleaning is 
performed by curetting the pedicle portions of the 

adjacent levels of affected vertebrae. 
A method of installing a spinal stabilization system to 
fix affected vertebrae of a patient using an aligning 

fixture having a drill guide at one end and an aiming pin 
at the other end, comprising the steps of: 


a) surgically exposing two adjacent levels of affected 
vertebrae anteriorly and posteriorly, 
b) cleaning out the contents of the pedicle portions of 
the adjacent levels of affected vertebrae so as to 

permit sufficient movement of the drill guide within 
the cleaned out pedicle portions so that said aiming 

pin can be positioned at the desired exit points on 
the anterior aspect of said adjacent levels of 

affected vertebrae, 
c) inserting said drill guide within the cleaned out 
pedicle portions of the adjacent levels of affected 

vertebrae, 
d) positioning said aiming pin at the desired exit points 
on the anterior aspect of said adjacent levels of 

affected vertebrae, 
e) inserting a drilling means within the aligned drill 
guide disposed within said pedicle portions of the 

adjacent levels of affected vertebrae, 
f) drilling holes through said aligned drill guide into 
said affected vertebrae to said desired exit points, 
g) inserting a pair of beam means through each of said 
levels of affected vertebrae, 
h) disposing column means over the anterior and posterior 
aspects of the two levels of affected vertebrae, and 
i) connecting the ends of the beam means at each affected 
vertebra level to said column means. 
An alignment fixture for assisting in the installation of 
a spinal stabilization system, comprising 

a first arm, 
a second arm, 

each arm having first and second ends, 

drill guide means, and an aiming pin, 
said aiming pin and said drill guide means fixedly 

connected to the first end of said first and second arms, 
respectively, 

said second ends of said first and second arms being 
connected in sliding engagement with one another, and 

said first and second arms, said drill guide means and 
said aiming pin being disposed in the same plane. 
An alignment fixture as recited in claim 31, wherein said 
drill guide means and aiming pin being disposed 

orthogonally on said first and second arm, respectively. 
An alignment fixture as recited in claim 32, wherein said 
drill guide means and aiming pin being axially aligned. 
An alignment fixture as recited in clam 33, wherein each 
of said first and second arms having first and second 

portions, said first portions being disposed opposite one 
another, and said second portions being connected 

together in sliding engagement. 
An alignment fixture as recited in claim 31, wherein said 
first and second arms being disposed at the anterior and 

posterior aspects, respectively, of said vertebrae during 
the initial stage of the installation of said system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
