<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630552</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MICROWAVE CORN POPPING PACKAGE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L118	A23L118	A47J2700	A47J2700	B65D8134	B65D8134	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A23L	A47J	A47J	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A23L1	A47J27	A47J27	B65D81	B65D81	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An expendable popcorn bag (10) includes upper and lower opposing face panels (12, 14) connected together by longitudinally extending, centrally projecting gussets (16, 18) that are integral with the face panels (12, 14). Prior to popping, the gussets (16, 18) are folded between the upper and lower face panels (12, 14) of the bag (10) and the bag is sealed at each end. A microwave heating susceptor (14b) is provided in the lower panel (14) of the bag (10) or elsewhere in the bag if desired. During popping of the popcorn kernels (13), the bag (10) increases in size and the gussets (16, 18) expand outwardly as the bag (10) becomes filled with popped kernels hot vapor and steam. In an alternative modified form of the invention, a stand (17, 6) is provided to elevate the bag. The stand can be pre-erected, or erected or collapsed during use. In another alternative modified form of the invention, a stand (84) is an initially detached, pre-erected tray-shaped stand. During microwave cooking, a heat-activated adhesive bonds the tray-shaped stand to the bag.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDEN VALLEY MICROWAVE FOODS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDEN VALLEY MICROWAVE FOODS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTEALEGRE JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURPIN CHARLES H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTEALEGRE, JAMES, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURPIN, CHARLES, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MICROWAVE CORN POPPING PACKAGEFIELD OF INVENTION This invention relates to a microwave corn popping package.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION At the time microwave popcorn was first commercialized, microwave popcorn bags were sized to be the largest size that would fit in the most commonly available oven in use at that time. A de facto standard size of about 100 grams resulted. This size has come to be preferred by microwave popcorn customers, with sizes larger, and especially smaller, being much less acceptable as shown by relative sales volume.This size fits and works well in most of today's microwave overs. However, there is one class of oven where this size does not work well—and that is the class of oven wherein a turntable is used to enhance uniformity of heating. In such ovens, if the 100 gram bag is too close to the maximum space capacity of the oven, the bag can catch or hang up and so no longer rotate, thus inactivating the uniformity of heating feature of the oven turntable, resulting in reduced pop volume and sometimes even scorching. Such small ovens may often have a turntable of about 23 cm or less in diameter and are very common in some markets, making it unfeasible to market the most popular bag size in those markets. In fact, the largest de facto standard size that will fit these ovens is the 50 gram size, which uses a bag having a height of only about 23 cm and a width of about 10 cm across each face.Another problem in certain microwave ovens is that the area of maximum field intensity is in an unusual position owing to the design of the oven capability or the presence of a metal cooking surface. For example, in a typical Japanese oven it has been found that the maximum field intensity is not located at or immediately above the support surface within the oven as it is in typical U.S.SUBSTITUTESHEET 

ovens. Japanese ovens are characterized b the presence of a metal cooking surface, i.e., a metal support surface such as a turntable for the food at the bottom of the oven compartment. Foods like popcorn which depend on an electric field powered susceptor in the bottom of a paper container, e.g., a bag, are not heated very well in ovens of this kind. As a result, the popcorn pops slowly, and very often popping is incomplete, resulting in a large number of unpopped kernels which consumers find unacceptable. In addition, heating may be spotty, causing popcorn in some parts of the bag to burn or kernels in other portions of the package remain unpopped. This is a particularly serious problem to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An expandable popcorn package for popping popcorn in a microwave oven comprising: a bag body formed from flexible microwave transparent sheet material including superimposed upper and lower face panels with longitudinally extending centrally projected gusset panels folded between the upper and lower face panels, a charge of popcorn contained within the bag, said bag having top and bottom ends with top and bottom seals between the face panels adjacent to the ends of the bag, said seals bonding the upper the lower face panels together and bonding the gusset panels between the face panels to thereby seal the ends of the bag, said bag being adapted to expand to accommodate the expansion of the popcorn as it pops therein during microwave cooking, a selectively deployable stand for being positioned below the bag during microwave cooking to support the bag, when deployed, in spaced relationship above a support surface in the microwave oven, and means for providing and adhesive bond between the stand and the lower face panel of the bag to connect the stand to the bag.
2. The package of Claim 1 wherein the stand is a detached and automatically self-attaching tray-shaped stand, the stand is initially separate from the bag so that the stand can be placed below the bag to support said bag during cooking of the popcorn in a microwave oven, and the means for providing an adhesive bond is a heat-activated adhesive positioned between the bag and a horizontal supporting wall of the stand for bonding the bag to the stand in response to heat transferred
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 to said adhesive during microwave cooking of the popcorn within the microwave oven.
3. The package of Claim 2 wherein the supporting wall of the stand is placed uppermost and the adhesive is a thermoplastic adhesive applied to an outer surface of said supporting wall so as to be located in contact with the bag during cooking in the microwave oven.
4. The package of Claim 2 wherein the adhesive comprises a plurality of patches of adhesive applied to the package between the stand and the bag.
5. The package of Claim 2 wherein the adhesive comprises a thermoplastic adhesive and said horizontal supporting wall of the stand includes at least one opening to prevent scorching of the package.
6. The package of Claim 2 wherein said adhesive comprises one or more patches of adhesive applied to an outside portion of said bag that is placed in contact with said stand for bonding the bag to the stand during cooking of the popcorn within the microwave oven.
7. The package of Claim 2 wherein the tray-shaped stand is dimensioned larger than the bag when the bag is folded to a smaller size whereby the folded bag can be placed inside the stand for compact shipment and storage.
8. The package of Claim 2 wherein a microwave interactive susceptor is in heat transfer relationship with the adhesive between the bag and the stand for enhancing the formation of an adhesive bond between the stand and the bag.
9. The package of Claim 8 wherein the susceptor is in the lower panel of the bag adjacent to the adhesive.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 •*.
10. The package of Claim 2 wherein the stand has at least one opening in the horizontally disposed supporting wall and the adhesive is applied to an outside surface of the supporting wall adjacent to said opening.
11. The package of Claim 10 wherein the adhesive surrounds the opening.
12. The package of Claim 10 wherein a plurality of said openings are provided in said supporting wall of the stand, and the adhesive is applied to the supporting wall adjacent said openings.
13. The package of Claim 12 wherein the adhesive is applied to the supporting wall as patches of adhesive interspersed among said openings.
14. The package of Claim 1 wherein the stand is a collapsible stand including panels that are joined to one another along fold lines and the stand is bonded to an outside surface of the lower face panel of the bag below the susceptor so that said stand enables the bag to be placed in multiple positions within said microwave oven during cooking including a) a lower position when the stand is folded to the collapsed condition and b) a raised position when the stand is folded to an erect condition, said collapsible stand being thereby adapted to support the bag in a selected one or two or more positions during cooking for improving cooking efficiency in different kinds of microwave ovens.
15. The popcorn bag of Claim 14 wherein a first panel of the stand is adhesively bonded to said bag and a second panel of the stand is adapted to be folded to extend downwardly to serve as a leg for said stand.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


16. The popcorn bag of Claim 15 wherein the stand includes a pair of first panels bonded to an outer surface of the lower panel of the bag and a pair of second panels spaced apart from one another and connected to said first panels by parallel fold lines to serve as legs for supporting the bag in a raised position when the stand is erected and the legs are in an upright position.
17. The popcorn bag of Claim 1 wherein the bag as top and bottom cut ends and each of the cut ends has corner portions cut away and lines of adhesive are in alignment adjacent to the cut ends of the bag, said lines of adhesive bond the face panels together and bond the gussets between the face panels, the gussets are shaped so that the length of each gusset is greatest near the center of the bag diminishes proceeding outwardly toward side edges of each face panel and said bag expands to accommodate the expansion of the corn as it pops therein during microwave cooking.
18. The popcorn bag of Claim 17 wherein the ends of the bag and gussets are cut in curved arcs.
19. The popcorn bag of Claim 17 wherein the ends of the bag are cut to have a plurality of straight segments connected end-to-end.
20. The popcorn bag of Claim 16 wherein the stand includes a bottom panel connected between the lower ends of said legs by means of two spaced apart mutually parallel fold lines.
21. A method of popping popcorn in a microwave oven, comprising:
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 providing an expandable popcorn bag formed from flexible sheet material and containing a quantity of popcorn sealed therein, providing a detached tray-shaped stand formed from paper or paperboard for supporting the popcorn bag in spaced relationship above a cooking surface within said microwave oven, providing a thermoplastic adhesive on an exposed surface of the popcorn bag or stand in a position to be interposed between the stand and the bag when the bag is placed on the stand and popping the popcorn within the bag by exposing the bag to microwave energy in the oven, and the heat produced by the microwave energy being adapted to melt the thermoplastic adhesive and thereby bond the tray-shaped stand to the popcorn bag during cooking of the popcorn within the microwave oven for connecting the bag to the stand.
22. The method of Claim 21 wherein a microwave interactive susceptor is provided for absorbing microwave energy and converting the microwave energy to heat, and said susceptor is in heat conductive relationship with said thermoplastic adhesive for melting the thermoplastic adhesive to help form said bond during microwave cooking.
23. An expandable popcorn package for popping popcorn in a microwave oven comprising: (a) a flexible, microwave-transparent bag body having a lower face panel;
(b) a charge of popcorn contained with the bag;
(i) said bag being adapted to expand to accommodate the expansion of the popcorn as it pops therein during microwave cooking;
(c) a selectively deployable stand operably positionable below the bag during microwave
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 cooking to support the bag, when deployed, in a spaced relationship above a support surface in the microwave oven; and means for selectively providing an adhesive bond between the stand and the lower face panel of the bag.
24. The package of Claim 23 wherein the stand is a detached and automatically self-attaching tray-shaped stand, the stand is initially separate from the bag so that the stand can be placed below the bag to support said bag during cooking of the popcorn in a microwave oven, and the means for providing an adhesive bond is a heat-activated adhesive positioned between the bag and a horizontal supporting wall of the stand for bonding the bag to the stand in response to heat transferred to said adhesive during microwave cooking of the popcorn within the microwave oven.
25. The package of Claim 24 wherein a microwave interactive susceptor is in heat transfer relationship with the adhesive between the bag and the stand.
26. The package of Claim 24 wherein the stand has at least one opening in the horizontally disposed supporting wall and the adhesive is applied to an outside surface of the supporting wall adjacent to said opening.
27. The package of Claim 23 wherein the stand is a collapsible stand including panels that are joined to one another along fold lines and the stand is bonded to an outside surface of the lower face panel of the bag below the susceptor so that said stand enables the bag to be placed in multiple positions within said microwave oven during cooking including a) a lower position when the stand is folded to the collapsed condition and b) a raised position when the stand is
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


folded to an erect condition, said collapsible stand being thereby adapted to support the bag in a selected one of two or more positions during cooking for improving cooking efficiency in different kinds of microwave cooking.
S
U
BSTITUTESHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
