<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659273</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIT DETECTOR AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3302	G01N3302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for detecting the presence of an impurity within a substantially spherical object, such as piece of stone fruit. An infrared point source light emitting diode (32) positioned on one side of an inspection zone (24) transmits a single light beam across the inspection zone (24). A linear CCD array (44) for generating a signal that is proportional to the intensity of the light transmitted through the fruit as the fruit passes through the inspection zone (24) and a slit lens for focussing the light beam on the the CCD array (44) are provided. An infrared filter (42) is positioned between the lens (40) and the CCD array (44). Thus, as the fruit passes through the inspection zone (24) and the intensity of the light transmitted through the fruit is received by the CCD array (44), a two-dimensional analyzable bit map representative of the cross-section of the object's density is produced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PENETECT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PENETECT, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGERS JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROGERS, JOHN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the field of detecting
the presence of a foreign substance such as a pit within a
substantially spherical object such as
fruit and more particularly to a method and apparatus
for the non-destructive inspection of small fruit such as
cherries and olives in order to confirm that the pit has in
fact been removed therefrom.The problem of ensuring that pits have been removed from
cherries has long been a priority for the cherry producing
industry. Over 95 per cent of the tart cherry crop is pitted
and processed into canned, frozen and dried fruit, or made
into juice. In accordance with United States Department of
Agriculture procedures, pitted cherries are separated into
grades. Grade A cherries may not contain more than one pit
per 1.1kg (2.5 pounds) of finished cherries. Thus, it follows that
if cherries are determined to be "Grade A" the producer has a
more valuable product which commands a higher price. In
addition, producer liability for impure products has recently
become an issue given the potential for broken teeth, etc.
when served as part of a meal in a pie, topping and the like.
For the foregoing reasons, the cherry producers have set a
goal of not more than one pit per 62.4 pounds (28,3 kg) of finished
product.In an effort to produce a finished cherry product with
fewer pits, a number of devices have been produced which
inspect the cherry after it has allegedly been pitted in an
attempt to ensure pit removal. U.S. patent No. 4,666,045 to 
Gillespie et al. discloses one such apparatus and a method
for detecting pits in cherries. Specifically, the patent
teaches an optical pit detecting device comprising an
inspection zone and a scanning beam generator that sweeps a
transmission scanning beam across the inspection zone. An
array of sensors are positioned on the opposite side of the
inspection zone and produce a series of sensor signals that
are proportional to the received light intensity based on the
amount of light transmitted through the cherry. A second
sizing beam generator generates a signal representative of
the optical path length through which the transmission
scanning beam travels within the fruit and generates a signal
that is proportional to the size of the fruit. The two
signals are then analyzed to determine the presence or
absence of a pit within the fruit.Another method and apparatus for detecting pits in fruit
was disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,077,477 to Stroman et al.
The device comprised a U-shaped "inspection zone" in which a
first side
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for detecting the presence of a
foreign substance such as a pit within a substantially

spherical object such as a fruit passing through an
inspection zone (24) and comprising:


a) a light emitting means (32) positioned on one side
of the inspection zone (24) and adapted to transmit light

from one side of the inspection zone across the inspection
zone to the opposite side of the inspection zone;
b) means (44) positioned on the opposite side of the
inspection zone for generating a signal that is proportional

to the intensity of the light transmitted through the object
as the object passes through th
e inspection zone; and
c) means (40) for collimating said light positioned
between said light emitting means (32) and the means (44)

for generating a signal, said means (40) for collimating
said light being positioned proximate said means (44) for

generating a signal;

   whereby as the object passes through the inspection
zone and is illuminated by the light emitting means (32) and

the intensity of the light transmitted through the object is
received by the means (44) for generating a signal, a two-dimensional

analyzable bit map representative of the cross-sectional
density is produced,

   characterised in that said light emitting means
comprises only a single point source light emitting means

(32) which transmits only a single light beam across the
inspection zone and said collimating means comprises a slit

lens (40) which prevents convergence of the transmitted
light.
The detecting apparatus according to claim 1
wherein said point source light emitting means (32)

comprises an infrared diode and further including an
infrared filter (42) positioned between said slit lens

(40) and said means (44) for generating a signal that is 
proportional to the intensity of the transmitted light.
The detecting apparatus according to claim 1 or 2
wherein said point source light emitting means (32)

comprises a tightly clustered diode array substantially
emulating a point light source.
The detecting apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or
3 wherein said means (44) for generating a signal that is

proportional to the intensity of the light that is
transmitted through the object comprises a linear CCD array.
The detecting apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or
3 wherein said means (44) for generating a signal that is

proportional to the intensity of the light that is
transmitted through the object comprises a photodiode array.
The detecting apparatus according to any preceding
claim further including means (52) for digitizing the signal

that is proportional to the intensity of the light
transmitted through the object.
The detecting apparatus according to claim 6
further including means (56) for creating a bit map

representative of the relative intensities of the light
transmitted through the object.
The detecting apparatus according to claim 7
further including image processing means (56) for analyzing

said bit map in order to detect the presence of the foreign
substance.
The detecting apparatus according to claim 8
wherein the image processing means (56) includes means for

determining the variation of the intensity of light
transmitted through the object to detect the presence or 

absence of the foreign substance.
A method of inspecting a substantially spherical
object passing through an inspection zone (24) for the

presence of a foreign substance comprising the steps of:

a) transmitting light from one side of the inspection
zone (24) across the inspection zone to the opposite side of

the inspection zone;
b) collimating the light with collimating means (40)
positioned on the opposite side of the inspection zone;
c) imaging the light on to a linear photosensitive
receiver (44) positioned behind the collimating means (40);
d) producing an output signal from the linear
photosensitive receiver (44) in the form of a plurality of

output voltage signals that are proportional to the
intensity of the light imaged on to the linear

photosensitive receiver (44) at each point along its length,

   characterised in that said light is transmitted from a
single point source light emitting means (32) only which

transmits only a single light beam across the inspection
zone and collimating said light is achieved by passing it

through a slit lens (40) which prevents convergence of the
transmitted light.
The method according to claim 10 further including
the step of converting each output voltage signal to a

digital data set representative thereof.
The method according to claim 11 further including
the step of analyzing (56) the digital data set, whereby the

presence or absence of the foreign substance is determined
on the basis of the variation of intensity of light

transmitted through the object.
The method according to claim 10, 11 or 12 used to
detect the presence of a pit in a fruit.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
