<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642042</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical fiber alignment techniques.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B632	G02B632	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A substrate (10) is formed having first and second opposite flat surfaces. 
Photolithographic masking (14) and etching is used to form on the 

first surface of the 
substrate at least one lens (25) having a central axis. 

Photolithographic masking (15) and 
etching is also used to form on the second surface of the substrate an 

optical fiber 
guide (23). The fiber guide is then used to mount an optical fiber (27) 

on the second 
surface of the substrate such that the central axis of the optical 

fiber is substantially 
coincident with the central axis of the lens, thereby giving the 

desired alignment. 
Another embodiment in which a single microlens (30) has been formed 
on one side of a glass substrate (31), and a cylindrical alignment pin 

(32) has been formed by masking and etching on the opposite surface of 
substrate (31). The alignment pin (32) is preferably made by masking and 

etching using a mask that has been aligned with the mask used for 
forming microlens (30), as discussed above. The alignment pin may have 

approximately the same diameter as an optical fiber to be aligned with 
the microlens. An optical fiber (33) to be aligned is surrounded by an 

annular rigid ferrule (34), which has been made to overlap slightly one 
end of the optical fiber (33). This overlapping forms a cylindrical 

aperture into which cylindrical alignment pin (32) can be inserted as 
shown. Thus, the end of the optical fiber (33) is placed snugly against 

a surface of substrate (31) for optimum optical coupling with microlens 
(30), and may be permanently fixed by epoxy. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASAVANHALLY NAGESH RAMAMOORTH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASAVANHALLY, NAGESH RAMAMOORTHY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical fiber alignment techniques and, more 
particularly, to methods for aligning optical fibers with microlenses. The U.S. patent of A. Y. Feldblum et al., No. 5,286,338, hereby 
incorporated herein by reference, describes methods for making a microlens array on 
one flat surface of a silica substrate. The application points out that such arrays are 
useful, for example, for coupling light to and from optical fiber bundles of the type 
described in the U.S. patent of Basavanhally, No. 5,135,590, granted August 4, 1992. According to the method, a matrix array of photoresist elements are 
defined on a silica substrate by photolithographic masking and etching. The 
photoresist elements are then melted to cause them to have curved or dome-shaped 
upper surfaces, and are thereafter solidified. The photoresist elements and the 
substrate are next subjected to reactive ion etching, that is, etching by a reactive gas 
in which the reaction is enhanced by applied radio frequency power. The photoresist 
elements cause differential etching in the substrate such that, after all of the 
photoresist has been etched away, the dome shapes of the original photoresist 
elements are replicated in the silica substrate. After a microlens array has been made, I have found that it is difficult to 
align it with an optical fiber bundle such that each microlens is precisely properly 
aligned with the end of an optical fiber. Another problem is that, if the substrate 
thickness must always be smaller than the separation of the lens from the fiber, the 
substrate may be made so thin as to make the microlens array extremely fragile. 
Aligning optical fibers with lenses is also a problem in other photonics packages, 
such as those in which a laser, lens and fiber must be aligned, or in a detector in 
which a photodetector, lens and optical fiber must be mutually aligned. In one embodiment of the invention, a substrate is formed having first 
and second opposite flat surfaces. Photolithographic masking and etching is used to 
form on the first surface of the substrate at least one lens having a central axis. 
Photolithographic masking and etching is also used to form on the second surface of 
the substrate an optical fiber guide. The fiber guide is then used to mount an optical  
 
fiber on the second surface of the substrate such that the central axis of the optical 
fiber is substantially coincident with the central axis of the lens, thereby giving the 
desired alignment. The optical fiber guide may,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for making optical devices comprising the steps of: 
   forming of a light transmissive material a substrate (10) having first and 

second opposite flat surfaces; 
   forming on the first surface of the substrate at least one lens (25) having 

a central axis comprising the step of defining the lens by photolithographic masking 
and etching; 

   forming on the second surface of the substrate an optical fiber guide (24) 
comprising the step of defining the optical fiber guide by photolithographic masking 

and etching; and 
   using the optical fiber guide to mount an optical fiber (27) on the second 

surface of the substrate such that the central axis of the optical fiber is substantially 
coincident with the central axis of said lens. 
The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: 
   using a first mask to define at least one lens region on the first side of the 

substrate; 
   using a second mask to define at least one optical fiber guide region on 

the second surface of the substrate; 
   and using a light beam directed through portions of both the first and 

second masks to align the first and second masks. 
The method of claim 1 wherein: 
   the optical fiber guide is an aperture (24) extending into the substrate, 

the aperture having a diameter approximately equal to the diameter of the optical 
fiber; 

   and the mounting step comprises fitting one end of the optical fiber (27) 
snugly within the aperture. 
The method of claim 1 wherein: 
   the optical fiber guide is an alignment pin (32) extending from the 

substrate; 
   and the step of mounting the optical fiber comprises the step of 

mounting the optical fiber within a ferrule (34) having a central opening, and 
projecting the alignment pin into the central opening of the ferrule. 
The method of claim 4 wherein: 
   the alignment pin is a cylindrical portion (32) having approximately the 

same diameter as that of the optical fiber. 
The method of claim 3 wherein: 
   the lens has a focal point that lies between the first and second surfaces 

of the substrate; 
   and the aperture extends from the second surface of the substrate to said 

focal point (28), whereby the lens is capable of focusing light onto the mounted 
optical fiber. 
The method of claim 1 wherein: 
   the lens has a focal point; 

   and the optical fiber is mounted such that one end thereof is 
substantially perpendicular to the central axis and is substantially coincident with 

said focal point. 
The method of claim 1 further characterized by the steps of: 
   using a first mask to define at least one lens region on the first side of the 

substrate; 
   using a second mask to define at least one optical fiber guide region on 

the second surface of the substrate; 
   and using the aligned position of the first mask with respect to the first 

surface to aid in aligning the second mask with the second surface. 
The method of claim 3 wherein: 
   the step of forming the lens comprises the step of forming a matrix array 

of microlenses; 
   the step of forming the aperture comprises the step of forming a matrix 

array of apertures, each aperture having a central axis substantially coincident with 
the central axis of a corresponding microlens; 

   and the mounting step comprises the step of mounting an optical fiber 
into each of the apertures. 
The method of claim 9 wherein: 
   each of the microlenses has a focal point, all of the focal points lying 

substantially on a common plane; 
   and the optical fibers are mounted such that one end of each fiber 

substantially lies on said common plane. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
