<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638292</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Wire fastening tool.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1758	A61B1758	A61B1788	A61B1788	B21F1500	B21F1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	B21F	B21F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	B21F15	B21F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wire fastening tool has a wire mounting 
portion on which one end of a wire is to be mounted, 

a containing portion into which a movable member is 
to be inserted from outside and removably contained, 

and at least two openings which are formed in a 
peripheral wall forming the containing portion and 

into which the other end of the wire is to be inserted. 
The movable member is inserted with the other end of 

the wire passed through the openings and inserted in 
the containing portion, whereby the wire is bent 

between the movable member and the containing portion 
and is pressed between the outer surface of the movable 

member and the inner surface of the containing portion. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYANO KIJURO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAYANO, KIJURO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AJIRO HARUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYANO KIJURO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AJIRO, HARUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYANO, KIJURO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a wire fastening tool 
for fastening a wire, and particularly to the structure 
of a fastening tool suitable for fastening the opposite 
ends of a metallic wire when supporting and fixing 
fractured bone portions or re-fixing broken bones. Heretofore, when fractured bone portions are to 
be tied together or when after a portion of a bone was 
cut off for some reason or other, the cut-off portion 
is to be again fixed at its original position, it has 
been the practice to pass a wire for a living body 
through an insertion hole formed in the bone or put a 
wire for a living body around the body to thereby bind 
up the wire, and fasten the opposite ends of this wire 
to thereby fix the broken-away portion of the bone. 
The fastening of the wire is accomplished by once tying 
up the wire tightly, and then wrenching the opposite 
ends of the wire together. As the wire for a living body, use is often 
made of a single wire of stainless steel, Co-Cr-Mo 
alloy or the like. However, these wires have suffered 
from problems in terms of corrosion resistance and 
fitness to a living body and moreover, have had a  
 
disadvantage that when MRI (magnetic resonance image 
pickup method) is used, image pickup is hampered by the 
halation caused by the wire. On the other hand, in recent years, use has 
also been made of wires of pure titanium or titanium 
alloys having good corrosion resistance and good 
fitness to a living body. These wires have a feature 
that they do not cause halation to an electromagnetic 
wave and moreover, when they are used with artificial 
bones or artificial dental roots made of titanium or a 
titanium alloy which have recently used, the wires used 
are the same metal as these and therefore, 
electrochemical corrosion occurring between different 
metals can be avoided. However, the wires of titanium, as compared, 
for example, with wires of stainless steel, merely have 
a fraction of ductility and a little over half of 
tensile strength and therefore, unless the wire 
fastening work is done carefully, the wrenched-together 
portions of the wires may be broken away. Accordingly, 
there have been cases where during a surgical 
operation, sufficient tying-up or wrenching together 
cannot be done from the fear against the breakage of 
the wire and precise fixing of bone tissue cannot be 
accomplished. So, for example, in Japanese Laid-Open Patent 
Application No. 4-156837, it is described to insert two  
 
wires into a metal fitting of titanium having a U-shaped 
or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A wire fastening tool having a wire 
mounting portion on which one end of a wire is to be 

mounted, a containing portion into which a movable 
member is to be inserted from outside and removably 

contained, and at least two openings which are formed 
in a peripheral wall forming said containing portion 

and into which the other end of the wire is to be 
inserted, wherein said movable member is inserted with 

the other end of said wire passed through said openings 
and inserted in
 said containing portion, whereby said 
wire is bent between said movable member and said 

containing portion and is pressed between the outer 
surface of said movable member and the inner surface of 

said containing portion. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 1, 
wherein a gap for permitting the wire to extend in the 

direction of insertion of said movable member is 
provided between said movable member and said 

containing portion. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 2, 
wherein said gap is formed into a cross-sectional shape 

including a portion narrow than the diameter of said 
wire. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 1, 
wherein the side edge portion of the outer surface of 

at least one of said openings is formed into a concave 
shape. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 1, 
wherein a cutting blade faces one of said openings and 

the edge of said cutting blade is opposed to the 
direction of insertion of said movable member. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 1, 
wherein said movable member is formed with a wire 

insertion hole into which said wire can be inserted, 
and said movable member may be inserted with said wire 

inserted in said wire insertion hole. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 1, 
wherein said movable member and said containing portion 

are provided with engagement elements for positioning 
each other at a location whereat said wire is bent and 

pressed. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 1, 
wherein said movable member and said containing portion 

are provided with engagement elements for positioning 
each other at a location whereat the other end of said 

wire is passed through and inserted into said openings. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 1, 
wherein an engagement portion of a diameter larger than 

the diameter of said wire is provided at one end of 
said wire, and said wire mounting portion has a wire 

mounting hole provided with a portion capable of 
containing said engagement portion therein, and a level 

difference portion engageable with said engagement 
portion. 
A wire fastening tool provided with a wire 
mounting portion for mounting a wire thereon, a movable 

portion acting on said wire, a containing portion for 
movably containing said movable portion, and a pair of 

openings which are formed in the peripheral wall of 
said containing portion and into which said wire is to 

be inserted, wherein on the side of one of said 
openings, a gap capable of containing said wire therein 

is formed between the inner surface of said containing 
portion and the outer surface of said movable portion, 

and said wire is made to extend along said gap by the 
movement of said movable portion and is bent at least 

before and behind said gap. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
10, wherein the other of said openings is formed into a 

shape extending in the direction of movement of said 
movable portion. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
10, wherein said gap is formed into a cross-sectional 

shape having a portion narrower than the diameter of 
said wire. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
10, wherein the side edge portion of the outer surface 

of the other of said openings is formed into a concave 
shape. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
10, wherein a cutting blade faces the other of said 

openings and the edge of said cutting blade is opposed 
to the direction of movement of said movable portion. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
10, wherein said movable portion is formed with a wire 

insertion hole into which said wire can be inserted, 
and said movable portion is movable with said wire 

inserted to said wire insertion hole. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
10, wherein said movable portion and said containing 

portion are provided with engagement elements for 
positioning each other at a location whereat said wire 

is made to extend along said gap by the movement of 
said movable portion and is bent at least before and 

 
behind said gap. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
10, wherein said movable portion and said containing 

portion are provided with engagement elements for 
positioning each other at a location whereat said wire 

is inserted through said openings. 
A wire fastening tool according to claim 
10, wherein an engagement portion of a diameter larger 

than the diameter of said wire is provided on one end 
of said wire, and said wire mounting portion has a wire 

mounting hole provided with a portion capable of 
containing said engagement portion thereon, and a level 

difference portion engageable with said engagement 
portion. 
A wire fastening tool for fastening a wire 
for a living body, having a movable portion provided 

with a wire insertion hole into which the wire for a 
living body is to be inserted, a containing portion for 

movably containing said movable portion therein, and at 
least two openings which are formed in a peripheral 

wall forming said containing portion and into which the 
other end of said wire is to be inserted, wherein with 

the other end of said wire passed through said two 
openings and inserted in said containing portion, said 

 
movable portion is moved to thereby bend said wire 

between said movable portion and said containing 
portion and press said wire between the outer surface 

of said movable portion and the inner surface of said 
containing portion. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
19, wherein on the side of one of said openings, a gap 

capable of containing said wire therein is formed 
between the inner surface of said containing portion 

and the outer surface of said movable portion. 
A wire fastening tool according to Claim 
19, wherein a cutting blade faces the other of said 

openings and the edge of said cutting blade is opposed 
to the direction of movement of said movable portion 

during the fastening of the wire. 
Device for securing a wire about an object 
comprising 


(i) a first member (1;20) for attachment to an 
end of a wire, the first member (1;20) having an 

aperture (13,14;24) therethrough for receiving the 
other end of said wire and a bore (12) which 

intersects the aperture; and 
(ii) a second member (2) moveable within the bore 
(12); 
 
the arrangement being such that in use the second 

member (2) is moved to act on said wire passed through 
the aperture whereby said wire is secured. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
