<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638142</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTOR CONSTRUCTION FOR WINDMILL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F03D1100	F03D100	F03D700	F03D702	F03D1102	F03D1100	F03D106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F03D	F03D	F03D	F03D	F03D	F03D	F03D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F03D11	F03D1	F03D7	F03D7	F03D11	F03D11	F03D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Device for converting wind flow energy into mechanical energy, having a base construction (4) and a rotor (8) having a number of rotor blades (20; 20a) which are connected to an annular rotary support (18) and extend essentially in a plane through the axis of rotation (14) of the support. The wind-braking area of the rotor (8) is adjustable. Each rotor blade (20; 20a) or a part thereof is hingedly connected to the rotor support (18) for setting the rotor blade or part thereof in a predetermined lengthwise orientation at a predetermined distance relative to the axis of rotation (14) of the support by moving the rotor blade or part thereof in a plane through the axis of rotation. The rotor blades (20; 20a) may be directly hingeably connected to the rotor support (18), or by means of an arm assembly (17; 22; 24). The rotor blades are made up of a number of elongated parts (74, 76, 78; 92) for varying the effective length of the blades.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EIKELENBOOM PIETER ARIE JAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EIKELENBOOM, PIETER ARIE JAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EIKELENBOOM PIETER ARIE JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EIKELENBOOM, PIETER ARIE JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a device for converting 
wind flow energy into mechanical energy, comprising a base 
construction and a rotor with an essentially horizontal 
axis mounted on the base construction, the rotor having a 
number of elongated rotor blades which are connected to a 
rotary support and extend essentially radially therefrom, 
each rotor blade or a part thereof being connected to the 
rotor support by a hinge connection for tilting the 
longitudinal axis of the rotor blade or part thereof to a 
predetermined orientation relative to the axis of rotation 
of the support. Such a device is known from German Patent N° 647 287, 
which describes a windmill having a hinge connection 
between a rotor blade and the rotary support with a hinge 
axis extending at rights angles both to the longitudinal 
axis of the rotor blade and to the axis of rotation of the 
support. By pivoting the rotor blades or parts thereof from 
a position in which they are essentially at right angles to 
the wind direction to an orientation in which they are at a 
small angle or parallel to the wind direction, the wind-braking 
area of the rotor can be adjusted to the actual 
wind speed. The object of the invention is to provide a device 
in which the wind-braking area of the rotor and the 
effective length of the rotor blades is adjustable, and 
which has a simpler construction compared to prior art 
devices, with relatively few component parts. To reach this aim, the device according to the 
invention is characterised in that a hinge axis of the 
hinge connection between a rotor blade and the rotary 
support is directed at an acute angle both to the 
longitudinal axis of the rotor blade and to the axis of 
rotation of the support. In this way, the angular position of a rotor blade 
with respect to its longitudinal axis is changed  
 
simultaneously with setting a tilted orientation of the 
rotor blade to bring the rotor blade out of the wind. The 
maximum wind-braking area, to be used at relatively low 
wind speeds, is achieved when the rotor blades are at right 
angles to the wind direction, while pivoting the rotor 
blades away in the wind direction and pivoting the rotor 
blades around their longitudinal axes results in a lower 
wind-braking area to be used a relatively high wind speeds. Since the part of a windmill rotor blade which is 
facing away from the axis of rotation of the rotor is most 
effective for generating power, in another preferred 
embodiment the support of the rotor is hingedly connected 
to each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device for converting wind flow energy into 
mechanical energy, comprising a base construction (4) and a 

rotor with an essentially horizontal axis mounted on the 
base construction, the rotor having a number of elongated 

rotor blades (20a) which are connected to a rotary support 
(18, 54) and extend essentially radially therefrom, each 

rotor blade (20a) or a part thereof being connected to the 
rotor support (18, 54) by a hinge connection for tilting 

the longitudinal axis of the rotor blade (20a) or part 
thereof to a predetermined orientation relative to the axis 

of rotation (14) of the support (18, 54), characterised in 
that a hinge axis of the hinge connection between the rotor 

blade (20a) and the rotary support (18, 54) is directed at 
an acute angle both to the longitudinal axis of the rotor 

blade (20a) and to the axis of rotation (14) of the 
support. 
Device according to claim 1, characterised in that 
the support (18) of the rotor is hingably connected to each 

rotor blade (20a) through an arm assembly (57), the part of 
the rotor blade facing the support being situated at a 

distance from the support. 
Device according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterised in that the support (18) of the rotor blades 

(20a) is annular, and is mounted in such a way on the base 
construction (4) that it is supported to allow rotation 

about its own centre point. 
Device according to claim 3, characterised in that 
the mass of the support (18) of the rotor blades (20a) is 

high relative to the mass of the rotor blades. 
Device according to claim 3 or 4, characterised 
in that the support (18) is mounted at its radial 

outer side in a number of rotatable bearing elements (29). 
Device according to any of claims 3-5, 
characterised in that at its radial outer side the support  

 
(18) is detachably coupled to the drive wheel (30) of a 

generator (32). 
Device according to any of claims 3-6, 
characterised in that the support (18) has a number of 

spokes (16) joining at the axis of rotation (14) of the 

support in a bearing element (26), the spokes being 
directed at an acute angle to the axis of rotation of the 

support. 
Device according to any of claims 3-6, 
characterised in that the support (18) is the base of an 

essentially cone-shaped reinforcement element (54), the top 
of the reinforcement element being on the axis of rotation 

(14) of the support and being mounted in a bearing element. 
Device according to any of claims 1 - 8, 
characterised in that the rotor blades are formed by a 

number of elongated rotor blade parts (74, 76, 78; 92), 
which are adapted to be placed in a position fully or 

partially overlapping each other in the lengthwise 
direction, or essentially in line with each other. 
Device according to claim 9, characterised in that 
a first rotor blade part (76, 78) is connected to a second 

rotor blade part (74, 76) in such a way that it can slide 
essentially parallel to the second rotor blade part in the 

lengthwise direction thereof, and provision is made for 
drive means (80) for sliding the first rotor blade part 

over a predetermined distance relative to the second rotor 
blade part. 
Device according to claim 10, characterised in that 
the second rotor blade part (74, 76) comprises an internal 

space in which the first rotor blade part (76, 78) can be 
accommodated. 
Device according to any of claims 9 - 11, 
characterised in that the rotor blade parts (74, 76, 78) 

can be moved relative to each other by using flexible wire-type 
elements (84). 
Device according to claim 12, characterised in that 
the wire-type elements (84) consist of Bowden cables.  

 
Device according to any of claims 1 - 9, 
characterised in that the rotor blades comprise one or more 

flexible casings (92) to which a fluid can be supplied, for 
the purpose of filling the casings, so that they assume the 

shape of a rotor blade or rotor blade part, and from which 
casings the fluid can be discharged, for the purpose of 

emptying the casings, so that they lose the shape of a 
rotor blade or rotor blade part, and in that means (96, 97, 

98, 99) are provided for selectively supplying fluid to and 
discharging it from the casings. 
Device according to claim 14, characterised in that 
each rotor blade consists of a number of casings (92) 

placed one after the other in the lengthwise direction 
thereof. 
Device according to claim 14 or 15, characterised 
in that the casings (92) of the rotor blades are supported 

by a frame (90) which determines the setting and position 
of the casings in the filled and empty state. 
Device according to claim 16, characterised in that 
the frame comprises a system of channels with controllable 

valves (96, 97), by means of which a connection can be 
produced selectively between a casing (92) and a fluid 

supply or fluid discharge line (98, 99). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
