<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626592</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic method and apparatus for acquiring an x-ray image
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27146	G03B4202	G03B4202	G01T124	G21K400	H01L27146	G01T100	G01T100	H01L31115	H01L31115	G21K400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	G03B	G03B	G01T	G21K	H01L	G01T	G01T	H01L	H01L	G21K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	G03B42	G03B42	G01T1	G21K4	H01L27	G01T1	G01T1	H01L31	H01L31	G21K4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an X-ray image 
capturing element comprising a panel having a layered 

structure, including a conductive layer comprising a 
plurality of discreet microplates having dimensions coextensive 

with an image pixel and a plurality of access 
electrodes and electronic components built on the panel, 

which allow access to the microplates for capturing and 
reading out a latent radiographic image captured in the panel 

in the form of trapped electrical charges. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STERLING DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STERLING DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEROMIN LOTHAR SIEGFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE DENNY LAP YEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEROMIN, LOTHAR SIEGFRIED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEE, DENNY LAP YEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an X-ray image capture element and
corresponding methods for capturing a radiogram. More
particularly, the present invention relates to methods and
associated apparatus for capturing and readout of electrical
charges representing a latent radiographic image in a unique
microcapacitor matrix panel to obtain an electrical signal
representing a radiogram.Traditional radiography employs a silver halide
photosensitive film in a light tight cassette enclosure, to
capture a latent radiographic image, which is subsequently
rendered visible following chemical development and fixing.
Because silver halide film is not very sensitive to X-ray
radiation, and large exposures are required to obtain an
image, most applications use a combination of an intensifying
screen comprising a phosphor layer incorporated in the
cassette, with the silver halide film to achieve lower
exposures.Radiograms have also been produced by capturing a latent
radiographic image using a photoconductive plate in a
xeroradiographic process. In this instance, a
photoconductive plate sensitive to X-ray radiation comprising
at least a photoconductive layer coated over a conductive
backing layer is first charged by passing under a charging
station typically comprising a corona wire. Positive or
negative charge is uniformly deposited over the plate
surface. The plate is next exposed to X-ray radiation.
Depending on the intensity of the incident radiation, 
electron hole pairs generated by the X-ray radiation are
separated by a field incident to the charge laid over the
surface and as a result move along the field to recombine
with the surface charge. After X-ray exposure, a latent
image in the form of electrical charges of varying magnitude
remain on the plate surface, representing a latent
electrostatic radiogram. This latent image may then be
rendered visible by toning and preferably transferring onto a
receiving surface for better viewing.More recent developments include the use of an
electrostatic image capture element to capture a latent X-ray
image, the element comprising a photoconductive layer over an
insulating layer on a conductive support, the photoconductive
layer also covered by a dielectric layer, and the dielectric
layer overcoated with a transparent electrode. A biasing
voltage is applied between the transparent electrode and the
conductive support to charge the element which is a large
parallel plate capacitor. While the bias voltage is applied,
the element is exposed to image wise modulated X-ray
rad
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An X-ray image capture element, comprising:

a first, electrically conductive, backing layer (12) a
second, photoconductive layer (8) responsive to both actinic and

X-ray radiation extending substantially over said backing
layer (12) a third, dielectric layer (6) substantially transparent to

both actinic and X-ray radiation, the dielectric layer having
a back surface extending substantially over and in contact

with said photoconductive layer (8) and a front surface;
a plurality of discrete conductive microplates (4)
substantially transparent to both actinic and X-ray

radiation, said microplates (4) arranged on said front surface
with a space between adjacent microplates, each of said

microplates having dimensions coextensive with a minimum
resolvable picture element;
a first plurality of discrete conductive Xn address
lines (X1 ... Xn) extending along the microplates (4);
a second plurality of interconnected conductive charge
lines (C1 ... Cn) extending along said microplates (4);
a third plurality of discrete conductive Sn sense lines (S1 ... Sn)
extending along said microplates (4); and
each microplate being connected to one adjacent of said
plurality of charge lines (C1 ... Cn) with a diode

(7)
and to said Xn address

and sense lines via a transistor (5).
The element in accordance with claim 1, further
comprising a fourth plurality of discrete Yn address

conductive lines (Y1 ... Yn) extending along the microplates (4) in a
direction across the Xn address lines, and wherein each of

the microplates (4) is connected to one of the Xn address, Yn
address and Sn sense lines via at least two transistors (5').
The element in accordance with claim 2, wherein the
plurality of the Xn address and Yn address lines are laid out

orthogonally on the front surface of the element (16) in the 
spaces between the microplates (4).
The element in accordance with one of claims 1-3, wherein the
transistors (5;5')are FET transistors.
The element in accordance with one of claims 1-4, further
comprising a charge barrier layer (10) extending between the

photoconductive layer (8) and the backing layer (12) and wherein the
photoconductive layer (8) comprises selenium.
The element in accordance with claim 1 or 2, wherein the
photoconductive layer (8) comprises aluminum and the

photoconductive layer is over an aluminum oxide layer (10) which
substantially covers a surface of the conductive backing layer (12);
A method for capturing a radiogram on an X-ray image
capture element, comprising:


a first, electrically conductive backing layer (12);
a second, photoconductive layer (8) responsive to both
actinic and X-ray radiation extending substantially over said

backing layer (12);
a third, dielectric layer (6) substantially transparent to
both actinic and X-ray radiation, the dielectric layer (6) having

a back surface extending substantially over and in contact
with said photoconductive layer (8) and a front surface;
a plurality of discrete conductive microplates (4)
substantially transparent to both actinic and X-ray

radiation, said microplates arranged on said front surface
with a space between adjacent microplates, each of said

microplate (4) having dimensions coextensive with a minimum
resolvable picture element, the microplates and back plate

forming a plurality of microcapacitors;
a first plurality of discrete conductive Xn address
lines (X1 ... Xn) extending along the plurality (4);
a second plurality of interconnected conductive charge
lines (C1 ... Cn) extending along said microplates (4);
a third plurality of discrete conductive sense lines (S1 ... Sn)
extending along said microplates (4) and terminating in an input 

of one or more charge detecting devices (36) for producing an
output signal representative of the charge detected in the

input of the one or more charge detecting devices; and
each microplate (4) being connected to one adjacent of said
plurality of charge lines (C1 ... Cn) with a diode (7) and to said

Xn-address
and sense lines via a transistor (5), the method comprising:


(a) preventing actinic radiation from impinging on said
element (16) for a first time period;
(b) applying a positive voltage across said
interconnected charge line (C1 ... Cn) to develop an electric potential

difference between said plurality of discrete conductive
microplates (4) and said backing layer (12);
(c) impinging imagewise modulated X-ray radiation
during the first time period onto the element (4);
(d) after the first time period, stopping the applying
step to trap in the microcapacitors electrical charges

proportional to the intensity of the impinging radiation on
the microplate (4);
(e) after step (d), illuminating the element with
uniform actinic radiation and applying a positive voltage to

one of said plurality of Xn address lines (X1 ... Xn) to render the
transistors (5) connecting said one Xn address line and the sense

lines (S1 ... Sn) to the microplates (4) conductive to discharge said
microcapacitors into the sense lines and the one or more

charge detecting device (36) and produce an output signal on the
one or more charge detecting devices;
(f) sequentially detecting the output signals for each
sense line (S1 ... Sn), and
(g) repeating steps (e) and (f) for, each of said
plurality of Xn-address lines (X1 ... Xn) until all signals from all

microplates (4) have been detected.
A method for capturing a radiogram on an X-ray image
capture element, comprising:


a first, electrically conductive backing layer (12);
a second, photoconductive layer (8) responsive to both
actinic and X-ray radiation extending substantially over said

backing layer (12); 
a third, dielectric layer (6) substantially transparent to
both actinic and X-ray radiation, the dielectric layer (6) having

a back surface extending substantially over and in contact
with said photoconductive layer (8) and a front surface;
a plurality of discrete conductive microplates (4)
substantially t
ransparent to both actinic and X-ray
radiation, said microplates arranged on said front surface

with a space between adjacent microplates, each of said
microplates (4) having dimensions coextensive with a minimum

resolvable picture element, the microplates and back plate
forming a plurality of microcapacitors;
a first plurality of discrete conductive Xn address
lines (X1 ... Xn) extending along the microplates (4);
a second plurality of interconnected conductive charge
lines (C1 ... Cn) extending along said microplates (4);
a third plurality of conductive Yn address lines (Y1 ... Yn)
extending along said microplates (4) in a direction across said

first plurality of Xn address lines (X1 ... Xn);
a fourth plurality of conductive sense lines (S1 ... Sn) extending
along said microplates (4);
each microplate (4) being connected to one adjacent of said
plurality of charge lines (C1 ... Cn) with a diode (7); and
each microplate (4) also connected to said Xn address, Yn
address, and sense lines via two transistors (5');

the method comprising:

(a) preventing actinic radiation from impinging on said
element (16') for a first time period;
(b) applying a positive voltage across said
interconnected charge lines (C1 ... Cn) to develop an electric potential

difference between said plurality of discrete conductive
microplate (4) and said backing layer (12);
(c) impinging imagewise modulated X-ray radiation
during the first time period onto the element (16');
(d) after the first time period, stopping the applying
step to store in the microcapacitors electrical charges

proportional to the intensity of the impinging radiation on
the microplates;
(e) after step (d), exposing the element (16') to uniform 
actinic radiation and applying a voltage to one of said Yn

address lines
(Y1 ... Yn)

and one of said plurality of Xn address lines (X1 ... Xn)
to render the transistors (5')

connected to the
one Yn address line (Y1 ... Yn), the one Xn address line and one of the

sense lines (S1 ... Sn) conductive so as to produce an output signal on
said one sense line;
(f) detecting the output signal on the sense line; and
(g) repeating steps (e) and (f) for each of said
plurality of Yn-address and Xn-address lines until all signals

from all microplates (4) have been detected.
The method in accordance with Claim 7 or 8, further
comprising:


between steps (d) and (e), exposing the element to
uniform actinic radiation for a second time period.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
