<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0944912</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GAP JUMPING TO SEAL STRUCTURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09F900	G09F900	G09F930	G09F930	H01J924	H01J924	H01J926	H01J926	H01J3112	H01J3112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09F9	G09F9	G09F9	G09F9	H01J9	H01J9	H01J9	H01J9	H01J31	H01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Portions (40 and 44) of a structure, such as a flat-panel display, are positioned such that a sealing area (40S) of one portion is at least partially separated from a corresponding sealing area (44S) of another portion such that a gap (48) at least partially separates the two sealing areas, typically by height of 25 microns or more. Energy is applied in a "gap jumping technique" to locally heat material of at least one portion along the sealing area such that the material bridges the gap and seals the portions (40 and 44) together. A laser is typically employed to locally melt and draw the material into the gap by a combination of factors such as surface tension and capillary action. A first part of the gap jumping technique may be performed in a non-vacuum environment to tack the portions together, but the gap jumping technique is typically completed in a vacuum to form an evacuated panel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANDESCENT INTELLECTUAL PROP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANDESCENT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY SERVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHO STEVEN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONTE ALFRED S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER ANTHONY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAHLEN THEODORE S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUDWIG PAUL N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POTHOVEN FLOYD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRESSLEY ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMID ANTHONY P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHO, STEVEN, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONTE, ALFRED, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER, ANTHONY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAHLEN, THEODORE, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUDWIG, PAUL, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POTHOVEN, FLOYD, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRESSLEY, ROBERT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMID, ANTHONY, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 GAP JUMPING TO SEAL STRUCTUREFIELD OF USE This invention relates to techniques for sealing structures, particularly flat-panel devices. This invention also relates to techniques for tacking structures, such as flat-panel devices, typically as part of structure sealing operations.BACKGROUND ARTA flat-panel device contains a pair of generally flat plates connected together through an intermediate mechanism. The two plates are typically rectangular in shape. The thickness of the relatively flat-structure formed with the two plates and the intermediate connecting mechanism is small compared to the diagonal length of either plate.When used for displaying information, a flat-panel device is typically referred to as a flat-panel display. The two plates in a flat-panel display are commonly termed the faceplate (or frontplate) and the baseplate (or backplate) . The faceplate, which provides the viewing surface for the information, is part of a faceplate structure containing one or more layers formed over the faceplate. The baseplate is similarly part of a baseplate structure containing one or more layers formed over the baseplate . The faceplate structure and the baseplate structure are sealed together, typically through an outer wall, to form a sealed enclosure.A flat-panel display utilizes mechanisms such as cathode rays (electrons) , plasmas, and liquid crystals to display information on the faceplate. Flat-panel displays that employ these three mechanisms are generally referred to as cathode-ray tube ("CRT") displays, plasma displays, and liquid-crystal displays. 

The constituency and arrangement of the display's faceplate structure and baseplate structure depend on the type of mechanism utilized to display information on the faceplate. In a flat-panel CRT display, electron-emissive elements are typically provided over the interior surface of the baseplate. The electron-emissive elements are arranged in a matrix of rows and columns of picture elements (pixels) . Each pixel typically contains a large number of individual electron-emissive elements. When the electron-emissive elements are appropriately excited, they emit electrons that strike phosphors arranged in corresponding pixels situated over the interior surface of the faceplate. The faceplate in a flat-panel CRT display consists of a transparent material such as glass. Upon being struck by electrons emitted from the electron-emissive elements, the phosphors situated over the interior surface of the faceplate emit light visible on the exterior surface
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A method comprising the steps of : positioning a first edge of a primary wall near a matching sealing area of a first plate structure such that a gap at least partially separates the wall's first edge from the first plate structure's sealing area ; and transferring energy locally to material of the wall along the gap to cause material of the wall and first plate structure to bridge the gap and substantially fully seal the first plate structure along its sealing area to the wall along its first edge.
2. A method as in Claim 1 wherein material of the wall bridges largely all of the gap.
3. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the energy- transferring step at least partially entails directing light energy locally onto material of the wall along the gap .
4. A method as in Claim 3 wherein the energy- transferring step is at least partially performed with a laser or a focused lamp.
5. A method as in Claim 1 further including, before the energy-transferring step, the step of joining the wall along a second edge thereof opposite the wall's first edge to a second plate structure along a sealing area thereof matching the wall's second edge.
6. A method as in Claim 5 wherein the sealing areas of the plate structures and the edges of the wall are annularly shaped, whereby the plate structures and 


the wall form an enclosure at completion of the energy- transferring step.
7. A method as in Claim 6 wherein the two plate structures and the wall are in a vacuum environment as the energy-transferring step is being completed.
8. A method as in Claim 6 wherein the two plate structures and the wall are in a non-vacuum environment as the energy-transferring step is being completed.
9. A method as in Claim 8 wherein the non-vacuum environment during completion of the energy- transferring step consists primarily of at least one of nitrogen and an inert gas.
10. A method as in Claim 8 further including subsequent to the energy-transferring step, the step of removing gas from the enclosure to produce a vacuum in the enclosure.
11. A method as in Claim 6 further including before the energy-transferring step, the step of globally heating the plate structures and the wall to raise them to a bias temperature high enough to reduce stress during the energy-transferring step but not high enough to cause any significant damage to either plate structure or the wall.
12. A method as in Claim 11 wherein the bias temperature is 200 - 350°C.
13. A method as in Claim 6 wherein the two plate structures and the wall are components of a flat -panel device. 

14. A method as in Claim 13 wherein the flat- panel device is a flat-panel display which provides an image on one of the plate structures at its exterior surface .
15. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the energy- transferring step comprises : initially transferring energy locally to material of the wall along part of the gap while the first plate structure and the wall are in a non-vacuum environment to cause material of the wall and first plate structure to bridge that part of the gap so as to partially seal the first plate structure along its sealing area to the wall along its first edge; and subsequently transferring energy locally to material of the wall along the remainder of the gap while the first plate structure and the wall are in a vacuum environment to cause material of the wall and first plate structure to bridge the remainder of the gap so as to fully close the gap and complete sealing of the first plate structure along its sealing area to the wall along its first edge.
16. A method as in Claim 15 wherein at least one of the energy-transferring steps is performed with a laser that generates a laser beam of selected non- circular cross section.
17. A method as in Claim 16 wherein, at any width of the wall's first edge, the laser beam provides an approximately uniform distribution of light energy across that width.
18. A method as in Claim 15 further including the step of joining the wall along a second edge thereof opposite the wall ' s first edge to a second plate 


structure along a sealing area thereof matching the wall ' s second edge .
19. A method as in Claim 18 wherein the joining step comprises: positioning the wall's second edge adjacent to the second plate structure's sealing area; and sealing the second plate structure along its sealing area to the wall along its second edge.
20. A method as in Claim 18 wherein the joining step comprises forming the wall so that its second edge adjoins the second plate structure's matching sealing area.
21. A method as in Claim 20 wherein the forming step comprises: bringing a mold into contact with the second plate structure so that a mold cavity of the mold is aligned to the second plate structure's sealing area; providing the mold cavity with wall material to form the wall; and removing the mold.
22. A method as in Claim 18 wherein the sealing areas of the plate structures and the edges of the wall are annularly shaped, whereby the plate structures and wall form an enclosure at completion of the energy- transferring steps.
23. A method as in Claim 22 wherein the positioning step entails situating a positioning structure between the plates structures to hold them in a fixed position relative to each other during the energy-transferring steps. 

24. A method as in Claim 23 wherein the positioning structure is located outside the wall.
25. A method as in Claim 24 wherein the positioning structure comprises a plurality of laterally separated posts.
26. A method as in Claim 22 further including the step of situating at least one spacer between the plate structures inside the wall to maintain a largely fixed distance between the plate structures, each spacer being taller than the wall to help establish the gap prior to the energy- ransferring steps.
27. A method as in Claim 22 further including, before the subsequent energy-transferring step, the step of globally heating the plate structures and the wall to raise them to a bias temperature high enough to reduce stress during the subsequent energy-transferring step but not high enough to cause any significant damage to either plate structure or the wall.
28. A method as in Claim 27 wherein the bias temperature is 200 - 350°C.
29. A method as in Claim 22 wherein material of the wall along its first edge melts at a lower temperature than material of the first plate structure along its sealing area, the method further including: before the initial energy-transferring step, the step of transferring energy locally to material of the first plate structure along at least the aforementioned part of the gap while the plate structures and wall are in a non-vacuum environment to raise that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of the wall along its sealing area; and 


 between the initial and subsequent energy- transferring steps, the step of transferring energy locally to material of the first plate structure along at least the remainder of the gap while the plate structures and wall are in a vacuum environment to raise that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of the wall along its sealing area.
30. A method as in Claim 22 wherein: material of the wall along its first edge melts at a lower temperature than material of the first plate structure along its sealing area; the subsequent energy-transferring step is performed with a light source that produces a light beam at wavelengths that fall into multiple distinct wavelength domains; energy of the beam in one of these wavelength domains is transferred locally to material of the wall along its first edge during the subsequent energy- transferring step; and energy of the beam in another of these wavelength domains is simultaneously transferred locally to material of the first plate structure along its sealing area to raise that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of material of the wall along its first edge.
31. A method as in Claim 30 wherein: the initial energy-transferring step is performed with a light source that produces a further light beam at wavelengths that fall into further multiple distinct wavelength domains; energy of the further beam in one of these wavelength domains is transferred locally to portions of material of the first plate structure along its sealing area for tacking the first plate structure to 


the wall at corresponding multiple tack locations during the initial energy-transferring step; and energy of the further beam in another of these further wavelength domains is transferred locally to portions of material of the first plate structure along its sealing area respectively opposite the tack locations for raising that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of the wall along its sealing area.
32. A method as in Claim 22 wherein the non- vacuum environment consists primarily of at least one of nitrogen and an inert gas during at least part of the initial energy-transferring step.
33. A method as in Claim 22 wherein the initial energy-transferring step entails tacking the first plate structure to the wall along multiple spaced-apart portions of the first plate structure's sealing area.
34. A method as in Claim 22 wherein the wall comprises a generally rectangular annulus formed with a pair of opposing first sub-walls and a pair of opposing second sub-walls, each connected to both of the first sub-walls.
35. A method as in Claim 34 wherein the initial energy-transferring step entails sealing the first plate structure to the wall along portions of the wall's first edge formed with substantially all of at least two, but not all, of the sub-walls.
36. A method as in Claim 34 wherein: an initial part of the initial energy-transferring step entails tacking the first plate structure to the 


wall along multiple spaced-apart portions of the first plate structure's sealing area; and a subsequent part of the initial energy- transferring step entails sealing the first plate structure to the wall along portions of the wall's first edge performed with substantially all of at least two, but not all, of the sub-walls.
37. A method as in Claim 15 wherein the wall comprises contiguous first and second wall portions, the first wall portion being wider than the second wall portion and having a surface that forms the wall ' s first edge at a location spaced apart from the second wall portion.
38. A method as in Claim 37 wherein the first wall portion compresses along its width during the energy-transferring steps.
39. A method as in Claim 15 further including, before both energy-transferring steps, the step of providing at least one venting slot along the wall ' s first edge so as to facilitate removal of gas from the enclosure prior to completion of the subsequent energy- transferring step.
40. A method as in Claim 1 wherein: the method includes the step of providing at least one venting slot along the wall's first edge; the positioning step entails forming at least part of the gap from each venting slot; the method further includes the step of joining the wall along a second edge thereof opposite the first edge to a second plate structure along a sealing area thereof matching the second edge; and 


 the energy-transferring step is performed so as to form a hermetically sealed enclosure from the plate structures and wall, the energy-transferring step being completed in a vacuum environment whereby each venting slot facilitates removal of gas from the enclosure during completion of the energy-transferring step.
41. A method as in Claim 40 wherein the venting- slot providing step comprises depressing material of the wall along its first edge to form each venting slot .
42. A method as in Claim 1 wherein, in addition to transferring energy from an energy source locally to material of the wall along the gap, the energy- transferring step includes simultaneously transferring energy from the energy source locally to material of the first plate structure along its sealing area to raise that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of material of the wall along its first edge so as to assist in bridging and closing the gap.
43. A method as in Claim 42 wherein the energy source provides a beam of light energy in multiple distinct wavelength domains, energy of the beam in one of the wavelength domains being transferred locally to material of the wall along its first edge while energy of the beam in another of the wavelength domains is simultaneously transferred locally to material of the first plate structure along its sealing area.
44. A method as in Claim 42 further including the step of joining the wall along a second edge thereof opposite the first edge to a second plate structure 


along a sealing area thereof matching the wall ' s second edge .
45. A method as in Claim 44 wherein the plate structures and wall are in a vacuum environment during completion of the energy-transferring step such that the plate structures and wall form a hermetically sealed enclosure and such that a vacuum is substantially present in the enclosure.
46. A method as in Claim 45 further including, before the energy-transferring step, the step of transferring energy from an energy source (a) locally to material of the first plate structure along its sealing area in a non-vacuum environment to raise that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of material of the wall along its first edge and (b) locally to multiple laterally separated parts of the wall along the gap in a non-vacuum environment to cause material of the first plate structure and wall at those laterally separated parts to bridge the gap and tack the first plate structure to the wall at corresponding multiple locations.
47. A method as in Claim 46 wherein the energy source in the non-vacuum energy-transferring step provides a further beam of light energy in multiple distinct wavelength domains, energy of the further beam in one of the wavelength domains being transferred locally to material of the wall along its first edge while energy of the further beam in another of the wavelength domains is simultaneously transferred locally to material of the first plate structure along its sealing area. 

48. A method as in Claim 1 further including the steps of : positioning a second edge of the wall adjacent to a matching sealing area of a second plate structure, the wall ' s second edge being opposite the wall ' s first edge ; and transferring energy locally to material of the wall along its second edge so as to seal the second plate structure along its sealing area to the wall along its second edge.
49. A method as in Claim 48 wherein the energy- transferring steps are performed at least partially simultaneously while the plate structures and wall are in a vacuum environment .
50. A method as in Claim 48 further including, before the energy-transferring steps, the steps of: transferring energy locally to multiple laterally separated parts of the wall along the gap in a non- vacuum environment to cause material of the first plate structure and wall at those laterally separated parts to bridge the gap and tack the first plate structure to the wall at corresponding multiple locations; and transferring energy locally to multiple laterally separated parts of the wall along its second edge in a non-vacuum environment to tack the second plate structure to the wall at corresponding multiple locations .
51. A method as in Claim 50 wherein the non- vacuum energy-transferring steps are performed at least partially simultaneously.
52. A method as in Claim 1 wherein the wall comprises contiguous first and second wall portions, 


the first wall portion being wider than the second wall portion and having a surface that forms the wall's first edge at a location spaced apart from the second wall portion.
53. A method as in Claim 52 wherein the first and second wall portions are cross-sectionally generally in the shape of a "T" or an inverted "L" with the first wall portion meeting an edge of the second wall portion approximately midway along a side of the first wall portion opposite the wall's first edge.
54. A method as in Claim 52 wherein the first wall portion compresses along its width during the energy-transferring step.
55. A method comprising the steps of: positioning a sealing area of one body near a matching sealing area of another body such that a gap at least partially separates the two sealing areas; initially transferring energy locally to material of a specified one of the bodies along part of the gap while the bodies are in a non-vacuum environment to cause material of the bodies to bridge that part of the gap and partially seal the bodies together along the sealing areas; and subsequently transferring energy locally to material of the specified body along the remainder of the gap while the bodies are in a vacuum environment to cause material of the bodies to bridge the remainder of the gap and complete sealing of the bodies together along the sealing areas.
56. A method as in Claim 55 wherein the energy- transferring steps entail locally directing light 


energy onto material of the specified body along the gap.
57. A method as in Claim 55 wherein at least one of the energy-transferring steps is performed with radio-frequency wave energy or, specifically, microwave energy.
58. A method as in Claim 55 wherein the initial energy-transferring step entails tacking the two bodies together along multiple spaced-apart portions of each sealing area.
59. A method as in Claim 55 wherein the initial energy-transferring step entails sealing the two bodies together along at least 25%, but not all, of each sealing area.
60. A method as in Claim 55 wherein: an initial part of the initial energy-transferring step entails tacking the two bodies together along multiple spaced-apart portions of each sealing area; and a subsequent part of the initial energy- transferring step entails sealing the two bodies together along at least 25%, but not all, of each sealing area.
61. A method as in Claim 55 wherein the two bodies form an enclosure at the end of the subsequent energy-transferring step, a vacuum being substantially present in the enclosure.
62. A method as in Claim 55 further including, before the subsequent energy-transferring step, the step of globally heating the bodies to raise them to a 


bias temperature high enough to reduce stress during the subsequent energy-transferring step but not high enough to cause any significant damage to either body.
63. A method as in Claim 55 wherein material of the specified body along its sealing area melts at a lower temperature than material of the other body along its sealing area, the method further including: before the initial energy-transferring step, the step of transferring energy locally to material of the aforementioned other body along at least the aforementioned part of the gap while the bodies are in a non-vacuum environment to raise that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of material of the specified body along its sealing area; and between the initial and subsequent energy- transferring steps, the step of transferring energy locally to material of the aforementioned other body along at least the remainder of the gap while the bodies are in a vacuum environment to raise that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of the specified body along its sealing area .
64. A method as in Claim 55 wherein: material of the specified body along its sealing area melts at a lower temperature than material of the other body along its sealing area; the subsequent energy-transferring step is performed with a light source that produces a light beam at wavelengths that fall into multiple distinct wavelength domains; energy of the beam in one of these wavelength domains is transferred locally to material of the 


specified body along its sealing area during the subsequent energy-transferring step; and energy of the beam in another of these wavelength domains is simultaneously transferred locally to material of the other body along its sealing area to raise that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of the material of the specified body along its sealing area.
65. A method as in Claim 64 wherein: the initial energy-transferring step is performed with a light source that produces a further light beam at wavelengths that fall into further multiple distinct wavelength domains; energy of the further beam in one of these further wavelength domains is transferred locally to portions of material of the specified body along its sealing area for tacking the two bodies together at corresponding multiple tack locations during the initial energy-transferring step; and energy of the further beam in another of these further wavelength domains is transferred locally to portions of material of the aforementioned other body along its sealing area respectively opposite the tack locations for raising that material to a temperature close to the melting temperature of the material of the specified body along its sealing area.
66. A method as in Claim 55 wherein, subsequent to the positioning step and prior to the energy- transferring steps, the gap varies from a non- zero minimum height along certain material of the specified body to a maximum height along other material of the specified body, the maximum height of the gap being at least 50 μm greater than the minimum height of the gap. 

67. A method comprising the steps of: positioning a sealing area of one body near a matching sealing area of another body such that a gap at least partially separates the two sealing areas; and transferring energy locally to material of a specified one of the bodies along the gap to cause material of the bodies to bridge the gap and seal the bodies together along the sealing areas, the energy being at least one of (a) light energy of a focused lamp, (b) radio-frequency wave energy, and (c) microwave energy.
68. A method as in any of Claims 1 - 67 wherein the gap has an average height of at least 25 μm.
69. A method comprising the steps of: positioning a first edge of a primary wall adjacent to a matching prescribed area of a first plate structure; and transferring energy locally to multiple spaced- apart portions of material of at least the wall along its first edge so as to tack the first plate structure to the wall at corresponding spaced-apart locations.
70. A method as in Claim 69 wherein the energy- transferring step at least partially entails directing light energy locally onto the spaced-apart portions of the material of the wall along its first edge.
71. A method comprising the steps of: positioning a first edge of a primary wall near a matching prescribed area of a first plate structure such that a gap separates the wall ' s first edge from the first plate structure's prescribed area; and transferring energy locally to multiple spaced- apart portions of material of the wall along the gap to 


cause material of the wall and first plate structure to bridge corresponding spaced-apart sections of the gap, thereby tacking the first plate structure to the wall at corresponding spaced-apart locations.
72. A method as in Claim 71 wherein the energy- transferring step at least partially entails directing light energy locally onto the spaced-apart portions of the material of the wall along the gap.
73. A method as in Claim 72 wherein the energy- transferring step is performed with a laser or a focused lamp.
74. A method as in Claim 71 further including, after the energy-transferring step, the step of closing the remainder of the gap to seal the first plate structure along its prescribed area to the wall along its first edge.
75. A method as in Claim 74 wherein the gap- remainder closing step comprises transferring energy locally to material of the wall along the gap to cause material of the wall and first plate structure to bridge and fully close the gap.
76. A method as in Claim 75 wherein the two plate structures and the wall are components of a flat-panel device .
77. A method as in Claim 76 wherein the flat- panel device is a flat-panel display which provides an image on one of the plate structures at its exterior surface. 

78. A method as in any of Claims 71 - 77 wherein the gap has an average height of at least 25 μm. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
