<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620432</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for controlling sample introduction in microcolumn separation techniques and sampling device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N100	G01N110	G01N100	G01N27447	G01N3700	G01N110	G01N3700	G01N27447	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N27	G01N37	G01N1	G01N37	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method for controlling sample introduction in microcolumn separation techniques, 
more particularly in capillary electrophoresis (CE), where a sample is injected as a sample 

plug into a sampling device which comprises at least a channel for the electrolyte buffer 
and a supply and drain channel for the sample. The supply and drain channels discharge 

into the electolyte channel at respective supply and drain ports. The distance between the 
supply port and the drain port geometrically defines a sample volume. The injection of the 

sample plug into the electrolyte channel is accomplished electrokinetically by applying an 
electric field across the supply and drain channels for a time at least long enough that the 

sample component having the lowest electrophoretic mobility is contained within the 
geometrically defined volume. The supply and drain channels each are inclined to the 

electrolyte channel. Means are provided for electrokinetically injecting the sample into the 
sample volume. The resistance to flow of the source and drain channels with respect to the 

electrolyte buffer is at least about 5% lower than the respective resistance to flow of the 
electrolyte channel. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEPTOSENS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEPTOSENS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EFFENHAUSER CARLO S DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRISON D JED PROF DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANZ ANDREAS DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EFFENHAUSER, CARLO S., DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRISON, D. JED, PROF. DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANZ, ANDREAS, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a method for controlling sample introduction in
microcolumn separation techniques according to patent
claim 1. The invention also concerns a respective sampling device according to the
precharacterizing clause of patent claim 18.Microcolumn separation techniques, in particular capillary electrophoresis has become a
very interesting separation technique which is used as part of a sensor or a chemical
analysis system. One major reason for this is the great efficiency of the method as a
separation technique. The sampling methods usually applied in capillary electrophoresis
are:
injection of a sample with a syringe, via a septum, in an injection block,the use of injection valves with/without a sample loop, anddipping one end of the capillary tube into the sample reservoir, whereby the sample is
introduced by gravity flow, by over- or underpressure, or by electroendosmosis and/or
electromigration.While it is mentioned in Journal of Chromatography, 452, (1988) 615-622, that sample
valves are the most suitable sampling method for capillary electrophoresis, there also is
described a valveless device for the injection of a sample. The described arrangement
comprises a cast capillary block which is connected between an electrode compartment
and a sampling device. In the electrode compartment electrolyte solutions contact
electrodes. The capillary tube contains measuring electrodes which are connected with an
evaluation electronics. The sampling device consists of a broadened part of the capillary
tube connected with two feeders which extend perpendicular to the capillary tube. The
arrangement of the two feeders off-set from each other along the longitudinal extension of
the capillary. tube is such, that the sampling device has the shape of a capillary double T
structure. The sample is introduced into the sampling device via a syringe. The injection volume is
defined geometrically by the distance which the two feeders are spaced apart along the
capillary tube. The transport of the electrolyte solution and the sample in the capillary tube
is accomplished by electric fields that are applied between the respective electrodes along
the capillary tube. An advantage of the double T shape sampling device, as is also
obtained with the use of injection valves, is the concentration effect of dilute sample ionic
species. However, it is possible that, although no electric field gradient over the feeders
exists, sample components from the feeders may diffuse into the capillary tube when the
sample
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for controlling sample introduction in microcolumn separation techniques with a
system of capillary channels, comprising a sampling device containing a supply channel,

which contains a sample, a drain channel, and an electrolyte channel, which contains an
electrolyte buffer, said supply and drain channels each being inclined with respect to the

electrolyte channel, and which supply and drain channels intersect said electrolyte channel
at a supply and drain port, respectively, such that a geometrically defined sample volume is

defined by a section of said electrolyte channel located between said supply port and drain
port, wherein said sample is a composition which consists of components which have different

electrophoretic mobilities, and wherein said electrolyte buffer and said sample are
transported through said system of capaillary channels, which method comprises the step of

electrokinetically injecting the sample as a sample plug into said electrolyte channel by applying
an electric field across the supply and drain channels, wherein said electric field is applyed

for a time period which is at least long enough that a component of said sample having
the lowest electrophoretic mobility migrates into the geometrically defined sample volume,

and the time period corresponds to at least to the time defined by the equation t
min
 = d/(µ
i
·E),
wherein d stands for said section of the electrolyte channel between said supply and drain

ports, µ
i
 is the electrokinetic mobility of said component having the lowest electrophoretic
mobility, and E stands for the electric field strength across said supply and drain channels.
A method according to claim 1, wherein said electrolyte buffer and said sample are transported
elektrokinetically, and further wherein immediately after said injection of said sample

plug said electrolyte buffer is allowed to advance into said supply channel and into said drain
channel at said respective supply and drain ports for a time period, which amounts to at least

a migration time of a slowest component within said sample plug from the supply port to a
detector, thus pushing back said sample into said respective supply and drain channels and

substantially preventing said sample from uncontrollably diffusing into said electrolyte buffer
which is transported past said supply and drain ports.
A method according to claim 2, wherein within said time period said sample in said supply
and drain channels is subjected to an electric potential, which is different from an electric

potential at a reservoir for said electrolyte buffer, thus establishing a potential difference 
such, that said electrolyte buffer is allowed to advance into said supply channel and into said

drain channel.
A method according to claim 3, wherein said potential difference is chosen such, that a resultant
electric field strength amounts to at least 0.1 V/cm.
A method according to claim 2, wherein said electrolyte buffer is allowed to advance into
said supply and drain channels by reducing a resistance to flow within said supply and drain

channels in either reducing the lengths of said supply and drain channels or by increasing
their respective widths.
A method according to claim 5, wherein said resistance to flow of said supply and drain
channels is reduced by providing said supply and drain channels each with a width that is at

least two times greater than a width of said supply and drain ports.
A method according to claim 6, wherein said supply and drain ports of said respective
supply and drain channels have a longitudinal extension which corresponds at least to about

said widths of said supply and drain ports, and that said widths are kept constant along the
extension of said supply and drain ports.
A method according to claim 7, wherein said widths of said supply and drain ports are
chosen such that they correspond to a width of said channel piece.
A method according to any one of the preceding claim, wherein said system of capillary
channels including said supply and drain channels with their respective ports are etched or

micromachined or otherwise established in a planar substrate made of glass, or semiconductor
materials, or a suitable polymer.
The method according to claim 1, wherein said drain channel is a longitudinal extension
of said supply channel, and the supply and drain ports are situated opposite one another.
The method according to claim 1, wherein said supply and drain ports are spaced apart
from each other longitudinally along the electrolyte channel, and said sample volume region

is defined as a region along the electrolyte channels between the supply and drain port. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein the system of capillary channels comprises a
capillary channel, which is connected at one end to a reservoir for the electrolyte buffer and

extends after said geometrically defined sample volume in longitudinal direction in a capillary
channel, where an electrophoretic separation of the sample takes place.
A method according to claim 1, wherein said supply channel, said drain channel and said
channel containing the electrolyte buffer are associated with reservoirs.
A method according to claims 13, wherein electrodes are applied to the reservoirs.
A method according to claims 12 to 14, comprising the steps (1) applying an electrical
field across the electrolyte channel, (2) switching off the electrical field across the electrolyte

channel, (3) applying an electric field across the supply and drain channels, to electrokinetically
inject the sample as a sample plug into said sample volume in the electrolyte channel,

and (4) applying an electric field across the electrolyte channel, to move sample contained in
the sample volume through the electrolyte channel.
A method according to claims 12 to 14, comprising the steps (1) applying an electrical
field across the electrolyte channel, (2) applying an electric field across the supply and drain

channels, to electrokinetically inject the sample as a sample plug into said sample volume in
the electrolyte channel, and (3) maintaining after step (1) an electrical field across the electrolyte

channel with a potential such, that the sample contained in the sample volume is moved
through the electrolyte channel.
A method according to claims 12 to 14, comprising the steps (1) of applying an electric
field across the electrolyte channel to move

the electrolyte buffer
through

the electrolyte channel, and (2) simultaneously applying an electric field across the supply
and drain channels to electrokinetically move

the sample from the supply to the
drain channels,

wherein the potentials of the electric fields in step (1) and step (2) are different.
A sampling device comprising an electrolyte channel (12; 22) for an electrolyte buffer, a
supply (13; 23) and a drain channel (14; 24) for a sample, wherein said supply and drain

channels each are inclined to said electrolyte channel, and which supply and drain channels 
intersect said electrolyte channel at supply (15; 25) and drain ports (16; 26), respectively,

such that a geometrically defined sample volume (17; 27) is defined by a section of said
electrolyte channel located between said supply port and drain port, which sampling device

further comprises means for electrokinetically injecting a sample in said geometrically defined
sample volume, and wherein said supply channel (13; 23) and said drain channel (14; 24)

each have a resistance to flow with respect to said electrolyte buffer, which is about 5% lower
than the respective resistance to flow of said electrolyte channel (12; 22), 
characterized in
that

said supply (13; 23) and said drain channel (14; 24) each has a width (w) that is at least two
times greater than a width (p) of said supply (15; 25) and drain ports (16; 26), and

wherein said widths (p) of said supply (15; 25) and drain ports (16; 26) corresponds to a
widths (b) of said channel piece (12; 22).
A sampling device according to claim 18, wherein said supply (15; 25) and drain ports
(16; 26) of said respective said supply (13; 23) and drain channel (14; 24) have a longitudinal

extension (I) which corresponds at least to said width (p) of supply and drain ports, and that
said width (p) are constant along the extension (I) of said supply and drain ports.
A sampling device according to claim 19, wherein said channels have a depth of from
0.1 µm to 100 µm.
A sampling device according to claim 18, wherein said drain channel (14; 24) is a longitudinal
extension of said supply channel (13; 23), and the supply (15; 25) and drain ports (16;

26) are situated opposite one another.
A sampling device according to claim 18, wherein said supply (15; 25) and drain ports
(16; 26) are spaced apart from each other longitudinally along the electrolyte channel, and

said sample-volume region is defined as a region along the electrolyte channels between
said supply (15; 25) and drain ports(16; 26). 
A sampling device according to claim 22, wherein said supply (15; 25) and drain ports
(16; 26) are spaced apart from each other a distance (d) which amounts to from 0 µm to 3

cm, preferably 3 mm.
A sampling device according to anyone of claims 18 to 23, wherein said supply (13; 23)
and said drain channel (14; 24), respectively, each are inclined with respect to said longitudinal

extension of said channel piece an angle that amounts to from 5 to 175, preferably 90
degrees, and wherein further said supply (13; 23) and said drain channel (14; 24) extend parallel

to each other.
A sampling device according to claim 18, comprising a system of capillary channels with
an electrolyte channel (12; 22) for an electrolyte buffer, a supply (13; 23) and a drain channel

(14; 24) and wherein the electrolyte channel is connected at one end to a reservoir for the
electrolyte buffer and extends after said geometrically defined sample volume in longitudinal

direction in a capillary channel.
A sampling device according to claim 25, wherein said supply channel (13; 23) and said
drain channel (14; 24) are associated with reservoirs.
A sampling device according to claims 26, wherein electrodes are applied to the reservoirs.
Use of a sampling device according to claim 18 for electrokinetic sample introduction and
capillary electrophoretic separation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
